Significant public health problems associated with methamphetamine (MA) production and use in the United States have emerged over the past 25 years; however, there has been considerable controversy about the size of the problem. Epidemiological indicators have provided a mixed picture. National surveys of the adult U.S. population and school-based populations have consistently been used to support the position that MA use is a relatively minor concern. However, many other data sources, including law-enforcement groups, welfare agencies, substance abuse treatment program admissions, criminal justice agencies, and state/county executives indicate that MA is a very significant public health problem for many communities throughout much of the country. In this article, we describe (a) the historical underpinnings of the MA problem, (b) epidemiological trends in MA use, (c) key subgroups at risk for MA problems, (d) the health and social factors associated with MA use, (e) interventions available for addressing the MA problem, and (f) lessons learned from past efforts addressing the MA problem.
Hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) is a synaptic modulator as well as a neuroprotectant in the brain. We recently showed that H(2)S protects neurons from oxidative stress by increasing the levels of glutathione (GSH), a major cellular antioxidant, by more than twice that of a control through enhancing the cystine transport. Here we show that H(2)S enhances the transport of cysteine to increase GSH production more than cystine transport and to redistribute the localization of GSH to mitochondria. The efficiency of GSH production enhanced by H(2)S is even greater by fourfold under oxidative stress by glutamate. H(2)S reinstated GSH levels in the fetal brain decreased by ischemia/reperfusion in utero. In addition, Neuro2a cells expressing a mitochondrial H(2)S-producing enzyme, 3-mercaptopyruvate sulfurtransferase (3MST), along with cysteine aminotransferase (CAT), showed significant resistance to oxidative stress. The present study shows that H(2)S protects cells from oxidative stress by two mechanisms. It enhances the production of GSH by enhancing cystine/cysteine transporters and redistributes GSH to mitochondria. H(2)S produced in mitochondria also may directly suppress oxidative stress. It provides a new mechanism of neuroprotection from oxidative stress by H(2)S.
Depression in children and adolescents can negatively impact cognitive functioning, social development, and academic performance. The purpose of this study was to determine whether a computerized battery of neuropsychological tests could detect neurocognitive difficulties in children and adolescents with depression. Participants included 30 children and adolescents between the ages of 9 and 17 years (M = 14.6, SD = 2.1) with a clinical diagnosis of depression. Healthy control participants were individually matched on age, education, sex, race, primary language, handedness, and self-reported computer familiarity. All participants completed the Central Nervous System Vital Signs computerized battery. This battery of seven tests yields 23 test scores and 5 domain scores (Memory, Psychomotor Speed, Reaction Time, Complex Attention, and Cognitive Flexibility). Children and adolescents with depression performed worse on the Memory (Cohen's d = .43) and Complex Attention domains (d = .58) than matched controls. On the individual test scores, children and adolescents with depression performed worse on delayed verbal memory (d = .63), delayed visual memory (d = .34), measures of reaction time (d = .34-.53), and accuracy/inhibition on complex attention tasks (d = .49-.65). When considering the five domain scores simultaneously, children and adolescents with depression were more likely to have two or more scores at or below the 5th percentile (p = .05). Children and adolescents with depression have problems with reduced processing speed, memory for verbal information, and executive functioning on this computerized battery of tests, which represents a feasible method for neuropsychological screening.





Suicide continues to be one of the biggest killers in the world, with suicide rates varying between 8.1 and 58.3/100,000 population for different parts of India. Andhra Pradesh, the fourth largest state in India, is responsible for more than 11% of these. Unfortunately, most suicides are under-reported and there is scant data on attempted suicides. This study aimed to comprehensively study the characteristics of attempted suicides in Andhra Pradesh and using the primary data, make secondary projections for the forthcoming years. Using Patient Care Record (PCR) forms of all emergencies serviced by 108, the first comprehensive emergency service in India, an analysis of all cases was done to detect possible suicides during the period January-December 2007. A follow up 48 hours later was then done to confirm status and diagnosis. A total of 1007 cases were recorded as confirmed suicides. Hanging and insecticide poisoning (72%) were the most common methods used. Males preferred hanging and insecticide poisoning while females preferred self-immolation and hanging as common methods. Self-immolation and insecticide poisoning had the highest mortality (41.6%). Estimates of attempted suicides for the year 2008 revealed a mean of 3.2-3.8 per 1000 population for males, 3.3-3.7 per 1000 population for females and 6.4-7.6 per 1000 population combined. A serious epidemic of suicides seems to be in store in the coming years unless preventive steps in the form of policy changes are undertaken. Restricting access to poisonous substances or prescription drugs and taking into consideration the prevailing social, economic and cultural factors could help in reducing numbers. Starting tele-help services or offering brief interventions during hospital stays are other programs which may be considered.


The treatment of hydrocephalus is a challenging one. The development of shunt devices have greatly improved the survival and quality of life of paediatric patients with hydrocephalus; however, shunt dysfunction is a common problem which represents a significant scope of work for paediatric neurosurgeons with shunt failures occuring in up to 40 to 50% of patients during the first two years after shunt surgery.Numerous pathologies ranging from congenital to acquired conditions can result in the development of hydrocephalus in the paediatric population. Obstruction of proximal or distal catheter ends, misplacement, infections and over drainage are some of the common problems accounting for shunt failures.We discussed some of the pertinent problems and nuances involved in treatment of paediatric hydrocephalus with VPS as well as to review the role of endoscopic procedures as an alternative to VPS.


Many sounds in the environment, including speech, are temporally dynamic. The auditory brainstem is exquisitely sensitive to temporal features of the incoming acoustic stream, and by varying the speed of presentation of these auditory signals it is possible to investigate the precision with which temporal cues are represented at a subcortical level. Therefore, to determine the effects of stimulation rate on the auditory brainstem response (ABR), we recorded evoked responses to both a click and a consonant-vowel speech syllable (/da/) presented at three rates (15.4, 10.9 and 6.9 Hz). We hypothesized that stimulus rate affects the onset to speech-evoked responses to a greater extent than click-evoked responses and that subcomponents of the speech- ABR are distinctively affected. While the click response was invariant with changes in stimulus rate, timing of the onset response to /da/ varied systematically, increasing in peak latency as presentation rate increased. Contrasts between the click- and speech-evoked onset responses likely reflect acoustic differences, where the speech stimulus onset is more gradual, has more delineated spectral information, and is more susceptible to backward masking by the subsequent formant transition. The frequency-following response (FFR) was also rate dependent, with response magnitude of the higher frequencies (&gt;400 Hz), but not the frequencies corresponding to the fundamental frequency, diminishing with increasing rate. The selective impact of rate on high-frequency components of the FFR implicates the involvement of distinct underlying neural mechanisms for high- versus low-frequency components of the response. Furthermore, the different rate sensitivities of the speech-evoked onset response and subcomponents of the FFR support the involvement of different neural streams for these two responses. Taken together, these differential effects of rate on the ABR components likely reflect distinct aspects of auditory function such that varying rate of presentation of complex stimuli may be expected to elicit unique patterns of abnormality, depending on the clinical population.
Multiple-stimulus auditory steady-state responses (ASSRs) were assessed in 111 ears of 70 infants between -4 and 19 weeks of age at risk for hearing loss. ASSR thresholds obtained in infants with normal hearing (n = 69 ears) were compared with normal adult ASSR thresholds (n = 32 ears), and the linear relation between ASSR thresholds and behavioral thresholds (BHTs) was investigated in normal-hearing and hearing-impaired infants (n = 79 ears). Furthermore, latency estimates of significant responses to stimuli of 50 dB SPL were compared between the normal-hearing infants (n = 171 data points) and adults (n = 124 data points) and developmental changes in latency were evaluated within the infant group. Normal ASSR thresholds were on average 12 dB higher in infants compared with adults. Correlations between ASSR thresholds and BHTs were 0.75, 0.87, 0.87 and 0.79 for 500, 1000, 2000 and 4000 Hz, respectively. There was a significant effect of carrier frequency on ASSR latency, with higher carrier frequencies evoking shorter latencies in both infants and adults. Mean latencies in adults were 24.3 +/- 1.5, 22.3 +/- 1.1, 19.4 +/- 1.0 and 18.0 +/- 1.1 ms for 500, 1000, 2000 and 4000 Hz, respectively. Depending on the data fit of the infant latency estimates, mean latencies were 1.0 ms shorter or 9.5 ms longer in infants compared with adults. In infants, latencies were on average 2.0 ms longer in the youngest infant group (&lt; or =0 weeks) relative to the oldest infant group (3-8 weeks). These age-related trends, together with other arguments, point to longer latencies in infants compared with adults. The results of this study are valuable as a clinical reference for interpreting ASSR results obtained in high-risk infants within their first months of life and indicate that developmental changes occur regarding ASSR latency.
We present sound localization results from 30 children with bilateral cochlear implants. All children received their implants sequentially, at ages from 6 months to 9 years for the first implant and 1.5-12 years for the second implant, with delays of 10 months to 9 years. Localization was measured in the sound field, with a broadband bell-ring presented from 1 of 9 loudspeakers positioned in the frontal horizontal plane. The majority of the children (63%) were able to localize this signal significantly better than chance level. Mean absolute error scores varied from 9 to 51 degrees (root mean square error scores from 13 to 63 degrees ). The best scores were obtained by children who received their first implant before the age of 2 years and by children who used hearing aids prior to implantation for a period of 18 months or longer. Age at second implantation was important in the group of children who did not use a contralateral hearing aid during the unilateral implant period. Additionally, children who attended a mainstream school had significantly better localization scores than children who attended a school for the deaf. No other child or implantation variables were related to localization performance. Data of parent questionnaires derived from the Speech, Spatial and Qualities of Hearing Scale were significantly correlated with localization performance. This study shows that the sound localization ability of children with bilateral cochlear implants varies across subjects, from near-normal to chance performance, and that stimulation early in life, acoustically or electrically, is important for the development of this capacity.

Human peripheral blood lymphocytes have been useful as a putative model of oxidative stress-induced apoptosis for Parkinson's disease. The present work shows that rotenone, a mitochondrial complex I inhibitor, induced time- and concentration-dependent apoptosis in lymphocytes which was mediated by anion superoxide radicals (O(2)*(-))/hydrogen peroxide, depolarization of mitochondria, caspase-3 activation, concomitantly with the nuclear translocation of transcription factors such as NF-kappaB, p53, c-Jun and nuclei fragmentation. Since insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) interferes with a cell's apoptotic machinery when subjected to several stressful conditions, it is demonstrated here for the first time that IGF-1 effectively protects lymphocytes against rotenone through PI-3K/Akt activation, down-regulation of p53 and maintenance of mitochondrial membrane potential independently of ROS generation. These data might contribute to understanding the role played by IGF-1 against oxidative stress stimuli.
This study sought evidence for a specific cerebellar contribution to cognition by characterising the cognitive phenotype of Spinocerebellar Ataxia Type 6 (SCA-6); an autosomal dominant genetic disease which causes a highly specific late-onset cerebellar degeneration. A comprehensive neuropsychological assessment was administered to 27 patients with genetically confirmed SCA-6. General intellectual ability, memory and executive function were examined using internationally standardised tests (Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale-III, Wechsler Memory Scale-III, Delis and Kaplan Executive Function System, Brixton Spatial Anticipation test). The patient group showed no evidence of intellectual or memory decline. However, tests of executive function involving skills of cognitive flexibility, inhibition of response and verbal reasoning and abstraction demonstrated significant impairment at the group level with large effect sizes. The results demonstrate an executive deficit due to SCA-6 that can be conceptualised as parallel to the motor difficulties suffered by these patients: the data support a role for the cerebellum in the regulation and coordination of cognitive, as well as motor processes that is relevant to individual performance.



A patient who suffered a transient global amnesia (TGA) attack underwent regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) SPECT imaging and neuropsychological testing in the acute phase, after one month and after one year. Neuropsychological testing in the acute phase showed a pattern of anterograde and retrograde amnesia, whereas memory was within age normal limits at follow up. SPECT data were analysed with a within subject comparison and also compared with those of a group of healthy controls. Within subject comparison between the one month follow up and the acute phase detected increases in rCBF in the hippocampus bilaterally; further rCBF increases in the right hippocampus were detected after one year. Compared to controls, significant hypoperfusion was found in the right precentral, cingulate and medial frontal gyri in the acute phase; after one month significant hypoperfusion was detected in the right precentral and cingulate gyri and the left postcentral gyrus; after one year no significant hypoperfusion appeared. The restoration of memory was paralleled by rCBF increases in the hippocampus and fronto-limbic-parietal cortex; after one year neither significant rCBF differences nor cognitive deficits were detectable. In conclusion, these data indicate that TGA had no long lasting cognitive and neural alterations in this patient.
The subjective value of a reward (gain) is related to factors such as its size, the delay to its receipt and the probability of its receipt. We examined whether the subjective value of losses was similarly affected by these factors in 128 adults. Participants chose between immediate/certain gains or losses and larger delayed/probabilistic gains or losses. Rewards of $100 were devalued as a function of their delay (&quot;discounted&quot;) relatively less than $10 gains while probabilistic $100 rewards were discounted relatively more than $10 rewards. However, there was no effect of outcome size on discounting of delayed or probabilistic losses. For delayed outcomes of each size, the degree to which gains were discounted was positively correlated with the degree to which losses were discounted, whereas for probabilistic outcomes, no such correlation was observed. These results suggest that the processes underlying the subjective valuation of losses are different from those underlying the subjective valuation of gains.
Analytical tools of nanometre-scale resolution are indispensable in the fields of biology, physics and chemistry. One suitable tool, the soft X-ray microscope, provides high spatial resolution of visible light for wet specimens. For biological specimens, X-rays of water-window wavelength between carbon (284 eV; 4.3 nm) and oxygen (540 eV; 2.3 nm) absorption edges provide high-contrast imaging of biological samples in water. Among types of X-ray microscope, the transmission X-ray microscope using a synchrotron radiation source with diffractive zone plates offers the highest spatial resolution, approaching 15-10nm. However, even higher resolution is required to measure proteins and protein complexes in biological specimens; therefore, a new type of X-ray microscope with higher resolution that uses a simple light source is desirable. Here we report a novel scanning-electron generation X-ray microscope (SGXM) that demonstrates direct imaging of unstained wet biological specimens. We deposited wet yeasts in the space between two silicon nitride (Si(3)N(4)) films. A scanning electron beam of accelerating voltage 5 keV and current 1.6 nA irradiates the titanium (Ti)-coated Si(3)N(4) film, and the soft X-ray signal from it is detected by an X-ray photodiode (PD) placed below the sample. The SGXM can theoretically achieve better than 5 nm resolution. Our method can be utilized easily for various wet biological samples of bacteria, viruses, and protein complexes.
Extracellularly occurring HMGB1, either released during cell injury or actively secreted from cells, has profound effects on behaviour of a wide variety of cell types. Extracellular HMGB1 regulates migratory responses of many cell types, including neuron and growth cone migration, invasive migration of tumour cells, and migration of endothelial and immune cells. RAGE (Receptor for Advanced Glycation End Products) plays a key role as a cell surface receptor in most, if not all HMGB1-dependent migration mechanisms. HMGB1 binds to the distal immunoglobulin-like domain of RAGE, activating a signalling pathway that ends up in modulation of the cytoskeleton for regulation of cell motility. In addition to RAGE, proteoglycans and sulfated carbohydrate epitopes of glycolipids and glycoproteins may play a role as cell surface binding sites of HMGB1, affecting migratory behaviour of cells. In addition to physiological and pathophysiological cell migration control, HMGB1 has been widely studied as a molecule linking tissue injury to inflammatory mechanisms. HMGB1 by itself has little if any proinflammatory activity but it appears to activate innate immunity mechanisms as a complex with DNA, lipids and/or proinflammatory cytokines. The inflammation-inducing activity of HMGB1/DNA complexes may depend on both RAGE and Toll-like receptors of the immune cell surface. In addition to the receptors activating innate immunity, receptors downregulating inflammation upon HMGB1 release have been recently found, and include thrombomodulin and the CD-24/Siglec pathway.
Mitochondria are uniquely poised to play a pivotal role in neuronal cell survival or death because they are regulators of both energy metabolism and cell death pathways. Extensive literature exists supporting a role for mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative damage in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. This review discusses evidence indicating that mitochondrial dysfunction has an early and preponderant role in Alzheimer's disease. Furthermore, the link between mitochondrial dysfunction and autophagy in Alzheimer's disease is also discussed. As a result of insufficient digestion of oxidatively damaged macromolecules and organelles by autophagy, neurons progressively accumulate lipofuscin that could exacerbate neuronal dysfunction. Since autophagy is the major pathway involved in the degradation of protein aggregates and defective organelles, an intense interest in developing autophagy-related therapies is growing among the scientific community. The final part of this review is devoted to discuss autophagy as a potential target of therapeutic interventions in Alzheimer's disease pathophysiology.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has long been associated with neurodegenerative disease. Therefore, mitochondrial protective agents represent a unique direction for the development of drug candidates that can modify the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration. This review discusses evidence showing that mitochondrial dysfunction has a central role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's, Parkinson's and Huntington's diseases and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. We also debate the potential therapeutic efficacy of metabolic antioxidants, mitochondria-directed antioxidants and Szeto-Schiller (SS) peptides. Since these compounds preferentially target mitochondria, a major source of oxidative damage, they are promising therapeutic candidates for neurodegenerative diseases. Furthermore, we will briefly discuss the novel action of the antihistamine drug Dimebon on mitochondria.
Mitochondria play important roles as the powerhouse of the cell. After cerebral ischemia, mitochondria overproduce reactive oxygen species (ROS), which have been thoroughly studied with the use of superoxide dismutase transgenic or knockout animals. ROS directly damage lipids, proteins, and nucleic acids in the cell. Moreover, ROS activate various molecular signaling pathways. Apoptosis-related signals return to mitochondria, then mitochondria induce cell death through the release of pro-apoptotic proteins such as cytochrome c or apoptosis-inducing factor. Although the mechanisms of cell death after cerebral ischemia remain unclear, mitochondria obviously play a role by activating signaling pathways through ROS production and by regulating mitochondria-dependent apoptosis pathways.
Stroke most commonly results from occlusion of a major artery in the brain and typically leads to the death of all cells within the affected tissue. Mitochondria are centrally involved in the development of this tissue injury due to modifications of their major role in supplying ATP and to changes in their properties that can contribute to the development of apoptotic and necrotic cell death. In animal models of stroke, the limited availability of glucose and oxygen directly impairs oxidative metabolism in severely ischemic regions of the affected tissue and leads to rapid changes in ATP and other energy-related metabolites. In the less-severely ischemic &quot;penumbral&quot; tissue, more moderate alterations develop in these metabolites, associated with near normal glucose use but impaired oxidative metabolism. This tissue remains potentially salvageable for at least the first few hours following stroke onset. Early restoration of blood flow can result in substantial recovery of energy-related metabolites throughout the affected tissue. However, glucose oxidation is markedly decreased due both to lower energy requirements in the post-ischemic tissue and limitations on the mitochondrial oxidation of pyruvate. A secondary deterioration of mitochondrial function subsequently develops that may contribute to progression to cell loss. Mitochondrial release of multiple apoptogenic proteins has been identified in ischemic and post-ischemic brain, mostly in neurons. Pharmacological interventions and genetic modifications in rodent models strongly implicate caspase-dependent and caspase-independent apoptosis and the mitochondrial permeability transition as important contributors to tissue damage, particularly when induced by short periods of temporary focal ischemia.
Age-related neurodegenerative diseases are associated with mild impairment of oxidative metabolism and accumulation of abnormal proteins. Within the cell, the mitochondria appears to be a dominant site for initiation and propagation of disease processes. Shifts in metabolism in response to mild metabolic perturbations may decrease the threshold for irreversible injury in response to ordinarily sublethal metabolic insults. Mild impairment of metabolism accrue from and lead to increased reactive oxygen species (ROS). Increased ROS change cell signaling via post-transcriptional and transcriptional changes. The cause and consequences of mild impairment of mitochondrial metabolism is one focus of this review. Many experiments in tissues from humans support the notion that oxidative modification of the alpha-ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC) compromises neuronal energy metabolism and enhances ROS production in Alzheimer's Disease (AD). These data suggest that cognitive decline in AD derives from the selective tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle abnormalities. By contrast in Huntington's Disease (HD), a movement disorder with cognitive features distinct form AD, complex II+III abnormalities may dominate. These distinct mitochondrial abnormalities culminate in oxidative stress, energy dysfunction, and aberrant homeostasis of cytosolic calcium. Cytosolic calcium, elevations even only transiently, leads to hyperactivity of a number of enzymes. One calcium-activated enzyme with demonstrated pathophysiological import in HD and AD is transglutaminase (TGase). TGase is a crosslinking enzymes that can modulate transcription, inactivate metabolic enzymes, and cause aggregation of critical proteins. Recent data indicate that TGase can silence expression of genes involved in compensating for metabolic stress. Altogether, our results suggest that increasing KGDHC via inhibition of TGase or via a host of other strategies to be described would be effective therapeutic approaches in age-associated neurodegenerative diseases.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a relatively common and etiologically unknown disease with no cure. It is the leading cause of neurological disability in young adults, affecting over two million people worldwide. Traditionally, MS has been considered a chronic, inflammatory disorder of the central white matter in which ensuing demyelination results in physical disability. Recently, MS has become increasingly viewed as a neurodegenerative disorder in which axonal injury, neuronal loss, and atrophy of the central nervous system leads to permanent neurological and clinical disability. In this article, we discuss the latest developments on MS research, including etiology, pathology, genetic association, EAE animal models, mechanisms of neuronal injury and axonal transport, and therapeutics. In this article, we also focus on the mechanisms of mitochondrial dysfunction that are involved in MS, including mitochondrial DNA defects, and mitochondrial structural/functional changes.
Dysregulation of mitochondrial structure and function has emerged as a central factor in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease and related parkinsonian disorders (PD). Toxic and environmental injuries and risk factors perturb mitochondrial complex I function, and gene products linked to familial PD often affect mitochondrial biology. Autosomal recessive mutations in PTEN-induced kinase 1 (PINK1) cause an L-DOPA responsive parkinsonian syndrome, stimulating extensive interest in the normal neuroprotective and mitoprotective functions of PINK1. Recent data from mammalian and invertebrate model systems converge upon interactions between PINK1 and parkin, as well as DJ-1, alpha-synuclein and leucine rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2). While all studies to date support a neuroprotective role for wild type, but not mutant PINK1, there is less agreement on subcellular compartmentalization of PINK1 kinase function and whether PINK1 promotes mitochondrial fission or fusion. These controversies are reviewed in the context of the dynamic mitochondrial lifecycle, in which mitochondrial structure and function are continuously modulated not only by the fission-fusion machinery, but also by regulation of biogenesis, axonal/dendritic transport and autophagy. A working model is proposed, in which PINK1 loss-of-function results in mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS), cristae/respiratory dysfunction and destabilization of calcium homeostasis, which trigger compensatory fission, autophagy and biosynthetic repair pathways that dramatically alter mitochondrial structure. Concurrent strategies to identify pathways that mediate normal PINK1 function and to identify factors that facilitate appropriate compensatory responses to its loss are both needed to halt the aging-related penetrance and incidence of familial and sporadic PD.
The present study investigated the possible effects of the electromagnetic field (EMF) emitted by an ordinary GSM mobile phone (902.4 MHz pulsed at 217 Hz) on brainstem auditory processing. Auditory brainstem responses (ABR) were recorded in 17 healthy young adults, without a mobile phone at baseline, and then with a mobile phone on the ear under EMF-off and EMF-on conditions. The amplitudes, latencies, and interwave intervals of the main ABR components (waves I, III, V) were compared among the three conditions. ABR waveforms showed no significant differences due to exposure, suggesting that short-term exposure to mobile phone EMF did not affect the transmission of sensory stimuli from the cochlea up to the midbrain along the auditory nerve and brainstem auditory pathways.
In humans, there are two skeletal muscle alpha-actinins, encoded by ACTN2 and ACTN3, and the ACTN3 genotype is associated with human athletic performance. Remarkably, approximately 1 billion people worldwide are deficient in alpha-actinin-3 due to the common ACTN3 R577X polymorphism. The alpha-actinins are an ancient family of actin-binding proteins with structural, signalling and metabolic functions. The skeletal muscle alpha-actinins diverged approximately 250-300 million years ago, and ACTN3 has since developed restricted expression in fast muscle fibres. Despite ACTN2 and ACTN3 retaining considerable sequence similarity, it is likely that following duplication there was a divergence in function explaining why alpha-actinin-2 cannot completely compensate for the absence of alpha-actinin-3. This paper focuses on the role of skeletal muscle alpha-actinins, and how possible changes in functions between these duplicates fit in the context of gene duplication paradigms.

The relationship between the cell theory formulated by Schwann (1839) and by Virchow (1855) on the one hand, and, on the other hand, the neuron theory, as formulated by Waldeyer (1891) and by Cajal (1906), are discussed from a historical point of view. Both of them are the result of technical and conceptuel progress. Both of them had to fight against the dominant dogma before being accepted. The cell theory opposed the school of Bichat, the vitalist philosophy and the positivist philosophy of Auguste Comte. The neuron theory, which is clearly based on the cell theory, was mostly concerned with the mode of interneuronal communication; it opposed the concept of contiguity to Golgi's concept of continuity. At present, the cell theory remains central in every field of Biology. By contrast, the neuron theory, which until the middle of the XXth century opened the study of the nervous system to a necessary reductionnist approach, is no longer central to recent developments of neurosciences.
The dogma according to which &quot;once the development of the central nervous system ended, generation of neurons was impossible&quot; has been challenged by the discovery that new neurons are created in specific regions of the adult mammalian brain. This discovery has been one of the most controversial of modern neuroscience. One of these regions is the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation, a key structure in memory. Here we will review our current knowledge on the role of adult hippocampal neurogenesis in memory and in the pathophysiology of memory. In particular we will review evidence showing that adult-born neurons are required for learning and memory and that an alteration of their production rate leads to memory impairments. We also discuss how neurogenesis is finely shaped by learning for the purpose of mnemonic information processing.
A defining characteristic of the brain is its remarkable capacity to undergo activity-dependent functional and morphological remodelling via mechanisms of plasticity that form the basis of our capacity to encode and retain memories. Today, it is generally accepted that one key neurobiological mechanism underlying the formation of memories reside in activity-driven modifications of synaptic strength and structural remodelling of neural networks activated during learning. The discovery and detailed report of the phenomenon generally known as long-term potentiation, a long-lasting activity-dependent form of synaptic strengthening, opened a new chapter in the study of the neurobiological substrate of memory in the vertebrate brain, and this form of synaptic plasticity has now become the dominant model in the search for the cellular bases of learning and memory. To date, the key events in the cellular and molecular mechanisms underlying synaptic plasticity and memory formation are starting to be identified. They require the activation of specific receptors and of several molecular cascades to convert extracellular signals into persistent functional changes in neuronal connectivity. Accumulating evidence suggests that the rapid activation of neuronal gene programs is a key mechanism underlying the enduring modification of neural networks required for the laying down of memory. The recent developments in the search for the cellular and molecular mechanisms of memory storage are reviewed.
Many physical and biological phenomena involve accumulation and discharge processes that can occur on significantly different time scales. Models of these processes have contributed to understand excitability self-sustained oscillations and synchronization in arrays of oscillators. Integrate-and-fire (I+F) models are popular minimal fill-and-flush mathematical models. They are used in neuroscience to study spiking and phase locking in single neuron membranes, large scale neural networks, and in a variety of applications in physics and electrical engineering. We show here how the classical first-order I+F model fits into the theory of nonlinear oscillators of van der Pol type by demonstrating that a particular second-order oscillator having small parameters converges in a singular perturbation limit to the I+F model. In this sense, our study provides a novel unfolding of such models and it identifies a constructible electronic circuit that is closely related to I+F.
Gustatory signaling begins with taste receptor cells that express taste receptors. Recent molecular biological studies have identified taste receptors and transduction components for basic tastes (sweet, salty, sour, bitter, and umami). Activation of these receptor systems leads to depolarization and an increase in [Ca(2+)](i) in taste receptor cells. Then transmitters are released from taste cells and activate gustatory nerve fibers. The connection between taste cells and gustatory nerve fibers would be specific because there may be only limited divergence of taste information at the peripheral transmission. Recent studies have demonstrated that sweet taste information can be modulated by hormones or other endogenous factors that could act on their receptors in a specific group of taste cells. These peripheral modulations of taste information may influence preference behavior and food intake. This paper summarizes data on molecular mechanisms for detection and transduction of taste signals in taste bud cells, information transmission from taste cells to gustatory nerve fibers, and modulation of taste signals at peripheral taste organs, in particular for sweet taste, which may play important roles in regulating energy homeostasis.




Most neuroscience studies do not pay enough attention to bio-mechanical related problems, such as the kinematic aspects of movements, that pose important boundary conditions, but are in general not sufficiently taken into consideration. In this work, using an experimental protocol based on measurements of mylohyoid (MH) muscle activity during grasping-to-eat actions, we debate the existence of impairments of action chains in children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). We re-examine the results of an electromyographic (EMG) experiment on MH muscle presented in a previous study; and we compare them to the results of a new, similar experiment in order to study the electromyographic activity of MH in typically developing (TD) children and in children with ASD executing grasping-to-eat actions. Our results are remarkably different from the original work and seem to indicate that there is no clear experimental evidence of different action organization in children with ASD.
Analogues of amino methylisoxazole propionic acid (AMPA), were prepared from a common intermediate 12, including lipophilic analogues using lateral metalation and electrophilic quenching, and were evaluated at System xc-. Both the 5-naphthylethyl-(16) and 5-naphthylmethoxymethyl-(17) analogues adopt an E-conformation in the solid state, yet while the former has robust binding at System xc-, the latter is virtually devoid of activity. The most potent analogues were amino acid naphthyl-ACPA 7g, and hydrazone carboxylic acid, 11e Y=Y'=3,5-(CF(3))(2), which both inhibited glutamate uptake by the System xc- transporter with comparable potency to the endogenous substrate cystine, whereas in contrast the closed isoxazolo[3,4-d] pyridazinones 13 have significantly lower activity. A preliminary pharmacophore model has been constructed to provide insight into the analogue structure-activity relationships.
A series of alpha7 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor ligands were designed based on a structural combination of a potent, but non-selective ligand, epibatidine, with a selective lead structure, 2. Three series of compounds in which aryl moieties were attached via a linker to different positions on the core structure were studied. A potent and functionally efficacious analog, (3aR,6aS)-2-(6-phenylpyridazin-3-yl)-5-(pyridin-3-ylmethyl)octahydropyrrolo[3,4-c]pyrrole (3a), was identified.
Emerging technological advances in genetics and neuroscience have spawned innovative or elaborated conceptual models in the field of addiction science, as well as contributed to the mushrooming of new knowledge. By addictions, reference is made to chronic, often relapsing disorders typified by obsession, compulsion, or physical or psychological dependence. In this article it is proposed that a multilevel developmental contextual approach to substance use and addictions provides a useful framework for integrating existing studies across disciplines and serving as a generative guide to intriguing novel research questions. The multilevel developmental contextual approach emphasizes multiple factor influences on substance use and addiction, the conjoint influence of variables from different levels of analysis (e.g., genetic, biochemical, physiological, cognitive, social, neighborhood, societal), and dynamic, probabilistic behavior-outcome relations (i.e., the occurrence as well as the nature of expression of substance problems and addiction depend on a range of emerging, interactive factors that may vary across individuals and across time). The approach is illustrated with a long-term prospective study of predictors of binge drinking from adolescence to young adulthood and a description of the role of brain processes and mechanisms involved in the development and expression of alcohol use during adolescence.
Insects have extremely sensitive systems of olfaction. These systems have been explored as potential sensors for odourants associated with forensics, medicine, security, and agriculture application. Most sensors based on insect olfaction utilize associative learning to &quot;program&quot; the insects to exhibit some form of behavioural response to a target odourant. To move to the next stage of development with whole-insect programmable sensors, an examination of how odourants are captured, processed and used to create behaviour is necessary. This review article examines how the neurophysiological, molecular, genetic and behavioural system of olfaction works and how an understanding of these systems should lead the way to future developments in whole-insect programmable sensors.
Malignant gliomas are typically characterized by rapid cell proliferation and a marked propensity to invade and damage surrounding tissues. They are the main brain tumors notoriously resistant to currently available therapies, since they fail to undergo apoptosis upon anticancer treatments. With recent advances in neuroscience and improved understanding of the molecular mechanisms of invasive migration, gene therapy provides a new strategy for treating glioma cancer. Brain tumor gene therapy using viral vectors and stem cells has shown promise in animal model and human patient studies. Here, we review recent studies on engineering adenoviral vectors that can be used as therapy for brain tumors. The new findings presented in this study are essential for the further exploration of this cancer and they represent an approach for developing a newer and more effective therapeutic approach in the clinical treatment of human glioma cancer.


Secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor is a serine protease inhibitor produced by various cell types, including neutrophils and activated macrophages, and has anti-inflammatory properties. It has been shown to promote wound healing in the skin and other non-neural tissues, however, its role in central nervous system injury was not known. We now report a beneficial role for secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor after spinal cord injury. After spinal cord contusion injury in mice, secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor is expressed primarily by astrocytes and neutrophils but not macrophages. We show, using transgenic mice over-expressing secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor, that this molecule has an early protective effect after spinal cord contusion injury. Furthermore, wild-type mice treated for the first week after spinal cord contusion injury with recombinant secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor exhibit sustained improvement in locomotor control and reduced secondary tissue damage. Recombinant secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor injected intraperitoneally localizes to the nucleus of circulating leukocytes, is detected in the injured spinal cord, reduces activation of nuclear factor-kappaB and expression of tumour necrosis factor-alpha. Administration of recombinant secretory leukocyte protease inhibitor might therefore be useful for the treatment of acute spinal cord injury.
Parkinson's disease is the second most common neurodegenerative disease, after Alzheimer's disease, and the most common movement disorder. Drug treatment and deep brain stimulation can ameliorate symptoms, but the progressive degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra eventually leads to severe motor dysfunction. The transplantation of stem cells has emerged as a promising approach to replace lost neurons in order to restore dopamine levels in the striatum and reactivate functional circuits. We have generated substrate-adherent embryonic stem cell-derived neural aggregates overexpressing the neural cell adhesion molecule L1, because it has shown beneficial functions after central nervous system injury. L1 enhances neurite outgrowth and neuronal migration, differentiation and survival as well as myelination. In a previous study, L1 was shown to enhance functional recovery in a mouse model of Huntington's disease. In another study, a new differentiation protocol for murine embryonic stem cells was established allowing the transplantation of stem cell-derived neural aggregates consisting of differentiated neurons and radial glial cells into the lesioned brain. In the present study, this embryonic stem cell line was engineered to overexpress L1 constitutively at all stages of differentiation and used to generate stem cell-derived neural aggregates. These were monitored in their effects on stem cell survival and differentiation, rescue of endogenous dopaminergic neurons and ability to influence functional recovery after transplantation in an animal model of Parkinson's disease. Female C57BL/6J mice (2 months old) were treated with the mitochondrial toxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine intraperitoneally to deplete dopaminergic neurons selectively, followed by unilateral transplantation of stem cell-derived neural aggregates into the striatum. Mice grafted with L1 overexpressing stem cell-derived neural aggregates showed better functional recovery when compared to mice transplanted with wild-type stem cell-derived neural aggregates and vehicle-injected mice. Morphological analysis revealed increased numbers and migration of surviving transplanted cells, as well as increased numbers of dopaminergic neurons, leading to enhanced levels of dopamine in the striatum ipsilateral to the grafted side in L1 overexpressing stem cell-derived neural aggregates, when compared to wild-type stem cell-derived neural aggregates. The striatal levels of gamma-aminobutyric acid were not affected by L1 overexpressing stem cell-derived neural aggregates. Furthermore, L1 overexpressing, but not wild-type stem cell-derived neural aggregates, enhanced survival of endogenous host dopaminergic neurons after transplantation adjacent to the substantia nigra pars compacta. Thus, L1 overexpressing stem cell-derived neural aggregates enhance survival and migration of transplanted cells, differentiation into dopaminergic neurons, survival of endogenous dopaminergic neurons, and functional recovery after syngeneic transplantation in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine mouse model of Parkinson's disease.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is a rapidly progressing fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized by the presence of protein inclusions within affected motor neurons. Endoplasmic reticulum stress leading to apoptosis was recently recognized to be an important process in the pathogenesis of sporadic human amyotrophic lateral sclerosis as well as in transgenic models of mutant superoxide dismutase 1-linked familial amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Endoplasmic reticulum stress occurs early in disease, indicating a critical role in pathogenesis, and involves upregulation of an important endoplasmic reticulum chaperone, protein disulphide isomerase. We aimed to investigate the involvement of protein disulphide isomerase in endoplasmic reticulum stress induction, protein aggregation, inclusion formation and toxicity in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Motor neuron-like NSC-34 cell lines were transfected with superoxide dismutase 1 and protein disulphide isomerase encoding vectors and small interfering RNA, and examined by immunocytochemistry and immunoblotting. Expression of mutant superoxide dismutase 1 induced endoplasmic reticulum stress, predominantly in cells bearing mutant superoxide dismutase 1 inclusions but also in a proportion of cells expressing mutant superoxide dismutase 1 without visible inclusions. Over-expression of protein disulphide isomerase decreased mutant superoxide dismutase 1 aggregation, inclusion formation, endoplasmic reticulum stress induction and toxicity, whereas small interfering RNA targeting protein disulphide isomerase increased mutant superoxide dismutase 1 inclusion formation, indicating a protective role for protein disulphide isomerase against superoxide dismutase 1 misfolding. Aberrant modification of protein disulphide isomerase by S-nitrosylation of active site cysteine residues has previously been shown as an important process in neurodegeneration in Parkinson's and Alzheimer's disease brain tissue, but has not been described in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Using a biotin switch assay, we detected increased levels of S-nitrosylated protein disulphide isomerase in transgenic mutant superoxide dismutase 1 mouse and human sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis spinal cord tissues. Hence, despite upregulation, protein disulphide isomerase is also functionally inactivated in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which may prevent its normal protective function and contribute to disease. We also found that a small molecule mimic of the protein disulphide isomerase active site, (+/-)-trans-1,2-bis(mercaptoacetamido)cyclohexane, protected against mutant superoxide dismutase 1 inclusion formation. These studies reveal that endoplasmic reticulum stress is important in the formation of mutant superoxide dismutase 1 inclusions, and protein disulphide isomerase has an important function in ameliorating mutant superoxide dismutase 1 aggregation and toxicity. Functional inhibition of protein disulphide isomerase by S-nitrosylation may contribute to pathophysiology in both mutant superoxide dismutase 1-linked disease and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Protein disulphide isomerase is therefore a novel potential therapeutic target in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and (+/-)-trans-1,2-bis(mercaptoacetamido)cyclohexane and other molecular mimics of protein disulphide isomerase could be of benefit in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and other neurodegenerative diseases related to protein misfolding.



When correlating brain areas with behavioral and environmental characteristics, a variety of techniques are employed. In fishes (elasmobranchs and teleosts), 2 methods, histology and the idealized ellipsoid and/or half-ellipsoid technique, are primarily used to calculate the volume of a brain area and therefore its relationship to social or ecological complexity. In this study on a perciform teleost, we have quantitatively compared brain volumes obtained using the conventional techniques of histology and approximating brain volume to an idealized ellipsoid (or half ellipsoid) and magnetic resonance imaging, an established clinical tool typically used for assessing brain volume in other vertebrates. Our results indicate that, when compared to brain volumes measured using magnetic resonance imaging of brain regions in situ, variations in brain shape and histological artifacts can lead to significant differences in brain volume, especially in the telencephalon and optic tecta. Consequently, in comparative studies of brain volumes, we advise caution when using the histological and/or ellipsoid methods to make correlations between brain area size and environmental, behavioral and social characteristics and, when possible, we propose the use of magnetic resonance imaging.
The many different nervous systems found in bilaterally symmetric animals may indicate that the tripartite brain appeared several times during the course of bilaterian evolution. However, comparative developmental genetic evidence in arthropods, annelids, urochordates, and vertebrates suggests that the development of a tripartite brain is orchestrated by conserved molecular mechanisms. Similarities in the underlying genetic programs do not necessarily reflect a common origin of structures. Nevertheless, 3 lines of evidence support a monophyletic origin of the tripartite brain and possibly also an elongated central nervous system (CNS): structural homology, character identity networks, and the functional equivalence of character identity genes. Monophyly of the brain also implies that the brain was secondarily reduced and lost multiple times during the course of evolution, leading to extant brainless bilaterians. The likelihood of secondary loss can be estimated by metazoan divergence times and through reconstructed cases such as limb loss in tetrapods or eye loss in fish. When scaled to molecular clock dates, monophyly of the tripartite brain indicates that existing brainless Bilateria had several hundred million years' time for the secondary modification and eventual loss of a primitive/ancestral brain and CNS. To corroborate this conjecture, ancestral character identity genes of living brainless Bilateria can be tested for their potential to substitute Drosophila or Mus homologs in tripartite brain development.


Teleost fishes are capable of detecting and behaviorally responding to linearly polarized light. Fish exhibit free-swimming spatial orientation to imposed and natural polarized light fields, and the fidelity of this spatial orientation depends heavily on UV and short wavelength content of the polarization field. Fish make fine-scale behavioral discriminations between stimuli that differ in e-vector orientation, independent of brightness. The detection of polarized light by photoreceptors is based on specializations of the disk membrane in the outer segment of cones that permit preferential absorption of axial and transverse polarized light. Differential polarization detectors that have overlapping spectral sensitivity in the UV short wavelength spectrum mediate polarization sensitivity. These differential detectors are based on cone photoreceptors that share spectral sensitivity in the UV short wavelength spectrum: the alpha-band of UV-sensitive cone mechanism as the vertical detector, and the beta-band of mid- and long-wavelength sensitive cone mechanisms as the horizontal detector. Negative feedback of horizontal cells on cones govern opponent interactions between differentially sensitive polarization detectors. Polarization opponency functions to enhance e-vector contrast under conditions that vary in degree of polarization and ambient intensity. Ontogenetic changes in the cone mosaic, resulting from programmed cell death and regeneration of UV-sensitive cones, alter the retinal location of polarization sensitivity. These developmental changes greatly influence behavioral responses to polarized light.


We exposed groups of adult male green treefrogs, Hyla cinerea, to acoustic stimuli (natural chorus or random tones) for seven consecutive nights at three time points during their natural breeding season (May, July, and September) and assessed seasonal changes in plasma androgen levels and number of arginine vasotocin (AVT) immunoreactive cells in the brain over this time period. We also tested whether social cues altered either androgens or AVT-ir cell number or size at each time point. Finally, we analyzed how these factors related to calling behavior. Data were collected over two breeding seasons. Call rate (calls/h) was assessed during the stimulus time (i.e. 'evoked calling') and during the remainder of the day ('spontaneous calling'). Plasma hormone levels were measured at the end of the acoustic treatment when brains were collected for immunocytochemistry. Circulating androgen levels declined over the breeding season. Males exposed to chorus sounds, however, had higher androgen levels than males exposed to tones. AVT-ir cell number increased across the breeding season in the nucleus accumbens but not the amygdala, anterior preoptic area, or magnocellular preoptic area, and soma size decreased in the nucleus accumbens as cell number increased. Social stimulation had no significant influence on either AVT-ir cell measure. Evoked call rate was higher in males exposed to natural chorus sounds compared to those exposed to random tones, but did not change during the season. In contrast, spontaneous call rate was higher at the beginning of the breeding season compared to the end, and unlike evoked calling was correlated with circulating androgen levels across all treatments and time points. AVT-ir soma size was positively correlated with both evoked and spontaneous calling. These results suggest that social exposure can prolong the elevation of gonadal hormones in the bloodstream, thus mitigating or slowing the seasonal decline of such hormones. In contrast, social exposure does not affect the seasonal pattern of AVT-ir cell number or soma size. The reciprocal relationship between social cues and hormones and the subsequent effect on behavior may provide hidden benefits to animals engaging in social interactions. However, unlike steroid hormone levels, the seasonal change in AVT-ir cell number and size is not counteracted by social stimulation.
Recent studies have shown that the relative sizes of visual regions in the avian brain are correlated with behavioral differences among species. Despite the fact that the tectofugal pathway is the primary source of visual input to the avian brain, detailed interspecific comparisons of the relative size of nuclei within the pathway, the optic tectum, nucleus rotundus and entopallium, are wanting. Here, we examine the allometric scaling relationships of each of these brain regions relative to the brain as a whole using conventional and phylogenetically based statistics across 113 species. Our results show that the relative size of tectofugal regions of the avian brain varies significantly among avian orders. More specifically, waterfowl (Anseriformes), parrots (Psittaciformes) and owls (Strigiformes) have significantly smaller tectofugal brain regions than other birds. At the opposite end of the spectrum, we found little evidence for the significant enlargement of any tectofugal region among the orders that we sampled. The lack of such hypertrophy likely reflects the heterogeneous organization of the optic tectum, nucleus rotundus and entopallium. We therefore speculate that if neural adaptations do exist in the avian tectofugal pathway that are correlated with behavior, they occur at a more refined level than simple volumetrics.
Brain plasticity is a common phenomenon across animals and in many cases it is associated with behavioral transitions. In social insects, such as bees, wasps and ants, plasticity in a particular brain compartment involved in multisensory integration (the mushroom body) has been associated with transitions between tasks differing in cognitive demands. However, in most of these cases, transitions between tasks are age-related, requiring the experimental manipulation of the age structure in the studied colonies to distinguish age and experience-dependent effects. To better understand the interplay between brain plasticity and behavioral performance it would therefore be advantageous to study species whose division of labor is not age-dependent. Here, we focus on brain plasticity in the bumblebee Bombus occidentalis, in which division of labor is strongly affected by the individual's body size instead of age. We show that, like in vertebrates, body size strongly correlates with brain size. We also show that foraging experience, but not age, significantly correlates with the increase in the size of the mushroom body, and in particular one of its components, the medial calyx. Our results support previous findings from other social insects suggesting that the mushroom body plays a key role in experience-based decision making. We also discuss the use of bumblebees as models to analyze neural plasticity and the association between brain size and behavioral performance.
Interleukin-6 (IL-6) is a major cytokine involved in both normal physiological brain functions and underlying significant neuropathology. IL-6 has been suggested to play a role in the control of body weight but the results are somewhat controversial. In this study we have challenged transgenic mice with astrocyte-targeted IL-6 expression (GFAP-IL6 mice) with a high-fat diet (55% kcal from fat) versus a control diet (10%). The results demonstrate that the GFAP-IL6 mice are resistant to high-fat diet-induced increases in body weight and body fat, apparently without altering food intake and with no evidences of increased sympathetic tone. The high-fat diet-induced impaired responses to an insulin tolerance test (ITT), and to an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) in both genotypes. The GFAP-IL6 mice did not differ from littermate wild-type (WT) mice in ITT, but they were more glucose intolerant following the high-fat diet feeding. In summary, the present results demonstrate that brain-specific IL-6 controls body weight which may be a significant factor in physiological conditions and/or in diseases causing neuroinflammation.
Opioid-induced proinflammatory glial activation modulates wide-ranging aspects of opioid pharmacology including: opposition of acute and chronic opioid analgesia, opioid analgesic tolerance, opioid-induced hyperalgesia, development of opioid dependence, opioid reward, and opioid respiratory depression. However, the mechanism(s) contributing to opioid-induced proinflammatory actions remains unresolved. The potential involvement of toll-like receptor 4 (TLR4) was examined using in vitro, in vivo, and in silico techniques. Morphine non-stereoselectively induced TLR4 signaling in vitro, blocked by a classical TLR4 antagonist and non-stereoselectively by naloxone. Pharmacological blockade of TLR4 signaling in vivo potentiated acute intrathecal morphine analgesia, attenuated development of analgesic tolerance, hyperalgesia, and opioid withdrawal behaviors. TLR4 opposition to opioid actions was supported by morphine treatment of TLR4 knockout mice, which revealed a significant threefold leftward shift in the analgesia dose response function, versus wildtype mice. A range of structurally diverse clinically-employed opioid analgesics was found to be capable of activating TLR4 signaling in vitro. Selectivity in the response was identified since morphine-3-glucuronide, a morphine metabolite with no opioid receptor activity, displayed significant TLR4 activity, whilst the opioid receptor active metabolite, morphine-6-glucuronide, was devoid of such properties. In silico docking simulations revealed ligands bound preferentially to the LPS binding pocket of MD-2 rather than TLR4. An in silico to in vitro prediction model was built and tested with substantial accuracy. These data provide evidence that select opioids may non-stereoselectively influence TLR4 signaling and have behavioral consequences resulting, in part, via TLR4 signaling.
Acute and chronic stress has been found to sensitize or prime the neuroinflammatory response to both peripheral and central immunologic challenges. Several studies suggest that stress-induced sensitization of neuroinflammatory processes may be mediated by the glucocorticoid (GC) response to stress. GCs, under some conditions, exhibit pro-inflammatory properties, however whether GCs are sufficient to prime neuroinflammatory responses has not been systematically investigated. In the present investigation, we tested whether acute administration of exogenous GCs would be sufficient to reproduce the stress-induced sensitization of neuroinflammatory responses under a number of different timing relationships between GC administration and immune challenge (lipopolysaccharide; LPS). We demonstrate here that GCs potentiate both the peripheral (liver) and central (hippocampus) pro-inflammatory response (e.g. TNFalpha, IL-1beta, IL-6) to a peripheral immune challenge (LPS) if GCs are administered prior (2 and 24h) to challenge. Prior exposure (24h) to GCs also potentiated the pro-inflammatory response of hippocampal microglia to LPS ex vivo. In contrast, when GCs are administered after (1h) a peripheral immune challenge, GCs suppress the pro-inflammatory response to LPS in both liver and hippocampus. GCs also up-regulated microglial activation markers including Toll-like Receptor 2. The present data suggest that the temporal relationship between GC treatment and immune challenge may be an important factor determining whether GCs exhibit pro- or anti-inflammatory properties.
Sleep disturbance is associated with inflammation and related disorders including cardiovascular disease, arthritis, and diabetes mellitus. Given sex differences in the prevalence of inflammatory disorders with stronger associations in females, this study was undertaken to test the effects of sleep loss on cellular mechanisms that contribute to proinflammatory cytokine activity. In 26 healthy adults (11 females; 15 males), monocyte intracellular proinflammatory cytokine production was repeatedly assessed at 08:00, 12:00, 16:00, 20:00, and 23:00h during a baseline period and after partial sleep deprivation (awake from 23:00 to 3.00h). In the morning after a night of sleep loss, monocyte production of interleukin-6 (IL-6) and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) differentially changed between the two sexes. Whereas both females and males showed a marked increase in the lipopolysaccharide (LPS) - stimulated production of IL-6 and TNF-alpha in the morning immediately after PSD, production of these cytokines during the early- and late evening was increased in the females as compared to decreases in the males. Sleep loss induces a functional alteration of monocyte proinflammatory cytokine responses with females showing greater cellular immune activation as compared to changes in males. These results have implications for understanding the role of sleep disturbance in the differential risk profile for inflammatory disorders between the sexes.
Aims of our study were to describe the early clinical features of Dravet syndrome (SMEI) and the neurological, cognitive and behavioral outcome. The clinical history of 37 patients with clinical diagnosis of SMEI, associated with a point mutation of SCN1A gene in 84% of cases, were reviewed with particular attention to the symptoms of onset. All the patients received at least one formal cognitive and behavior evaluation. Epilepsy started at a mean age of 5.7 months; the onset was marked by isolated seizure in 25 infants, and by status epilepticus in 12; the first seizure had been triggered by fever, mostly of low degree in 22 infants; the first EEG was normal in all cases. During the second year of life difficult-to-treat seizures recurred, mostly triggered by fever, hot bath, and intermittent lights and delay in psychomotor development became evident. At the last evaluation, performed at a mean age of 16+/-6.9 years, mental retardation was present in 33 patients, associated with behavior disorders in 21. Our data indicate that the most striking features of SMEI are: the early onset of seizures in a previously healthy child, the long duration of the first seizure, the presence of focal ictal symptoms, and sensitivity to low-grade fever. Diagnosis of SMEI may be proposed by the end of the first year of life, and a definite diagnosis can be established during the second year based on the peculiar seizure-favoring factors, EEG photosensitivity and psychomotor slowing. The temporal correlation between high seizure frequency and cognitive impairment support the role of epilepsy in the clinical outcome, even if a role of channelopathy cannot be ruled out.
The relationship between febrile seizures and hippocampal sclerosis has been the subject of longstanding discussion. Animal models for prolonged seizures have shown a clear causal relationship with focal limbic features at low dose and hippocampal damage at high dose. Careful history taking of febrile seizure semiology has shown focal early features often with clear temporal lobe elements. This would suggest that many febrile seizures are secondarily generalised hippocampal seizures. There is evidence of varying levels of epileptogenicity in specific infective causes of febrile seizures. Seizure semiology also suggests that a proportion of such seizures may be non-epileptic reflex asystolic attacks. Seizure semiology in febrile seizures deserves closer scrutiny.



The goal of this study was to examine the morpho-physiologic changes in the dorsal subiculum network in the mouse model of temporal lobe epilepsy using extracellular recording, juxtacellular and immunofluorescence double labeling, and anterograde tracing methods. A significant loss of total dorsal subicular neurons, particularly calbindin, parvalbumin (PV) and immunopositive interneurons, was found at 2 months after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (SE). However, the sprouting of axons from lateral entorhinal cortex (LEnt) was observed to contact with surviving subicular neurons. These neurons had two predominant discharge patterns: bursting and fast irregular discharges. The bursting neurons were mainly pyramidal cells, and their dendritic spine density and bursting discharge rates were increased significantly in SE mice compared with the control group. Fast irregular discharge neurons were PV-immunopositive interneurons and had less dendritic spines in SE mice when compared with the control mice. When LEnt was stimulated, bursting and fast irregular discharge neurons had much shorter latency and stronger excitatory response in SE mice compared with the control group. Our results illustrate that morpho-physiologic changes in the dorsal subiculum could be part of a multilevel pathologic network that occurs simultaneously in many brain areas to contribute to the generation of epileptiform activity.
Since the inception of global gene expression profiling platforms in the mid-1990s, there has been a significant increase in publications of differentially expressed genes in the process of epileptogenesis. In particular for mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, the presence of a latency period between the first manifestation of seizures to chronic epilepsy provides the opportunity for therapeutic interventions at the molecular biology level. Using global expression profiling techniques, approximately 2000 genes have been published demonstrating differential expression in mesial temporal epilepsy. The majority of these changes, however, are specific to laboratory or experimental conditions with only 53 genes demonstrating changes in more than two publications. To this end, we review the current status of gene expression profiling in epileptogenesis and suggest standard guidelines to be followed for greater accuracy and reproducibility of results.
In Ngsk prion protein (PrP)-deficient mice (NP(0/0)), ectopic expression of PrP-like protein Doppel (Dpl) in central neurons induces significant Purkinje cell (PC) death resulting in late-onset ataxia. NP(0/0) PC death is partly prevented by either knocking-out the apoptotic factor BAX or overexpressing the anti-apoptotic factor BCL-2 suggesting that apoptosis is involved in Dpl-induced death. In this study, Western blotting and immunohistofluorescence show that both before and during significant PC loss, the scrapie-responsive gene 1 (Scrg1)--potentially associated with autophagy--and the autophagic markers LC3B and p62 increased in the NP(0/0) PCs whereas RT-PCR shows stable mRNA expression, suggesting that the degradation of autophagic products is impaired in NP(0/0) PCs. At the ultrastructural level, autophagic-like profiles accumulated in somatodendritic and axonal compartments of NP(0/0), but not wild-type PCs. The most robust autophagy was observed in NP(0/0) PC axon compartments in the deep cerebellar nuclei suggesting that it is initiated in these axons. Our previous and present data indicate that Dpl triggers autophagy and apoptosis in NP(0/0) PCs. As observed in amyloid neurodegenerative diseases, upregulation of autophagic markers as well as extensive accumulation of autophagosomes in NP(0/0) PCs are likely to reflect a progressive dysfunction of autophagy that could trigger apoptotic cascades.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has developed into a powerful tool for studying human brain physiology and brain-behavior relations. When applied in sessions of repeated stimulation, TMS can lead to changes in neuronal activity/excitability that outlast the stimulation itself. Such aftereffects are at the heart of the offline TMS protocols in cognitive neuroscience and neurotherapeutics. However, whether these aftereffects are of applied interest critically depends on their magnitude and duration, which should fall within an experimentally or clinically useful range without increasing risks and adverse effects. In this short review, we survey combined TMS-EEG studies to characterize the TMS-aftereffects as revealed by EEG to contribute to the characterization of the most effective and promising repetitive TMS-parameters. With one session of conventional repetitive TMS (of fixed pulse frequency), aftereffects were consistently comparable in magnitude to EEG-changes reported after learning or with fatigue, and were short-lived (&lt;70 min). The few studies using recently developed protocols (such as theta burst stimulation) suggest comparable effect-size but longer effect-durations. Based on the reviewed data, it is expected that TMS-efficacy can be further promoted by repeating TMS-sessions, by using EEG-gated TMS to tailor TMS to current neuronal state, or by other, non-conventional TMS-protocols. Newly emerging developments in offline TMS research for cognitive neuroscience and neurotherapeutics are outlined.
Parietal cortex subserves various cognitive tasks, ranging from attention to visuo-motor skills. It is part of a parieto-frontal network involved in attention, and part of the visual dorsal stream, opposed to the visual ventral stream, although increasing evidence suggests interchange of information between them. In this study, co-registration of Transcranial Magnetic Stimulation (TMS) and Electroencephalographic activity (EEG) has been used to investigate the spreading of cortical connections from the parietal cortex in healthy volunteers. TMS on the left parietal cortex activated a network of prefrontal regions in the contra-lateral hemisphere in a time range of 102-167 ms after the stimulus. Moreover, activation in the ipsi-lateral middle temporal and fusiform gyri was observed at 171-177 ms after delivery of TMS. Findings suggest the existence of late driven connections between parietal and prefrontal regions that could partially represent the neural pathway related to attention, even if, in this experiment, no attentional processing was requested. Late connections between dorsal and ventral streams were also evident, confirming previous evidence about interchange of information between them. Conclusively, the present investigation confirms that a great amount of information spreads from parietal cortex to different regions in the brain, supporting the idea that connections are more complex and articulated than those proposed. Present findings also suggest that the simultaneous recording of EEG during the application of TMS is a promising tool for the study of connections in the brain.
The combination of brain stimulation by transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) with simultaneous electroencephalographic (EEG) imaging has become feasible due to recent technical developments. The TMS-EEG integration provides real-time information on cortical reactivity and connectivity through the analysis of TMS-evoked potentials (TEPs), and how functional activity links to behavior through the study of TMS-induced modulations thereof. It reveals how these effects vary as a function of neuronal state, differing between individuals and patient groups but also changing rapidly over time during task performance. This review discusses the wide range of possible TMS-EEG applications and what new information may be gained using this technique on the dynamics of brain functions, hierarchical organization, and cortical connectivity, as well as on TMS action per se. An advance in the understanding of these issues is timely and promises to have a substantial impact on many areas of clinical and basic neuroscience.

Herpes encephalitis can be a life-threatening condition, despite early instauration of acyclovir treatment. In particular patients may succumb to rapidly progressive cerebral oedema. We report a 66-year patient with a Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) of 6 and incipient uncus herniation of the right temporal lobe on the third day. Decompressive hemicraniectomy was immediately performed. The long-term outcome was satisfactory with unassisted gait and a Barthel Index score of 70 after 9 months.
Aluminum (Al) has been associated with neuronal dysfunction. These neuronal changes may involve glial alterations. We intend to evaluate the consequence of Al on the glial system and the behavior of rats exposed chronically to 0.3% of aluminum chloride in drinking water during 4 months in adulthood (A) or since intra-uterine age (IU); animals from this latter group were sacrificed at four months of age. Our data show an intense glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-immunoreactivity with a high density of astrocytes in both treated groups compared with controls. However, in IU rats, astrocytes display prominent glial cell bodies and processes. A and IU rat groups perform a significantly reduced locomotor activity. However, using the dark/light box test, the IU rats prefer to spend more time in the enlightened compartment compared to other groups. Behavioral and glial changes caused by Al exposure bring support for the role of Al in brain dysfunction involving glial alterations.



Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a devastating injury for both patients and their family members. The goal of this study is to identify the needs expressed by family members, as patients with severe brain injury progress through their recovery. A qualitative study was undertaken with 25 family members who were associated with 15 injured relatives. Data are reported from 44 interviews conducted at two time periods: discharge from ICLI (Time 1) and discharge from acute care facility to home or rehabilitation (Time 2). The findings are part of a larger mixed method study of both qualitative and quantitative data collected over three time periods. Family members identified a variety of need during the acute hospitalization period. Thematic analysis at 1 identified four main themes that described the trajectory of the families' experiences: getting the news, uncertainty, making sense of the news and moving on. At Time 2, themes of the family experience included uncertainty, looking for progress, transition and letting go/building a new connection. Themes that identified the needs of families included managing life, involvement in care, and holding on to hope. Support required by the family included the need for information, professional support and community support. Families had intensive needs in the acute phase of the injury and their needs changed over time. Findings of the study will assist neuroscience nurses in understanding their role in providing for the needs of families of TBI patients.
Children with cerebral palsy may experience spasticity, which may negatively impact their quality of life. One proven treatment for such spasticity is selective dorsal rhizotomy (SDR), whereby a partial sectioning of the dorsal roots from L2 to S1 is performed. SDR can be performed where the nerve root exits the intervertebral foramina via multi-level laminectomies, or at the level of the conus via a single-level laminectomy. At British Columbia Children's Hospital (BCCH), SDRs were performed via multi-level laminectomies until 2005, when the single-level technique was adopted. The single-level procedure is technically more challenging and takes longer, but requires a smaller incision and involves less muscle dissection. Functional outcomes at one-year follow-up are similar for the two methods of surgery. It was hypothesized that post-operative pain would be less, mobilization faster and hospital stay shorter using the single-level technique. Using a retrospective case series analysis, we compared nine patients who had had single-level SDR to 18 matched controls who had undergone SDR using the multi-level technique. There were no significant differences in post-operative pain, duration of opioid infusion, or time to mobilization. Length of hospital stay was significantly decreased after the single level procedure: 3.4 versus 5.2 days (p = 0.01).

Glioblastoma (GBM) is the most aggressive and malignant brain tumor. Recent studies indicated that glioma samples are characterized by increased expression of CXCR4, the CXCL12/SDF-1 chemokine receptor. To better understand the role of CXCR4 in GBM biology we performed an integrated study where we simultaneously evaluate the contribution of the CXCR4/CXCL12 signaling pathway to the proliferation, survival and motility of a human GBM cell line. Our results indicated that CXCR4/CXCL12 axis induced an increase in cell proliferation and in cell motility. The blockage of CXCR4 induced a significant increase of apoptosis. Together, our results indicated that CXCR4/CXCL12 signalling pathway may contribute to GBM development and emphasize the therapeutic potential of this pathway in patients with GBM.
S100B promotes development and maturation in the mammalian brain. However, prolonged or extensive exposure can lead to neurodegeneration. Two important functions of S100B in this regard, are its role in the development and plasticity of the serotonergic neurotransmitter system, and its role in the cascade of glial changes associated with neuroinflammation. Both of these processes are therefore accelerated towards degeneration in disease processes wherein S100B is increased, notably, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Down syndrome (DS). In order to study the role of S100B in this context, we have examined S100B overexpressing transgenic mice. Similar to AD and DS, the transgenic animals show a profound change in serotonin innervation. By 28 weeks of age, there is a significant loss of terminals in the hippocampus. Similarly, the transgenic animals show neuroinflammatory changes analogous with AD and DS. These include decreased numbers of mature, stable astroglial cells, increased numbers of activated microglial cells and increased microglial expression of the cell surface receptor RAGE. Eventually, the S100B transgenic animals show neurodegeneration and the appearance of hyperphosphorylated tau structures, as seen in late stage DS and AD. The role of S100B in these conditions is discussed.
Mental Retardation (MR) is a developmental disability characterized by impairments in adaptive daily life skills and difficulties in social and interpersonal functioning. Since multiple causes may contribute to MR, associated clinical pictures may vary accordingly. Nevertheless, when psychiatric disorders as Treatment Resistant Depression (TRD) and/or alcohol abuse co-exist, their proper detection and management is often troublesome, essentially due to a limited vocabulary MR people could use to describe their symptoms, feelings and concerns, and the lack of reliable screening tools. Furthermore, MR people are among the most medicated subjects, with (over) prescription of antidepressants and/or typical antipsychotics being the rule rather than exception. Thus, treatment resistance or even worsening of depression, constitute frequent occurrences. This report describes the case of a person with MR who failed to respond to repetitive trials of antidepressant monotherapies, finally recovering using aripiprazole to fluvoxamine augmentation upon consideration of a putative bipolar diathesis for &quot;agitated&quot; TRD. Although further controlled investigations are needed to assess a putative bipolar diathesis in some cases of MR associated to TRD, prudence is advised in the long-term prescription of antidepressant monotherapies in such conditions.
Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease is a self-limited benign condition of unknown etiology characterized by cervical lymphadenopathy, fever, and leucopenia. An autoimmune hypothesis has been suggested and an association with systemic lupus erythematosus, Sjogren's disease, and antiphospholipid syndrome has been noted. We report a 27-year-old male who presented for evaluation of weakness and he was diagnosed with seropositive generalized myasthenia gravis and underwent a thymectomy. He was stable until five months post-thymectomy, when he developed a high fever associated with nontender cervical lymphadenopathy, chills, and night sweats. Histopathology of a cervical lymph gland biopsy was compatible with Kikuchi-Fujimoto lymphadenitis. He improved spontaneously and was asymptomatic at the followup six months later. Our case expands the association of Kikuchi-Fujimoto disease with autoimmune disorders to include myasthenia gravis.
One of the subjects that most concerns physicians is treatment-resistance. About 30%-60% of schizophrenia patients do not respond adequately to antipsychotic treatment and are known as refractory schizophrenia patients. Clozapine has been the drug of choice in such cases. However, approximately 30% of them do not respond to clozapine either. Here, we describe a patient with an initial diagnosis of refractory schizophrenia who had a history of dramatic aggressiveness. However, in this case, &quot;refractoriness&quot; was a wrong diagnosis. A case of psychosis secondary to epilepsy had been treated as schizophrenia for almost 20 years. Reports like this one are important because they remind us of how a thorough investigation can lead to the correct diagnosis and improve the patient's prognosis.
Arachidonic acid (AA) is generated in the pancreatic islets during glucose stimulation. We investigated whether AA activated extracellular Ca(2+) entry in rat pancreatic beta cells via a pathway that was independent of the activation of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels. The AA triggered [Ca(2+)](i) rise did not involve activation of GPR40 receptors or AA metabolism. When cells were voltage clamped at -70mV, the AA-mediated intracellular Ca(2+) release was accompanied by extracellular Ca(2+) entry. AA accelerated the rate of Mn(2+) quench of indo-1 fluorescence (near the Ca(2+)-independent wavelength of indo-1), reflecting the activation of a Ca(2+)-permeable pathway. The AA-mediated acceleration of Mn(2+) quench was inhibited by La(3+) but not by 2-APB (a blocker of capacitative Ca(2+) entry), suggesting the involvement of arachidonate-regulated Ca(2+) (ARC) channels. Consistent with this, intracellular application of the charged membrane-impermeant analog of AA, arachidonyl-coenzyme A (ACoA) triggered extracellular Ca(2+) entry, as well as the activation of a La(3+)-sensitive small inward current (1.7pA/pF) at -70mV. Our results indicate that the activation of ARC channels by intracellular AA triggers extracellular Ca(2+) entry. This action may contribute to the effects of AA on Ca(2+) signals and insulin secretion in rat beta cells.
This is the first in a series of articles that Landes Bioscience will publish about the physical space where research takes place-the laboratories and classrooms where the science you read about in our journals is happening. Here we interviewed New York-based architects Tod Williams and Billie Tsien about two of their projects, The Neurosciences Institute in La Jolla and Skirkanich Hall at the University of Pennsylvania. We asked them, among other things, how they engaged scientists in the design process. Here is their response.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in regulating a plethora of physiological and pathophysiogical processes including neurodegeneration. In both HIV associated dementia in humans and its monkey model SIV encephalitis we find miR-21, a miRNA largely known for its link to oncogenesis, to be significantly upregulated in the brain. In situ hybridization of the diseased brain sections revealed induction of miR-21 in neurons. MiR-21 can be induced in neurons by prolonged N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor stimulation, an excitotoxic process active in HIV and other neurodegenerative diseases. Introduction of miR-21 into human neurons leads to pathological functional defects. Furthermore, we show that miR-21 specifically targets the mRNA of myocyte enhancer factor 2C (MEF2C), a transcription factor crucial for neuronal function, and reduces its expression. MEF2C is dramatically downregulated in neurons of HIV-associated dementia patients as well as monkeys with SIVE. Together, this study elucidates a novel role for miR-21 in the brain, not only as a potential signature of neurological disease but also as a crucial effector of HIV induced neuronal dysfunction and neurodegeneration.
The purinergic signalling system, which uses purines and pyrimidines as chemical transmitters, and purinoceptors as effectors, is deeply rooted in evolution and development and is a pivotal factor in cell communication. The ATP and its derivatives function as a 'danger signal' in the most primitive forms of life. Purinoceptors are extraordinarily widely distributed in all cell types and tissues and they are involved in the regulation of an even more extraordinary number of biological processes. In addition to fast purinergic signalling in neurotransmission, neuromodulation and secretion, there is long-term (trophic) purinergic signalling involving cell proliferation, differentiation, motility and death in the development and regeneration of most systems of the body. In this article, we focus on the latter in the immune/defence system, in stratified epithelia in visceral organs and skin, embryological development, bone formation and resorption, as well as in cancer.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive neuronal death in the basal ganglia and cortex. Although increasing evidence supports a pivotal role of mitochondrial dysfunction in the death of patients' neurons, the molecular bases for mitochondrial impairment have not been elucidated. We provide the first evidence of an abnormal activation of the Bcl-2/adenovirus E1B 19-kDa interacting protein 3 (BNip3) in cells expressing mutant Huntingtin. In this study, we show an abnormal accumulation and dimerization of BNip3 in the mitochondria extracted from human HD muscle cells, HD model cell cultures and brain tissues from HD model mice. Importantly, we have shown that blocking BNip3 expression and dimerization restores normal mitochondrial potential in human HD muscle cells. Our data shed light on the molecular mechanisms underlying mitochondrial dysfunction in HD and point to BNip3 as a new potential target for neuroprotective therapy in HD.
Neurogenesis persists in the adult hippocampus, where several thousand neurons are born every day. Most of the newly generated cells are eliminated by apoptosis, possibly because of their failure to integrate properly into neural networks. The BH3-only proteins Bim and Puma have been shown to mediate trophic factor withdrawal- and anoikis-induced apoptosis in various systems. We therefore determined their impact on proliferation, survival, and differentiation of adult-generated cells in the mouse hippocampus using gene-deficient mice. Wild-type, bim-, and puma-deficient mice showed similar rates of precursor cell proliferation, as evidenced by 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU)-incorporation. Deficiency in either bim or puma significantly increased the survival of adult-born cells in the dentate gyrus (DG) after 7 days. Consistently, we detected increased numbers of doublecortin (DCX)-positive and fewer terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP nick end-labelled-positive cells in the DG of bim- and puma-deficient mice. Bim and puma deficiency did not change early markers of neuronal differentiation, as evidenced by BrdU/DCX double-labelling. However, BrdU/NeuN double-labelling revealed that deficiency of bim, but not puma, accelerated the differentiation of newly generated cells into a neuronal phenotype. Our data show that Bim and Puma are prominently involved in the regulation of neuronal progenitor cell survival in the adult DG, but also suggest that Bim has an additional role in neuronal differentiation of adult-born neural precursor cells.
Alcohol use and abuse appear to be related to neuroadaptive changes at functional, neurochemical, and structural levels. Acute and chronic ethanol exposure have been shown to modulate function of the activity-dependent gene transcription factor, cAMP-responsive element binding (CREB) protein in the brain, which may be associated with the development of alcoholism. Study of the downstream effectors of CREB have identified several important CREB-related genes, such as neuropeptide Y, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, activity-regulated cytoskeleton-associated protein, and corticotrophin-releasing factor, that may play a crucial role in the behavioral effects of ethanol and molecular changes in the specific neurocircuitry that underlie both alcohol addiction and a genetic predisposition to alcoholism. Brain chromatin remodeling due to histone covalent modifications may also be involved in mediating the behavioral effects and neuroadaptive changes that occur during ethanol exposure. This review outlines progressive neuroscience research into molecular and epigenetic mechanisms of alcoholism.
Thymosin-beta4 (Tbeta4) is a major actin monomer-binding peptide in mammalian tissues and plays a crucial role in the nervous system in synaptogenesis, neuronal survival and migration, axonal growth, and plastic changes of dendritic spines. However, it is unknown whether Tbeta4 is also involved in challenges with external stress such as ethanol-induced neurotoxicity. In the present study, we investigated the effects of Tbeta4 on ethanol-induced neurotoxicity in cultured cerebral cortical astrocytes and the underlying mechanisms. Primarily cultured astrocytes were treated with 1 microg/ml Tbeta4 2 h prior to administration of 100 mM ethanol for 0.5, 1, 3 and 6 days, respectively. The results showed that ethanol caused neurotoxicity in cultured astrocytes, as shown by declined cell viability, distinct astroglial apoptosis and increased intracellular peroxidation. Tbeta4 markedly promoted cell viability, ameliorated the injury of intracellular glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunopositive cytoskeletal structures, reduced the percentage of apoptotic astrocyte and cellular DNA fragmentation, suppressed caspase-3 activity and upregulated Bcl-2 expression, inhibited the accumulation of reactive oxygen species and production of malondialdehyde in ethanol-treated astrocytes in a time-dependent manner. These data indicated that Tbeta4 attenuates ethanol-induced neurotoxicity in cultured cortical astrocytes through inhibition of apoptosis signaling, and one of the mechanisms underlying the capacity of Tbeta4 to suppress apoptosis may in part be due to its effect of anti-peroxidation.
The fibrotic scar which is formed after traumatic damage of the central nervous system (CNS) is considered as a major impediment for axonal regeneration. In the process of the fibrotic scar formation, meningeal fibroblasts invade and proliferate in the lesion site to secrete extracellular matrix proteins, such as collagen and laminin. Thereafter, end feet of reactive astrocytes elaborate a glia limitans surrounding the fibrotic scar. Transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1), a potent scar-inducing factor, which is upregulated after CNS injury, has been implicated in the formation of the fibrotic scar and glia limitans. In the present study, expression of receptors to TGF-beta1 was examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry in transcortical knife lesions of the striatum in the mouse brain in combination with immunofluorescent staining for fibroblasts and astrocytes. Type I and type II TGF-beta receptor mRNAs were barely detected in the intact brain and first found in meningeal cells near the lesion 1 day postinjury. Many cells expressing TGF-beta receptors were found around the lesion site 3 days postinjury, and some of them were immunoreactive for fibronectin. After 5 days postinjury, many fibroblasts migrated from the meninges to the lesion site formed the fibrotic scar, and most of them expressed TGF-beta receptors. In contrast, few of reactive astrocytes expressed the receptors throughout the postinjury period examined. These results indicate that meningeal fibroblasts not reactive astrocytes are a major target of TGF-beta1 that is upregulated after CNS injury.
We have characterized a newly generated mouse model of obesity, a mouse strain deficient in all five previously described leptin receptor isoforms. These transgenic mice, named the db (333)/db (333) mice, were identified from an ENU mutagenesis screen and carry a point mutation in the seventh exon of the db gene encoding the leptin receptor, resulting in a premature stop codon (Y(333)Stop) and gene product that lacks STAT signaling domains. db (333)/db (333) mice have a morbidly obese phenotype, with body weights diverging from wild type as early as 4 weeks of age (P &lt; 0.05). To determine the contribution of the short isoforms of the leptin receptor in this metabolic phenotype, we performed an extensive metabolic characterization of the db (333)/db (333) mouse in relation to the well-characterized db/db mouse lacking only the long form of the leptin receptor. db (333)/db (333) mice have similar endocrine and metabolic parameters as previously described in other leptin receptor transgenic mice including db/db mice that lack only the long isoform of the leptin receptor. However, db (333)/db (333) mice show a subtle trend toward higher body weight and insulin levels, lower oxygen, carbon dioxide production, respiratory exchange ratio (RER), and temperature than db/db mice suggesting the short isoforms may play an additional role in energy homeostasis.
Ecstasy, 3,4-methylenedioxymetamphetamine (MDMA), is a recreational drug used among adolescents, including young pregnant women. MDMA passes the placental barrier and may therefore influence fetal development. The aim was to investigate the direct effect of MDMA on cortical cells using dissociated CNS cortex of rat embryos, E17. The primary culture was exposed to a single dose of MDMA and collected 5 days later. MDMA caused a dramatic, dose-dependent (100 and 400 microM) decrease in nestin-positive stem cell density, as well as a significant reduction (400 microM) in NeuN-positive cells. By qPCR, MDMA (200 microM) caused a significant decrease in mRNA expression of the 5HT3 receptor, dopamine D(1) receptor, and glutamate transporter EAAT2-1, as well as an increase in mRNA levels of the NMDA NR1 receptor subunit and the 5HT(1A) receptor. In conclusion, MDMA caused a marked reduction in stem cells and neurons in embryonic cortical primary cell cultures, which was accompanied by changes in mRNA expression of specific receptors and transporters for glutamatergic and monoaminergic neurotransmitters.
The epidermal growth factor family of receptor tyrosine kinases (ErbBs) plays essential roles in tumorigenesis and cancer disease progression, and therefore has become an attractive target for structure-based drug design. ErbB receptors are activated by ligand-induced homo- and heterodimerization. Structural studies have revealed that ErbB receptor dimers are stabilized by receptor-receptor interactions, primarily mediated by a region in the second extracellular domain, termed the &quot;dimerization arm&quot;. The present study is the first biological characterization of a peptide, termed Inherbin3, which constitutes part of the dimerization arm of ErbB3. Inherbin3 binds to the extracellular domains of all four ErbB receptors, with the lowest peptide binding affinity for ErbB4. Inherbin3 functions as an antagonist of epidermal growth factor (EGF)-ErbB1 signaling. We show that Inherbin3 inhibits EGF-induced ErbB1 phosphorylation, cell growth, and migration in two human tumor cell lines, A549 and HN5, expressing moderate and high ErbB1 levels, respectively. Furthermore, we show that Inherbin3 inhibits tumor growth in vivo and induces apoptosis in a tumor xenograft model employing the human non-small cell lung cancer cell line A549. The Inherbin3 peptide may be a useful tool for investigating the mechanisms of ErbB receptor homo- and heterodimerization. Moreover, the here described biological effects of Inherbin3 suggest that peptide-based targeting of ErbB receptor dimerization is a promising anti-cancer therapeutic strategy.
Indirect evidence points to the presence of K(+) channels in plant mitochondria. In the present study, we report the results of the first patch clamp experiments on plant mitochondria. Single-channel recordings in 150 mM potassium gluconate have allowed the biophysical characterization of a channel with a conductance of 150 pS in the inner mitochondrial membrane of mitoplasts obtained from wheat (Triticum durum Desf.). The channel displayed sharp voltage sensitivity, permeability to potassium and cation selectivity. ATP in the mM concentration range completely abolished the activity. We discuss the possible molecular identity of the channel and its possible role in the defence mechanisms against oxidative stress in plants.

Several motifs found in the third intracellular loop of the M(3) muscarinic receptor are critical for G protein activation and scaffold protein interaction. However, how multiprotein complexes form is not fully understood. A minigene encoding the third intracellular loop of the M(3) muscarinic receptor was constructed to explore whether peptides from this intracellular region could act as inhibitors of the muscarinic multiprotein complex formation and signaling. We found that this construct, when co-expressed with the M(3) receptor, has the ability to act as a competitive antagonist of G protein receptors and receptor-scaffold/accessory proteins. Transient transfection of human embryonic kidney-293 cells with DNA encoding the human M(3) and M(5) receptor subtypes results in a carbachol-dependent increase of inositol phosphate. Co-expression of the M(3) third cytoplasmic loop minigene dramatically reduces both carbachol-mediated G protein activation and inositol phosphate accumulation. Minigene expression also abrogates activation of M(3) and M(5) receptor mitogen-activated protein kinases pathway. Furthermore, minigene expression led to reduced AKT activation. These data, together with results of co-immunoprecipitation of different scaffold and kinase proteins, provide experimental evidence for the role for the third cytoplasmic loop of the human M(3) muscarinic receptor in G-protein activation and multiprotein complex formation.
Transmembrane (TM) helices of human D1-like dopaminergic receptors (hD1R and hD5R) harbor the same residues implicated in ligand binding and activation of catecholamine G protein-coupled receptors (GPCRs). Yet, hD1R and hD5R naturally display the distinct functional properties shared by wild type and constitutively active mutant GPCRs, respectively. Interestingly, we show in the present study that a class of synthetic phenylbenzazepine agonists containing a methyl on the azepine ring exhibited lower affinity for the more constitutively activated hD5R. These results cannot be explained by the &quot;allosteric ternary complex model&quot; postulating a higher agonist affinity for constitutively active GPCRs. We have also explored the functional role of distinct extracellular amino terminus (NT) and TM1 regions of hD1R and hD5R using a chimerical approach. Of these two regions, our studies suggest that TM1 predominantly shapes D1-like ligand affinity and selectivity. Additionally, NT and TM1 of hD1R and hD5R play no role in receptor constitutive activity but differentially modulate dopamine-mediated responsiveness. The TM1 exchange mediated drastic changes in intrinsic efficacy and activity of phenylbenzazepine drugs displaying partial agonism at hD1R and hD5R. Phenylbenzazepines were converted into strong partial agonists or full agonists in cells expressing hD1R-TM1(D5) chimera while being switched from full agonists to partial agonists and partial agonists to antagonists in cells harboring hD5R-TM1(D1) chimera. TM1 exchange had no effect on antipsychotic-mediated inverse agonism. In summary, our study shows that NT and TM1 of D1-like receptors control ligand binding and agonist-induced activation, poising these regions as important structural determinants for catecholamine GPCR function.
The main objective of this study is to test the potential of specific populations of mouse bone marrow-derived stem cells (BMSCs) to differentiate into the neuronal cell lineage. Bone marrow of 33 mice was aspirated under general anesthesia. The collected marrows were analyzed for cell counts, compositions, and percentages of different stem cell types. We used the Midi MACS magnetic separator to purify specific populations of stem cells from the aspirated bone marrow. Cells were analyzed using flow cytometry. We assessed the presence of stem cell antigen-1 (Sca-1(+)) and prominin-1(+) cells in the cellular fraction that was depleted of lineage-committed cells (lineage(-)). Both purified and nonpurified cells were cultured ex vivo using specific growth media with factors that drive the cells to differentiate into the neuroglial cell types. Cells were then analyzed by flow cytometry for expression of specific neuronal markers. Our results showed that there was an increase of Sca-1(+) and prominin-1(+) cells in the lineage(-) fraction over the unpurified BM. After lineage depletion, the percentages of Sca-1(+) and prominin-1(+) cells increased from 4.9% and 2.6%, up to 76.1% and 59%, respectively. Unpurified mouse BM differentiated into fibroblasts, whereas Sca-1(+) cells were able to generate astrocytes. Interestingly, purified prominin-1(+) cells were able to generate neuronal cells. Purification of adult bone marrow-derived stem cells enhances their potentiality for differentiating into specific neuronal cell lineages.
Intraorbital transection of the optic nerve (ON) always induces ultimate apoptosis of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and consequently irreversible defects of vision function. It was demonstrated that transplanted olfactory ensheathing cells (OECs) in partially injured spinal cord have a distant in vivo neuroprotective effect on descending cortical and brain stem neurons. However, this study gave no answers to the question whether OECs can protect the central sensitive neurons with a closer axonal injury because different neurons respond variously to similar axonal injury and the distance between the neuronal soma and axonal injury site has a definite effect on the severity of neuronal response and apoptosis. In the present study, we investigated the effect of transplanted OECs on RGCs after intraorbital ON transection in adult rats. Green fluorescent protein (GFP)-OECs were injected into the ocular stumps of transected ON and a significantly higher number of surviving RGCs was found together with a consistent marked increase in the mRNA and protein levels of BDNF in the ON stump and retina in the OEC-treated group at 7 days, but not 2 and 14 days, time point when compared to the control group. Our findings suggest that OEC transplantation induces the expression of BDNF in the ocular ON stump and retina and delays the death of axotomized RGCs at a certain survival period.
Performance of a unimanual motor task often induces involuntary mirror electromyographic (EMG) activity in the opposite, resting hand. In spite of the ubiquitous presence of mirroring, little is known regarding the underlying cortical contributions. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to study brain regions activated in association with parametric increases in right isometric wrist flexion force (10%, 20%, 30%, and 70%) in 12 healthy volunteers. During scanning, EMG activity was recorded bilaterally from flexor carpi radialis (FCR), extensor carpi radialis (ECR), biceps brachii (BB), and triceps brachii (TB). Mirror EMG was observed in left FCR during 20%, 30%, and 70% of force. Left ECR, BB, and TB showed mirror EMG only at 70% of force. Increasing force was associated with a linear increase of blood-oxygen-level-dependent (BOLD) signal in bilateral primary motor cortex (M1), supplementary motor area (SMA), caudal cingulate, and cerebellum. Mirroring in the left FCR correlated with activity in bilateral M1, SMA, and the cerebellum. Overall, our results suggest that activity in these regions might reflect sensorimotor processes operating in association with mirroring and suggest caution when interpreting fMRI activity in studies that involve unilateral force generation tasks in the absence of simultaneous bilateral EMG/kinematics measurements.
Functional imaging studies have revealed roles for orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) in reward processing and decision making. In many situations, rewards signal that the current behavior should be maintained, whereas punishments cue a change in behavior. Thus, hedonic responses to reinforcers are conflated with their function as behavioral cues. In an attempt to disambiguate these functions, we performed a functional magnetic resonance imaging study of a 2-choice decision-making task. After each trial, subjects were rewarded or punished and independently provided with a cue to maintain or change behavior. We identified key regions of OFC involved in these processes. An anterior medial focus responded to reward, whereas bilateral lateral foci responded to punishment. The right-sided lateral region that responded to punishment also responded to cues for behavior change (shift), whereas a more ventral and anterior bilateral region responded to cues for behavioral maintenance (stay). The right-sided stay region responded specifically when stay cues were combined with punishment. These results support the view that OFC codes both hedonic responses to reinforcers and their behavioral consequences. Punishments and shift cues are associated with the same right lateral OFC focus, suggesting a fundamental connection between emotive response to negative reinforcement and use of negative information to cue behavioral change.
We examined the neural signatures of stimulus features in visual working memory (WM) by integrating functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and event-related potential data recorded during mental manipulation of colors, rotation angles, and color-angle conjunctions. The N200, negative slow wave, and P3b were modulated by the information content of WM, and an fMRI-constrained source model revealed a progression in neural activity from posterior visual areas to higher order areas in the ventral and dorsal processing streams. Color processing was associated with activity in inferior frontal gyrus during encoding and retrieval, whereas angle processing involved right parietal regions during the delay interval. WM for color-angle conjunctions did not involve any additional neural processes. The finding that different patterns of brain activity underlie WM for color and spatial information is consistent with ideas that the ventral/dorsal &quot;what/where&quot; segregation of perceptual processing influences WM organization. The absence of characteristic signatures of conjunction-related brain activity, which was generally intermediate between the 2 single conditions, suggests that conjunction judgments are based on the coordinated activity of these 2 streams.
Making conclusions about the functional neuroanatomical organization of the human brain requires methods for relating the functional anatomy of an individual's brain to population variability. We have developed a method for aligning the functional neuroanatomy of individual brains based on the patterns of neural activity that are elicited by viewing a movie. Instead of basing alignment on functionally defined areas, whose location is defined as the center of mass or the local maximum response, the alignment is based on patterns of response as they are distributed spatially both within and across cortical areas. The method is implemented in the two-dimensional manifold of an inflated, spherical cortical surface. The method, although developed using movie data, generalizes successfully to data obtained with another cognitive activation paradigm--viewing static images of objects and faces--and improves group statistics in that experiment as measured by a standard general linear model (GLM) analysis.
The spread of attention-related processing across anatomically separated cortical regions plays an important role in the binding of an object's features, both within and across sensory modalities. We presented multiple exemplars of semantically congruent multisensory objects (e.g., dogs with barks) and semantically incongruent multisensory objects (e.g., guitars with barks) while recording high-density event-related potentials and tested whether highly learned associations among the multisensory features of well-known objects modulated the spread of attention from an attended visual stimulus to its paired, task-irrelevant sound. Our findings distinguish dual mechanisms for the cross-sensory spread of attention: 1) a stimulus-driven spread of attention that occurs whenever a task-irrelevant sound is simultaneously presented with an attended visual stimulus, independent of highly learned associations, and 2) a representation-driven spread of attention that occurs in response to a task-irrelevant sound that is semantically congruent with a visual target and is therefore dependent on highly learned associations. The first mechanism is thought to reflect bottom-up feature binding, whereas the second mechanism is thought to reflect the top-down activation of a stored object representation that includes the well-known object's multisensory features. When a semantically congruent, task-irrelevant sound is simultaneously presented with a well-known visual target, the combined spread of attention through both mechanisms appears additive.
In prairie voles, primary sensory areas are dominated by neurons that respond to one sensory modality, but some neurons also respond to stimulation of other modalities. To reveal the anatomical substrate for these multimodal responses, we examined the connections of the primary auditory area + the anterior auditory field (A1 + AAF), the temporal anterior area (TA), and the primary visual area (V1). A1 + AAF had intrinsic connections and connections with TA, multimodal cortex (MM), V1, and primary somatosensory area (S1). TA had intrinsic connections and connections with A1 + AAF, MM, and V2. Callosal connections were observed in homotopic locations in auditory cortex for both fields. A1 + AAF and TA receive thalamic input primarily from divisions of the medial geniculate nucleus but also from the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGd), the lateral posterior nucleus, and the ventral posterior nucleus (VP). V1 had dense intrinsic connections and connections with V2, MM, auditory cortex, pyriform cortex (Pyr), and, in some cases, somatosensory cortex. V1 had interhemispheric connections with V1, V2, MM, S1, and Pyr and received thalamic input from LGd and VP. Our results indicate that multisensory integration occurs in primary sensory areas of the prairie vole cortex, and this may be related to behavioral specializations associated with its niche.












In the last decades interdisciplinary research of memory takes place and it connects regions as cognitive psychology and neuroscience. Learning and memory are theoretical concepts, which enable to explain the fact that personal experience influences the behavior of the particular person. Memory has neuronal representation, which enables recollection of obtained experiences and information, and subsequently enables changes in behavior. The review describes events as registration, formation of memory trace as well as memory retrieval. Memory classification is possible according to many criteria, e.g. according to the length, its conscious recollection and the character of deposited information. Main types of memories are episodic memory (for facts and events), semantic memory (for general knowledge) and procedural memory (the ability to learn behavioral and cognitive abilities and algorithms). At present it is generally accepted that memory is a complicated process, which utilizes several brain structures at the same time that are called memory systems; according to the type of memory the experiences and information are deposited in various brain regions. The present research enables many approaches for determination of the sites of memory deposition. In the present period important role in memory localization have the brain imaging techniques. Together with the study of memory under physiological conditions, in the center of interest there is the study of memory during various life periods, under pathological conditions and diseases. The review is closed by the list of most important diseases in which we observe memory dysfunctions, including the retrograde and anterograde amnesias.
The authors examined internalizing behavior problems at middle childhood, adolescence, and young adulthood and brain-based measures of stress vulnerability in 154 right-handed, nonimpaired young adults (M age = 23 years): 71 (30 males, 41 females) born at extremely low birth weight (ELBW; &lt; 1,000 g) and 83 (35 males, 48 females) controls born at normal birth weight (NBW). Internalizing behavior problems increased from adolescence to young adulthood among ELBW individuals. ELBW adults exhibited greater relative right frontal electroencephalogram activity at rest and more concurrent internalizing behavior problems than NBW controls. Being born at ELBW may have subtle influences on brain-behavior relations even in survivors without major impairments and evidence of these influences may not emerge until young adulthood.
Neuroscience research on auditory processing pathways and their behavioral and electrophysiological correlates has taken place largely outside the field of clinical neuropsychology. Deviations and disruptions in auditory pathways in children and adolescents result in a well-documented range of developmental and learning impairments frequently referred for neuropsychological evaluation. This review is an introduction to research from the last decade. It describes auditory cortical and subcortical pathways and processes and relates recent research to specific conditions and questions neuropsychologists commonly encounter. Auditory processing disorders' comorbidity with ADHD and language-based disorders and research addressing the challenges of assessment and differential diagnosis are discussed.
We investigated age-related improvement in semantic category verbal fluency (VF) in 309 Dutch schoolchildren attending first to ninth grade. Quantitative analyses of number of correct responses as a function of time as well as qualitative analyses of clustering and switching were conducted. Overall, Dutch VF task performance, i.e., number of correct responses over 60 seconds, was not established before mid-adolescence. This is in line with previously published studies, using VF number of correct responses over 60 seconds as the main outcome measure and examining VF task performance across other cultures and languages (e.g., Italian, French, Hebrew). Next, mean cluster size, a measure of lexico-semantic knowledge, was not established until at least grade 3. In contrast, performance on the VF outcome measures &quot;number of switches/clusters&quot; was established at least 4 years later. Qualitative and quantitative Design Fluency (DF) outcome measures support the notion that the numbers of switches/clusters are valid measures of higher order cognitive functions, such as strategy use and cognitive flexibility. In line of this, VF number of correct responses during 16-60 seconds, a measure of controlled information processing, is established at least 2 years later (i.e., grades 7-8) than number of correct responses during the first 15 seconds time slide, a measure of automatic processing. Finally, environment, i.e., the level of parental education, primarily affected automatic and lexico-semantic knowledge. No effects of sex on VF performance were found. These data suggest that the alternative scoring methods of VF tasks can be used to acquire knowledge on development of lower and higher order cognitive functions in healthy children and the influence of the environment on it.
This study compared performance and performance monitoring in 19 boys with Tourette syndrome (TS) (12.64 years, +/- 2.05) and 19 age-matched controls (13.16 years, +/- 2.29) using a Go/NoGo task. The results indicated similar performance accuracy in the TS group and the control group. TS participants showed slower correct responses than the control group, whereas error response times were not different between the groups. The results are discussed with reference to inhibitory adaptive effects that may be employed by TS participants to maintain high accuracy at the cost of overall slower performance. These effects may be suspended prior to errors.



Neuroimaging experiments of amygdala activity during rest have shown abnormal amygdalar lateralization in Major Depressive Disorder (MDD). The current study is an exploratory investigation of the use of the neuroimaging technique Low Resolution Electromagnetic Tomography (LORETA) to measure current source density (CSD) in the amygdala. We examined seven adults with MDD and nine healthy control subjects at rest, and while they viewed images of emotionally neutral faces. The primary purpose was to compare the findings of LORETA with published findings using other neuroimaging techniques. Four frequency bands were examined: delta (1-3 Hz), theta (3-7 Hz), alpha (7-11 Hz), and beta (11-29 Hz). Results showed that for both MDD and control groups, the right amygdala displayed higher overall activity (across frequencies) than the left, both at rest, and while viewing neutral faces. Results also showed that controls displayed significant differences between resting and viewing neutral images across all four bands in the right amygdala, with all four bands having higher CSD values in the right amygdala. There were no significant differences in CSD values between rest vs. viewing neutral images in the MDD group. Findings suggest a more pronounced lateralization effect in normal healthy controls than in MDD subjects when changing from a resting (eyes-closed) condition to viewing faces without emotional valence.
Constipation affects up to a quarter of the population in developed countries and is associated with poor quality of life and significant economic burden. Many patients with chronic constipation are dissatisfied with current therapy due to lack of long-term efficacy or side effects. Previous nonselective 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 4 (5-HT(4)) agonists have been associated with significant interactions with other receptors (5-HT(1B), 5-HT(1D), and 5-HT(2B) for tegaserod; hERG for cisapride), leading to adverse cardiovascular events resulting in withdrawal of these drugs from the market. Prucalopride is a novel gastrointestinal prokinetic agent. It acts as a high affinity, highly-selective 5-HT(4) agonist. Its efficacy in patients with chronic constipation has been demonstrated in several phase II and phase III clinical trials showing significant improvements in bowel transit, bowel function, gastrointestinal symptoms, and quality of life, with benefit maintained for up to 24 months in open label, multicenter, follow-up studies. Prucalopride's high selectivity for the 5-HT(4) receptor may explain its favorable safety and tolerability profiles, even in elderly subjects with stable cardiovascular disease. Prucalopride is a well tolerated and efficacious prokinetic medication that should enhance the treatment of chronic constipation unresponsive to first-line treatments.



Skeletal muscle tissue from 3 patients with clinical diagnosis of limb girdle muscular dystrophy revealed a vacuolar myopathy with glycogen storage and lysosomal activity. A diagnosis of late onset GSD Type II was considered. An interesting finding was the presence of round to oval eosinophilic inclusions which reduced on menadione linked a-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase (MAG). There are only two reports in the literature describing similar inclusions in late onset GSD II. We report morphological findings of this rare disorder and compare the findings with earlier two reports.


Despite the availability of over 20 antiepileptic drugs, about 30% of epileptic patients do not achieve seizure control. Thus, identification of additional molecules targeting novel molecular mechanisms is a primary effort in today's antiepileptic drug research. This paper reviews the pharmacological development of retigabine, an antiepileptic drug with a novel mechanism of action, namely the activation of voltage-gated potassium channels of the Kv7 subfamily. These channels, which act as widespread regulators of intrinsic neuronal excitability and of neurotransmitter-induced network excitability changes, are currently viewed among the most promising targets for anticonvulsant pharmacotherapy. In particular, the present work reviews the pathophysiological role of Kv7 channels in neuronal function, the molecular mechanisms involved in the Kv7 channel-opening action of retigabine, the activity of retigabine in preclinical in vitro and in vivo studies predictive of anticonvulsant activities, and the clinical status of development for this drug as an add-on treatment for pharmacoresistant epilepsy. Particular efforts are devoted to highlighting the potential advantages and disadvantages of retigabine when compared with currently available compounds, in order to provide a comprehensive assessment of its role in therapy for treatment-resistant epilepsies.


The term &quot;human action&quot; designates the intentional and deliberate movement that is proper and exclusive to mankind. Human action is a unified structure: knowledge, intention or volition, deliberation, decision or choice of means and execution. The integration between these dimensions appears as a task that demands strength of will to achieve the synthesis of self-possession and self-control that enables full personal realisation. Recently, the debate about the dynamism of human action has been enriched by the contribution of neurosciences. Thanks to techniques of neuroimaging, neurosciences have expanded the field of investigation to the nature of volition, to the role of the brain in decision-making processes and to the notion of freedom and responsibility.

Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is a critical mediator of activity-dependent neuronal plasticity in the cerebral cortex. Deficits in neurotrophic factors have been proposed to underlie mood disorders. However, recent evidence suggests that mood disorders may be produced by abnormalities in the adaptation of neural networks to environmental conditions. Antidepressants may act by enhancing neuronal plasticity, which allows environmental inputs to modify the neuronal networks to better fine tune the individual to the outside world. Recent observations in the visual cortex directly support this idea. According to the network hypothesis of depression, changes in the levels of neurotrophins including BDNF may not directly produce depression or an antidepressant effect, but neurotrophins may act as critical tools in the process whereby environmental conditions guide neuronal networks to better adapt to the environment. This hypothesis suggests that antidepressant drugs should not be used alone but should always be combined with rehabilitation to guide the plastic networks within the brain.

Hypochondriasis is highly prevalent in medical settings, has detrimental effects for affected individuals, and is associated with high societal costs. Although cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) has been shown to be effective in the treatment of hypochondriasis, it is not widely available because of a lack of properly trained therapists. Therefore, it is essential to evaluate therapy forms that require less therapist time. The authors investigated the effect and economic impact of group CBT delivered in a psychiatric setting among 24 people with hypochondriasis. A within-group design with prolonged baseline was used, and all participants received 10 weeks of group-based treatment. The primary outcome measures were the Health Anxiety Inventory and the Illness Attitude Scales. Results indicate significant improvement on both measures at posttreatment and 6-month follow-up (Cohen's d = 1.03-1.72). Medical and nonmedical costs were substantially lowered. The authors conclude that group-based CBT delivered in a psychiatric setting is an effective and potentially highly cost-effective treatment for hypochondriasis.
Confabulations and delusions both involve the production of false claims. Although they may have different types of content, they share several characteristics. For example, they are often held with considerable conviction and are resistant to counter evidence, they may be acted upon, and they may be accompanied by a lack of concern about the false claim or its implications. Confabulations and delusions may initially arise from failures in different systems (e.g., mnemonic vs. perceptual or affective). However, their shared characteristics raise the possibility that the monitoring deficits involved might be the same, resulting in failure to reject the confabulatory or delusional ideas. In this paper we will focus on the nature of these common monitoring deficits. Critically, we argue that monitoring in confabulation and delusion involves both unconscious and conscious processes. We propose that an unconscious process is responsible for tagging suspect content which needs to be checked for veracity by a separate set of conscious evaluative processes. Failure of these monitoring processes would allow ideas which ought to be checked and rejected to instead be uncritically accepted: This would result in the production of confabulations or delusions. Importantly, inclusion of both unconscious and conscious monitoring stages allows the model to account for both &quot;endorsement&quot; and &quot;explanation&quot; delusions, and both &quot;primary&quot; and &quot;secondary&quot; confabulations. Our hope is that this model may provide a theoretical framework to guide empirical investigation of the commonalities and differences between the conditions.
The paper reviews the history of the scientific understanding of the role of emotion in confabulation and delusion. I argue that the significance of emotion in the pathogenesis of these symptoms was obscured by academic polarisation between psychodynamic and neurocognitive traditions and was also often obfuscated by rigid distinctions between psychogenic and neurogenic explanations. This tradition of epistemic dualism was implicitly maintained in the fields of cognitive neuropsychology and cognitive neuropsychiatry. This paper focuses on memory-related confabulation following ventromedial frontal lobe lesions, awareness-related confabulation following right perisylvian lesions, and delusions of various aetiologies. Ambiguity regarding the definition and taxonomy of symptoms renders direct comparison difficult, but certain overriding principles are becoming discernible. Recent findings suggest that emotion and motivation influence both confabulation and delusion. These influences may be instigated directly by neural dysfunction or indirectly by life changes and altered social circumstances, or by a combination of these. Importantly, the rejection of epistemic dualism in the conceptualisation of both symptoms can allow us to study them in parallel and draw conclusions about the relation between cognition and emotion. Specifically, confabulation and delusion can be described as faulty attempts to balance the conflicting demands of accurate and self-serving reality representation.

Prepositions combine with nouns flexibly when describing concrete locative relations (e.g. at/on/in the school) but are rigidly prescribed when paired with abstract concepts (e.g. at risk; on Wednesday; in trouble). In the former case they do linguistic work based on their discrete semantic qualities, and in the latter they appear to serve a primarily grammatical function. We used the abstract concept of time as a test case to see if specific grammatically prescribed prepositions retain semantic content. Using ambiguous questions designed to interrogate one's meaningful representation of temporal relations, we found that the semantics of prescribed prepositions modulate how we think about time. Although prescribed preposition use is unlikely to be based on a core representational organization shared between space and time, results demonstrate that the semantics of particular locative prepositions do constrain how we think about paired temporal concepts.
The &quot;irrational&quot; rejections of unfair offers by people playing the Ultimatum Game (UG), a widely used laboratory model of economical decision-making, have traditionally been associated with negative emotions, such as frustration, elicited by unfairness (Sanfey, Rilling, Aronson, Nystrom, &amp; Cohen, 2003; van't Wout, Kahn, Sanfey, &amp; Aleman, 2006). We recorded skin conductance responses as a measure of emotional activation while participants performed a modified version of the UG, in which they were asked to play both for themselves and on behalf of a third-party. Our findings show that even unfair offers are rejected when participants' payoff is not affected (third-party condition); however, they show an increase in the emotional activation specifically when they are rejecting offers directed towards themselves (myself condition). These results suggest that theories emphasizing negative emotions as the critical factor of &quot;irrational&quot; rejections (Pillutla &amp; Murninghan, 1996) should be re-discussed. Psychological mechanisms other than emotions might be better candidates for explaining this behaviour.
Many see fruit flies as an annoyance, invading our homes with a nagging persistence and efficiency. Yet from a scientific perspective, these tiny animals are a wonder of multisensory integration, capable of tracking fragmented odor plumes amidst turbulent winds and constantly varying visual conditions. The peripheral olfactory, mechanosensory, and visual systems of the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, have been studied in great detail;1-4 however, the mechanisms by which fly brains integrate information from multiple sensory modalities to facilitate robust odor tracking remain elusive. Our studies on olfactory orientation by flying flies reveal that these animals do not simply follow their &quot;nose&quot;; rather, fruit flies require mechanosensory and visual input to track odors in flight.5,6 Collectively, these results shed light on the neural circuits involved in odor localization by fruit flies in the wild and illuminate the elegant complexity underlying a behavior to which the annoyed and amazed are familiar.
An important goal in neuroscience is to identify instances when EEG signals are coupled. We employ a method to measure the coupling strength between gamma signals (40-100 Hz) on a short time scale as the maximum cross-correlation over a range of time lags within a sliding variable-width window. Instances of coupling states among several signals are also identified, using a mixed multivariate beta distribution to model coupling strength across multiple gamma signals with reference to a common base signal. We first apply our variable-window method to simulated signals and compare its performance to a fixed-window approach. We then focus on gamma signals recorded in two regions of the rat hippocampus. Our results indicate that this may be a useful method for mapping coupling patterns among signals in EEG datasets.
Many studies have revealed that attention operates across different sensory modalities, to facilitate the selection of relevant information in the multimodal situations of every-day life. Cross-modal links have been observed either when attention is directed voluntarily (endogenous) or involuntarily (exogenous). The neural basis of cross-modal attention presents a significant challenge to cognitive neuroscience. Here, we used a neural network model to elucidate the neural correlates of visual-tactile interactions in exogenous and endogenous attention. The model includes two unimodal (visual and tactile) areas connected with a bimodal area in each hemisphere and a competition between the two hemispheres. The model is able to explain cross-modal facilitation both in exogenous and endogenous attention, ascribing it to an advantaged activation of the bimodal area on the attended side (via a top-down or bottom-up biasing), with concomitant inhibition towards the opposite side. The model suggests that a competitive/cooperative interaction with biased competition may mediate both forms of cross-modal attention.
The chance of detecting assembly activity is expected to increase if the spiking activities of large numbers of neurons are recorded simultaneously. Although such massively parallel recordings are now becoming available, methods able to analyze such data for spike correlation are still rare, as a combinatorial explosion often makes it infeasible to extend methods developed for smaller data sets. By evaluating pattern complexity distributions the existence of correlated groups can be detected, but their member neurons cannot be identified. In this contribution, we present approaches to actually identify the individual neurons involved in assemblies. Our results may complement other methods and also provide a way to reduce data sets to the &quot;relevant&quot; neurons, thus allowing us to carry out a refined analysis of the detailed correlation structure due to reduced computation time.
We consider the problem of reconstructing finite energy stimuli encoded with a population of spiking leaky integrate-and-fire neurons. The reconstructed signal satisfies a consistency condition: when passed through the same neuron, it triggers the same spike train as the original stimulus. The recovered stimulus has to also minimize a quadratic smoothness optimality criterion. We formulate the reconstruction as a spline interpolation problem for scalar as well as vector valued stimuli and show that the recovery has a unique solution. We provide explicit reconstruction algorithms for stimuli encoded with single as well as a population of integrate-and-fire neurons. We demonstrate how our reconstruction algorithms can be applied to stimuli encoded with ON-OFF neural circuits with feedback. Finally, we extend the formalism to multi-input multi-output neural circuits and demonstrate that vector-valued finite energy signals can be efficiently encoded by a neural population provided that its size is beyond a threshold value. Examples are given that demonstrate the potential applications of our methodology to systems neuroscience and neuromorphic engineering.
This paper presents a new methodology of feature extraction of sleep and wake stages of a freely behaving rat based on Continuous Wavelet Transform (CWT). The automatic separation of those stages is very useful for experiments related to learning and memory consolidation since recent scientific evidence indicates that sleep is strongly involved with offline reprocessing of acquired information during waking. Our approach transforms hippocampal Local Field Potentials (LFP) in data vectors that describe the energy distribution pattern of the signal on scaled Morlet wavelets projections. Results indicate that the mathematical analysis used in this work can sensibly describe brain signal patterns that correlate to states of behaviour and that our method can be used for a wider range of applications in neuroscience research.
We introduce finite rate of innovation (FRI) based spike acquisition, a new approach to the sampling of action potentials. Drawing from emerging theory on sampling FRI signals, our process aims to acquire the precise shape and timing of spikes from electrodes with single or multiunit spiking activity using sampling rates of 1000 Hz or less. The key insight is that action potentials are essentially stereotyped pulses that are generated by neurons at a rate limited by an absolute refractory period. We use this insight to push sampling below the Nyquist rate. Our process is a parametric method distinct from compressed sensing (CS). In its full implementation, this process could improve spike-based devices for neuroscience and medicine by reducing energy consumption, computational complexity, and hardware demands.
This paper proposes a machine learning based approach to discriminate between EEG single trials of two experimental conditions in a face recognition experiment. The algorithm works using a single-trial EEG database of multiple subjects and thus does not require subject-specific training data. This approach supports the idea that zero-training classification and on-line detection Brain Computer Interface (BCI) systems are areas with a significant amount of potential.
We present a circuit architecture for compact analog VLSI implementation of the Izhikevich neuron model, which efficiently describes a wide variety of neuron spiking and bursting dynamics using two state variables and four adjustable parameters. Log-domain circuit design utilizing MOS transistors in subthreshold results in high energy efficiency, with less than 1pJ of energy consumed per spike. We also discuss the effects of parameter variations on the dynamics of the equations, and present simulation results that replicate several types of neural dynamics. The low power operation and compact analog VLSI realization make the architecture suitable for human-machine interface applications in neural prostheses and implantable bioelectronics, as well as large-scale neural emulation tools for computational neuroscience.
Modeling heartbeat variability remains a challenging signal-processing goal in the presence of highly non-stationary cardiovascular control dynamics. We propose a novel differential autoregressive modeling approach within a point process probability framework for analyzing R-R interval and blood pressure variations. We apply the proposed model to both synthetic and experimental heartbeat intervals observed in time-varying conditions. The model is found to be extremely effective in tracking non-stationary heartbeat dynamics, as evidenced by the excellent goodness-of-fit performance. Results further demonstrate the ability of the method to appropriately quantify the non-stationary evolution of baroreflex sensitivity in changing physiological and pharmacological conditions.
Laser speckle contrast imaging (LSCI) has classically been used to image regional blood flow changes in animal models. In this paper, we demonstrate the use of LSCI for elucidating blood flow characteristics in individual microvessels with diameters as small as 24m. We extracted profiles of speckle contrast values within individual vessels, both along their diameters and along their lengths and inferred that they could be attributed to the flow within the vessel. Profiles along the diameter of vessels revealed maxima at the center of vessels, consistent with fluid dynamics. These observed profiles could be fitted with parabolic curves with a mean coefficient of determination of 0.92. Similarly, analysis of speckle contrast values in the axial direction revealed profiles that progressively decreased in discreet quanta at branch points indicating blood flow bifurcations. Flow estimates obtained from speckle contrast values within branches of vessels obeyed the law of mass conservation with a mean error of only 3.5%. This allowed us to elucidate the percentage distribution of blood flow into each of the downstream branches. This ability of LSCI to resolve blood flow distribution in branching microvessel trees in a minimally invasive and dye free environment over a wide field of view promises to find application in both the neuroscience laboratory as well as intraoperative neurosurgery.
A temporal point process is a stochastic time series of binary events that occurs in continuous time. In computational neuroscience, the point process is used to model neuronal spiking activity; however, estimating the model parameters from spike train is a challenging problem. The state space point process filtering theory is a new technique for the estimation of the states and parameters. In order to use the stochastic filtering theory for the states of neuronal system with the Gaussian assumption, we apply the extended Kalman filter. In this regard, the extended Kalman filtering equations are derived for the point process observation. We illustrate the new filtering algorithm by estimating the effect of visual stimulus on the spiking activity of object selective neurons from the inferior temporal cortex of macaque monkey. Based on the goodness-offit assessment, the extended Kalman filter provides more accurate state estimate than the conventional methods.
Nervous system conveys information by electrical signals called 'spikes', therefore, spikes detection and sorting are challenging topics in the neural data processing. The principal component analysis (PCA) is a convenient tool for clustering spikes; however it has some disadvantages for closely shaped and overlapped spikes. For such the cases, an algorithm based on the combination of the principal component analysis and undecimated wavelet transform, is proposed to enhance the cluster formation from the spikes mapping. These results indicate that the principal component analysis used in combination with the undecimated wavelet has a better performance in the spike sorting. This can lead to more compact and separate clusters in comparison with the PCA clustering and more efficient spike sorting.
A system for data acquisition and analysis of nociceptive withdrawal reflex (NWR) and reflex receptive field (RRF) is introduced. The system is constituted by hardware and software components. The hardware consists of devices commonly used for electrical stimulation and electromyographic and kinematic data recording. The software comprises two different programs: Wirex, a stand-alone program developed in LabView for data acquisition, and Reflex Lab, a Matlab-based toolbox for data analysis. These programs were developed to maximize the potential of the hardware, turning it into a complete stimulation system capable of automatic quantification of NWR and RRF. In this article, a brief review of NWR and RRF analysis is presented, the system features are described in detail and its present and future applications are discussed.
This paper investigates the use of a new architecture for implantable microsystems for multi-channel intra-cortical neural recording. The proposed architecture performs frequency-division multiplexing (FDM) to wirelessly transfer multiple neural channels to an external setup. Based on the proposed idea, an 8-channel wireless neural recording system was designed. As a result of FDM, preconditioned neural signals are placed in the frequency domain with 100kHz spacing, occupying a approximately 800-kHz bandwidth starting from 10MHz. The entire band is then shifted to within the traditional frequency modulation (FM) band. The system, designed in a 0.18-microm standard CMOS process, consumes 4.7mW@1.8V.
An analog spike detector circuit is presented, which adaptively generates a threshold level for spike detection based on hard-thresholding. Operation of the circuit was tested not only with a neural signal obtained from real in-vivo recording from a live animal, but also with a large sinusoidal baseline variation intentionally added to examine the capability of the circuit to track baseline variations as large as 50mV. The circuit runs at 3.3V supply voltage and dissipates 270 microW.
This paper addresses the relationship between Partial Directed Coherence (PDC) and Directed Transfer Function (DTF), popular multivariate connectivity measures employed in neuroscience, and information flow as quantified by mutual information rate.
Time-variant (tv) phase-locking and synchronization characteristics of and between low-frequency ( 1.5 Hz) and high-frequency EEG oscillations ( 3.5 Hz) of the trac alternant (TA) pattern in full-term newborns have been quantified to explore the origin of quadratic phase coupling (QPC, as non-linear phase coupling measure) between the frequency ranges 1 - 1.5 Hz  3.5 - 4.5 Hz, which characterize the specific interactions of oscillations during the TA's burst activity. Using the Gabor transformation two measures of linear phase coupling, the phase-locking index (PLI) and the n:m phase synchronization index (PSI) have been determined. Phase-locking within the frequency ranges 1 -1.5 Hz and 3.5 - 4.5 Hz, and synchronization between both frequency ranges exists. These phase characteristics are significant 2 sec after burst onset and are associated with the maximum-values of the QPC(1 - 1.5 Hz  3.5 - 4.5 Hz) which demonstrates that a specific neuronal coordination between the dynamics of phases and of amplitude-frequency dependencies must be underlying.
This article describes the development of a dual-monitor visual stimulus generator that is used in neuroscience experiments with invertebrates such as flies. The experiment consists in the visualization of two fixed images that are displaced horizontally according to the stimulus data. The system was developed using off-the-shelf FPGA kits and it is capable of displaying 640x480 pixels with 256 intensity levels at 200 frames per second (FPS) on each monitor. A Raster plot of the experiment with the superimposed stimuli was generated as the result of this work. A novel architecture was developed, using the same DOT Clock for both monitors, and its implementation generates a perfect synchronism in both devices.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation has become an established tool in experimental cognitive neuroscience and has more recently been applied clinically. The current spatial extent of neural activation is several millimeters but with greater specificity, transcranial magnetic stimulation can potentially deliver real time feedback to reinforce or extinguish behavior by exciting or inhibiting localized neural circuits. The specificity of transcranial magnetic stimulation is a function of the stimulation coil geometry. In this paper, a practical multilayer framework for the design of miniaturized stimulation coils is presented. This framework is based on a magnet wire fabricated from 2500 braided ultrafine wires. Effects of coil bending angle on stimulation specificity are examined using realistic finite element method simulations. A novel stimulation coil with one degree of freedom is also proposed that shows improved specificity over the conventional fixed coils. This type of coil could be potentially used as a feedback system for a bidirectional brain machine interface.
Strontium is a newly developed drug for decreasing risks of hip or vertebral fractures in postmenopausal women. Experimental studies have suggested that Strontium could enhance new bone formation and decrease the bone resorption. Mesenchymal stem cell (MSC) is an important category of stem cells which possess the osteogenic differentiation potential and could be used in the bone and cartilage tissue engineering. Here we investigated the effects of strontium on the osteogenic differentiation process of MSC. We found that strontium could enhance the calcium deposition process and promote bone repair, through enhancing the osteogenic differentiation of MSC. This study could help to develop a new strategy to induce the MSC to differentiate into the osteogenic lineage.
The identification of signal components in electroencephalographic (EEG) data originating from neural activities is a long standing problem in neuroscience. This area has regained new attention due to the possibilities of multi-dimensional signal processing. In this work we analyze measured visual-evoked potentials on the basis of the time-varying spectrum for each channel. Recently, parallel factor (PARAFAC) analysis has been used to identify the signal components in the space-time-frequency domain. However, the PARAFAC decomposition is not able to cope with components appearing time-shifted over the different channels. Furthermore, it is not possible to track PARAFAC components over time. In this contribution we derive how to overcome these problems by using the PARAFAC2 model, which renders it an attractive approach for processing EEG data with highly dynamic (moving) sources.
In a partial report paradigm, subjects observe during a brief presentation a cluttered field and after some time - typically ranging from 100 ms to a second - are asked to report a subset of the presented elements. A vast buffer of information is transiently available to be broadcasted which, if not retrieved in time, fades rapidly without reaching consciousness. An interesting feature of this experiment is that objective performance and subjective confidence is decoupled. This converts this paradigm in an ideal vehicle to understand the brain dynamics of the construction of confidence. Here we report a high-density EEG experiment in which we infer elements of the EEG response which are indicative of subjective confidence. We find that an early response during encoding partially correlates with perceived confidence. However, the bulk of the weight of subjective confidence is determined during a late, N400-like waveform, during the retrieval stage. This shows that we can find markers of access to internal, subjective states, that are uncoupled from objective response and stimulus properties of the task, and we propose that this can be used with decoding methods of EEG to infer subjective mental states.
Corticostriatal dynamics exhibit gross alterations over the course of natural motor learning, yet little is known about the role they play in neuroprosthetic tasks. We therefore investigated interactions between the striatum and primary motor cortex while rats learned to control a brain-machine interface. Striatal firing rates increased greatly from early to late in learning, suggesting that the striatum underlies similar functions in both natural and neuroprosthetic motor learning. In addition, spike-field coherence between neurons in primary motor cortex and local field potentials in the striatum increased greatly in the alpha band in late learning relative to early learning, suggesting the development of functional interactions in corticostriatal networks over the course of learning.
Paired-pulse stimulation is a standard protocol that has been used for decades to characterize dynamic systems: the differences in responses to two sequential identical stimuli as a function of inter-stimulus interval provide quantitative information on the dynamics of the system. In neuroscience, the paired-pulse protocol is also widely used at multiple levels of analysis, from behavioral conditioning to synaptic plasticity, and in particular to define the biomolecular mechanism of learning and memory. In a system as small and complex as synapses, it is extremely challenging - if not impossible - to experimentally gain access to the multitude of possible readouts. In the present study, we first introduce a computational synaptic modeling platform that we developed and calibrated based on experimental data from both our laboratories and a variety of publications. We then show how this platform allows not only to replicate experimental data, but also to go beyond technological boundaries and investigate the main parameters responsible for regulation of synaptic transmission and plasticity. The results provide critical information regarding the respective role of various subsynaptic processes and of their interactions. Additionally, this approach can strengthen our understanding of potential dysfunctions (pathologies) and suggest potential approaches to re-establish normal function.
Analysis of Event Related Potentials (ERPs) produced by brain activities can provide insight into the timing of underlying brain function. ERPs can be classified by their time/frequency characteristics and spatial location on the scalp. Traditionally, ERPs are manually located by temporally and spatially averaged EEG signals. This process is error prone and sensitive to a priori assumptions. Our proposed algorithm is a general neuroscience-focused data mining algorithm that performs time and frequency analysis on ERPs and automatically extracts templates corresponding to Spectral Spatio-Temporal (SST) regions exhibiting significant differences between experimental outcomes. The method uses time-aligned templates, which preserve the characteristics of the signal important to cognitive researchers. The ability of the selected signal templates to differentiate between stimulus responses has been verified using a pattern recognition procedure. SST template extraction is tested on data taken from a Go/NoGo task and shown to both find relationships consistent with published neuroscience literature as well as novel relationships.
The development of rehabilitation engineering technologies such as the design of smart prosthetics necessitates a deep understanding of brain mechanisms engaged in ecological situations when human interact with new tools and/or environments. Thus, we aimed to investigate potential hemodynamic signatures reflecting the level of cognitive-motor performance and/or the internal or mental states of individuals when learning a novel tool with unknown properties. These markers were derived from functional Near Infrared Spectroscopy (fNIR) signals. Our results indicate an increased level of oxy-hemoglobin in prefrontal sensors associated with enhanced kinematics during early compared with late learning. This is consistent with previous neuroimaging studies that revealed a higher contribution of prefrontal areas during early compare to late adaptation learning. These non-invasive functional hemodynamic markers may play a role in bioengineering applications such as smart neuroprosthesis and brain monitoring where adaptive behavior is important.
Abnormal physiological networks of brain areas in disease can be identified by applying specialized multivariate computational algorithms based on principal component analysis to functional image data. Here we demonstrate the reproducibility of network patterns derived using positron emission tomography (PET) data in independent populations of parkinsonian patients for a large, clinically validated data set comprised of subjects with idiopathic Parkinson's disease (iPD), multiple system atrophy (MSA) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Correlation of voxel values of network patterns derived for the same condition in different data sets was high. To further illustrate the validity of these networks, we performed single subject differential diagnosis of prospective test subjects to determine the most probable case based on a subject's network scores expressed for each of these distinct parkinsonian syndromes. Three-fold cross-validation was performed to determine accuracy and positive predictive rates based on networks derived in separate folds of the composite data set. A logistic regression based classification algorithm was used to train in each fold and test in the remaining two folds. Combined accuracy for each of the three folds ranged from 82% to 93% in the training set and was approximately 81% for prospective test subjects.
This study explores electroencephalographic (EEG) dynamics and behavioral changes in response to arousing auditory signals presented to individuals experiencing momentary cognitive lapses. Arousing auditory feedback was delivered to the subjects in half of the non-responded lane-deviation events during a sustained-attention driving task, which immediately agitated subject's responses to the events. The improved behavioral performance was accompanied by concurrent power suppression in the theta- and alpha-bands in the lateral occipital cortices. This study further explores the feasibility of estimating the efficacy of arousing feedback presented to the drowsy subjects by monitoring the changes in EEG power spectra.
It is generally assumed that noninvasively-acquired neural signals contain an insufficient level of information for decoding or reconstructing detailed kinematics of natural, multi-joint limb movements and hand gestures. Here, we review recent findings from our laboratory at the University of Maryland showing that noninvasive scalp electroencephalography (EEG) or magnetoencephalography (MEG) can be used to continuously decode the kinematics of 2D 'center-out' drawing, unconstrained 3D 'center-out' reaching and 3D finger gesturing. These findings suggest that these 'far-field', extra-cranial neural signals contain rich information about the neural representation of movement at the macroscale, and thus these neural representations provide alternative methods for developing noninvasive brain-machine interfaces with wide-ranging clinical relevance and for understanding functional and pathological brain states at various stages of development and aging.
A recent study on witricity (wireless electricity) has demonstrated that wireless energy can be delivered over a moderate distance using strongly coupled magnetic resonance. The objective of this work is to apply the witricity technology to the problem of powering a wireless Body Sensor Network (wBSN). The theory of witricity is investigated using coupled mode theory. Compact witricity resonators are designed, and a working prototype of witricity powered wBSN is built and evaluated. An energy transfer efficiency of about 80 % over a distance of 15 cm is achieved. Besides the high efficiency, it has been observed that a certain misalignment between the transmitter and receiver has little effect on the power transfer. Our experimental results indicate that witricity provides a powerful solution to the energy supply problem of wBSN.

Combining structural equation modeling (SEM) and voxel-based morphometry (VBM), this study investigated the interactions among neural structures in the basal ganglia-thalamocortical circuit (BGTC) in the left hemisphere of stuttering and non-stuttering speakers. Stuttering speakers (n=12) and non-stuttering controls (n=12) were scanned while performing a picture-naming task and a passive-viewing (baseline) task. Results showed significant differences between stuttering and non-stuttering speakers in both effective connectivity and anatomical structures in the BGTC in the left brain. Specifically, compared to non-stuttering speakers, stuttering speakers showed weaker negative connectivity from the left posterior middle temporal gyrus (PMTG) to the putamen, but stronger positive connectivity from the putamen to the thalamus, from the thalamus to the PMTG and anterior supplementary motor area (preSMA), and from the anterior superior temporal gyrus (ASTG) to the preSMA. Accompanying such altered connectivity were anatomical differences: compared to non-stuttering controls, stuttering speakers showed more grey matter (GM) volume concentration in the left putamen, less GM volume concentration in the left medial frontal gyrus and ASTG, and less white matter volume concentration underlying the left posterior superior temporal gyrus inside the BGTC. These results shed significant light on the neural mechanisms (in terms of both functional connectivity and neural anatomy) of stuttering.






A myoelectric signal, or electromyogram (EMG), is the electrical manifestation of a muscle contraction. Through advanced signal processing techniques, information on the neural control of muscles can be extracted from the EMG, and the state of the neuromuscular system can be inferred. Because of its easy accessibility and relatively high signal-to-noise ratio, EMG has been applied as a control signal in several neurorehabilitation devices and applications, such as multi-function prostheses and orthoses, rehabilitation robots, and functional electrical stimulation/therapy. These EMG-based neurorehabilitation modules, which constitute muscle-machine interfaces, are applied for replacement, restoration, or modulation of lost or impaired function in research and clinical settings. The purpose of this review is to discuss the assumptions of EMG-based control and its applications in neurorehabilitation.
A bacterial infection is accompanied by dynamic alterations in tissue homeostasis within the infected organ. What starts as a local bacterium-host cell interaction at the site of infection changes over time to include distant signaling and the engagement of multiple cell types in an effort to eradicate the bacteria. Recent advancements in imaging technologies, such as multiphoton microscopy, provide new tools to visualize the realtime dynamics of infection within the living host. The use of live animal models means that all of the interplaying factors, such as the immune, lymphatic, nervous, and vascular systems, are present and can be accounted for. This review describes novel insights of innate immune defense mechanisms obtained using real-time visualization of the infected tissue in a live animal model. This emerging field of &quot;tissue microbiology&quot; will provide data that, when combined with the massive knowledge base generated from research in &quot;cellular microbiology,&quot; will provide a more complete picture of the complex infection process.
Coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10, or ubiquinone) is an electron carrier of the mitochondrial respiratory chain (electron transport chain) with antioxidant properties. In view of the involvement of CoQ10 in oxidative phosphorylation and cellular antioxidant protection a deficiency in this quinone would be expected to contribute to disease pathophysiology by causing a failure in energy metabolism and antioxidant status. Indeed, a deficit in CoQ10 status has been determined in a number of neuromuscular and neurodegenerative disorders. Primary disorders of CoQ10 biosynthesis are potentially treatable conditions and therefore a high degree of clinical awareness about this condition is essential. A secondary loss of CoQ10 status following HMG-Coa reductase inhibitor (statins) treatment has be implicated in the pathophysiology of the myotoxicity associated with this pharmacotherapy. CoQ10 and its analogue, idebenone, have been widely used in the treatment of neurodegenerative and neuromuscular disorders. These compounds could potentially play a role in the treatment of mitochondrial disorders, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, Friedreich's ataxia, and other conditions which have been linked to mitochondrial dysfunction. This article reviews the physiological roles of CoQ10, as well as the rationale and the role in clinical practice of CoQ10 supplementation in different neurological and muscular diseases, from primary CoQ10 deficiency to neurodegenerative disorders. We also briefly report a case of the myopathic form of CoQ10 deficiency.
Parkinson's disease (PD), a common neurodegenerative disease, is characterized by the progressive loss of dopamine neurons and the accumulation of Lewy bodies and neurites. The exact role of genetic and environmental factors in the pathogenesis of PD has frequently been debated. The association of MPTP (methyl-4-phenyl-1, 2, 3, 6- tetrahydropyridine) and toxins (such as rotenone) with parkinsonism highlights the potential etiologic role of environmental toxins in disease causation. The recent discoveries of monogenic (such as -synuclein, Parkin, UCHL1, PINK1, DJ-1, LRRK2) forms of PD have provided considerable insights into its pathophysiology. Parkin, an ubiquitin protein ligase assists in the degradation of toxic substrates via the ubiquitin proteasome system. It can also mediate a nondegradative form of ubiquitination. PINK1 and LRRK2 are possibly involved in the phosphorylation of substrates important for various cellular functions. Some toxins could interact with -synuclein, an endogenous protein that is implicated in pathology of PD. Increasing in vitro and in vivo studies suggest that deficits in mitochondrial function, oxidative and nitrosative stress, the accumulation of aberrant or misfolded proteins, and ubiquitin-proteasome system dysfunction underpin the pathogenesis of sporadic and familial forms of PD. Elucidation of the functions of the proteins encoded by the diseasecausing genes will provide an opportunity for identification of specific pathways that could be targeted in neurotherapeutics.
This article highlights recent advances in the discovery of new positive allosteric modulators of the AMPA receptor, excluding compounds of thiadiazine chemotype, most of which were developed by Servier and the University of Lige. The field of AMPA receptor modulators continues to be a fertile area for the discovery of new potential therapeutic agents, and recent years have seen a marked diversification in the range of chemotypes prepared. An overview is also given of the recent key new biological data.
The myriads of molecular pathways that have been measured to understand the physical bases of neuronal and other cellular functions have exceeded classical comprehension. In the tradition of Bohr and Schrodinger, the hypothesis is developed that molecular pathways are simply epiphenomenal transports of quanta with increments in the order of 10(-20) J. Experimental measurements of photon emissions from cell cultures and the serial steps of phosphorylation in general molecular pathways and transformations in chromophores supported this contention. This discrete value is also associated with action potentials, intersynaptic events, the biophysical bases of membrane potentials, the numbers of action potentials per cell from magnetic energy potential, and the interionic distances around membranes. Consideration of information as discrete increments of energy may allow greater experimental control and external intervention of pathways relevant to medicinal chemistry.
Implantation of adult human mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) to treat neural disorders shows promise. Depending on their microenvironment, MSCs could potentially be used for the repair and/or replacement of neurons in traumatic brain injury or the treatment of Parkinson's disease. This cross-disciplinary review incorporates aspects of neuroscience, stem cell biology, cancer biology and immunology to discuss interactions between inflammatory mediators and MSCs. We first discuss the role of microRNAs (miRNAs) in neurological development. Secondly, we discuss the ability of MSCs to transdifferentiate into functional neurons, which are regulated by miRNAs, and the implications of these cells for the therapy of neuropathological states. The administration of effective and safe MSC therapy must acknowledge immune mediators that may predispose the early differentiating MSCs to oncogenic insults. Thus, we discuss a key gene, RE-1 silencing transcription factor (REST), based on its dual role in neurogenesis and cancer development. Immune mediators could be central to MSC responses within a region of tissue injury and are also discussed in detail. Exploring the predisposition of MSCs to oncogenesis is critical for translational science since the implementation of safeguarding measures prior to therapy can lead to the successful delivery of stem cells to patients. The method by which MSCs could be applied for future therapies might require trans-disciplinary approaches for personalized treatments.
Peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors (PPARs) have long been known as mediators of several physiological functions, among which the best characterized are lipid metabolism, energy balance and anti-inflammation. Their rather large and promiscuous ligand binding site has been recently discovered to accommodate, among a plethora of lipid molecules and metabolic intermediates, endocannabinoids and their cognate compounds, specifically belonging to the Nacylethanolamine group. In fact, oleoylethanolamide, palmitoylethanolamide and probably anandamide bind with relatively high affinity to PPARs and have now been included among their endogenous ligands. Through activation of PPARs these molecules exert a variety of physiological processes. Particularly, both long-term effects via genomic mechanisms and rapid non-genomic actions have been described, which in several instances are opposite to those evoked by activation of &quot;classical&quot; surface cannabinoid receptors. In this review, we describe how these effects are relevant under diverse physiological and pathophysiological circumstances, such as lipid metabolism and feeding behaviour, neuroprotection and epilepsy, circadian rhythms, addiction and cognition. A picture is emerging where nuclear receptors are involved in anorexiant, anti-inflammatory, neuroprotective, anti-epileptic, wakefulness- and cognitive-enhancing, and anti-addicting properties of endocannabinoid-like molecules. Further studies are necessary to fully understand cellular mechanisms underlying the interactions between endocannabinoids and PPARs, but also between their surface and nuclear receptors, and to exploit their potential therapeutic applications.
The study of neuroscience has vastly benefited from the use of brain slices. This preparation has been fundamental for the understanding of the cellular basis of nervous system function as well as for the study of the mechanisms involved in neuronal network dysfunction. This experimental model provides flexible access, and control of, specific neural circuits and maintains their basic properties, allowing them to reproduce most of their natural network activities. Brain slices permit the combination of sophisticated techniques such as electrophysiology, fluorescence imaging, pharmacology, molecular biology, etc. More recently, the development of organotypic brain slice cultures has expanded the use of modern technical approaches to the study neuronal networks, while increasing their possibilities of evaluating long-term effects of acute experimental conditions, as well as the effects of chronic treatments on neuronal network function in vitro. Here, I will provide an overview of the use of organotypic cultures to understand neuronal network function and dysfunction, as well as the pharmacological approaches used for these studies. As a final example, I will review the studies performed in organotypic cultures regarding the deleterious effects of long-term amyloid beta application on neuronal networks in vitro, as well as the use of drugs that may prevent or revert their deleterious effects on nervous system function. Overall, this review will provide elements to support the use of organotypic cultures as a very reliable model to explore long-term neuropharmacological studies in vitro.
Functional MRI (fMRI), a tool increasingly used to study cognitive function, is also an important tool for understanding not only normal development in healthy children, but also abnormal development, as seen in children with epilepsy, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, and autism. Since its inception almost 15 years ago, fMRI has seen an explosion in its use and applications in the adult literature. However, only recently has it found a home in pediatric neurology. New adaptations in study design and technologic advances, especially the study of resting state functional connectivity as well as the use of passive task design in sedated children, have increased the utility of functional imaging in pediatrics to help us gain understanding into the developing brain at work. This article reviews the background of fMRI in pediatrics and highlights the most recent literature and clinical applications.
The central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral nervous system (PNS) are very susceptible to cancer and its treatment. The most direct involvement of the nervous system manifests in the development of primary brain and spinal cord tumors. Many cancers exhibit a propensity toward spread to the CNS, and brain metastases are common problems seen in malignancies such as lung, breast, and melanoma. Such spread may involve the brain or spine parenchyma or the subarachnoid space. In the PNS, spread is usually through direct infiltration of nerve roots, plexi, or muscle by neighboring malignancies. In some cases, cancer has sudden, devastating effects on the nervous system: epidural spinal cord compression or cord transection from pathologic fractures of vertebra involved by cancer; increased intracranial pressure from intracranial mass lesion growth and edema; and uncontrolled seizure activity as a result of intracranial tumors (status epilepticus), which are neuro-oncologic emergencies. The best known indirect or remote effects of cancer on the nervous system are the neurologic paraneoplastic syndromes. Cancer can also result in a hypercoagulable state causing cerebrovascular complications. Treatment of cancer can have neurologic complications. The commonest of these complications are radiation-induced injury to the brain, spine, and peripheral nerves and chemotherapy-induced peripheral neuropathy. The suppressant effect of cancer and its treatment on the body's immune system can result in infectious complications within the nervous system.
Epilepsy is a disabling neurological disorder that is characterized by recurring, unprovoked seizures. Drug-resistant epilepsy affects approximately 30% of individuals with epilepsy; thus, one of the main challenges for epilepsy therapy is the development of alternative anticonvulsant approaches. The discovery that inflammatory mediators contribute significantly to the onset and recurrence of seizures in experimental models, as well as the presence of inflammatory molecules in human epileptogenic tissue, highlight the possibility of targeting specific inflammation-related pathways to control seizures that are otherwise resistant to the available anti-epileptic drugs. This review summarizes the proof-of-principle evidence, obtained in experimental disease models, demonstrating the anticonvulsant activity of specific anti-inflammatory drugs, such as inhibitors of IL-1-converting enzyme/caspase 1 and antagonists of IL-1beta receptors. Drugs that block IL-1beta actions have entered clinical trials as potential therapeutics for autoimmune and inflammatory pathologies, and may also have therapeutic potential in epilepsies associated with proinflammatory processes in the brain.




Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases are the most common neurodegenerative disorders among the aged. The etiologies of these diseases remain to be clarified, but the common disease-modifying factors are confirmed: oxidative stress, apoptosis, mitochondrial dysfunction, excitotoxicity, impaired ubiquitine-proteasome system and inflammation. Neuroprotective therapy is proposed to prevent the disease progression by intervening the pathogenic and disease-modifying factors. From the studies on Parkinson's disease, the inhibitors of type B monoamine oxidase, such as selegiline and rasagiline, are the most promising neuroprotective agents to date. These inhibitors protect neuronal cells against cell death induced in cellular and animal models. The neuroprotective functions are ascribed to the stabilization of mitochondria, the prevention of death signaling process and the induction of pro-survival anti-apoptotic Bcl-2 protein family and neurotrophic factors. In cellular models, selegiline and rasagiline increased the different neurotrophic factors classes, neurotrophins (nerve growth factor, brain-derive neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin 3) and ligands of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, respectively. Studies in non-human primates and patients with Parkinson's disease confirmed further the induction of these specified neurotrophic factors. Selegiline and rasagiline are expected to show distinct pharmaceutical activities in selective neuronal systems through induction of distinct neurotrophic factors, and then activation of their own receptors and kinase systems. This review presents the molecular mechanisms behind neuroprotection by monoamine oxidase inhibitors and discusses the possible development of new drugs to prevent, delay and restore the neuronal cell death in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common neurodegenerative disorder that affects the elderly. The increase of life-expectancy is transforming AD into a major health-care problem. AD is characterized by a progressive impairment of memory and other cognitive skills leading to dementia. The major pathogenic factor associated to AD seems to be amyloid-beta peptide (A) oligomers that tend to accumulate extracellularly as amyloid deposits and are associated with reactive microglia and astrocytes as well as with degeneration of neuronal processes. The involvement of microglia and astrocytes in the onset and progress of neurodegenerative process in AD is becoming increasingly recognized, albeit it is commonly accepted that neuroinflammation and oxidative stress can have both detrimental and beneficial influences on the neural tissue. However, little is known about the interplay of microglia, astrocytes and neurons in response to A, especially in the early phases of AD. This review discusses current knowledge about the involvement of neuroinflammation in AD pathogenesis, focusing on phenotypic and functional responses of microglia, astrocytes and neurons in this process. The abnormal production by glia cells of pro-inflammatory cytokines, chemokines and the complement system, as well as reactive oxygen and nitrogen species, can disrupt nerve terminals activity causing dysfunction and loss of synapses, which correlates with memory decline; these are phenomena preceding the neuronal death associated with late stages of AD. Thus, therapeutic strategies directed at controlling the activation of microglia and astrocytes and the excessive production of pro-inflammatory and pro-oxidant factors may be valuable to control neurodegeneration in dementia.


Acute tryptophan depletion (ATD), a method to temporarily lower central serotonin levels, has been used to study the functioning of the serotonergic system. Relatively recent studies that examined the effects of ATD on brain activation associated with cognitive and emotional processing in healthy volunteers are reviewed. An overview of the findings in healthy volunteers is important for the interpretation of the effect of ATD on brain activation in patients with an affective disorder, such as major depression. These studies show that during response control and negative feedback processing ATD modulates the BOLD response in the inferior/orbitofrontal cortex, the anterior cingulate cortex and the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex. During emotional processing, it is consistently found that ATD modulates the BOLD response in the amygdala. These brain regions also show abnormal activation in depressed patients. However, at the moment it remains unclear if the changes induced by ATD are related to decreased basal serotonin (5-HT) release or the result of other biochemical changes that are mediated by ATD. Future studies should implement methodological improvements, explore the possibilities of new promising imaging techniques and expand investigations into the effects of ATD on basal 5-HT release and other biochemical mechanisms that might be modulated by ATD.
Positron emission tomography (PET) is a useful technique to quantify various target molecules in vivo such as neuroreceptors, transporters and amyloid plaques using various successful radioligands. The technique has been widely used for the drug development in recent years. There are several approaches such as microdosing, measurement of in vivo receptor occupancy, and biomarkers. As for microdosing, the biodistrubution of the drugs in the human body could be evaluated in the very early phase of the drug development. The measurement of receptor occupancy in vivo could help to determine the optimal doses clinically before the large-scale clinical trials are performed, As biomarkers, radioligands could detect the pathological changes such as the accumulation of beta-amyloid and microglia. Especially the measurement of dopamine D2 receptor occupancy has been useful in the evaluation of antipsychotics. Based on it, the optimal clinical doses were evaluated and determined for the patients with schizophrenia. Although currently available antipsychotics have efficacy to the positive symptoms such as hallucination and delusion, they, regardless of the generations of antipsychotics, have only limited efficacy to the cognitive dysfunction and the negative symptoms such as apathy and social withdrawal. To aim to treat the cognitive dysfunction and negative symptoms, various targets such as glutamate receptors, tachykinin receptors, cannabinoid receptors, and nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, have been investigated recently. PET technique with the radioligands developed for these targets has potentials to rationalize and speed up the process of the drug development for the treatment of schizophrenia.
The dopaminergic and glutamatergic hypotheses dominate current drug discovery strategies. The dopamine hypothesis states that hyperactivity of the mesolimbic dopaminergic pathway is associated with positive symptoms of the disease, whereas hypoactivity of the mesocortical dopaminergic pathway is associated with the negative and cognitive symptoms. Increasing evidence has also suggested that hypoactivity in the corticolimbic glutamatergic system may contribute to the complex interplay between dysfunctional aspects of these neurotransmitter systems, which could account for much of the symptomatology observed in schizophrenia. Current antipsychotic drugs display moderate efficacy in treating the positive symptoms and limited efficacy against the negative, cognitive, or co-morbidity symptoms of the disease. They are also associated with significant side effects such as extrapyramidal side effects and metabolic disturbances. Thus pharmacologies that are able to more selectively modulate the underlying neuronal substrates of schizophrenia may have utility as efficacious and wide spectrum antipsychotic therapies with potentially improved side effect liabilities. The neuropeptide neuromodulator/neurotransmitter class and their associated receptors have been suggested to be one such family class. One such target which has shown particular promise, and thus has gained much pharmaceutical research interest, is the neurokinin receptor family and particularly the NK(3) receptor. The NK(3) receptor is expressed almost exclusively within the mammalian nervous system and its localisation is commensurate with a role in modulating central monoaminergic neurotransmission. Here we will provide an introduction to both the neurokinin ligands and receptors and review current preclinical understanding of their putative biological roles and, in particular, their modulatory role in the circuitry pertinent to schizophrenia. A brief review of the available chemical strategies employed to produce selective tools and drug development candidates will also be undertaken. Finally we will summarize the available clinical information on those compounds which have progressed into patient populations and evaluate their potential therapeutic utility, and the future of the NK(3) receptor target.
Viral vector-mediated gene delivery is an attractive procedure for introducing genes into the brain, both for purposes of basic neuroscience research and to develop gene therapy for neurological diseases. Replication-defective adenoviruses possess many features which make them ideal vectors for this purpose-efficiently transducing terminally differentiated cells such as neurons and glial cells, resulting in high levels of transgene expression in vivo. Also, in the absence of anti-adenovirus immunity, these vectors can sustain very long-term transgene expression within the brain parenchyma. This unit provides protocols for the stereotactic injection of adenoviral vectors into the brain, followed by protocols to detect transgene expression or infiltrates of immune cells by immunocytochemistry or immunofluorescence. ELISPOT and neutralizing antibody assay methodologies are provided to quantitate the levels of cellular and humoral immune responses against adenoviruses. Quantitation of adenoviral vector genomes within the rat brain using qPCR is also described.

Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is common in community and clinical settings. The individual and societal burden associated with GAD is substantial, but many of those who could benefit from treatment are not recognized or treated. Recent evidence-based guidelines for the pharmacological management of patients with GAD have recommended initial treatment with either a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) or a serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI), on the basis of their proven efficacy and reasonable tolerability in randomized placebo-controlled trials. However, there is much room for improvement in both the efficacy and the tolerability of treatment. Response rates to first-line treatment can be disappointing and it is hard to predict reliably which patients will respond well and which will have only a limited treatment response. Many patients worry about becoming dependent on medication, a substantial proportion experience troublesome adverse effects, and these problems limit the effectiveness of pharmacological treatments in clinical practice. The relative lack of longitudinal studies of clinical outcomes in GAD, and the small number of placebo-controlled relapse prevention studies lead to uncertainty about the optimal duration of treatment after a satisfactory initial response. There have been few investigations of the further management of patients who have not responded to first-line treatment and there is a pressing need for further augmentation studies in patients who have not responded to an SSRI or SNRI, or to other initial pharmacological approaches. Future treatment guidelines for GAD will be influenced by emerging data for established and novel pharmacological approaches, and possibly through the more accurate identification of certain patient subgroups who are likely to respond preferentially to particular interventions.
Antidepressant drug treatment is the clinical standard of care for all types of anxiety disorders. Broad efficacy of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors suggests the importance of enhanced serotonergic function of the anxiolytic properties of current antidepressants. However, analysis of the preclinical evidence indicates that most conventional &quot;anxiolytic&quot; drug tests are not sensitive to antidepressants. Such dissociation is not surprising because of the traditional approach to validation of preclinical tests that is to a large extent based on establishing face validity as well as sensitivity to benzodiazepine anxiolytics. The present review argues for extending the cognitive model of antidepressant drug action to cover their anxiolytic properties as well. Such an approach is based on ambiguity or uncertainty in a broad sense as the hallmark of human stress that has different expressions ready for experimental modeling. These possibilities include schedule-induced behaviors that are directly based on intermittent reinforcement, conditioning to ambiguous stimuli, social stress where agonistic confrontations are possible but not predictable or controlled by the subject, and an even larger class of behaviors that are critically dependent on the inhibition of the prepotent responses in exchange for the ambiguous possibility of a later gain in reinforcement. Interestingly, in all these cases, antidepressant drug treatment is clearly effective in preclinical laboratory settings. One of the cognitive functions that appears to be affected by antidepressant drugs is inhibitory control. Inhibition of prepotent responding has beneficial effects in the &quot;uncertainty&quot; stress situations discussed above and therefore it is this cognitive function that may be critical for anxiolytic effects of antidepressants and novel anxiolytic drug development.
Nonselective benzodiazepines exert their pharmacological effects via GABAA receptors containing either an alpha1, alpha2, alpha3, or alpha5 subunit. The use of subtype-selective tool compounds along with transgenic mice has formed the conceptual framework for defining the requirements of subtype-selective compounds with potentially novel pharmacological profiles. More specifically, compounds which allosterically modulate the alpha2 and/or alpha3 subtypes but are devoid of, or have much reduced, effects at the alpha1 subtype are hypothesized to be anxioselective (i.e., anxiolytic but devoid of sedation). Accordingly, three compounds, MRK-409, TPA023 and TPA023B, which selectively potentiated the effects of GABA at the alpha2 and alpha3 compared to alpha1 subtypes were progressed into man. All three compounds behaved as nonsedating anxiolytics in preclinical (rodent and primate) species but, surprisingly, MRK-409 produced sedation in man at relatively low levels of occupancy (&lt; 10%). This sedation liability of MRK-409 in man was attributed to its weak partial agonist efficacy at the alpha1 subtype since both TPA023 and TPA023B lacked any alpha1 efficacy and did not produce overt sedation even at relatively high levels of occupancy (&gt; 50%). The anxiolytic efficacy of TPA023 was evaluated in Generalized Anxiety Disorder and although these clinical trials were terminated early due to preclinical toxicity issues, the combined data from these incomplete studies demonstrated an anxiolytic-like effect of TPA023. This compound also showed a trend to increase cognitive performance in a small group of schizophrenic subjects and is currently under further evaluation of its cognition-enhancing effects in schizophrenia as part of the TURNS initiative. In contrast, the fate of the back-up clinical candidate TPA023B has not been publicly disclosed. At the very least, these data indicate that the pharmacological profile of compounds that differentially modulate specific populations of GABAA receptors is distinct from classical benzodiazepines and should encourage further preclinical and clinical investigation of such compounds, with the caveat that, as exemplified by MRK-409, the preclinical profile might not necessarily translate into man.
Anxiety is a commonly experienced subjective state that can have both adaptive and maladaptive properties. Clinical disorders of anxiety are likewise also common, and range widely in their symptomatology and consequences for the individual. Cognitive neuroscience has provided an increasingly sophisticated understanding of the processes underlying normal human emotion, and its disruption or dysregulation in clinical anxiety disorders. In this chapter, I review functional neuroimaging studies of emotion in healthy and anxiety-disordered populations. A limbic-medial prefrontal circuit is emphasized and an information processing model is proposed for the processing of negative emotion. Data on negative emotion processing in a variety of anxiety disorders are presented and integrated within an understanding of the functions of elements within the limbic-medial prefrontal circuit. These data suggest that anxiety disorders may be usefully conceptualized as differentially affecting emotional reactivity and regulatory processes--functions that involve different neurobiological mechanisms. While the neural bases of several anxiety disorders are increasingly better understood, advances have lagged significantly behind in others. Nonetheless, the conceptual framework provided by convergent findings in studies of emotional processing in normative and anxiety-disordered populations promises to yield continued insights and nuances, and will likely provide useful information in the search for etiology and novel treatments.
Animal models of anxiety attempt to represent some aspect of the etiology, symptomatology, or treatment of human anxiety disorders, in order to facilitate their scientific study. Within this context, animal models of anxiolytic drug action can be viewed as treatment models relevant to the pharmacological control of human anxiety. A major purpose of these models is to identify novel anxiolytic compounds and to study the mechanisms whereby these compounds produce their anxiolytic effects. After a critical analysis of &quot;face,&quot; &quot;construct,&quot; and &quot;predictive&quot; validity, the biological context in which animal models of anxiety are to be evaluated is specified. We then review the models in terms of their general pharmacological profiles, with particular attention to their sensitivity to 5-HTIA agonists and antidepressant compounds. Although there are important exceptions, most of these models are sensitive to one or perhaps two classes of anxiolytic compounds, limiting their pharmacological generality somewhat, but allowing in depth analysis of individual mechanisms of anxiolytic drug action (e.g., GABAA agonism). We end with a discussion of possible sources of variability between models in response to 5-HTIA agonists and antidepressant drugs.
The field of pharmacologic addiction treatment is expanding rapidly. While there are currently several FDA-approved medications for nicotine, alcohol, and opiate dependence, research into novel pharmacological approaches for these and additional substances is legion. Each drug of abuse, while sharing a common final neural pathway of increasing dopaminergic tone, has unique and individual characteristics that are important in developing improved and varied treatments. In this chapter, we discuss such research and present the neurobiological underpinnings of these explorations. In general, addiction treatment is focused on four areas: (1) reducing withdrawal discomfort, (2) diminishing cravings, (3) blocking rewarding effects of the drug, and (4) treating comorbidities, such as depression or ADHD. We present current ideas in pharmacologic research for nicotine, alcohol, cannabis, stimulants, and opiates.
In this chapter, we review the research in this growing field by first discussing the concepts related to price and consumption (demand), its applications to the study of drug consumption and drug seeking, and the impact of other commodities on drug consumption. We then review the discounting of future commodities and events among the addicted, review the most recent research examining the neural correlates of discounting, and describe and review the new theory of addiction that results from that research. We conclude by addressing the next research steps that these advances engender.
In 1993, Robinson and Berridge published their first review that laid out the incentive sensitization theory of addiction (Robinson and Berridge 1993 Brain Res Rev 18:247). Its basic point is that repeated exposure to drugs of abuse causes hypersensitivity to drugs and drug-associated stimuli of the neural circuits mediating incentive salience, an important way in which motivational stimuli influence behavior. In laymen's terms, it states that this drug-induced hypersensitivity of motivational circuitry would mediate an increase in drug &quot;wanting,&quot; thus being responsible for the dramatically exaggerated motivation for drugs displayed by addicts. This theory has been exceptionally influential, as evidenced by the fact that the original review paper about this theory (Robinson and Berridge 1993 Brain Res Rev 18:247) has been cited 2,277 times so far, and subsequent updates of this view (Robinson and Berridge 2000 Addiction 95(Suppl 2):S91; Robinson and Berridge 2001 Addiction 96:103; Robinson and Berridge 2003 Ann Rev Psychol 54:25) have been cited 274, 297, and 365 times, respectively, adding up to more than 3,200 citations within 15 years. The present chapter aims to delineate the merits and limitations of the incentive sensitization view of addiction, and whether incentive sensitization occurs in humans. We conclude that since incentive sensitization most prominently occurs after the first few drug exposures, it may represent an important initial step in the addiction process. During the expression of full-blown addiction, characterized by loss of control over drug intake and use of large quantities of drugs, the expression of incentive sensitization may be transiently suppressed. However, detoxification and the gradual disappearance of tolerance and withdrawal symptoms may unmask sensitization, which could then play an important role in the high risk of relapse.
Psychostimulant addiction often consists of periods of sustained drug abstinence disrupted by periods of relapse and renewed heavy drug use. Prevention of relapse remains the greatest challenge to the successful treatment of drug addiction. Drug-associated cues are a primary trigger for relapse, as they can elicit intense craving for the drug. These cues become associated with the drug reward through Pavlovian learning processes that develop over multiple drug-cue pairings. The amygdala (AMY) is critical for such drug-related learning. Intrinsic and extrinsic circuitry position the AMY to integrate cue and drug-related information and influence drug-seeking and drug-taking behaviors. Animal models of conditioned drug reward, drug use, and relapse have confirmed the necessary role of the AMY for drug conditioned cues to control motivated behavior. Neurons within the AMY are responsive to the primary effects of psychostimulants, and more critically, they also respond to the presentation of drug-associated cues. The mechanisms by which conditioned cues come to influence drug-seeking behavior likely involve long-term plasticity and neuroadaptations within the AMY. A greater understanding of the associative learning mechanisms that depend upon the AMY and related limbic and cortical structures, and the process by which drug cues come to gain control over behavior that maintains the addictive state, will facilitate the development of more effective addiction treatments.
All information about the visual world is conveyed to the brain by a single type of neurons at the back of the eye called retinal ganglion cells (RGCs). Understanding how RGC axons locate and wire up with their targets is therefore critical to understanding visual development. In recent years, several important technological and conceptual advances have been made in this area, and yet, many fundamental questions remain unanswered. Indeed, while much is now known about how RGC axons pathfind at the optic chiasm and form retinotopic maps within their targets, how RGCs select their overall targets in the first place is poorly understood. Moreover, the signals that direct mammalian RGC axons to their appropriate layer within those targets remain unknown. The recent advent of genetic tools to selectively label and manipulate defined groups of RGCs is starting to provide a way to resolve these and other important questions about RGC wiring specificity. This field is therefore positioned to reveal new principles of visual circuit development that no doubt will extend to other regions of the CNS.
The proteolytic cleavages elicited by activation of the Notch receptor release an intracellular fragment, Notch intracellular domain, which enters the nucleus to activate the transcription of targets. Changes in transcription are therefore a major output of this pathway. However, the Notch outputs clearly differ from cell type to cell type. In this review we discuss current understanding of Notch targets, the mechanisms involved in their transcriptional regulation, and what might underlie the activation of different sets of targets in different cell types.
The 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), ligand-gated Ca(2+) channels composed of homopentamers of 7 subunits, represent the most abundant with 42 nAChRs in the brain. Several lines of evidence suggest that 7 nAChRs play a role in the physiology of neuropsychiatric diseases such as schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, anxiety, depression, and drug addiction; hence, 7 nAChRs seem to be attractive therapeutic targets for these diseases. Several researchers have attempted to develop radioligands that can be used to selectively and quantitatively examine the distribution of 7 nAChRs in the human brain with positron emission tomography (PET) or single photon emission tomography (SPECT). Although efforts are underway, very low density of 7 nAChR and scarcity of very high affinity ligands hamper the development of 7 subtype-selective radioligands for in vivo imaging. In this article, we review the recent topics on the development of PET/SPECT ligands for in vivo imaging of 7 nAChRs in the brain.
Dopamine (DA) is known to play an important role in numerous brain functions and has been suggested to be involved in several neuropsychiatric and neurological disorders. From early on, positron emission tomography (PET) studies of the DA system have yielded high interest. Currently, several aspects of the functionality of DA neurons can be imaged, including the DA synthesis rate and the expression of DA-related proteins (receptors and transporters). A more recent application of radioligands targeting DA receptors is to study the endogenous neurotransmitter levels in vivo in brain. In vitro binding studies have suggested that in general DA receptors, as many other G-protein coupled receptors, exist in two affinity states for agonist binding. The high affinity state is thought to represent the functional state of the receptor, and the proportion between high and low affinity states may change with the development of disease. PET imaging with agonist radioligands may provide information on the existence of the high affinity state in vivo. In addition, DA receptor agonist radioligands may be superior tools for measuring changes in endogenous DA levels as antagonist radioligands inherently bind to both the low and the high affinity state. This review primarily summarizes the present status of the D(2)/D(3) receptor agonist PET radioligands. In addition several PET studies evaluating the utility of the agonist concept are discussed.
In recent years, considerable interest has been generated by findings that cannabinoids not only have useful palliative effects, but also can affect the viability and invasivity of a variety of different cancer cells. In the present review, the potential of targeting the cannabinoid system for the treatment of cancer is considered from a practical, rather than a mechanistic viewpoint, addressing questions such as whether human tumour cells express CB receptors; whether the potencies of action of cannabinoids in vitro match the potencies expected on the base of receptor theory; what is known about the in vivo effects of cannabinoids and cancer, and how relevant the experiments undertaken are to the clinical situation; and finally, what approaches can be taken to minimise unwanted effects of cannabinoid treatment. It is concluded that cannabinoids (or agents modulating the endogenous cannabinoid system) are an attractive target for drug development in the cancer area, but that more in vivo studies, particularly those investigating the potential of cannabinoids as an addition to current treatment strategies, are needed.
As might be predicted for an organ designed for cell to cell communication, cyclic nucleotide signaling in the brain is highly organized and regulated. Augmentation of cyclic nucleotide signaling by means of phosphodiesterase inhibition appears to be a viable and tractable means of enhancing neuronal communication. Of the various CNS disorders that have been considered as target indications for phosphodiesterase inhibitors, no condition has received more attention than cognitive dysfunction. This review provides a background for understanding the expanding literature in this field as well as a brief update on the rationale driving the search for selective inhibitors of targets such as PDE1B, PDE2, PDE5 and PDE9.
This article highlights recent advances in the discovery of new agonists, antagonists and partial agonists of the 5-HT(1D) receptor. The field of 5-HT(1D) agonists continues to deliver a number of new potential therapeutic agents, although advances in this field are now more focussed on the clinical evaluation phase. The identification of novel compounds is greater for the 5-HT(1D) receptor antagonists, and whilst few truly selective ligands have been identified, a number of approaches are discussed towards defined mixed-pharmacology profiles. An overview is also given of recent advances in biological and clinical understanding of the receptor.
The function and mechanism of macropinocytosis in cells outside of the immune system remain poorly understood. We used a neuroblastoma cell line, Neuro-2a, to study macropinocytosis in neuronal cells. We found that phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) and insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) induced two distinct types of macropinocytosis in the Neuro-2a cells. IGF-1-induced macropinocytosis occurs mostly around the cell bodies and requires phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K), while PMA-induced macropinocytosis occurs predominantly in the neurites and is independent of PI3K activity. Both types of macropinocytosis were inhibited by a specific inhibitor of nonmuscle myosin II, blebbistatin. siRNA knockdown of nonmuscle myosin II isoforms, -IIA and -IIB, resulted in opposite effects on macropinocytosis induced by PMA or IGF. Myosin IIA knockdown significantly increased, whereas myosin IIB knockdown significantly decreased, macropinocytosis with correlating changes in membrane ruffle formation.


















Both the BMP and Wnt pathways have been implicated in directing aspects of dorsal neural tube closure and cell fate specification. However, the mechanisms that control the diverse responses to these signals are poorly understood. In this study, we provide genetic and functional evidence that the secreted sFRP1 and sFRP2 proteins, which have been primarily implicated as negative regulators of Wnt signaling, can also antagonize BMP signaling in the caudal neural tube and that this function is critical to maintain proper neural tube closure and dorsal cell fate segregation. Our studies thus reveal a novel role for specific sFRP proteins in balancing the response of cells to two critical extracellular signaling pathways.
A cognitive phenotype is a product of both assets and deficits that specifies what individuals with spina bifida meningomyelocele (SBM) can and cannot do and why they can or cannot do it. In this article, we review the cognitive phenotype of SBM and describe the processing assets and deficits that cut within and across content domains, sensory modality, and material, including studies from our laboratory and other investigations. We discuss some implications of the SBM cognitive phenotype for assessment, rehabilitation, and research.
The limb blastema cell, which is a major source of mesenchymal components in the limb regenerate, serves as a stem cell that possesses an undifferentiated state and multipotency. A remarkable property of the limb blastema cell can be seen in its capability for morphogenesis. Elucidation of the molecular basis for morphological regeneration is essential for success in organ regeneration in humans, and characterization of limb blastema cells will provide many insights into how to create three-dimensional morphology during the regeneration process. In this review, we deal with positional memory, a key trait of the limb blastema cell in regard to morphological regeneration, making reference to classic surgical experiments, comparative descriptions of limb and fin blastemas, and genetic/epigenetic regulation of gene transcription. Urodele amphibians, anuran amphibians, and teleosts are likely to share fundamental mechanisms for morphological regeneration, but there are several differences in the process of regeneration, including the epigenetic conditions. Accumulation of knowledge of the molecular mechanisms and epigenetic modifications of gene activation in morphological regeneration of the model organisms for which an overview is provided in this review will lead to successful stimulation of regenerative capacity in amniotes, which only have a limited capability for morphological regeneration.

This study examined prevalence of soft signs in 214 typically developing Chinese children and investigated whether soft signs are associated with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in this population. Chinese children with ADHD (N = 54) scored significantly higher than age-matched controls on all three soft signs subscales and motor coordination correlated significantly with Stroop interference. Logistic regression supported the utility of the soft sign scales in discriminating children with ADHD and controls. Children with ADHD had a significant excess of soft signs, which may be a useful marker of developmental disruption in this clinical condition.
This study examined (1) emotional versus cognitive developmental trajectories and (2) the influence of age-extrinsic factors (i.e., sex and puberty). Using a cross-sectional design, adolescents (N = 252) divided into four age-groups (ages 13, 15, 17, 19) performed two versions of a mentalizing task, about emotions and actions, as well as the Tower task. First, performance on all tasks improved linearly into late adolescence (age 19). Thus no differential trajectories were found for emotional versus cognitive development. Second, girls outperformed boys in mentalizing speed regarding both emotions and actions. In boys, a later pubertal phase was associated with increased mentalizing speed after controlling for age-group.
Neuroscientific research on emotion regulation suggests that the interplay between emotion and cognition may be fundamental to the ability to adaptively regulate emotions. Although emotion and cognition have historically been considered to be in opposition, more recent research suggests that they are also integrated, coordinated, and complementary. In this article, I review studies showing that scalp-recorded event related potentials (ERPs) reflecting emotion-cognition integration can be used as clinically meaningful indices of emotion regulation in children and adults, and have the potential to serve as biomarkers for emotion regulation and risk for specific affective disorders. Drawing on neuroscience and behavioral research, I propose a model in which ERP measures of emotion-cognition integration rather than opposition is the guiding principle for detecting neural markers for emotion regulation. Suggestions for a future research agenda are then presented.

To investigate the role of interference control on the development of working memory (WM) capacity, 6-12-year-old children and adults performed an N-Back task with differing WM-load and interference control demands. Correlation analyses between flanker interference scores and WM-load levels showed that interference control was only required in the 2-back condition. While WM maintenance (1-back task) reached adult accuracy levels at age 10-12, the ability to maintain information in WM during distraction (2-back-task) displayed protracted maturation into adolescence. This is suggested to reflect yet immature connections between prefrontal and posterior association areas, respectively involved in interference control and WM storage.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) in infants and children remains a public health problem of enormous magnitude. It is a complex and heterogeneous condition that presents many diagnostic, therapeutic and prognostic challenges. A number of investigative teams are studying pediatric TBI both in experimental models and in clinical studies at the bedside. This review builds on work presented in a prior supplement to Developmental Neuroscience that was published in 2006, and addresses several active areas of research on this topic, including (1) the application of novel imaging methods, (2) the use of serum and/or CSF biomarkers of injury, (3) advances in neuromonitoring, (4) the development and testing of novel therapies, (5) developments in modeling pediatric TBI, (6) the consideration of a new approach to classification of pediatric TBI, and (7) assessing the potential impact of the development of pediatric and neonatal neurocritical care services on the management and outcome of pediatric TBI.
Pediatric traumatic brain injury (TBI) is a significant and underappreciated societal problem. Whereas many TBI studies have evaluated the mechanisms of cell death after TBI, fewer studies have evaluated the extent to which regeneration is occurring. Here we used a cryoinjury model to damage the somatosensory cortex of rats at postnatal day 6 (P6), P10 and P21. We evaluated the production of new neocortical neurons using a combination of 5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labeling combined with staining for doublecortin (DCX). BrdU+/DCX+ bipolar cells were observed adjacent to the neocortical lesion, with their processes oriented perpendicular to the pial surface. As the animals aged, both the overall proliferative response as well as the production of neocortical neuroblasts diminished, with P6 animals responding most robustly, P10 animals less strongly, and P21 animals showing a very modest proliferative response and virtually no evidence of neocortical neurogenesis. When BrdU was administered at increasingly delayed intervals after the injury at P6, there was a clear difference in the number of new neuroblasts produced as a function of age, with the greatest number of new neocortical neurons produced between 4 and 7 days after the injury. These studies demonstrate that the immature brain has the capacity to produce neocortical neurons after traumatic injury, but this capacity diminishes as the brain continues to develop. Furthermore, in contrast to moderate hypoxic/ischemic brain damage in the P6 rat, where neurogenesis persists for at least 2 months, the response to cryoinjury is quite different as the neurogenic response diminishes over time.
The purpose of experimental models of traumatic brain injury (TBI) is to reproduce selected aspects of human head injury such as brain edema, contusion or concussion, and functional deficits, among others. As the immature brain may be particularly vulnerable to injury during critical periods of development, and pediatric TBI may cause neurobehavioral deficits, our aim was to develop and characterize as a function of developmental age a model of diffuse TBI (DTBI) with quantifiable functional deficits. We modified a DTBI rat model initially developed by us in adult animals to study the graded response to injury as a function of developmental age - 7-, 14- and 21-day-old rats compared to young adult (3-month-old) animals. Our model caused motor deficits that persisted even after the pups reached adulthood, as well as reduced cognitive performance 2 weeks after injury. Moreover, our model induced prominent edema often seen in pediatric TBI, particularly evident in 7- and 14-day-old animals, as measured by both the wet weight/dry weight method and diffusion-weighted MRI. Blood-brain barrier permeability, as measured by the Evans blue dye technique, peaked at 20 min after trauma in all age groups, with a second peak found only in adult animals at 24 h after injury. Phosphorus MR spectroscopy showed no significant changes in the brain energy metabolism of immature rats with moderate DTBI, in contrast to significant decreases previously identified in adult animals.
Empathy, which implies a shared interpersonal experience, is implicated in many aspects of social cognition, notably prosocial behavior, morality and the regulation of aggression. The purpose of this paper is to critically examine the current knowledge in developmental and affective neuroscience with an emphasis on the perception of pain in others. It will be argued that human empathy involves several components: affective arousal, emotion understanding and emotion regulation, each with different developmental trajectories. These components are implemented by a complex network of distributed, often recursively connected, interacting neural regions including the superior temporal sulcus, insula, medial and orbitofrontal cortices, amygdala and anterior cingulate cortex, as well as autonomic and neuroendocrine processes implicated in social behaviors and emotional states. Decomposing the construct of empathy into subcomponents that operate in conjunction in the healthy brain and examining their developmental trajectory provides added value to our current approaches to understanding human development. It can also benefit our understanding of both typical and atypical development.
One prominent feature of adolescence is the high frequency of social behaviors, such as play. Engaging in these behaviors appears necessary for proper socio-emotional development as social isolation during adolescence typically leads to behavioral dysfunctions in adulthood. The present experiments examined the effects of stress on social and nonsocial behaviors in group housed adolescent male rats. We found that acute restraint stress led to a complete inhibition of play (e.g., nape contacts and pins) and reduced social investigations in pre- (28 days), mid- (35 days), and late-adolescent (42 and 49 days) animals. A follow-up study, however, found that restraint-induced suppression of play and social investigations was transient such that experimental animals engage in these behaviors at levels similar to those of controls 1 hr after termination of the stressor. We also found that exposure to repeated restraint stress throughout adolescence led to a decrease in social investigations, while leaving play largely unaffected. Interestingly, in all of the experiments, nonsocial behaviors (e.g., eating, drinking, grooming) were unaffected by restraint, suggesting these effects of stress are specific to social behaviors. Together, these data indicate that both acute and repeated stress significantly affect social behaviors during adolescence.
Contemporary perspectives on age differences in risk taking, informed by advances in developmental neuroscience, have emphasized the need to examine the ways in which emotional and cognitive factors interact to influence decision making. In the present study, a diverse sample of 901 individuals between the ages of 10 and 30 were administered a modified version of the Iowa Gambling Task, which is designed to measure affective decision making. Results indicate that approach behaviors (operationalized as the tendency to play increasingly from the advantageous decks over the course of the task) display an inverted U-shape relation to age, peaking in mid- to late adolescence. In contrast, avoidance behaviors (operationalized as the tendency to refrain from playing from the disadvantageous decks) increase linearly with age, with adults avoiding disadvantageous decks at higher rates than both preadolescents and adolescents. The finding that adolescents, compared to adults, are relatively more approach oriented in response to positive feedback and less avoidant in response to negative feedback is consistent with recent studies of brain development, as well as epidemiological data on various types of risky behavior, and may have important practical implications for the prevention of adolescent risk taking.
A subpopulation of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP)-expressing cells located along the length of the lateral ventricles in the subventricular zone (SVZ) have been identified as the multipotent neural stem cells of the adult mammalian brain. We have previously found that, in the adult human brain, a splice variant of GFAP, termed GFAPdelta, was expressed specifically in these cells. To investigate whether GFAPdelta is also present in the precursors of SVZ astrocytes during development and whether GFAPdelta could play a role in the developmental process, we analyzed GFAPdelta expression in the normal developing human cortex and in the cortex of foetuses with the migration disorder lissencephaly type II. We demonstrated for the first time that GFAPdelta is specifically expressed in radial glia and SVZ neural progenitors during human brain development. Expression of GFAPdelta in radial glia starts at around 13 weeks of pregnancy and disappears before birth. GFAPdelta is continuously expressed in the SVZ progenitors at later gestational ages and in the postnatal brain. Co-localization with Ki67 proved that these GFAPdelta-expressing cells are able to proliferate. Furthermore, we showed that the expression pattern of GFAPdelta was disturbed in lissencephaly type II. Overall, these results suggest that the adult SVZ is indeed a remnant of the foetal SVZ, which develops from radial glia. Furthermore, we provide evidence that GFAPdelta can distinguish resting astrocytes from proliferating SVZ progenitors.


Chronic alcoholism is characterized by impaired control over emotionally motivated actions towards alcohol use. Neuropathologically, it is associated with widespread brain structural compromise marked by gray matter shrinkage, ventricular enlargement, and white matter degradation. The extent to which cortical damage itself or cortical disconnection by white matter fiber pathway disruption contribute to deficits in emotion, cognition, and behavior can be investigated with in vivo structural neuroimaging and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI)-based quantitative fiber tracking. Tractography in alcoholism has revealed abnormalities in selective white matter fiber bundles involving limbic fiber tracts (fornix and cingulum) that connect cortico-limbic-striatal nodes of emotion and reward circuits. Studies documenting brain-behavior relationships support the role of alcoholism-related white matter fiber degradation as a substrate of clinical impairment. An understanding of the role of cortico-limbic fiber degradation in emotional dysregulation in alcoholism is now emerging.
Observing another individual acting upon an object triggers cerebral activity well beyond the visual cortex of the observer in areas directly involved in planning and executing actions. This we will call action simulation. Importantly, the brain does not solely simulate the actions of others but also the sensations they feel, and their emotional responses. These simulation mechanisms are most active in individuals who report being very empathic. Simulation may indeed be instrumental for our understanding of the emotional and mental state of people in our sight, and may contribute heavily to the social interactions with our peers by providing a first-person perspective on their inner feelings. Simulation mechanisms are at work at an early stage of social development and might be defective in young individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). However, the results to date regarding ASD are not clearcut, and an equal number of studies report positive and negative findings.
Cross-species affective neuroscience studies confirm that primary-process emotional feelings are organized within primitive subcortical regions of the brain that are anatomically, neurochemically, and functionally homologous in all mammals that have been studied. Emotional feelings (affects) are intrinsic values that inform animals how they are faring in the quest to survive. The various positive affects indicate that animals are returning to &quot;comfort zones&quot; that support survival, and negative affects reflect &quot;discomfort zones&quot; that indicate that animals are in situations that may impair survival. They are ancestral tools for living--evolutionary memories of such importance that they were coded into the genome in rough form (as primary brain processes), which are refined by basic learning mechanisms (secondary processes) as well as by higher-order cognitions/thoughts (tertiary processes). To understand why depression feels horrible, we must fathom the affective infrastructure of the mammalian brain. Advances in our understanding of the nature of primary-process emotional affects can promote the development of better preclinical models of psychiatric disorders and thereby also allow clinicians new and useful ways to understand the foundational aspects of their clients' problems. These networks are of clear importance for understanding psychiatric disorders and advancing psychiatric practice.
Brain serotonergic circuitries interact with other neurotransmitter systems on a multitude of different molecular levels. In humans, as in other mammalian species, serotonin (5-HT) plays a modulatory role in almost every physiological function. Furthermore, serotonergic dysfunction is thought to be implicated in several psychiatric and neurodegenerative disorders. We describe the neuroanatomy and neurochemistry of brain serotonergic circuitries. The contribution of emergent in vivo imaging methods to the regional localization of binding site receptors and certain aspects of their functional connectivity in correlation to behavior is also discussed. 5-HT cell bodies, mainly localized in the raphe nuclei, send axons to almost every brain region. It is argued that the specificity of the local chemocommunication between 5-HT and other neuronal elements mainly depends on mechanisms regulating the extracellular concentration of 5-HT the diversity of high-affinity membrane receptors, and their specific transduction modalities.
Continuing to discover how the brain works is one of the great challenges ahead of us. Although understanding the brain anatomy and its functional organization provided a first and indispensable foundation, it became clear that a static view was insufficient. To understand the complexity of neuronal communication, it is necessary to examine the chemical nature of the neurotransmission and, using the example of the acetylcholine receptors, follow the different layers of networks that can be distinguished. The natural alkaloid nicotine contained in tobacco leaves acts as an agonist with a subclass of acetylcholine receptors, and provides an interesting tool to approach brain functions. Analysis of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, which are ligand gated channels, revealed that these receptors are expressed at different critical locations on the neurons including the synaptic boutons, neurites, cell bodies, and even on the axons. These receptors can modulate the activity at the microcircuit synaptic level, in the cell processing of information, and, by acting on the velocity of action potential, the synchrony of communication between brain areas. These actions at multiple levels of brain organization provide an example of the complexity of brain neurocircuitry and an illustration of the relevance of this knowledge for psychiatry.
Meta-analytic data from over a decade of research in cognitive remediation, when combined with recent findings from basic and clinical neuroscience, have resulted in a new understanding of the critical elements that can contribute to successful cognitive training approaches for schizophrenia. Some of these elements include: the use of computerized repetitive practice methods, high dosing schedules, a focus on sensory processing, and carefully constrained and individually adapted learning trials. In a preliminary randomized controlled trial of cognitive training exercises based on these principles, we demonstrated significant improvements in working memory, verbal learning and memory, and global cognition in patients with schizophrenia. These cognitive improvements were accompanied by neurobiological findings suggestive of learning-induced cortical plasticity. Future directions for research and essential remaining questions are discussed.
The integration of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with cognitive and affective neuroscience paradigms enables examination of the brain systems underlying the behavioral deficits manifested in schizophrenia; there have been a remarkable increase in the number of studies that apply fMRI in neurobiological studies of this disease. This article summarizes features of fMRI methodology and highlights its application in neurobehavioral studies in schizophrenia. Such work has helped elucidate potential neural substrates of deficits in cognition and affect by providing measures of activation to neurobehavioral probes and connectivity among brain regions. Studies have demonstrated abnormalities at early stages of sensory processing that may influence downstream abnormalities in more complex evaluative processing. The methodology can help bridge integration with neuropharmacologic and genomic investigations.
Understanding the genetic basis of schizophrenia continues to be major challenge. The research done during the last two decades has provided several candidate genes which unfortunately have not been consistently replicated across or within a population. The recent genome-wide association studies (GWAS) and copy number variation (CNV) studies have provided important evidence suggesting a role of both common and rare large CNVs in schizophrenia genesis. The burden of rare copy number variations appears to be increased in schizophrenia patients. A consistent observation among the GWAS studies is the association with schizophrenia of genetic markers in the major histocompatibility complex (6p22.1)-containing genes including NOTCH4 and histone protein loci. Molecular genetic studies are also demonstrating that there is more overlap between the susceptibility genes for schizophrenia and bipolar disorder than previously suspected. In this review we summarize the major findings of the past decade and suggest areas of future research.
More than a century since the delineation of dementia praecox by Kraepelin, the etiology, neuropathology, and pathophysiology of schizophrenia remain elusive. Despite the availability of criteria allowing reliable diagnostic identification, schizophrenia essentially remains a broad clinical syndrome defined by reported subjective experiences (symptoms), loss of function (behavioral impairments), and variable patterns of course. Research has identified a number of putative biological markers associated with the disorder, including neurocognitive dysfunction, brain dysmorphology, and neurochemical abnormalities. Yet none of these variables has to date been definitively proven to possess the sensitivity and specificity expected of a diagnostic test. Genetic linkage and association studies have targeted multiple candidate loci and genes, but failed to demonstrate that any specific gene variant, or a combination of genes, is either necessary or sufficient to cause schizophrenia. Thus, the existence of a specific brain disease underlying schizophrenia remains a hypothesis. Against a background of an ever-increasing volume of research data, the inconclusiveness of the search for causes of the disorder fuels doubts about the validity of the schizophrenia construct as presently defined. Given the protean nature of the symptoms of schizophrenia and the poor coherence of the clinical and biological findings, such doubts are not without reason. However, simply dismantling the concept is unlikely to result in an alternative model that would account for the host of clinical phenomena and research data consistent with a disease hypothesis of schizophrenia. For the time being, the clinical concept of schizophrenia is supported by empirical evidence that its multiple facets form a broad syndrome with non-negligible internal cohesion and a characteristic evolution over time. The dissection of the syndrome with the aid of endophenotypes is beginning to be perceived as a promising approach in schizophrenia genetics.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) is a significant public health problem. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are the only FDA-approved medications for OCD. However, SSRIs are of limited efficacy in clinical practice. Given the persistence of symptoms and levels of treatment response, it is clear that the serotonin paradigm of OCD does not fully account for the neurobiology of the disorder, and that further translational research is needed. In this review, the glutamate hypothesis of pediatric OCD is explored, the neuroimaging evidence reviewed, and the translational impact highlighted. The traditional strategy of going from pharmacology to pathophysiology has failed to show real progress in our understanding of the neurobiology of psychiatric illness and, while still in the early stages, this work demonstrates the clear benefit of approaching psychiatric illness from the opposite direction.

A new classification of functional gastrointestinal disorders (FGID) became available recently, based on consensus in expert committees ('Rome III process'). It is widely accepted that these frequent disorders, although their pathophysiology remains incompletely understood, result from a complex reciprocal interaction between biological, psychological and social factors that can be predisposing, precipitating and/or perpetuating. Comorbidity with psychiatric disorders, especially mood and anxiety disorders, is high. Modern epidemiologic, psychophysiological and functional neuroimaging studies have partially elucidated the mechanisms underlying the relation between cognitive-affective processes on the one hand and GI function and symptom reporting on the other. The aim of this article is to provide a noncomprehensive historical review of the literature on FGID up to the mid-20th century, with special emphasis on the role of psychosocial factors and psychiatric comorbidity. We can conclude from this review that a lot of the knowledge that became available recently through modern research methodology can also be found in the historical psychosomatic and neuroscience literature, though obviously less empirically grounded. This provides further support for an integrative, multidisciplinary biopsychosocial approach to FGID.
Schizophrenia is a devastating psychiatric disorder that affects around 1% of the population worldwide. The disease is characterized by 'positive symptoms', 'negative symptoms' and cognitive deficits. Over the last 60 years, a large number of family, twin and adoption studies have clearly demonstrated a strong genetic component for schizophrenia, but the mode of inheritance of the disease is complex and, in all likelihood, involves contribution from multiple genes in conjunction with environmental and stochastic factors. Recently, several genome-wide scans have demonstrated that rare alleles contribute significantly to schizophrenia risk. Assessments of rare variants have identified specific and probably causative, disease-associated structural mutations or copy number variants (CNVs, which result from genomic gains or losses). The fact that the effects of such lesions are transparent allows the generation of etiologically valid animal models and the opportunity to explore the molecular, cellular and circuit-level abnormalities underlying the expression of psychopathology. To date, the most common genomic structural rearrangements that are unequivocally associated with the development of schizophrenia, are de novo microdeletions of the 22q11.2 locus. Fortunately, the human 22q11.2 locus is conserved within the syntenic region of mouse chromosome 16, which harbors nearly all orthologues of the human genes. This has made it possible to engineer genetically faithful, and thus etiologically valid, animal models of this schizophrenia susceptibility locus.







The introduction of the atypical antipsychotic drugs represents an important advance in the treatment of schizophrenia, because the therapeutic efficacy, tolerability, and safety profiles of these agents seem to be superior to that of the classical neuroleptics. As would be predicted from the pharmacologic profile of a pure D(2)/D(3) receptor blocker, amisulpride is an atypical antipsychotic agent, effective for positive and negative symptoms, which can bring about additional improvement in the social functioning and quality of life of patients with schizophrenia. Amisulpride is effective in acute schizophrenia as determined by Clinical Global Impression scores. The major concern regarding the safety of the atypical antipsychotics is related to their propensity to induce weight gain and alter glucose and lipid metabolism. Amisulpride has one of the lowest potentials for weight gain of all the antipsychotic agents, and is associated with clearly lower use of antiparkinsonian medication and with fewer dropouts due to adverse events than conventional antipsychotics. Amisulpride is well tolerated with regard to anxiety and insomnia, and not notably different from placebo. Amisulpride has a pronounced prolactin-elevating effect which appears to be independent of dosage and duration of administration. Hyperprolactinemia rapidly reverses following amisulpride discontinuation. Amisulpride benefits patients with negative symptoms, and is the only antipsychotic to demonstrate efficacy in patients with predominantly negative symptoms. Amisulpride maintains its efficacy when used for medium/long-term treatment, as demonstrated in studies of up to 12 months. In terms of relevance of the effects, superiority is observed for quality of life, social adaptation, and functioning, as measured by the Quality of Life and Functional Status Questionnaire scales. In conclusion, amisulpride is an antipsychotic agent with proven efficacy and good tolerability. Moreover, this drug can help people with schizophrenia to attain social reinsertion.
Restless legs syndrome (RLS) is a sleep-related movement disorder with a high prevalence in the general population. Patients affected by a severe form of the disorder may develop comorbidities, such as psychological distress, cognitive dysfunction and cardiovascular diseases; these patients require pharmacotherapy. Dopamine agonists represent the first line treatment for RLS patients but, if adverse events such as compulsive behaviors and augmentation occur, the pharmacological approach should be modified. Gabapentin is a GABA analogue used in the treatment of seizures and pain syndromes. This drug has an unfavorable pharmacokinetic profile; the prodrug gabapentin enacarbil was developed to overcome this limitation. Unlike oral gabapentin, gabapentin enacarbil shows no evidence of saturation and exposure to gabapentin is dose proportional. The extended release formulation of gabapentin enacarbil has the characteristics of an optimal drug therapy. Doses from 1200 to 1800 mg/day of gabapentin enacarbil appear effective in treating RLS after only a few days of treatment. The most frequently reported adverse events associated with gabapentin enacarbil are dizziness and somnolence, which are transient and of mild intensity. Further studies are required to confirm the long term efficacy and safety of gabapentin enacarbil on the symptoms of RLS.
The changing use of the clock metaphor serves as a helpful contrast medium to highlight the different concepts of the body-soul-system between 1450 and 1750. This article first relates to the social, political and philosophical functions of the horologium. Then it outlines the different fields of discourse, in which the clock metaphor was mainly invoked. Finally, it examines the writings of a number of significant authors (Cusanus, Ficino, Descartes, Leibniz, Wolff, La Mettrie) with an eye to the evolution of the clock metaphor in various theological, metaphysical and physiological contexts. Surprisingly enough, the clock (or watch) initially represented the life-giving soul and human consciousness, before turning into the well-known symbol for the body-machine, and in particular for its neurophysiological operations.
The impact of eating disorders on maternal feeding practices and children's eating behaviors is not well understood. In the prospective Norwegian Mother and Child Cohort Study (MoBa), we compared self-reported feeding behavior in mothers with anorexia nervosa (AN), bulimia nervosa (BN), binge eating disorder (BED), and no eating disorders (No ED) as well as child eating behaviors and psychological symptoms. The sample comprised 13,006 women and their children from a prospective population-based study of 100,000 births throughout Norway. Eating disorder status was measured 6 months prior to pregnancy and during pregnancy. Maternal feeding, child eating, and psychological variables were reported by mothers when their child was 36 months old. Mothers with BN and BED were more likely to report restrictive feeding styles and child eating problems than mothers without eating disorders. Regarding the pressure to eat feeding style, no significant differences emerged across groups. Differences in self-reported feeding styles and children's eating behavior exist between mothers with and without eating disorders. Longitudinal follow-up will assist in determining the implications of feeding style on later growth trajectories and development.

Alcohol is known to impede the growth of the central nervous system and to induce neurodegeneration through cellular apoptosis. We have previously shown that moderate prenatal alcohol exposure results in brain defects at different stages of development. In this study, we further characterize the proteomic architecture underlying ethanol teratogenesis during early fetal brain development using chromatography in conjunction with a LC-MS/MS system. Pregnant C57BL/6 mice were exposed from embryonic day 7 (E7) to E13 with either a 25% ethanol derived calorie or pair-fed liquid diets. At E13, fetal brains were collected from five dams for each group. Individual brains were homogenized and the extracted proteins were then tryptically digested and analyzed by LC-MS/MS. Label-free quantitative proteomic analyses were performed on proteomes extracted from fetal brains of both alcohol-treated (ALC) and pair-fed groups. These analyses demonstrated that prenatal alcohol exposure induced significant downregulation (p&lt;0.001) of the expression of mitochondrial enzymes including ADP/ATP translocase 1, ATP synthase subunit alpha and ubiquinol-cytochrome-c reductases. In addition, mitochondrial carrier homolog 1, which plays a role in apoptosis, was significantly downregulated (p&lt;0.001) in the ALC group. Moreover, among the cytosolic proteins that were significantly downregulated (p&lt;0.001) are Bcl-2, 14-3-3 protein and calmodulin. Significant downregulation (p&lt;0.001) of proteins that are critical for fetal brain development was observed such as prohibitin and neuronal migration protein doublecortin. These findings provide information about possible mechanisms underlying the effects of prenatal alcohol exposure during early embryonic stage.
The first episode of bipolar depression needs a combined psychopharmacological, psychobehavioural and social treatment strategy but because of the pathological severity of the mood episode itself, it specifically requires to achieve total symptomatic remission and therefore appropriate treatment of the index episode. International recommendations which derive primarily from Anglo-Saxon regulations formally restrict the use of antidepressants in view of the risk of mania, suggesting that serotoninergic agents be used in preference and recommending the prescription of mood regulators or even antipsychotic agents and various stepwise associations based on the relative potencies of the pharmacological tools available and treatment stages deployed optimally to obtain complete remission. Finally, treatment of the episode includes prophylaxis as its initial episode is the first presentation of a chronic disease.

The initiation of mammalian puberty requires an increased pulsatile release of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from the hypothalamus. This increase is brought about by changes in transsynaptic and glial-neuronal communication. Coordination of these cellular interactions likely requires the participation of sets of genes hierarchically arranged within functionally connected networks. Using high throughput, genetic, molecular and bioinformatics strategies, in combination with a systems biology approach, three transcriptional regulators of the pubertal process have been identified, and the structure of at least one hypothalamic gene network has been proposed. A genomewide analysis of hypothalamic DNA methylation revealed profound changes in methylation patterns associated with the onset of female puberty. Pharmacological disruption of two epigenetic marks associated with gene silencing (DNA methylation and histone deacetylation) resulted in pubertal failure, instead of advancing the onset of puberty, suggesting that disruption of these two silencing mechanisms leads to activation of repressor genes whose expression would normally decrease at puberty. These observations suggest that the genetic underpinnings of puberty are polygenic rather than specified by a single gene, and that epigenetic mechanisms may provide coordination and transcriptional plasticity to this genetic network.
The fetal brain develops during the intrauterine period in the male direction through a direct action of testosterone on the developing nerve cells, or in the female direction through the absence of this hormone surge. In this way, our gender identity (the conviction of belonging to the male or female gender) and sexual orientation are programmed or organized into our brain structures when we are still in the womb. However, since sexual differentiation of the genitals takes place in the first two months of pregnancy and sexual differentiation of the brain starts in the second half of pregnancy, these two processes can be influenced independently, which may result in extreme cases in trans-sexuality. This also means that in the event of ambiguous sex at birth, the degree of masculinization of the genitals may not reflect the degree of masculinization of the brain. There is no indication that social environment after birth has an effect on gender identity or sexual orientation.
The hypothalamo-neurohypophyseal system (HNS) is a highly specialised region of the brain that is comprised of the magnocellular neurons of the paraventricular (PVN) and supraoptic (SON) nuclei, the axons of which project to the neural lobe of the pituitary. The PVN and the SON are involved in abroad spectrum of activities including, but not restricted to, osmotic regulation, cardiovascular control, parturition and lactation, energy homeostasis and the stress response resulting in a function-related plasticity of these tissues, allowing them the modulation necessary to reply to the physiological demands in an appropriate manner. We hypothesise that the HNS response to physiological stimulation is underpinned by changes in gene transcription. Affymetrix microarrays with 31,099 probes representing the total rat genome, were interrogated with RNA targets from SON, PVN and the neuro-intermediate lobe dissected from nave rats as well as those responding to physiological and pathological cues. The data generated are comprehensive catalogues of genes that are expressed in each tissue, as well as lists of genes that are differentially regulated following changes in the physiological state of the animal.
The present study summarized recent findings on roles of leptin and endocannabinoids as modulators of the peripheral components of sweet taste. The positive effect of endocannabinoids on sweet sensitivity was opposed to that of leptin which suppresses sweet sensitivity. Leptin and endocannabinoids, therefore, not only regulate food intake via central nervous systems but also may modulate palatability of foods by altering peripheral sweet taste responses via their cognate receptors. Orexigenic and anorexigenic factors such as endocannnabinoids and leptin may affect energy homeostasis by regulating taste sensitivity.
GnRH neurons are the final central pathway controlling fertility. Kisspeptin potently activates GnRH release via G protein-coupled receptor 54 (GPR54). GnRH neurons express GPR54, and kisspeptin can act directly; however, GPR54 is broadly expressed, suggesting indirect actions are possible. Transsynaptic mechanisms are involved in estradiol-induced potentiation of GnRH neuron response to kisspeptin. To investigate these mechanisms, separate whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were performed of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic and glutamatergic transmission to GnRH neurons in brain slices before and during kisspeptin treatment. To determine whether estradiol alters the effect of kisspeptin on synaptic transmission, mice were ovariectomized and either left with no further treatment (OVX) or treated with estradiol implants (OVX+E). Cells were first studied in the morning when estradiol exerts negative feedback. Kisspeptin increased frequency and amplitude of GABAergic postsynaptic currents (PSCs) in GnRH neurons from OVX+E mice. Blocking action potentials eliminated the effect on frequency, indicating presynaptic actions. Amplitude changes were due to postsynaptic actions. Kisspeptin also increased frequency of glutamatergic excitatory PSCs in cells from OVX+E animals. Kisspeptin did not affect either GABAergic or glutamatergic transmission to GnRH neurons in cells from OVX mice, indicating effects on transmission are estradiol dependent. In contrast to stimulatory effects on GABAergic PSC frequency during negative feedback, kisspeptin had no effect during positive feedback. These data suggest estradiol enables kisspeptin-mediated increases in GABA and glutamate transmission to GnRH neurons. Furthermore, the occlusion of the response during positive feedback implies one consequence of estradiol positive feedback is an increase in transmission to GnRH neurons mediated by endogenous kisspeptin.

MeCP2, the major causative factor of Rett syndrome and related phenotypes including autism, is a two-face nuclear modulator acting via transcriptional and chromatin remodeling mechanisms. This study investigated the expression of several nuclear proteins and their dependence on MeCP2 dose and presence of the Rett causative R306C mutation. To this end, we developed in vitro models representing MeCP2 deficiency induced by siRNAs, and cells expressing the R306C mutation. Using an extended antibody microarray validated by specific assays, revealed that MeCP2 dose was correlated with specific nuclear proteins profiles including the BRM/SNF2 component of SWI/SNF complex, PRMT1 methyl transferase and HDAC2. Furthermore, while exposing the MeCP2 knock-down system to therapeutic concentrations of valproic acid (VPA), a known HDACs inhibitor, we observed a partial restoration of MeCP2 expression levels. Exposure to VPA also increased the levels of BRM, as well as of BDNF, an important co-factor in MeCP2-mediated pathway. Our findings provide additional evidence of diverse mechanisms of MeCP2 function as transcriptional repressor and activator of specific genes. As it has been recently demonstrated that post-natal restoration of MeCP2 deficiency may reverse neurological defects in a mouse model of Rett syndrome, we suggest to study the restorative effect of HDAC inhibitors in MeCP2-deficient mouse model.



Working memory (WM) deficits are considered a core cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia. To determine cognitive abnormalities in chronic interictal psychosis (CIP), and to assess whether these abnormalities are distinguishable from those seen in schizophrenia in terms of WM deficits, we used magnetoencephalography during a WM task performed by patients with CIP, nonpsychotic epilepsy, and schizophrenia and by healthy subjects. Multiple Source Beamformer and Brain-Voyager were used for analysis. In both patients with CIP and those with schizophrenia, we found dorsolateral prefrontal hyperactivation and left inferior temporal hypoactivation, as indicated by alpha event-related desynchronization and synchronization, respectively. Patients with schizophrenia also showed alpha2 event-related desynchronization in the mid-prefrontal cortex relative to healthy controls. Direct comparison of patients with CIP and schizophrenia rendered no difference in source-power changes. Our findings indicate similar functional cognitive abnormalities in CIP and schizophrenia in the prefrontal and left temporal cortex, which supports the possibility that these disorders share common underlying pathophysiological mechanisms.
Aged animals have been used by researchers to better understand the differences between the young and the aged brain and how these differences may provide insight into the mechanisms of acute seizures and epilepsy in the elderly. To date, there have been relatively few studies dedicated to the modeling of acute seizures and epilepsy in aged, healthy animals. Inherent challenges to this area of research include the costs associated with the purchase and maintenance of older animals and, at times, the unexpected and potentially confounding comorbidities associated with aging. However, recent studies using a variety of in vivo and in vitro models of acute seizures and epilepsy in mice and rats have built upon early investigations in the field, all of which has provided an expanded vision of seizure generation and epileptogenesis in the aged brain. Results of these studies could potentially translate to new and tailored interventional approaches that limit or prevent the development of epilepsy in the elderly.
Brivaracetam (ucb 34714; BRV), a new antiepileptic drug (AED) candidate, is a pyrrolidone derivative displaying a markedly higher affinity than levetiracetam (LEV; Keppra) to the synaptic vesicle protein SV2A, shown to be the brain-specific binding site of LEV. The higher affinity for SV2A correlates significant antiepileptic activity in animal epilepsy models in vitro and in vivo. Since many AEDs act upon inhibiting neuronal Na(+) currents, this study explored putative activity of BRV on the properties of these currents. Voltage-activated Na(+) currents were recorded by whole-cell patch-clamp on neuronal somas of rat neocortical neurons, grown in dissociated cell culture for up to 12 days. BRV, dissolved at the desired final concentration (between 0.2microM and 1mM) was applied by a multi-barrel pipette system near the soma of the recorded neuron. BRV produced a concentration-dependent inhibition of voltage-dependent Na(+) currents with IC(50) values of 41microM at the holding potential of -100mV, and of 6.5microM at the holding potential of -60mV. The voltage-dependence of activation and the kinetics of fast inactivation were not modified in the presence of BRV (30microM). Conversely, the recovery from fast inactivation was significantly slower and the voltage of half-maximal inactivation was shifted toward hyperpolarized value after BRV perfusion in a concentration-dependent manner. Furthermore, BRV (30microM) induced a significant use-dependent block at 50Hz stimulation frequency. These results indicate that BRV is able to modulate the voltage-activated Na(+) inflow in cortical neurons, which conceivably might contribute to the antiepileptic activity of this drug.


Several investigators have reported an increased frequency of attention/hyperactivity symptoms in international adoptees, though population-based studies are lacking. In this national cohort study, we aimed to determine the prevalence of ADHD medication in international adoptees in Sweden, in comparison to the general population. A further purpose was to study gender, age at adoption and region of origin as predictors of ADHD medication in international adoptees. The study population consisted of all Swedish residents born in 1985-2000 with Swedish-born parents, divided into 16,134 adoptees, and a comparison population of 1,326,090. ADHD medications were identified in the Swedish Prescribed Drug Register during 2006. Logistic regression was used to calculate the odds ratios. The rates of ADHD medication were higher in international adoptees than in the comparison population for both boys (5.3 vs. 1.5% for 10-15-year olds) and girls (2.1 vs. 0.3% for 10-15-year olds). International adoptees from all regions of birth more often consumed ADHD medication compared with the majority population, but the age and sex adjusted odds ratios were particularly high for adoptees from Eastern Europe, Middle East/Africa and Latin America. Adjusting for maternal education and single parenthood increased the odds ratios even further. The risk also increased with higher age at adoption. Adoptees from Eastern Europe have a very high risk for ADHD medication. A structured identification and support programme should be tailored for this group. Adoptees from other regions have a more moderately increased risk, which should be communicated to adoptive parents and to professionals who care for adoptees in their clinical practice.

Marfan syndrome is a inherited connective tissue disorder due to mutations in fibrillin-1. It presents with cardiovascular, ocular, skeletal, pulmonary and dural signs and symptoms. Some of the symptoms of later onset are those associated with scoliosis and dural ectasia. This is the enlargement of the neural canal especially in the lower lumbar and sacral region and occurs in over 90% of Marfan patients. We here report three patients with lumbar and/or sacral radiculopathy due to (kypho)scoliosis and dural ectasia with spinal meningeal cysts. The pain, muscle weakness, muscle atrophy, and sensory disturbances illustrate the severe neurological complications which may occur in Marfan syndrome, especially at later age. Awareness of these complications and development of management protocols is essential since life expectancy of Marfan patients has increased. Marfan syndrome might gradually become recognized as an inherited connective tissue disorder with potentially severe neurological complications during ageing.

Hippocampal plasticity (e.g. neurogenesis) likely plays an important role in maintaining addictive behavior and/or relapse. This study assessed whether rats with differential propensity to drug-seeking behavior, bred Low-Responders (bLR) and bred High-Responders (bHR) to novelty, show differential neurogenesis regulation after cocaine exposure. Using specific immunological markers, we labeled distinct populations of adult stem cells in the dentate gyrus at different time-points of the cocaine sensitization process; Ki-67 for newly born cells, NeuroD for cells born partway, and 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine for older cells born prior to sensitization. Results show that: (i) bHRs exhibited greater psychomotor response to cocaine than bLRs; (ii) acute cocaine did not alter cell proliferation in bLR/bHR rats; (iii) chronic cocaine decreased cell proliferation in bLRs only, which became amplified through the course of abstinence; (iv) neither chronic cocaine nor cocaine abstinence affected the survival of immature neurons in either phenotype; (v) cocaine abstinence decreased survival of mature neurons in bHRs only, an effect that paralleled the greater psychomotor response to cocaine; and (vi) cocaine treatment did not affect the ratio of neurons to glia in bLR/bHR rats as most cells differentiated into neurons in both lines. Thus, cocaine exerts distinct effects on neurogenesis in bLR vs. bHR rats, with a decrease in the birth of new progenitor cells in bLRs and a suppression of the survival of new neurons in bHRs, which likely leads to an earlier decrease in formation of new connections. This latter effect in bHRs could contribute to their enhanced degree of cocaine-induced psychomotor behavioral sensitization.
The human auditory system has evolved to efficiently process individual streams of speech. However, obtaining temporally detailed responses to distinct continuous natural speech streams has hitherto been impracticable using standard neurophysiological techniques. Here a method is described which provides for the estimation of a temporally precise electrophysiological response to uninterrupted natural speech. We have termed this response AESPA (Auditory Evoked Spread Spectrum Analysis) and it represents an estimate of the impulse response of the auditory system. It is obtained by assuming that the recorded electrophysiological function represents a convolution of the amplitude envelope of a continuous speech stream with the to-be-estimated impulse response. We present examples of these responses using both scalp and intracranially recorded human EEG, which were obtained while subjects listened to a binaurally presented recording of a male speaker reading naturally from a classic work of fiction. This method expands the arsenal of stimulation types that can now be effectively used to derive auditory evoked responses and allows for the use of considerably more ecologically valid stimulation parameters. Some implications for future research efforts are presented.
The genes in the imprinted cluster on human chromosome 15q11-q13 are known to contribute to psychiatric conditions such as schizophrenia and autism. Major disruptions of this interval leading to a lack of paternal allele expression give rise to Prader-Willi syndrome (PWS), a neurodevelopmental disorder with core symptoms of a failure to thrive in infancy and, on emergence from infancy, learning disabilities and over-eating. Individuals with PWS also display a number of behavioural problems and an increased incidence of neuropsychiatric abnormalities, which recent work indicates involve aspects of frontal dysfunction. To begin to examine the contribution of genes in this interval to relevant psychological and behavioural phenotypes, we exploited the imprinting centre (IC) deletion mouse model for PWS (PWS-IC(+/-)) and the five-choice serial reaction time task (5-CSRTT), which is primarily an assay of visuospatial attention and response control that is highly sensitive to frontal manipulations. Locomotor activity, open-field behaviour and sensorimotor gating were also assessed. PWS-IC(+/-) mice displayed reduced locomotor activity, increased acoustic startle responses and decreased prepulse inhibition of startle responses. In the 5-CSRTT, the PWS-IC(+/-) mice showed deficits in discriminative response accuracy, increased correct reaction times and increased omissions. Task manipulations confirmed that these differences were likely to be due to impaired attention. Our data recapitulate several aspects of the PWS clinical condition, including findings consistent with frontal abnormalities, and may indicate novel contributions of the imprinted genes found in 15q11-q13 to behavioural and cognitive function generally.
There is a strong interest in harnessing the genetic manipulations that are possible in mice to investigate the functional neural mechanisms modulating the associative processes that control drug-seeking behavior. However, it is unknown whether intracranial techniques, such as the disconnection procedure commonly used in rats to examine serial connectivity between implicated areas, can be successfully applied to mice. We have previously demonstrated that the expression of ethanol-seeking behavior in mice is dependent upon amygdala (Amy) dopamine and nucleus accumbens (Acb) N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation (Gremel &amp; Cunningham, 2009). Here, we used a neuropharmacological disconnection procedure to investigate whether dopamine activation of the Amy directly leading to increases in Acb glutamate release and binding of NMDA receptors modulates the expression of ethanol-seeking behavior. Immediately before testing the expression of an ethanol-induced conditioned place preference, mice were given an Amy infusion of flupenthixol and either an ipsilateral or contralateral Acb infusion of AP-5. Although both ipsilateral and contralateral manipulations reduced the expression of ethanol conditioned place preference, in a separate experiment we demonstrated that a unilateral Acb infusion of AP-5, but not Amy flupenthixol, is sufficient to disrupt preference. The finding of a significant blockade by unilateral AP-5 into the Acb precludes any conclusions about a unique role for the Amy/Acb neuroanatomical connection in this model of ethanol-seeking behavior. Further, the current results suggest potential limitations in transferring techniques from rats to mice in order to study serial interactions between neural areas underlying motivated behaviors. Nevertheless, these findings provide evidence showing that Acb NMDA receptors play an important role in the expression of ethanol-conditioned behavior.
Striatal medium-sized spiny neurons (MSSNs) receive glutamatergic inputs modulated presynaptically and postsynaptically by dopamine. Mice expressing the gene for enhanced green fluorescent protein as a reporter gene to identify MSSNs containing D1 or D2 receptor subtypes were used to examine dopamine modulation of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) in slices and postsynaptic N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) currents in acutely isolated cells. The results demonstrated dopamine receptor-specific modulation of sEPSCs. Dopamine and D1 agonists increased sEPSC frequency in D1 receptor-expressing MSSNs (D1 cells), whereas dopamine and D2 agonists decreased sEPSC frequency in D2 receptor-expressing MSSNs (D2 cells). These effects were fully (D1 cells) or partially (D2 cells) mediated through retrograde signaling via endocannabinoids. A cannabinoid 1 receptor (CB1R) agonist and a blocker of anandamide transporter prevented the D1 receptor-mediated increase in sEPSC frequency in D1 cells, whereas a CB1R antagonist partially blocked the decrease in sEPSC frequency in D2 cells. At the postsynaptic level, low concentrations of a D1 receptor agonist consistently increased NMDA and AMPA currents in acutely isolated D1 cells, whereas a D2 receptor agonist decreased these currents in acutely isolated D2 cells. These results show that both glutamate release and postsynaptic excitatory currents are regulated in opposite directions by activation of D1 or D2 receptors. The direction of this regulation is also specific to D1 and D2 cells. We suggest that activation of postsynaptic dopamine receptors controls endocannabinoid mobilization, acting on presynaptic CB1Rs, thus modulating glutamate release differently in glutamate terminals projecting to D1 and D2 cells.
Both the endocannabinoid and noradrenergic systems have been implicated in neuropsychiatric disorders. Importantly, low levels of norepinephrine are seen in patients with depression, and antagonism of the cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1R) is able to induce depressive symptoms in rodents and humans. Whether the interaction between the two systems is important for the regulation of these behaviors is not known. In the present study, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were acutely or chronically administered the CB1R synthetic agonist WIN 55,212-2, and alpha2A and beta1 adrenergic receptors (AR) were quantified by Western blot. These AR have been shown to be altered in a number of psychiatric disorders and following antidepressant treatment. CB1R agonist treatment induced a differential decrease in alpha2A- and beta1-ARs in the nucleus accumbens (Acb). Moreover, to assess long-lasting changes induced by CB1R activation, some of the chronically treated rats were killed 7 days following the last injection. This revealed a persistent effect on alpha2A-AR levels. Furthermore, the localization of CB1R with respect to noradrenergic profiles was assessed in the Acb and in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). Our results show a significant topographic distribution of CB1R and dopamine beta hydroxylase immunoreactivities (ir) in the Acb, with higher co-localization observed in the NTS. In the Acb, CB1R-ir was found in terminals forming either symmetric or asymmetric synapses. These results suggest that cannabinoids may modulate noradrenergic signaling in the Acb, directly by acting on noradrenergic neurons in the NTS or indirectly by modulating inhibitory and excitatory input in the Acb.
Through their capacity to secrete, upon activation, a variety of bioactive molecules, brain macrophages (and resident microglia) play an important role in brain immune and inflammatory responses. To test our hypothesis that activated macrophages induce neuronal injury by enhancing neuronal outward K(+) current, we studied the effects of lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-stimulated human monocyte-derived macrophage (MDM) on neuronal transient A-type K(+) current (I(A)) and resultant neuronal injury in primary rat hippocampal neuronal cultures. Bath application of LPS-stimulated MDM-conditioned media (MCM+) enhanced neuronal I(A) in a concentration-dependent manner. Non-stimulated MCM (MCM-) failed to alter I(A). The enhancement of neuronal I(A) was recapitulated in neurons co-cultured with macrophages. The link of MCM(+)-induced enhancement of I(A) to MCM(+)-associated neuronal injury, as detected by propidium iodide and 4'',6-diamidino-2-phenylindol staining (DAPI) and 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT) assay, was demonstrated by experimental results showing that addition of I(A) blocker 4-aminopyridine to the cultures protected hippocampal neurons from MCM(+)-induced neuronal injury. Further investigation revealed that glutamate was involved in MCM(+)-induced enhancement of neuronal I(A). These results suggest that during brain inflammation macrophages (and microglia) might mediate neuronal injury via enhancement of neuronal I(A), and that neuronal K(v) channel might be a potential target for the development of therapeutic strategies for some neurodegenerative disorders by which immune and inflammatory responses are believed to be involved in the pathogenesis.
Neurons in higher cortical areas appear to become active during action observation, either by mirroring observed actions (termed mirror neurons) or by eliciting mental rehearsal of observed motor acts. We report the existence of neurons in the primary motor cortex (M1), an area that is generally considered to initiate and guide movement performance, responding to viewed actions. Multielectrode recordings in monkeys performing or observing a well-learned step-tracking task showed that approximately half of the M1 neurons that were active when monkeys performed the task were also active when they observed the action being performed by a human. These 'view' neurons were spatially intermingled with 'do' neurons, which are active only during movement performance. Simultaneously recorded 'view' neurons comprised two groups: approximately 38% retained the same preferred direction (PD) and timing during performance and viewing, and the remainder (62%) changed their PDs and time lag during viewing as compared with performance. Nevertheless, population activity during viewing was sufficient to predict the direction and trajectory of viewed movements as action unfolded, although less accurately than during performance. 'View' neurons became less active and contained poorer representations of action when only subcomponents of the task were being viewed. M1 'view' neurons thus appear to reflect aspects of a learned movement when observed in others, and form part of a broadly engaged set of cortical areas routinely responding to learned behaviors. These findings suggest that viewing a learned action elicits replay of aspects of M1 activity needed to perform the observed action, and could additionally reflect processing related to understanding, learning or mentally rehearsing action.
Patients suffering from neuropathic pain often complain of pain aggravation when the weather is changing. The exact mechanism for weather change-induced pain has not been clarified. We have previously demonstrated that experimentally lowering barometric pressure (LP) intensifies pain-related behaviors in rats with chronic constriction injury (CCI). In the present experiment we examined whether this pain aggravating effect of LP exposure in nerve injured rats is still present after lesioning of the inner ear. We used both CCI and spinal nerve ligation (SNL) models for this study. We injected into the middle ear sodium arsanilate solution (100mg/ml, 50microl/ear), which is known to degenerate vestibular hair cells, under anesthesia the day before surgery. Rats were exposed to LP (27hPa decrease over 8min) 7-9 days after CCI or 5-8 days after SNL surgery, and pain-related behavior (number of paw lifts induced by von Frey hair stimuli) was measured. When the inner ear lesioned SNL or CCI rats were exposed to LP, they showed no augmentation of pain-related behavior. On the other hand, the pain aggravating effect of a temperature decrease (from 24 to 17 degrees C) was maintained in both SNL and CCI rats. These results suggest that the barometric sensor/sensing system influencing nociceptive behavior during LP in rats is located in the inner ear.



There is little knowledge on sleepwalking in ancient times even though it is a very common condition. The aim of this report is to describe the backgrounds of medical knowledge on somnambulism in the 19th century, a key period in the development of neurosciences, by analysing its representation in two famous Italian operas: La Sonnambula by Vincenzo Bellini and Macbeth by Giuseppe Verdi. The 19th-century operas may be considered as a crossing point between the popular and intellectual world because they mirror popular answers to phenomena that were still awaiting scientific explanations. Shakespeare's play Macbeth was also considered. In Shakespeare's play and in Verdi's Macbeth, sleepwalking is looked upon as a neuropsychiatric disorder, a manifestation of internal anxiety. In La Sonnambula by Bellini, this condition is considered as common disorder that anticipates scientific theories. The analysed Italian operas provide two different views on sleepwalking, probably because they are based on texts belonging to different periods. Their examination allows one to understand the gradual evolution of theories on sleepwalking, from demoniac possession to mental disorder and sleep disease. At the same time, this analysis throws some light on the history of psychological illnesses.



The purpose of this study was to examine the differential effects of acute tryptophan (TRP) depletion vs. sham condition on plasma, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) biochemical parameters, and mood in the following three subject groups: (1) nine antidepressant-free individuals with remitted depression, (2) eight paroxetine-treated individuals with recently remitted depression, and (3) seven healthy controls. Plasma TRP decreased during TRP depletion and increased during sham condition (p&lt;.01). CSF TRP and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid were lower during TRP depletion than sham condition (p&lt;.01 each). During TRP depletion, CSF TRP correlated significantly with the plasma sum of large neutral amino acids (SigmaLNAA) (R=-.52, p=.01), but did not significantly correlate with plasma TRP (R=.15, p=.52). The correlation between CSF TRP and ratio of TRP to SigmaLNAA was R=.41 and p=.06 during TRP depletion, and R=-.44 and p=.04 during sham condition. A negative correlation trend was observed between CSF-TRP levels and peak Hamilton Depression Rating Scale scores during TRP depletion in patients recovered from depression (R=-.45, p=.07), but not in healthy controls (R=-.01, p=.98). CSF neuropeptide Y was higher during TRP depletion than sham condition (t=1.75, p&lt;.10). These results illustrate the importance of assessing plasma SigmaLNAA when using the TRP depletion paradigm. The use of a single CSF sampling technique although practical may result in data acquisition limitations.
Although considerable attention has been paid to the relationship between Cannabis use and schizophrenia, there is a significant uncertainty regarding the role of Cannabis consumption in the pathoetiology of the disorder. We investigated the correlation between voluntary cannabinoid consumption and behavioral traits in an animal model of schizophrenia. Male rats were trained to intravenously self-administer the cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonist WIN55,212-2 (WIN; 12.5 microg/kg/infusion) or vehicle; they subsequently received acute or chronic-intermittent intraperitoneal administration of the non-competitive N-methyl-d-aspartate receptor antagonist phencyclidine (PCP; 2.5mg/kg) or saline. We report that WIN self-administration attenuates PCP-induced deficits in (i) prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle reflex, (ii) cognitive skills, and (iii) sociability, suggesting that cannabinoid consumption can ameliorate the schizophrenia-like behavioral alterations caused by PCP. A parallel study performed in animals receiving WIN on a non-voluntary basis (experimenter-given) confirmed an ameliorating effect of cannabinoid administration on the symptoms of schizophrenia induced by PCP.
Adult hippocampal neurogenesis, a once unorthodox concept, has changed into one of the most rapidly growing fields in neuroscience. The present report results from the ECNP targeted expert meeting in 2007 during which cellular plasticity changes were addressed in the adult brain, focusing on neurogenesis and apoptosis in hippocampus and frontal cortex. We discuss recent studies investigating factors that regulate neurogenesis with special emphasis on effects of stress, sleep disruption, exercise and inflammation, a group of seemingly unrelated factors that share at least two unifying properties, namely that they all regulate adult hippocampal neurogenesis and have all been implicated in the pathophysiology of mood disorders. We conclude that although neurogenesis has been implicated in cognitive function and is stimulated by antidepressant drugs, its functional impact and contribution to the etiology of depression remains unclear. A lasting reduction in neurogenesis following severe or chronic stress exposure, either in adult or early life, may represent impaired hippocampal plasticity and can contribute to the cognitive symptoms of depression, but is, by itself, unlikely to produce the full mood disorder. Normalization of reductions in neurogenesis appears at least partly, implicated in antidepressant action.
Cognitive impairments associated with schizophrenia await an effective treatment. In order to model schizophrenia-like cognitive deficits in rats, we evaluated the effects of ketamine, a dissociative anesthetic NMDA/glutamate receptor channel blocker in the attentional set-shifting task (ASST). Acute administration of ketamine (10 but not 3mg/kg) selectively impaired solving of the extradimensional (ED) set-shifting component. Next, we investigated whether the co-administration of mazindol, a dopamine and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor would protect rats from ketamine-induced deficits. Mazindol dose-dependently and selectively alleviated ketamine-induced ED deficit with a minimal effective dose of 0.5mg/kg. The ED component improvement was noted primarily in ketamine - but not in vehicle co-treated rats, in which the drug facilitated ED shift solving at the dose as high as 5mg/kg. A &quot;positive control&quot;, sertindole (2.5mg/kg) also ameliorated ketamine-induced ED deficit. Microdialysis of the prefrontal cortex in a separate group of animals revealed that 2-3h after the administration of 5mg/kg of mazindol and ketamine (i.e., at the time of ED component solving), the extracellular concentrations of dopamine were enhanced by ~300% as compared to the baseline and were intermediate between the mazindol- and ketamine-treated reference groups. However, at that time the levels of norepinephrine, serotonin and glutamate appeared unaffected. We conclude that ketamine may be useful in mimicking deficits specifically related to cognitive inflexibility observed in schizophrenia, and suggest that these anomalies could be ameliorated by mazindol. The beneficial effects of mazindol on ASST performance may have therapeutic implications for the treatment of schizophrenia.
Gene variants of the serotonin transporter have been associated with vulnerability to affective disorders. In particular, the presence of one or two copies of the short (s) allele of the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism has been associated with reduced serotonin transporter expression and function, and vulnerability to affective disorders. To test for an association between variants of the serotonin transporter gene polymorphism (5-HTTLPR) and relevant clinical features of borderline personality disorder (BPD), a psychiatric disorder with symptoms characteristic for serotonin dysfunction, 77 women with BPD were genotyped in the 5-HTTLPR polymorphism. They rated their subjective experience of borderline-specific, depressive, anxious and obsessive-compulsive symptoms, and were interviewed about lifetime incidence of suicide attempts and self-harming acts. Carriers of two s alleles of the 5-HTTLPR reported more symptoms of borderline, depression, anxiety and obsessive-compulsive behaviours, but not of suicidal and self-injury behaviour, compared to carriers of a long (l) allele. This indicates that the 5-HTTLPR ss homozygous genotype might influence serotonin function affecting susceptibility to both borderline-specific, depressive, anxious and obsessive-compulsive symptoms in BPD, and leading to a more severe symptomatology related to these clinical features. Further, this suggests that 5-HTT gene variants may not be as influential on suicidal and self-injury behaviour in BPD.
Tissue injury and anaesthesia during surgery induce a stress response associated with increased glucocorticoid secretion from the adrenal glands. This response alters the normal physiology and may cause postoperative morbidity, as well as affect the results during acute experiments. The aim of the present investigation was to study the effect of surgical severity and analgesic treatment on circulating corticosterone in male Sprague-Dawley rats. Male rats were treated with either lidocaine infiltrated during surgery, buprenorphine (0.05 or 0.1 mg/kg subcutaneously) or saline subcutaneously. Each treatment group was subjected to either arterial catheterisation or arterial catheterisation and laparotomy. A catheter was inserted in the common carotid artery and blood was collected during surgery and during anaesthesia 6 h after surgery. Lidocaine treatment reduced the corticosterone levels compared to saline treatment after catheterisation but not after laparotomy. Buprenorphine treatment reduced the corticosterone levels during the first hour after surgery after both catheterisation and laparotomy. The higher buprenorphine dose led to an earlier and more pronounced reduction, especially after laparotomy. In the present study, the corticosterone response during surgery in laboratory rats is correlated with the severity of the procedure, and buprenorphine reduces the surgical stress response more effectively than lidocaine treatment.
The sympathetic nervous system (SNS) modulates several functions in skeletal muscle fibers, including metabolism, ionic transport across the membrane, and contractility. These actions, together with the sympathetic control of other organ systems, support intense motor activity. However, some SNS actions on skeletal muscles may not always be functionally advantageous. Implications for motor control and sport performance are discussed.


Recent behavioural findings using dual-task paradigms demonstrate the importance of both spatial and non-spatial working memory processes in inefficient visual search (Anderson et al. in Exp Psychol 55:301-312, 2008). Here, using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we sought to determine whether brain areas recruited during visual search are also involved in working memory. Using visually matched spatial and non-spatial working memory tasks, we confirmed previous behavioural findings that show significant dual-task interference effects occur when inefficient visual search is performed concurrently with either working memory task. Furthermore, we find considerable overlap in the cortical network activated by inefficient search and both working memory tasks. Our findings suggest that the interference effects observed behaviourally may have arisen from competition for cortical processes subserved by these overlapping regions. Drawing on previous findings (Anderson et al. in Exp Brain Res 180:289-302, 2007), we propose that the most likely anatomical locus for these interference effects is the inferior and middle frontal cortex of the right hemisphere. These areas are associated with attentional selection from memory as well as manipulation of information in memory, and we propose that the visual search and working memory tasks used here compete for common processing resources underlying these mechanisms.
Corporeal awareness is a difficult concept which refers to perception, knowledge and evaluation of one's own body as well as of other bodies. We discuss here some controversies regarding the significance of the concepts of body schema and body image, as variously entertained by different authors, for the understanding of corporeal awareness, and consider some newly proposed alternatives. We describe some recent discoveries of cortical areas specialized for the processing of bodily forms and bodily actions, as revealed by neuroimaging, neurophysiological, and lesion studies. We further describe new empirical and theoretical evidence for the importance of interoception, in addition to exteroception and proprioception, for corporeal awareness, and discuss how itch, a typical interoceptive input, has been wrongly excluded from the classic concept of the proprioceptive-tactile body schema. Finally, we consider the role of the insular cortex as the terminal cortical station of interoception and other bodily signals, along with Craig's proposal that the human insular cortex sets our species apart from other species by supporting consciousness of the body and the self. We conclude that corporeal awareness depends on the spatiotemporally distributed activity of many bodies in the brain, none of which is isomorphic with the actual body.
Numerous studies have been performed, which assess an important role of protein kinase C (PKC) in the physiopathology of Alzheimer disease (AD). The alteration of PKC activity stimulates amyloid-beta peptides production and protein tau hyperphosphorylation. This recently led to consider PKC as a potential therapeutic target for disease modifying drugs. Moreover PKC alterations were also observed in peripheral cells including blood cells. This short review recalls the main findings on the role of PKC in the disease process and focuses on its use as an AD biomarker in blood cells. Using fluorescent probes specific for PKC, it is possible to detect the conformational changes of the enzyme in living cells. Such probes can be used to detect PKC alterations in red blood cells and thus to distinguish AD patients from healthy controls with unmatched specificity and sensitivity.
Advances in our understanding of tau-mediated neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are moving this disease pathway to center stage for the development of biomarkers and disease modifying drug discovery efforts. Immunoassays were developed detecting total (t-tau) and tau phosphorylated at specific epitopes (p-tauX) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), methods to analyse tau in blood are at the experimental beginning. Clinical research consistently demonstrated CSF t- and p-tau increased in AD compared to controls. Measuring these tau species proved informative for classifying AD from relevant differential diagnoses. Tau phosphorylated at threonine 231 (p-tau231) differentiated between AD and frontotemporal dementia, tau phosphorylated at serine 181 (p-tau181) enhanced classification between AD and dementia with Lewy bodies. T- and p-tau are considered &quot;core&quot; AD biomarkers that have been successfully validated by controlled large-scale multi-center studies. Tau biomarkers are implemented in clinical trials to reflect biological activity, mechanisms of action of compounds, support enrichment of target populations, provide endpoints for proof-of-concept and confirmatory trials on disease modification. World-wide quality control initiatives are underway to set required methodological and protocol standards. Discussions with regulatory authorities gain momentum defining the role of tau biomarkers for trial designs and how they may be further qualified for surrogate marker status.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a severe chronic neurodegenerative disorder of the brain. A probable diagnosis of AD can be obtained by cerebrospinal fluid levels of 3 biomarkers: beta-amyloid (1-42), total tau and phospho-tau181. Researchers are interested in finding additional biomarkers in CSF to improve the specificity and sensitivity of diagnosis, including also other forms of dementia, such as mild cognitive impairment (MCI). In addition, less invasive diagnostic methods using blood or blood-derived cells are being investigated. This mini-review (in concert with the other reviews of this special issue) summarizes the usefulness of growth factors and cytokines/chemokines as putative surrogate biomarkers for diagnosing AD and MCI in CSF and blood. Briefly, the expression levels of growth factors and cytokines/chemokines are very heterogenous, indicating the pathological diversity of these diseases. At present, no single growth factor or cytokine alone stands out as a useful biomarker for diagnosing AD or MCI. However, the combined &quot;patients profile signature&quot; of several selected growth factors and/or cytokines/chemokines may allow to diagnose AD and MCI with higher selectively and specificity.
Sporadic Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a genetically complex and chronically progressive neurodegenerative disorder with molecular mechanisms and neuropathologies centering around the amyloidogenic pathway, hyperphosphorylation and aggregation of tau protein, and neurofibrillary degeneration. While cerebrovascular changes have not been traditionally considered to be a central part of AD pathology, a growing body of evidence demonstrates that they may, in fact, be a characteristic feature of the AD brain as well. In particular, microvascular abnormalities within the brain have been associated with pathological AD hallmarks and may precede neurodegeneration. In vivo assessment of microvascular pathology provides a promising approach to develop useful biological markers for early detection and pathological characterization of AD. This review focuses on established blood-based biological marker candidates of microvascular pathology in AD. These candidates include plasma concentration of vascular cell adhesion molecule-1 (VCAM-1) and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1) that are increased in AD. Measures of endothelial vasodilatory function including endothelin (ET-1), adrenomedullin (ADM), and atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP), as well as sphingolipids are significantly altered in mild AD or during the predementia stage of mild cognitive impairment (MCI), suggesting sensitivity of these biomarkers for early detection and diagnosis. In conclusion, the emerging clinical diagnostic evidence for the value of blood-based microvascular biomarkers in AD is promising, however, still requires validation in phase II and III diagnostic trials. Moreover, it is still unclear whether the described protein dysbalances are early or downstream pathological events and how the detected systemic microvascular alterations relate to cerebrovascular and neuronal pathologies in the AD brain.
Intense research during the past decade has aimed at dissecting the molecular pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Primarily, the focus has been directed towards brain amyloid pathology and its relation to synaptic and neuronal loss. Clearly, AD is associated with accumulation of amyloid beta (Abeta) in the brain. Further, the results of many experimental studies suggest that certain forms of Abeta may act as initiators in the disease process with potent toxic effects at the synaptic level. Molecular aberrations in the AD brain are reflected in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Core CSF biomarkers include secreted Abeta and amyloid precursor protein (APP) isoforms, Abeta oligomers and beta-site APP-cleaving enzyme 1 (BACE1). This article reviews recent research advances on CSF and plasma Abeta-related biomarkers for AD and how they may reflect pathogenic changes in AD-affected neuronal networks. We also consider their usefulness in clinical practice and in clinical trials.
Nigro-striatal neurons release dopamine not only from their axon terminals in the striatum, but also from somata and dendrites in the substantia nigra. Somatodendritic dopamine release in the substantia nigra can facilitate motor function by mechanisms that may act independently of axon terminal dopamine release in the striatum. The dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra receive a cholinergic input from the pedunculopontine nucleus. Despite recent efforts to introduce this nucleus as a potential target for deep brain stimulation to treat motor symptoms in Parkinson's disease; and the well-known antiparkinsonian effects of anticholinergic drugs; the cholinergic influence on somatodendritic dopamine release is not well understood. The aim of this study was to investigate the possible regulation of locomotor-induced dopamine release in the substantia nigra by endogenous acetylcholine release. In intact and 6-OHDA hemi-lesioned animals alike, the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine, when perfused in the substantia nigra, amplified the locomotor-induced somatodendritic dopamine release to approximately 200% of baseline, compared to 120-130% of baseline in vehicle-treated animals. A functional importance of nigral muscarinic receptor activation was demonstrated in hemi-lesioned animals, where motor performance was significantly improved by scopolamine to 82% of pre-lesion performance, as compared to 56% in vehicle-treated controls. The results indicate that muscarinic activity in the substantia nigra is of functional importance in an animal Parkinson's disease model, and strengthen the notion that nigral dopaminergic regulation of motor activity/performance is independent of striatal dopamine release.
Recent evidence suggests that supplemental factors coincident with aging and genetic determinants might be involved in the initial progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Early studies also indicate that chronic stress decreases hippocampal neurogenesis. Here, we investigate the effect of chronic stress on hippocampal neurogenesis using a transgenic mouse line (Tg) that overexpresses human presenilin 1 (PS1) with a familial AD (FAD)-related mutation in order to elucidate how the combination of chronic stress and mutated genes affects the cytoarchitecture in the hippocampal granule cell layer (GCL), which contributes to spatial learning and memory. Using an original chronic intermittent restraint stress (CIRS) protocol, we examined the effect of stress on hippocampal neurogenesis and neurodegeneration by immunohistochemical analysis. After short-term CIRS, neurodegeneration in Tg mice was significantly increased in the hippocampus with an earlier onset and progression than in the non-stressed Tg mice. Moreover, after long-term CIRS, transitional neurodegeneration appeared to proceed along the neuronal circuit involved in cognitive function in stressed Tg mice. Although the number of Pax6-positive (+) cells (mostly granule neuron precursors) did not significantly decrease during CIRS in both non-Tg and Tg mice, doublecortin (DCX) + neuronal progenitor cells in the GCL were markedly influenced in Tg mice; they were significantly reduced without stress compared with non-stressed non-Tg mice and significantly increased by CIRS compared with non-stressed Tg mice. We conclude from these results that diverse responses against stressful experiences among genetically predisposed individuals could lead to cognitive dysfunction through retardation of neuronal maturation and neurodegeneration.
After incomplete spinal cord injury (SCI), the adult central nervous system is spontaneously capable of substantial reorganizations that can underlie functional recovery. Most studies have focused on intraspinal reorganizations after SCI and not on the correlative cortical remodeling. Yet, differential studies of neural correlates of the recovery of sensory and motor abilities may be conducted by segregating motor and somatosensory representations in distinct and topologically organized primary cortical areas. This study was aimed at evaluating the effects of a cervical (C4-C5) spinal cord hemisection on sensorimotor performances and electrophysiological maps in primary somatosensory (S1) and motor (M1) cortices in adult rats. After SCI, an enduring loss of the affected forepaw tactile sensitivity was paralleled by the abolishment of somatosensory evoked responses in the deprived forepaw area within the S1 cortex. In contrast, severe motor deficits in unilateral forelimb were partially restored over the first postoperative month, despite remnant deficits in distal movement. The overall M1 map size was drastically reduced in SCI rats relative to intact rats. In the remaining M1 map, the shoulder and elbow movements were over-represented, consistent with the behavioral recovery of proximal joint movements in almost all rats. By contrast, residual wrist representations were observed in M1 maps of half of the rats that did not systematically correlate with a behavioral recovery of these joint movements. This study highlights the differential potential of ascending and descending pathways to reorganize after SCI.
Using an fMRI-based classification approach and the structural equation modeling (SEM) method, this study examined the neural bases of atypical planning and execution processes involved in stuttering. Twelve stuttering speakers and 12 controls were asked to name pictures under different conditions (single-syllable, multi-syllable, or repeated-syllable) in the scanner. The contrasts between conditions provided information about planning and execution processes. The classification analysis showed that, as compared to non-stuttering controls, stuttering speakers' atypical planning of speech was evident in their neural activities in the bilateral inferior frontal gyrus (IFG) and right putamen and their atypical execution of speech was evident in their activations in the right cerebellum and insula, left premotor area (PMA), and angular gyrus (AG). SEM results further revealed two parallel neural circuits-the basal ganglia-IFG/PMA circuit and the cerebellum-PMA circuit-that were involved in atypical planning and execution processes of stuttering, respectively. The AG appeared to be involved in the interface of atypical planning and execution in stuttering. These results are discussed in terms of their implications to the theories about stuttering and to clinical applications.
The equilibrium potential (E(GABA)(-PSC)) for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) A receptor mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (PSCs) in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons shifts when theta-burst stimulation (four pulses at 100 Hz in each burst in a train consisting of five bursts with an inter-burst interval of 200 ms, the train repeated thrice at 30-s intervals) is applied to the input. E(GABA)(-PSC) is regulated by K(+)/Cl(-) co-transporter (KCC2). GABA(B) receptors are implicated in modulating KCC2 levels. In the current study, the involvement of KCC2, as well as GABA(B) receptors, in theta-burst-mediated shifts in E(GABA)(-PSC) was examined. Whole-cell patch recordings were made from hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons (from 9 to 12 days old rats), in a slice preparation. Glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents were blocked with dl-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (50 microM) and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (20 microM). The PSC and the E(GABA)(-PSC) were stable when stimulated at 0.05 Hz. However, both changed following a 30-min stimulation at 0.5 or 1 Hz. Furosemide (500 microM) and KCC2 anti-sense in the recording pipette but not bumetanide (20 or 100 microM) or KCC2 sense, blocked the changes, suggesting KCC2 involvement. Theta-burst stimulation induced a negative shift in E(GABA)(-PSC), which was prevented by KCC2 anti-sense; however, KCC2 sense had no effect. CGP55845 (2 microM), a GABA(B) antagonist, applied in the superfusing medium, or GDP-beta-S in the recording pipette, blocked the shift in E(GABA)(-PSC). These results indicate that activity-mediated plasticity in E(GABA)(-PSC) occurs in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons and theta-burst-induced negative shift in E(GABA)(-PSC) requires KCC2, GABA(B) receptors and G-protein activation.
Expression of beta(2)-adrenoceptors (beta(2)-ARs) within the nociceptive system suggested their potential implication in nociception and pain. Recently, we demonstrated that these receptors are essential for neuropathic pain treatment by antidepressant drugs. The aim of the present study was to investigate whether the stimulation of beta(2)-ARs could in fact be adequate to alleviate neuropathic allodynia. Neuropathy was induced in mice by sciatic nerve cuffing. We demonstrate that chronic but not acute stimulation of beta(2)-ARs with agonists such as clenbuterol, formoterol, metaproterenol and procaterol suppressed neuropathic allodynia. By using a pharmacological approach with the beta(2)-AR antagonist ICI 118,551 or a transgenic approach with mice deficient for beta(2)-ARs, we confirmed that the antiallodynic effect of these agonists was specifically related to their action on beta(2)-ARs. We also showed that chronic treatment with the beta(1)-AR agonist xamoterol or with the beta(3)-AR agonist BRL 37344 had no effect on neuropathic allodynia. Chronic stimulation of beta(2)-ARs, but not beta(1)- or beta(3)-ARs, by specific agonists is thus able to alleviate neuropathic allodynia. This action of beta(2)-AR agonists might implicate the endogenous opioid system; indeed chronic clenbuterol effect can be acutely blocked by the delta-opioid receptor antagonist naltrindole. Present results show that beta(2)-ARs are not only essential for the antiallodynic action of antidepressant drugs on sustained neuropathic pain, but also that the stimulation of these receptors is sufficient to relieve neuropathic allodynia in a murine model. Our data suggest that beta(2)-AR agonists may potentially offer an alternative therapy to antidepressant drugs for the chronic treatment of neuropathic pain.
beta1 integrin is a cell surface molecule that is critical for endothelial cell adhesion, migration and survival during angiogenesis. In the present study we employed in vivo and in vitro models to elucidate the role of beta1 integrin in vascular remodelling and stroke outcomes. At 24 h after cerebral ischemia and reperfusion (I/R), the ischemic cortex (ipsilateral area) exhibited modest beta1 integrin immunoreactivity and a robust increase was observed at 72 h. Double-label immunohistochemical analysis for beta1 integrin with neuronal (NeuN), microglial (Iba-1), astrocyte (GFAP), progenitor cell (Ng2) and blood vessel (collagen 4) markers showed that beta1 integrin expression only localized to blood vessels. In vitro studies using cultured endothelial cells and a beta1 integrin blocking antibody confirmed that beta1 integrin is required for endothelial cell migration, proliferation and blood vessel formation. In vivo studies in the cerebral I/R model using the beta1 integrin blocking antibody further confirmed that beta1 integrin signaling is involved in vascular formation and recovery following ischemic stroke. Finally, we found that beta1 integrin is critically involved in functional deficits and survival after a stroke. These results suggest that beta1 integrin plays important roles in neurovascular remodelling and functional outcomes following stroke, and that targeting the beta1 integrin signalling may provide a novel strategy for modulating angiogenesis in ischemic stroke and other pathological conditions.
Here, we describe a bilateral cervical contusion model for mice. Adult female mice received graded bilateral contusion injuries at cervical level 5 (C5) using a commercially available impactor (the IH device). Three separate experiments were carried out to define conditions that produce impairments in forelimb function without unacceptable impairment of general health. A grip strength meter (GSM) was used to assess gripping ability as a measure of forelimb motor function; lesion size was assessed histologically by staining cross sections for H&amp;E and GFAP. In Experiment 1, mice received injuries of 30 kilodynes (kdyn); these produced minimal deficits on grip strength. In Experiment 2, mice received injuries of 75 kdyn and 100 kdyn. Injuries of 75 kdyn produced transient deficits in gripping that recovered between 3 and 15 days post-injury (dpi) to about 90% of control; injuries of 100 kdyn produced deficits that recovered to about 50% of control. In Experiment 3, none of the mice that received injuries of 100 kdyn recovered gripping ability. Histological assessment revealed graded injuries that ranged from damage limited primarily to the dorsal column (DC) to damage to the DC, grey matter, ventral column and lateral column. Most lesions filled in with a fibrous tissue matrix, but fluid-filled cystic cavities were found in 13% of the 100 kdyn injury group and a combination of fibrous-filled/fluid-filled cystic cavities were found in 22% and 38% of the 75-kdyn and 100-kdyn injury groups, respectively. There was minimal urine retention following cervical contusion injuries indicating preservation of bladder function. Our results define conditions to produce graded bilateral cervical contusion injuries in mice and demonstrate the usefulness of the GSM for assessing forelimb motor function after cervical contusions.
The effects of amyloid-beta are extremely complex. Current work in the field of Alzheimer disease is focusing on discerning the impact between the physiological signaling effects of soluble low molecular weight amyloid-beta species and the more global cellular damage that could derive from highly concentrated and/or aggregated amyloid. Being able to dissect the specific signaling events, to understand how soluble amyloid-beta induces its own production by up-regulating BACE1 expression, could lead to new tools to interrupt the distinctive feedback cycle with potential therapeutic consequences. Here we describe a positive loop that exists between the secretases that are responsible for the generation of the amyloid-beta component of Alzheimer disease. According to our hypothesis, in familial Alzheimer disease, the primary overproduction of amyloid-beta can induce BACE1 transcription and drive a further increase of amyloid-beta precursor protein processing and resultant amyloid-beta production. In sporadic Alzheimer disease, many factors, among them oxidative stress and inflammation, with consequent induction of presenilins and BACE1, would activate a loop and proceed with the generation of amyloid-beta and its signaling role onto BACE1 transcription. This concept of a signaling effect by and feedback on the amyloid-beta precursor protein will likely shed light on how amyloid-beta generation, oxidative stress, and secretase functions are intimately related in sporadic Alzheimer disease.
Canonical finger numeral configurations are named faster than less familiar finger configurations and activate a semantic place-coding representation as symbolic stimuli. However, this does not exclude categorically the possibility that mere visuo-perceptual differences between canonical and noncanonical finger configurations may induce differences in processing speed. This study capitalizes on the fact that, in typical visual-detection tasks, participants focus on low-level visuo-perceptual features to detect a target among distractors sharing the same high-level semantic features, producing the so-called pop-out effect. Participants had to decide whether a canonical finger configuration was present among a set of distractors expressing the same numerosity in a noncanonical way. The results showed that the time needed to detect the presence of the target grew linearly with the number of distractors. This indicates that the canonical target enjoyed no perceptual saliency among the noncanonical configurations (i.e., no pop-out effect) excluding visuo-perceptual differences as the source of the better identification of and semantic access of canonical configurations.
The 39th Annual meeting of the Society for Neuroscience was held in Chicago, Illinois, USA from 17 to 21 October, 2009. The conference was attended by more than 33,000 delegates from across the globe including scientists from both basic and clinical settings. Co-incidentally, this year, the scientific community is commemorating the 200th anniversary of the birth of the famous English naturalist and biologist, Charles Darwin, who described the theory of natural selection. Keeping its traditions, the congress discussed various new advances in the area of neuroscience. The topics were divided into symposia, mini-symposia, nano-symposia, special lectures and poster sessions. The main areas of discussion were novel discoveries in Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, drug addiction, autism, epilepsy and major depression. According to the WHO, neurological disorders are one of the greatest threats to public health. There are many unknown and challenging facts in the field of neuroscience that needs exploration. It is unfortunate that despite the availability of various drugs for treating these disorders, a sizeable population still do not achieve complete remission. Therefore, organizing such events and addressing the latest developments may open new treatment vistas for patients suffering from these disorders. The present review discusses some of the outcomes of the deliberations in the field of epilepsy and major depression.
Major depressive disorder is a disease with prominent individual, medical and economic impacts. A relevant proportion of depressive patients suffering from a therapy-resistant course are increasingly being treated with antidepressant brain stimulation techniques. One of these interventions is the vagus nerve stimulation that has recently been tested in a number of clinical trials. To date, the acute and long-term efficacy of vagus nerve stimulation are still under debate. Thus further studies are required, especially since the exact mode of action of vagus nerve stimulation is still not well understood. In this paper we will review the results of existing clinical trials as well as the neurobiological effects measured with neuroimaging, biochemical and electrophysiology approaches.
Cerebral cortex contains few if any galanin neurons, but receives galanin-ergic inputs from subcortical areas. Apart from our earlier study on the response to cortical spreading depression, little is known about the presence and function of galanin in normal or injured cortex and to gain more insight into its possible roles, we investigated the temporal effects of focal ischemia on the expression of galanin and galanin receptors (GalRs). Focal ischemia induced in the rat by unilateral middle cerebral artery occlusion increased galanin and GalR1 mRNAs in penumbral/undamaged areas on the first and second day post-ischemia, while increased GalR2 mRNA was observed in the same regions only on the second day. Immunohistochemical studies revealed galanin immunoreactive neurons in the frontal/ cingulate cortex and abundant galanin-immunoreactivity in nerve axons/fibres within the penumbral areas, between the third and the seventh day after ischemia. Galanin mRNA and immunoreactivity was also increased in a population of small cells thought to be NG2-positive oligodendrocyte precursors. Up-regulation of galanin and GalRs in various cell populations following severe ischemic injury further demonstrates the marked plasticity of galanin and GalR1/2 expression after brain injury, and together with data reported elsewhere in this volume, suggests a functional role for galanin signalling in such pathophysiological conditions.
The pathophysiology of depression remains unclear, but involves disturbances in brain monoaminergic transmission. Current antidepressant drugs, which act by enhancing this type of neurotransmission, have limited therapeutic efficacy in a number of patients, and also cause serious side-effects, which limits their compliance. Increasing evidence suggests that neuropeptides, including galanin, can be of relevance in mood disorders. Galanin is co-expressed with and modulates noradrenaline and serotonin transmission, both implicated in depression. Pharmacological and genetic studies suggest a role for galanin in depression-like behaviour in rodents, involving specific receptor subtypes. Thus, stimulation of GalR1 and/or GalR3 receptors results in depression-like phenotype, while activation of the GalR2 receptor reduces depression-like behaviour in the rat. These findings suggest that galanin receptor subtypes may represent novel targets for the development of antidepressant drugs.
The neuropeptide galanin and its receptors are localized in brain pathways that mediate learning and memory. Central microinjection of galanin impairs performance of a variety of cognitive tasks in rats. Transgenic mice overexpressing galanin display deficits in some learning and memory tests. The inhibitory role of galanin in cognitive processes, taken together with the fact that overexpression of galanin occurs in Alzheimer's disease, suggests that galanin antagonists may offer a novel therapeutic approach to treat memory loss in patients suffering from Alzheimer's.
The roles of galanin in central nervous system (CNS) development and the normal adult CNS have been extensively reviewed in this volume and elsewhere. There is also ample evidence that galanin expression is induced following neural injury in the CNS, and has neuroprotective properties separate from its role in normal physiology. Although strong injury-mediated up-regulation of galanin occurs in neurons, there is increasing evidence, accumulated over almost two decades, that glial cells can express galanin in the injured brain and during white matter development. In this chapter, we review the available evidence and canvas the potential functional significance of glial galanin expression.
Galanin, a neuropeptide widely expressed in the central and peripheral nervous systems and in the endocrine system, has been shown to regulate numerous physiological and pathological processes through interactions with three G-protein-coupled receptors, GalR1 through GalR3. Over the past decade, some of the receptor subtype-specific effects have been elucidated through pharmacological studies using subtype selective ligands, as well as through molecular approaches involving knockout animals. In this chapter, we summarize the current data which constitute the basis of targeting GalR1, GalR2, and GalR3 for the treatment of various human diseases and pathological conditions, including seizure, Alzheimer's disease, mood disorders, anxiety, alcohol intake in addiction, metabolic diseases, pain and solid tumors.
Galanin, one of the many (&gt; 100) neuropeptides, was discovered in 1983 based on its C-terminal amidation motif. Over the years, three more members of the galanin family have been identified, and three galanin receptors have been cloned. Work in many laboratories has provided evidence that this peptide can act as a transmitter, modulator, and growth factor and that it is involved in a number of, especially, disease-related processes. In this introduction, we provide some historical aspects on the galanin research and how the field has developed over three decades.
Transport vesicle coat proteins play active roles in vesicle cargo sorting as well as membrane deformation and fission during vesicle biogenesis. For years, it was assumed that this was the extent of the coats' function and that the coats depolymerized immediately after vesicle budding, leaving the exposed fusion machinery free to find, dock, and fuse with the proper target membrane. Recently, however, it has become increasingly clear that the coat remains on transport vesicles during their post-budding life and in fact helps properly pair up the vesicle with its intended target membrane. These data have brought up urgent questions about exactly when vesicles do uncoat and how uncoating is regulated. Here, we summarize the latest round of evidence for post-budding roles for coats, including a few hints about how the uncoating process may be coupled to docking and fusion. We also speculate about the possibility of post-fusion functions for residual coats.
Increasing biochemical and genetic evidence indicates that the amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide derived from amyloid precursor protein (APP) plays a central role in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis. We previously reported that RanBP9 promotes Abeta generation by scaffolding APP/BACE1/LRP complexes together. Interestingly, the RanBP9-Delta1/N60 (residues 1-392) deletion mutant interacted much more strongly with APP/BACE1/LRP than full-length RanBP9. In this study, we found that RanBP9-N60, a processed form of RanBP9 virtually identical to the RanBP9-Delta1/N60 mutant, was strongly increased in AD brains compared with controls. To evaluate the potential pathogenic consequences of this phenotype, we studied the differential biological properties of full-length RanBP9 vs. RanBP9-Delta1/N60 in HEK293T and Neuro-2A cells. The RanBP9-Delta1/N60 fragment, which lacks a nuclear localization signal, displayed enhanced cytoplasmic vs. nuclear localization and &gt;3-fold enhanced stability than full-length RanBP9. Importantly, RanBP9-Delta1/N60, which contains the LisH dimerization domain, retained the capacity to form self-interacting multimeric complexes and increased Abeta generation by approximately 5-fold over vector controls, more potent than the approximately 3-fold increase seen by full-length RanBP9. Taken together, these data indicate that RanBP9-N60 may further drive the amyloid cascade in AD and that the proteolytic processing of RanBP9 may be an attractive therapeutic target.
Extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) is a versatile protein kinase that regulates many cellular functions. Growing evidence suggests that ERK1/2 plays a crucial role in promoting cell death in a variety of neuronal systems, including neurodegenerative diseases. It is believed that the magnitude and the duration of ERK1/2 activity determine its cellular function. In this review, we summarize recent evidence for a role of ERK1/2 in neuronal death. Furthermore, we discuss the mechanisms involved in ERK1/2 mediating neuronal death.
Multiple sclerosis is a disease with considerable individual variation, and genetic background plays a key role in disease susceptibility and severity. The objective of the study was to evaluate the relationship between apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype and the evolution of different clinical and MRI parameters. We investigated a group of 150 relapsingremitting patients that completed 4-year follow-up. The mean age was 30.2 years, disease duration 56.8 months, and baseline Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS) 1.8. The changes in brain parenchymal volume (BPV), gray matter (GMV), white matter (WMV) and peripheral gray volume (PGMV) were measured by SIENA/X. T2-lesion volume was assessed by semi-automated methods. The mixed-effect model analysis was used to investigate evolution of clinical and MRI parameters in relation to the APOE 4 genotype considering two different time models: 4-year follow-up and 15-year period from disease onset. We identified 36 APOE 4-positive patients. Decline of GMV (P = 0.017), and BPV (P = 0.029) were significantly faster in APOE 4-positive than in APOE 4-negative patients in the 15-year model. In the 4- year model, a trend for faster decrease of GMV was found in APOE 4-positive patients (P = 0.067). No differences in other MRI parameters or EDSS were found between the APOE groups. The results of the study suggest that APOE 4-positive patients experience faster rate of gray matter atrophy.
For over 30 years empirical studies have repeatedly demonstrated that the biosynthesis of morphine by diverse animal and human tissues occurs. Recently, the blue mussel's neural tissues and human white blood cells were used to demonstrate the de novo biosynthesis of morphine for small precursor molecules derived from the aromatic amino acid L-tyrosine. Because catecholamine precursors, i.e., L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA), were also found to be utilized as morphine precursors, a novel reciprocally interactive mechanism is apparent that links catecholamine and opioid pathways in the activation and inhibition of diverse tissue responses. Additionally, these observations provide new insights into morphinergic signalling that transcend analgesia and addiction. We have also linked the biological effects of nitric oxide into a common effect in endogenous morphine signalling. Given the singular importance of dopamine and morphine's interaction in the CNS, the presence and association of this signalling with nitric oxide all promises to provide novel answers for mental health phenomena, which have been lacking because of the inability in accepting the empirical endogenous morphine studies.
We studied the anti-tumorigenic effect of melatonin in diethylstilbestrol (DES)-treated anterior pituitaries in rats. Twenty-one female Wistar rats were randomly allocated into three groups: vehicle control rats, DES-treated rats, and DES-treated rats co-administrated with melatonin beginning at week 13. At the end of 16 weeks, rats were weighed and decapitated for morphological studies, including an H+E staining-based score evaluation in regard to cell proliferation, angiogenesis, immunostaining for VEGF, MMP-9, and AQP-1, and electron microscopy. Compared with vehicle, long-term treatment of DES significantly reduced rat body weight and increased H+E score, both of which were counteracted by melatonin. Administration of melatonin also reduced the expression of VEGF and MMP-9, although no changes were detected in AQP-1 expression. In rats cotreated with melatonin, the RER loosened and accumulated more secretion granules. We thus concluded that melatonin can modulate the effects of DES on the rat anterior pituitary by downregulating expression of VEGF and MMP-9 and suppressing the release of secretion granules, suggesting a therapeutic potential in estrogen-induced pituitary malfunctions.
In this paper we set forth the major meta-empirical concepts for mental disorders determination. We especially focus on the methodological prerequisites and particular compounds and the endophenotype construct in a case study of bipolar disorders. It is discussed as a mediating level between the genetic causation and the environmental influences in the mental disorder causation. This epigenetic area includes such constructs as cognitive neuropsychological markers, neurotrophic proteins impairment, instability of circadian rhythms (other chronobiological disturbances as well), deregulation of the motivation and reward mechanisms, changes in the GABA metabolism, symptom provocation with &quot;psychotomymetic&quot; agents, etc. Eventually the core ideas of the original validation theory in comparison with the endophenotype concept are shown as milestones of the novel integration of neurobiology and psychiatry. The major issue posed in the endophenotype debate concerns &quot;the independence from the state&quot;. According to the formulation of Hassler and Drevets this notion indicates the presentation of the endophenotype regardless of the activity of the disorder, i.e., its presence even in the pre-morbid and remission periods. In the present study we argue that there is another dimension of &quot;state independence&quot; to be assessed. The validation theory in particular defines the entire space-and-time sequence disposition of the endophenotype indicators, e.g. cognitive-psychological and neuroimaging. It is well known that mental states, whether normal or pathological, are very dynamical, just as their neurophysiological correlates are. By this reason it is necessary to explore their relationships simultaneously.
The main characteristics of dysarthria in Parkinson's disease (PD) are monotony of pitch and loudness, reduced stress, variable speech rate, imprecise consonants, and breathy and harsh voice. Earlier treatment studies have shown that dysarthria is less responsive to both pharmacological and surgical treatments than other gross motor symptoms. Recent findings have suggested that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) may have a beneficial effect on vocal function in PD. In the present study, 10 individuals with mild PD and no or minimal dysarthria were treated with rTMS as well as placebo stimulation in a blinded experiment. Stimulation was delivered using a frequency of 10 Hz and a stimulation intensity of 90% of the motor threshold. The site of stimulation was the cortical area corresponding to the hand, on the hemisphere contralateral to the patient's most affected side. The participants were audio-recorded before and after both rTMS and sham stimulation. Acoustic analysis was performed on 3 sustained /a:/ for each of the 4 conditions, and analyzed both for the whole group as well as for men and women separately. Results showed that there were no significant differences between any of the conditions regarding duration of sustained fricative or sustained vowel phonation, diadochokinetic rates or intelligibility. Above all, the results of acoustic analyses showed an effect of placebo; there was a significant reduction in fundamental frequency (F(0)) variation, pitch period perturbation, amplitude period perturbation, noise-to-harmonics ratio and coefficient of variation in F(0) between the recordings performed before compared to after sham stimulation.
Increasing evidence indicates that early metabolic programming contributes to escalating obesity rates in children and adults. Metabolic imprinting is involved in the establishment of set points for physiologic and metabolic responses in adulthood. Evidence from epidemiological studies and animal models indicates that maternal health and nutritional status during gestation and lactation have long-term effects on central and peripheral systems that regulate energy balance in the developing offspring. Perinatal nutrition also impacts susceptibility to developing metabolic disorders and plays a role in programming body weight set points. The states of maternal energy status and health that are implicated in predisposing offspring to increased risk of developing obesity include maternal overnutrition, diabetes, and undernutrition. This chapter discusses the evidence from epidemiologic studies and animal models that each of these states of maternal energy status results in metabolic imprinting of obesity in offspring. Also, the potential molecular mediators of metabolic imprinting of obesity by maternal energy status including glucose, insulin, leptin, inflammatory cytokines and epigenetic mechanisms are considered.
The hedonic component of eating is an underexplored topic within neuroscience, which is surprising given its importance for our survival and general well-being, as well as the obvious links to obesity and eating disorders. Based on findings from neuroimaging, this review gives an overview of the established principles, neural mechanisms and functional neuroanatomy of the primate and human brain processing systems involved in controlling eating. Four main processing principles underlying these processes are discussed: (1) motivation-independent discriminative processing of identity and intensity, (2) formation of learning-dependent multimodal sensory representations, (3) reward representations using mechanisms including selective satiation, and (4) representations of hedonic experience, monitoring/learning or direct behavioural change.
The caudal brainstem lies at a critical nexus in the neural hierarchy that helps determine the negative feedback control of ingestion. It is the first central nervous system site that receives neural input from vagal and nonvagal visceral afferents that convey not only meal-related signals from postoral sites reflecting chemical, mechanical and nutrient properties of ingested foods, but also responses to nutrient stimulated peptides and neurotransmitters via extrinsic gut afferent receptors. In addition, the circumventricular area postrema (AP) affords the caudal brainstem access to circulating factors that are released during a meal, as well as to adiposity hormones that reflect the availability of stored nutrients. Brainstem neurons themselves express eating modulatory neuropeptides as well as their cognate receptors, raising the possibility that local ligand-receptor interactions contribute to the neural basis of eating behavior. Finally, forebrain hypothalamic projections extend to brainstem neurons that also respond to humoral and meal-related post-oral signals from peripheral gut afferents, providing critical descending influences in the negative feedback control of food intake [1]. This article characterizes recent advances in our understanding of how peripheral, brainstem-intrinsic and descending forebrain influences may converge in the caudal brainstem to reduce food intake, with a focus on their roles in the control of meal size.
The hypothalamus plays an essential role in controlling appetite during adult life. It undergoes tremendous growth beginning early in gestation and continuing during the postnatal period. During this developmental period, a variety of processes shape the hypothalamic nuclei involved in the control of eating. These include the birth of new cells that populate these areas (neurogenesis), the migration of these cells to their final destinations, selective neuronal death, and, finally, the development of functional neural connections. Each of these developmental processes represents an important period of vulnerability during which alterations of the pre- (intrauterine) and early postnatal environments may have long-term and potentially irreversible consequences on hypothalamic development and function. Metabolic hormones, including the adipocyte-derived hormone leptin, have recently emerged as likely mediators of the environmental nutrient-sensing apparatus that directs hypothalamic programming.

This study examined if and how cognitively healthy older adults can learn to play a complex computer-based action game called the Space Fortress (SF) as a function of training instructions [Standard vs. Emphasis Change (EC); e.g., Gopher et al., 1989] and basic motor ability. A total of 35 cognitively healthy older adults completed a 3-month SF training program with three SF sessions weekly. Twelve 3-min games were played during each session. Basic motor ability was assessed with an aiming task, which required rapidly rotating a spaceship to shoot targets. Older adults showed improved performance on the SF task over time, but did not perform at the same level as younger adults. Unlike studies of younger adults, overall SF performance in older adults was greater following standard instructions than following EC instructions. However, this advantage was primarily due to collecting more bonus points and not - the primary goal of the game - shooting and destroying the fortress, which in contrast benefited from EC instructions. Basic motor ability was low and influenced many different aspects of SF game learning, often interacted with learning rate, and influenced overall SF performance. These findings show that older adults can be trained to deal with the complexity of the SF task but that overall SF performance, and the ability to capitalize on EC instructions, differs when a basic ability such as motor control is low. Hence, the development of this training program as a cognitive intervention that can potentially compensate for age-related cognitive decline should consider that basic motor ability can interact with the efficiency of training instructions that promote the use of cognitive control (e.g., EC instructions) - and the confluence between such basic abilities and higher-level cognitive control abilities should be further examined.
Knowledge of genetic influences on cognitive aging can constrain and guide interventions aimed at limiting age-related cognitive decline in older adults. Progress in understanding the neural basis of cognitive aging also requires a better understanding of the neurogenetics of cognition. This selective review article describes studies aimed at deriving specific neurogenetic information from three parallel and interrelated phenotype-based approaches: psychometric constructs, cognitive neuroscience-based processing measures, and brain imaging morphometric data. Developments in newer genetic analysis tools, including genome wide association, are also described. In particular, we focus on models for establishing genotype-phenotype associations within an explanatory framework linking molecular, brain, and cognitive levels of analysis. Such multiple-phenotype approaches indicate that individual variation in genes central to maintaining synaptic integrity, neurotransmitter function, and synaptic plasticity are important in affecting age-related changes in brain structure and cognition. Investigating phenotypes at multiple levels is recommended as a means to advance understanding of the neural impact of genetic variants relevant to cognitive aging. Further knowledge regarding the mechanisms of interaction between genetic and preventative procedures will in turn help in understanding the ameliorative effect of various experiential and lifestyle factors on age-related cognitive decline.
Using motor imagery, we investigated brain activation in simple and complex walking tasks (walking forward and backward on a treadmill) and analyzed if the motor status of older adults influenced these activation patterns. Fifty-one older adults (64-79years of age) were trained in motor execution and imagery and then performed the imagination task and two control tasks (standing, counting backward) in a horizontal position within a 3T MRI scanner (first-person perspective, eyes closed). Walking backward as compared to walking forward required larger activations in the primary motor cortex, supplementary motor area, parietal cortex, thalamus, putamen, and caudatum, but less activation in the cerebellum and brainstem. Motor high-fit individuals showed more activations and larger BOLD signals in motor-related areas compared to low-fit participants but demonstrated lower activity in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. Moreover, parietal activation in high-fit participants remained stable throughout the movement period whereas low-fit participants revealed an early drop in activity in this area accompanied by increasing activity in frontal brain regions. Overall, walking forward seemed to be more automated (more activation in cerebellum and brainstem), whereas walking backward required more resources, e.g., for visual-spatial processing and sensorimotor control. Low-fit subjects in particular seemed to require more cognitive resources for planning and controlling. High-fit subjects, on the contrary, revealed more movement automation and a higher &quot;attention span.&quot; Our results support the hypothesis that high fitness corresponds with more automation and less cognitive control of complex motor tasks, which might help to free up cognitive resources.
Mitochondria have long been known as the powerhouse of the cell. However, these organelles are also pivotal players in neuronal cell death. Mitochondrial dysfunction is a prominent feature of chronic brain disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), and cerebral ischemic stroke. Data derived from morphologic, biochemical, and molecular genetic studies indicate that mitochondria constitute a convergence point for neurodegeneration. Conversely, mitochondria have also been implicated in the neuroprotective signaling processes of preconditioning. Despite the precise molecular mechanisms underlying preconditioning-induced brain tolerance are still unclear, mitochondrial reactive oxygen species generation and mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels activation have been shown to be involved in the preconditioning phenomenon. This review intends to discuss how mitochondrial malfunction contributes to the onset and progression of cerebral ischemic stroke and AD and PD, two major neurodegenerative disorders. The role of mitochondrial mechanisms involved in the preconditioning-mediated neuroprotective events will be also discussed. Mitochondrial targeted preconditioning may represent a promising therapeutic weapon to fight neurodegeneration.
To identify interventions for brain aging, we must first identify the processes in which we hope to intervene. Brain aging is a period of decreasing functional capacity and increasing vulnerability, which reflect a reduction in morphological organization and perhaps degeneration. Since life is ultimately dependent upon the ability to maintain cellular organization through metabolism, this review explores evidence for a decline in neural metabolic support during aging, which includes a reduction in whole brain cerebral blood flow, and cellular metabolic capacity. Capillary density may also decrease with age, although the results are less clear. Exercise may be a highly effective intervention for brain aging, because it improves the cardiovascular system as a whole, and increases regional capillary density and neuronal metabolic capacity. Although the evidence is strongest for motor regions, more work may yield additional evidence for exercise-related improvement in metabolic support in non-motor regions. The protective effects of exercise may be specific to brain region and the type of insult. For example, exercise protects striatal cells from ischemia, but it produces mixed results after hippocampal seizures. Exercise can improve metabolic support and bioenergetic capacity in adult animals, but it remains to be determined whether it has similar effects in aging animals. What is clear is that exercise can influence the multiple levels of support necessary for maintaining optimal neuronal function, which is unique among proposed interventions for aging.
beta-Amyloid peptide accumulation plays a central role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Aberrant beta-amyloid buildup in the brain has been shown to be present both in the extracellular space and within neurons. Synapses are important targets of beta-amyloid, and alterations in synapses better correlate with cognitive impairment than amyloid plaques or neurofibrillary tangles. The link between beta-amyloid and synapses became even tighter when it was discovered that beta-amyloid accumulates within synapses and that synaptic activity modulates beta-amyloid secretion. Currently, a central question in Alzheimer's disease research is what role synaptic activity plays in the disease process, and how specifically beta-amyloid is involved in the synaptic dysfunction that characterizes the disease.
Aplysia californica is a powerful experimental system to study the entire scope of genomic and epigenomic regulation at the resolution of single functionally characterized neurons and is an emerging model in the neurobiology of aging. First, we have identified and cloned a number of evolutionarily conserved genes that are age-related, including components of apoptosis and chromatin remodeling. Second, we performed gene expression profiling of different identified cholinergic neurons between young and aged animals. Our initial analysis indicates that two cholinergic neurons (R2 and LPl1) revealed highly differential genome-wide changes following aging suggesting that on the molecular scale different neurons indeed age differently. Each of the neurons tested has a unique subset of genes differentially expressed in older animals, and the majority of differently expressed genes (including those related to apoptosis and Alzheimer's disease) are found in aging neurons of one but not another type. The performed analysis allows us to implicate (i) cell specific changes in histones, (ii) DNA methylation and (iii) regional relocation of RNAs as key processes underlying age-related changes in neuronal functions and synaptic plasticity. These mechanisms can fine-tune the dynamics of long-term chromatin remodeling, or control weakening and the loss of synaptic connections in aging. At the same time our genomic tests revealed evolutionarily conserved gene clusters associated with aging (e.g., apoptosis-, telomere- and redox-dependent processes, insulin and estrogen signaling and water channels).
There is significant epidemiological evidence to suggest that there are beneficial effects of treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) in Alzheimer's disease, although these effects have not been reproduced in clinical trials. The failure of the clinical trials may be attributed to several possible facts: (1) NSAIDS may have been delivered too late to patients, as they may only be effective in early stages of the disease and possibly counterproductive in the late stages; (2) the beneficial effect may depend on the drug, because different NSAIDs may have different molecular targets; (3) the NSAID concentration reaching the brain and the duration of the treatment could also be critical, so increasing drug penetration is important in order to improve the efficacy and avoid secondary gastro-intestinal effects of the NSAIDs. In this report we analyze these different factors, with special emphasis on the role of NSAIDs in microglia activation over time.
The neurofibrillary degeneration that occurs in Alzheimer's disease (AD) is thought to be the result of a chronic and damaging neuroinflammatory response mediated by neurotoxic substances produced by activated microglial cells. This neuroinflammation hypothesis of AD pathogenesis has led to numerous clinical trials with anti-inflammatory drugs, none of which have shown clear benefits for slowing or preventing disease onset and progression. In this paper, I make the point that AD is not an inflammatory condition, and reconstruct the sequence of events during the 1980s and 1990s that I believe led to the development of this faulty theory.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is the most common progressive neurodegenerative movement disorder, characterized by the selective loss of nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons, and the presence of intracellular insoluble proteinaceous inclusions, known as Lewy Bodies. Although PD etiopathogenesis remains elusive, the leading hypothesis for the death of specific groups of neurons establishes that mitochondrial dysfunction, alterations in the ubiquitin-proteasomal system (UPS), and oxidative stress are major events that act synergistically causing this devastating disease. In this review we will focus on mitochondrial impairment and its implications on proteasomal function and alpha-synuclein aggregation. We will address the role of mitochondria and proteasome cross-talk in the neuronal loss that leads to PD and discuss how this knowledge might further improve patient therapy.
Neurobiological studies of aging are beginning to link functional changes with a loss of experience-dependent plasticity. In the visual system, age-related functional changes include decreases in visual acuity, orientation selectivity, motion perception, and ocular dominance plasticity. A recent paper has shown that Ube3A, an E3 ubiquitin ligase that is absent in Angelman's syndrome, is required for experience-dependent plasticity during development of the visual cortex. Knocking out Ube3A during development leads to rigidity of ocular dominance plasticity that is strikingly similar to the reduced plasticity seen in older animals. Furthermore, ubiquitin ligases have been linked with age-related neurodegenerative disorders and longevity. Ubiquitin ligases selectively mark proteins for degradation, and a balance between synaptic proteins and their degradation is important for neural transmission and plasticity. This led us to ask whether normal aging is characterized by a loss of Ube3A in the cortex. We used Western blot analysis in order to quantify Ube3A expression across the life span of humans, macaque monkeys, and cats. We found that Ube3A expression declines across the lifespan in human, monkey, and cat cortex. The losses were substantial (50-80%) in all areas studied which includes V1, V3, V4, frontal, and auditory cortex. In addition, when compared with other synaptic proteins there was a selective loss of Ube3A in human cortex. The progressive loss of Ube3A expression during cortical aging is an important new finding. Furthermore, the selective loss of Ube3A in human cortex highlights a specific vulnerability in human brain aging that may signify a dramatic shift in cortical function and plasticity.
Neuroinflammatory changes, characterized by an increase in microglial activation and often accompanied by upregulation of inflammatory cytokines like interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta), are common to many, if not all, neurodegenerative diseases. Similar, though less dramatic neuroinflammatory changes, are also known to occur with age. Among the consequences of these changes is an impairment in synaptic function and the evidence suggests that inflammatory cytokines may be the primary contributory factor responsible for the deficits in synaptic plasticity which have been identified in aged rodents. Specifically a decrease in the ability of aged rats to sustain long-term potentiation (LTP) in perforant path-granule cells of the hippocampus is associated with increased microglial activation. This review considers the evidence which suggests a causal relationship between these changes and the factors which contribute to the age-related microglial activation, and reflects on data which demonstrate that agents which inhibit microglial activation also improve ability of rats to sustain LTP.
Rodents that are insulin resistant and obese as the result of genetic factors, overeating and/or a sedentary lifestyle, exhibit cognitive deficits that worsen with advancing age compared to their more svelte counterparts. Data from epidemiological and clinical studies suggest similar adverse effects of excessive dietary energy intake and insulin resistance on cognition in humans. Our findings from studies of animal models suggest that dietary energy restriction can enhance neural plasticity and reduce the vulnerability of the brain to age-related dysfunction and disease. Dietary energy restriction may exert beneficial effects on the brain by engaging adaptive cellular stress response pathways resulting in the up-regulation of genes that encode proteins that promote neural plasticity and cell survival (e.g., neurotrophic factors, protein chaperones and redox enzymes). Two energy state-sensitive factors that are proving particularly important in regulating energy balance and improving/preserving cognitive function are brain-derived neurotrophic factor and glucagon-like peptide 1. Alternate day calorie restriction, novel insulin-sensitizing and neuroprotective agents, and drugs that activate adaptive stress response pathways, are examples of approaches for preserving cognitive function that show promise in preclinical studies.
An association between age-related memory impairments and changes in functional plasticity in the aging brain has been under intense study within the last decade. In this article, we show that an impaired activation of the strychnine-insensitive glycine site of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDA-R) by its agonist d-serine contributes to deficits of synaptic plasticity in the hippocampus of memory-impaired aged rats. Supplementation with exogenous d-serine prevents the age-related deficits of isolated NMDA-R-dependent synaptic potentials as well as those of theta-burst-induced long-term potentiation and synaptic depotentiation. Endogenous levels of d-serine are reduced in the hippocampus with aging, that correlates with a weaker expression of serine racemase synthesizing the amino acid. On the contrary, the affinity of d-serine binding to NMDA-R is not affected by aging. These results point to a critical role for the d-serine-dependent pathway in the functional alterations of the brain underlying memory impairment and provide key information in the search for new therapeutic strategies for the treatment of memory deficits in the elderly.
Although somatosensation in multiple whisker systems has been studied in considerable detail, relatively little information is available regarding whisker usage and movement patterns during natural behaviors. The Etruscan shrew, one of the smallest mammals, relies heavily on its whisker system to detect and kill its highly mobile insect prey. Here, we tracked whisker and body motion during prey capture. We found that shrews made periodic whisker movements (whisking) with frequencies ranging from 12 to 17Hz. We compared shrew and rat whisking and found that shrew whisking was smaller amplitude and higher frequency than rat whisking, but that the shrew and rat whisking cycle were similar in that the velocity was higher during retraction than protraction. We were able to identify four phases during the shrew hunting behavior: (i) an immobile phase often preceding hunting, (ii) a search phase upon the initiation of hunting, (iii) a contact phase defined by whisker-to-cricket contact, and (iv) an attack phase, characterized by a rapid head movement directed toward the cricket. During the searching phase, whisking was generally rhythmic and whiskers were protracted forward. After prey contact, whisking amplitude decreased and became more variable. The final strike was associated with an abrupt head movement toward the prey with high head acceleration. Prey capture proceeded extremely fast and we obtained evidence that shrews can initiate corrective maneuvers with a minimal latency &lt;30ms. While the shrew's rostrum is straight and elongated during most behaviors, we show for the first time that shrews bend their rostrum during the final strike and grip their prey with a parrot beak shaped snout.
The possibility that synthetic 2,4,5-trimethylthiazoline (TMT), frequently used to induce unconditioned fear in rodents, could be more a pungent odor activating intranasal trigeminal nerve fibers rather than a predator odor index is currently discussed. In order to explore this question, the present study compared fear-related behaviors to predator odors (synthetic 10% TMT and natural fox feces) and toluene (as an irritant compound without ecological significance) before and after intranasal ZnSO(4) perfusion which is known to provoke transient anosmia. Results show that natural fox feces could be consider as a pure olfactory (CN I) nerve stimulant while 10% TMT appeared to be a mixed olfactory (CN I) and trigeminal (CN V) nerves stimulant with a great olfactory power and a low trigeminal power. These findings suggest that behavioral neuroscience studies should use concentrations lower than 10% TMT to obtain fear-related behaviors similar to those obtained with natural fox feces odor.
Addiction and many other disorders are linked to impulsivity, where a suboptimal choice is preferred when it is immediately available. One solution to impulsivity is precommitment: constraining one's future to avoid being offered a suboptimal choice. A form of impulsivity can be measured experimentally by offering a choice between a smaller reward delivered sooner and a larger reward delivered later. Impulsive subjects are more likely to select the smaller-sooner choice; however, when offered an option to precommit, even impulsive subjects can precommit to the larger-later choice. To precommit or not is a decision between two conditions: (A) the original choice (smaller-sooner vs. larger-later), and (B) a new condition with only larger-later available. It has been observed that precommitment appears as a consequence of the preference reversal inherent in non-exponential delay-discounting. Here we show that most models of hyperbolic discounting cannot precommit, but a distributed model of hyperbolic discounting does precommit. Using this model, we find (1) faster discounters may be more or less likely than slow discounters to precommit, depending on the precommitment delay, (2) for a constant smaller-sooner vs. larger-later preference, a higher ratio of larger reward to smaller reward increases the probability of precommitment, and (3) precommitment is highly sensitive to the shape of the discount curve. These predictions imply that manipulations that alter the discount curve, such as diet or context, may qualitatively affect precommitment.
Disrupting reconsolidation of drug-related memories may be effective in reducing the incidence of relapse. In the current study we examine whether alcohol-related memories are prone to disruption by the -adrenergic receptor antagonist propranolol (10mg/kg) and the NMDA receptor antagonist MK801 (0.1mg/kg) following their reactivation. In operant chambers, male Wistar rats were trained to self-administer a 12% alcohol solution. After 3 weeks of abstinence, the animals were placed in the self-administration cages and were re-exposed to the alcohol-associated cues for a 20-min retrieval period, immediately followed by a systemic injection of either propranolol, MK801 or saline. Rats were tested for cue-induced alcohol seeking on the following day. Retrieval session, injection and test were repeated on two further occasions at weekly intervals. Both propranolol and MK801 administration upon reactivation did not reduce alcohol seeking after the first reactivation test. However, a significant reduction of alcohol seeking was observed over three post-training tests in propranolol treated animals, and MK801 treated animals showed a strong tendency toward reduced alcohol seeking (p=0.06). Our data indicate that reconsolidation of alcohol-related memories can be disrupted after a long post-training interval and that particularly -adrenergic receptors may represent novel targets for pharmacotherapy of alcoholism, in combination with cue-exposure therapies.
The idea that an already consolidated memory can become destabilized after recall and requires a process of reconsolidation to maintain it for subsequent use has gained much credence over the past decade. Experimental studies in rodents have shown pharmacological, genetic, or injurious manipulation at the time of memory reactivation can disrupt the already consolidated memory. Despite the force of experimental data showing this phenomenon, a number of questions have remained unanswered and no consensus has emerged as to the conditions under which a memory can be disrupted following reactivation. To date most rodent studies of reconsolidation are based on negatively reinforced memories, in particular fear-associated memories, while the storage and stability of forms of memory that do not rely on explicit reinforcement have been less often studied. In this review, we focus on recognition memory, a paradigm widely used in humans to probe declarative memory. We briefly outline recent advances in our understanding of the processes and brain circuits involved in recognition memory and review the evidence that recognition memory can undergo reconsolidation upon reactivation. We also review recent findings suggesting that some molecular mechanisms underlying consolidation of recognition memory are similarly recruited after recall to ensure memory stability, while others are more specifically engaged in consolidation or reconsolidation. Finally, we provide novel data on the role of Rsk2, a mental retardation gene, and of the transcription factor zif268/egr1 in reconsolidation of object-location memory, and offer suggestions as to how assessing the activation of certain molecular mechanisms following recall in recognition memory may help understand the relative importance of different aspects of remodeling or updating long-lasting memories.
To study the heritability of different training stages of appetitive operant conditioning, we carried out behavioral screening of 5 standard inbred mouse strains, 28 recombinant-inbred (BxD) mouse lines and their progenitor strains C57BL/6J and DBA/2J. We also computed correlations between successive training stages to study whether learning deficits at an advanced stage of operant conditioning may be dissociated from normal performance in preceding phases of training. The training consisted of two phases: an operant nose poking (NP) phase, in which mice learned to collect a sucrose pellet from a food magazine by NP, and an operant lever press and NP phase, in which mice had to execute a sequence of these two actions to collect a food pellet. As a measure of magazine oriented exploration, we also studied the nose poke entries in the food magazine during the intertrial intervals at the beginning of the first session of the nose poke training phase. We found significantly heritable components in initial magazine checking behavior, operant NP and lever press-NP. Performance levels in these phases were positively correlated, but several individual strains were identified that showed poor lever press-NP while performing well in preceding training stages. Quantitative trait loci mapping revealed suggestive likelihood ratio statistic peaks for initial magazine checking behavior and lever press-NP. These findings indicate that consecutive stages toward more complex operant behavior show significant heritable components, as well as dissociability between stages in specific mouse strains. These heritable components may reside in different chromosomal areas.
The 5-HT(3) receptor is a ligand-gated ion channel expressed on interneurons throughout the brain. So far, analysis of the 5-HT(3A) knockout mouse revealed changes in nociceptive processing and a reduction in anxiety related behavior. Recently, it was shown that the 5-HT(3) receptor is also expressed on Cajal-Retzius cells which play a key role in cortical development and that knockout mice lacking this receptor showed aberrant growth of the dendritic tree of cortical layer II/III pyramidal neurons. Other mouse models in which serotonergic signaling was disrupted during development showed similar morphological changes in the cortex, and in addition, also deficits in social behavior. Here, we subjected male and female 5-HT(3A) knockout mice and their non-transgenic littermates to several tests of social behavior. We found that 5-HT(3A) knockout mice display impaired social communication in the social transmission of food preference task. Interestingly, we showed that in the social interaction test only female 5-HT(3A) knockout mice spent less time in reciprocal social interaction starting after 5min of testing. Moreover, we observed differences in preference for social novelty for male and female 5-HT(3A) knockout mice during the social approach test. However, no changes in olfaction, exploratory activity and anxiety were detected. These results indicate that the 5-HT(3A) knockout mouse displays impaired social behavior with specific changes in males and females, reminiscent to other mouse models in which serotonergic signaling is disturbed in the developing brain.
Despite the advances in the understanding of neural and genetic foundations of violence, the investigation of the biological bases of a mental disorder is rarely included in psychiatric evaluation of mental insanity. Here we report on a case in which cognitive neuroscience and behavioral genetics methods were applied to a psychiatric forensic evaluation conducted on a young woman, J.F., tried for a violent and impulsive murder. The defendant had a history of multidrug and alcohol abuse and non-forensic clinical evaluation concluded for a diagnosis of borderline personality disorder. We analyzed the defendant's brain structure in order to underlie possible brain structural abnormalities associated with pathological impulsivity. Voxel-based morphometry indexed a reduced gray matter volume in the left prefrontal cortex, in a region specifically associated with response inhibition. Furthermore, J.F.'s DNA was genotyped in order to identify genetic polymorphisms associated with various forms of violence and impulsive behavior. Five polymorphisms that are known to be associated with impulsivity, violence, and other severe psychiatric illnesses were identified in J.F.'s DNA. Taken together, these data provided evidence for the biological correlates of a mental disorder characterized by high impulsivity and aggressive tendencies. Our claim is that the use of neuroscience and behavioral genetics do not change the rationale underlying the determination of criminal liability, which must be based on a causal link between the mental disorder and the crime. Rather, their use is crucial in providing objective data on the biological bases of a defendant's mental disorder.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are essentially involved in learning and memory. A neurobiologically and behaviorally well-characterized measure of learning and memory, eyeblink classical conditioning, is sensitive to disruptions in acetylcholine neurotransmission. The two most common forms of eyeblink classical conditioning - the delay and trace paradigms - differentially engage forebrain areas densely-populated with nAChRs. The present study used genetically modified mice to investigate the effects of selective nAChR subunit deletion on delay and trace eyeblink classical conditioning. 7 and 2 nAChR subunit knockout (KO) mice and their wild-type littermates were trained for 10 daily sessions in a 500-ms delay or 500-ms trace eyeblink conditioning task, matched for the interstimulus interval between conditioned stimulus and unconditioned stimulus onset. Impairments in conditioned responding were found in 7 KO mice trained in trace - but not delay - eyeblink conditioning. Relative to littermate controls, 2 KO mice were unimpaired in the trace task but displayed higher levels of conditioned responding in delay eyeblink conditioning. Elevated conditioned response levels in delay-conditioned 2 KOs corresponded to elevated levels of alpha responding in this group. These findings suggest that 7 nAChRs play a role in normal acquisition of 500ms trace eyeblink classical conditioning in mice. The prominent distribution of 7 nAChRs in the hippocampus and other forebrain regions may account for these genotype-specific acquisition effects in this hippocampus-dependent trace paradigm.
The survival of an animal often depends on an innate response to a particular sensory stimulus. For an adult male moth, two categories of odors are innately attractive: pheromone released by conspecific females, and the floral scents of certain, often co-evolved, plants. These odors consist of multiple volatiles in characteristic mixtures. Here, we review evidence that both categories of odors are processed as sensory objects, and we suggest a mechanism in the primary olfactory center, the antennal lobe (AL), that encodes the configuration of these mixtures and may underlie recognition of innately attractive odors. In the pheromone system, mixtures of two or three volatiles elicit upwind flight. Peripheral changes are associated with behavioral changes in speciation, and suggest the existence of a pattern recognition mechanism for pheromone mixtures in the AL. Moths are similarly innately attracted to certain floral scents. Though floral scents consist of multiple volatiles that activate a broad array of receptor neurons, only a smaller subset, numerically comparable to pheromone mixtures, is necessary and sufficient to elicit behavior. Both pheromone and floral scent mixtures that produce attraction to the odor source elicit synchronous action potentials in particular populations of output (projection) neurons (PNs) in the AL. We propose a model in which the synchronous output of a population of PNs encodes the configuration of an innately attractive mixture, and thus comprises an innate mechanism for releasing odor-tracking behavior. The particular example of olfaction in moths may inform the general question of how sensory objects trigger innate responses.
Changes in the strength of excitatory synaptic connections are known to underlie associative memory formation in the molluscan nervous system but less is known about the role of synaptic inhibition. Tonic or maintained synaptic inhibition has an important function in controlling the Lymnaea feeding system and is known to suppress feeding in the absence of food or in satiated animals. Tonic inhibition to the feeding network is provided by the N3t interneuron that has inhibitory monosynaptic connection with the central pattern generator interneuron, the N1M. Here we asked whether a reduction in the level of tonic inhibition provided by the N3t cell could play a role in reward conditioning? Semi-intact preparations made from hungry snails were conditioned using a previously developed one-trial chemical conditioning paradigm. We recorded electrical activity in a feeding motoneuron, the B3, at various time-points after conditioning. This allowed us to measure the frequency of spike activity in the N3t interneuron and monitor fictive feeding patterns that generate the rhythmic movements involved in food ingestion. We show that there is a reduction in N3t spiking at 1, 2, 3, and 4h after conditioning but not at 10 and 30min and the reduction in N3t firing inversely correlates with an increase in the conditioned fictive feeding response. Computer simulation of N3t-N1M interactions suggests that changes in N3t firing are sufficient to explain the increase in the fictive feeding activity produced by conditioning. A network model is presented that summarizes evidence suggesting that reward conditioning in Lymnaea is due to the combined effects of reduced tonic inhibition and enhanced excitatory synaptic connections between the CS pathway and feeding command neurons.
Psychosocial stressors contribute to the pathophysiology of affective disorders and variations of cytokine functioning have been implicated in this process. The present investigation demonstrated, in mice, the impact of stressful aggressive encounters on activity levels, plasma corticosterone and cytokine concentrations, and on cytokine mRNA expression within the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and hippocampus. As glucocorticoids have been tied to cytokine variations, mice were subdivided into low or high corticosterone responders, defined in terms of circulating hormone levels 75min post-confrontation. Interestingly, stressor-induced effects among low and high responders varied as a function of whether mice were submissive or dominant during the aggressive bout. Agonistic encounters elicited subsequent hyperactivity, particularly among low corticosterone responders and among dominant mice. Plasma levels of corticosterone and interleukin (IL)-6 concomitantly increased after aggressive encounters and varied with dominance status and with the low versus high corticosterone response. Among the low responders corticosterone and IL-6 increases were modest and only apparent among submissive mice, whereas among high responders these elevations were more pronounced and comparable in submissive and dominant mice. Aggressive episodes also increased IL-1 and IL-6 mRNA brain expression. The IL-1 rise was greater in the PFC and hippocampus of submissive mice that were low responders. Among high responders IL-1 and IL-6 increased in both groups, although in the PFC this effect was specific to dominant mice. The data are discussed in terms of their relevance to the impact of aggressive encounters on affective behaviors, and to the role that cytokines might play in this regard.
Conditioned inhibition (CI) is a major category of associative learning that occurs when an organism learns that one stimulus predicts the absence of another. In addition to being important in its own right, CI is interesting because its occurrence implies that the organism has formed an association between stimuli that are non-coincident. In contrast to other categories of associative learning that are dependent upon temporal contiguity (pairings) of stimuli, the neurobiology of CI is virtually unexplored. We have previously described a simple form of CI learning in Hermissenda, whereby animals' phototactic behavior is increased by repeated exposures to explicitly unpaired (EU) presentations of light and rotation. EU conditioning also produces characteristic reductions in the excitability and light response, and increases several somatic K(+) currents in Type B photoreceptors. Type B photoreceptors are a major site of plasticity for classical conditioning in Hermissenda. Because arachidonic acid (AA) and/or its metabolites open diverse K(+) channels in many cell types, we examined the potential contribution of AA to CI. Our results indicate that AA contributes to one of the major effects of EU-conditioning on Type B photoreceptors: decreases in light-evoked spike activity. We find that AA increases the transient (I(A)) somatic K(+) current in Type B photoreceptors, further mimicking CI training. In addition, our results indicate that metabolism of AA by a 12-lipoxygenase enzyme is critical for these effects of AA, and further that 12-lipoxygenase metabolites are apparently generated during CI training.
Bats echolocating in the natural environment face the formidable task of sorting signals from multiple auditory objects, echoes from obstacles, prey, and the calls of conspecifics. Successful orientation in a complex environment depends on auditory information processing, along with adaptive vocal-motor behaviors and flight path control, which draw upon 3-D spatial perception, attention, and memory. This article reviews field and laboratory studies that document adaptive sonar behaviors of echolocating bats, and point to the fundamental signal parameters they use to track and sort auditory objects in a dynamic environment. We suggest that adaptive sonar behavior provides a window to bats' perception of complex auditory scenes.
Animals frequently switch from one behavior to another, often to meet the demands of their changing environment or internal state. What factors control these behavioral switches and the selection of what to do or what not to do? To address these issues, we will focus on the locomotor behaviors of two distantly related &quot;worms,&quot; the medicinal leech Hirudo verbana (clade Lophotrochozoa) and the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans (clade Ecdysozoa). Although the neural architecture and body morphology of these organisms are quite distinct, they appear to switch between different forms of locomotion by using similar strategies of decision-making. For example, information that distinguishes between liquid and more solid environments dictates whether an animal swims or crawls. In the leech, dopamine biases locomotor neural networks so that crawling is turned on and swimming is turned off. In C. elegans, dopamine may also promote crawling, a form of locomotion that has gained new attention.
Half a century ago, two independent papers that described unexpected results of experiments on locomotion in insects and crayfish appeared almost simultaneously. Together these papers demonstrated that an animal's central nervous system (CNS) was organized to produce behaviorally important motor output without the need for constant sensory feedback. These results contradicted the established line of thought that was based on interpretations of reflexes and ablation experiments, and established that in these animals the CNS contained neural circuits that could produce complex, periodic, multisegmental patterns of activity. These papers stimulated a flowering of research on central pattern-generating mechanisms that displaced reflex-based thinking everywhere except in medical physiology texts. Here we review these papers and their influence on thinking in the 1960s, 1970s, and today. We follow the development of ideas about central organization and control of expression of motor patterns, the roles of sensory input to central pattern-generating circuits, and integration of continuous sensory signals into a periodic motor system. We also review recent work on limb coordination that provides detailed cellular explanations of observations and speculations contained in those original papers.
How the brain mediates behavior is a question relevant to a broad range of disciplines including evolutionary biology, basic neuroscience, psychiatry, and population health. Experiments in animals have traditionally used two distinct approaches to explore brain-behavior relationships; one uses naturally existing behavioral models while the other focuses on the creation and investigation of medically oriented models using existing laboratory-amenable organisms. Scientists using the first approach are often referred to and self identify as &quot;neuroethologists,&quot; while the second category spans a variety of other sub-disciplines but is often referred to broadly as &quot;behavioral neuroscience.&quot; Despite an overall common scientific goal - the elucidation of the neural basis of behavior - members of these two groups often come from different scientific lineages, seek different sources of funding, and make their homes in different departments or colleges. The separation of these groups is also fostered by their attendance at different scientific conferences and publication records that reflect different journal preferences. Bridging this divide represents an opportunity to explore previously unanswerable questions and foster rapid scientific advances. This article explores the reasons for this divide and proposes measures that could help increase technology transfer and communication between these groups, potentially overcoming both physical and ideological gaps.
The importance of the interaction between the body and the brain for the control of behavior has been recognized in recent years with the advent of neuromechanics, a field in which the coupling between neural and biomechanical processes is an explicit focus. A major tool used in neuromechanics is simulation, which connects computational models of neural circuits to models of an animal's body situated in a virtual physical world. This connection closes the feedback loop that links the brain, the body, and the world through sensory stimuli, muscle contractions, and body movement. Neuromechanical simulations enable investigators to explore the dynamical relationships between the brain, the body, and the world in ways that are difficult or impossible through experiment alone. Studies in a variety of animals have permitted the analysis of extremely complex and dynamic neuromechanical systems, they have demonstrated that the nervous system functions synergistically with the mechanical properties of the body, they have examined hypotheses that are difficult to test experimentally, and they have explored the role of sensory feedback in controlling complex mechanical systems with many degrees of freedom. Each of these studies confronts a common set of questions: (i) how to abstract key features of the body, the world and the CNS in a useful model, (ii) how to ground model parameters in experimental reality, (iii) how to optimize the model and identify points of sensitivity and insensitivity, and (iv) how to share neuromechanical models for examination, testing, and extension by others.
Social interactions among conspecifics are a fundamental and adaptively significant component of the biology of numerous species. Such interactions give rise to group living as well as many of the complex forms of cooperation and conflict that occur within animal groups. Although previous conceptual models have focused on the ecological causes and fitness consequences of variation in social interactions, recent developments in endocrinology, neuroscience, and molecular genetics offer exciting opportunities to develop more integrated research programs that will facilitate new insights into the physiological causes and consequences of social variation. Here, we propose an integrative framework of social behavior that emphasizes relationships between ultimate-level function and proximate-level mechanism, thereby providing a foundation for exploring the full diversity of factors that underlie variation in social interactions, and ultimately sociality. In addition to identifying new model systems for the study of human psychopathologies, this framework provides a mechanistic basis for predicting how social behavior will change in response to environmental variation. We argue that the study of non-model organisms is essential for implementing this integrative model of social behavior because such species can be studied simultaneously in the lab and field, thereby allowing integration of rigorously controlled experimental manipulations with detailed observations of the ecological contexts in which interactions among conspecifics occur.
Animals show periods of quiescence interspersed with periods of motor activity. In a number of invertebrate and vertebrate systems, quiescence is achieved by active suppression of motor behavior is due to tonic inhibition induced by sensory input or changes in internal state. Removal of this inhibition (disinhibition) has the converse effect tending to increase the level of motor activity. We show that tonic inhibition and disinhibition can have a variety of roles. It can simply switch off specific unwanted motor behaviors, or modulate the occurrence of a motor response, a type of 'threshold' controlling function, or be involved in the selection of a particular motor program by inhibiting 'competing' motor mechanisms that would otherwise interfere with the carrying out of a desired movement. A suggested general function for tonic inhibition is to prevent unnecessary non-goal directed motor activity that would be energetically expensive. The reason why basic motor programs might be a particular target for tonic inhibition is that many of them involve central pattern generator circuits that are often spontaneously active and need to be actively suppressed for energy saving. Based on this hypothesis, tonic inhibition represents the default state for energy saving and motor programs are switched-on when required by removal of this inhibition.
Executive dysfunction is a common symptom among alcohol-dependent individuals. Phencyclidine (PCP) injection induces dysfunction in the prefrontal cortex of animals but little is known about how PCP affects the response to ethanol. Using the in vivo microdialysis technique in male Wistar rats, we investigated how systemic injection of 5 mg/kg PCP would affect the dopamine release induced by local infusion of 300 mM ethanol into the nucleus accumbens. PCP given 60 min before ethanol entirely blocked ethanol-induced dopamine release. However, when ethanol was administered 60 min before PCP, both drugs induced dopamine release and PCP's effect was potentiated by ethanol (180% increase vs 150%). To test the role of prefrontal cortex dysfunction in ethanol reinforcement, animals were pretreated for 5 days with 2.58 mg/kg PCP according to previously used 'PFC hypofunction protocols'. This, however, did not change the relative response to PCP or ethanol compared to saline-treated controls. qPCR illustrated that this low PCP dose did not significantly change expression of glucose transporters Glut1 (SLC2A1) or Glut3 (SLC2A3), monocarboxylate transporter MCT2 (SLC16A7), glutamate transporters GLT-1 (SLC1A2) or GLAST (SLC1A3), the immediate early gene Arc (Arg3.1) or GABAergic neuron markers GAT-1 (SLC6A1) and parvalbumin. Therefore, we concluded that PCP at a dose of 2.58 mg/kg for 5 days did not induce hypofunction in Wistar rats. However, PCP and ethanol do have overlapping mechanisms of action and these drugs differentially affect mesolimbic dopaminergic transmission depending on the order of administration.
Rats trained in a dual-solution cross-maze task, which can be solved by place and response strategies, predominantly used a response strategy after extensive training. This paper examines the involvement of the medial and lateral dorsal striatum (mDS and lDS) in the choice of these strategies after partial and extensive training. Our results show that rats with lDS and mDS lesions used mainly a response strategy from the early phase of training. We replicated these unexpected data in rats with lDS lesions and confirmed their tendency to use the response strategy in a modified cross-maze task. When trained in a dual-solution water-maze task, however, control and lesioned rats consistently used a place strategy, demonstrating that lDS and mDS lesioned rats can use a place strategy and that the shift towards a response strategy did not systematically result from extensive training. The present data did not show any clear dissociation between the mDS and lDS in dual solution tasks. They further indicate that the dorsal striatum seems to determine the strategies adopted in a particular context but cannot be considered as a neural support for the response memory system. Accordingly, the role of the lateral and medial part of the dorsal striatum in egocentric/response memory should be reconsidered.
In learning models of strategic game play, an agent constructs a valuation (action value) over possible future choices as a function of past actions and rewards. Choices are then stochastic functions of these action values. Our goal is to uncover a neural signal that correlates with the action value posited by behavioral learning models. We measured activity from neurons in the superior colliculus (SC), a midbrain region involved in planning saccadic eye movements, while monkeys performed two saccade tasks. In the strategic task, monkeys competed against a computer in a saccade version of the mixed-strategy game &quot;matching-pennies&quot;. In the instructed task, saccades were elicited through explicit instruction rather than free choices. In both tasks neuronal activity and behavior were shaped by past actions and rewards with more recent events exerting a larger influence. Further, SC activity predicted upcoming choices during the strategic task and upcoming reaction times during the instructed task. Finally, we found that neuronal activity in both tasks correlated with an established learning model, the Experience Weighted Attraction model of action valuation (Camerer and Ho, 1999). Collectively, our results provide evidence that action values hypothesized by learning models are represented in the motor planning regions of the brain in a manner that could be used to select strategic actions.
It is known that adverse events experienced by a pregnant woman may be reflected upon the developing fetus and adversely affect its mental wellbeing in later life. In a recent study by our group, prenatal stress was associated with a clear increase in anxiety- and depression-related behavior in male, but not female Sprague-Dawley offspring. Since birth weight data were recorded we were able to determine whether birth weight, as an important outcome measure of fetal distress, may be used as a predictive indicator for adult performance. For this purpose, a correlation analysis was performed, aimed at studying the possible link between stress-induced fetal growth restriction and adult affective state. Male birth weight correlated positively to depression-related behavior in the forced swim test. Furthermore, it weight was correlated negatively to basal, and positively to stress-induced, plasma corticosterone levels in adulthood. Female birth weight did not correlate to any of the studied outcome measures. These data suggest that male birth weight may represent a valuable indicative marker for variations in adult affective state with a developmental origin.
Inhibition of basal JNK activity by JNK inhibitor SP600125 or JNK1siRNA repressed presenilin-1 (PS1) expression in SK-N-SH cells by augmenting the level of p53, a repressor of the PS1 gene (1). We now showed that repression of PS1 transcription by JNK inhibitor SP600125 inhibited gamma-secretase mediated processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) resulting in the accumulation of C99 fragment and the reduction of secreted Abeta40 level without altering the expression of nicastrin (NCT). Co-treatment of cells with SP600125 and p53 inhibitor, pifithrin-alpha, partially nullified the suppressive effects of SP610025 on PS1 expression and secreted Abeta40 level. Suppression of JNK1 by JNK1siRNA also decreased Abeta40 level. Furthermore, overexpression of the repressors p53, ZNF237 and CHD3 of the PS1 gene also suppressed the processing of APP through repression of PS1 transcription by deacetylation of histone at the PS1 promoter. Transcriptional activator Ets2 increased PS1 protein and secreted Abeta40 levels without affecting the expression of NCT by activating PS1 transcription via hyper-acetylation of histone at the PS1 promoter. Therefore, regulation of PS1 transcription modulates gamma-secretase activity.
PTPzeta and lectican family members are major chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CS-PGs) in the brain, which bind with many proteins via core protein and CS portions. Recent studies revealed that the oversulfated structures in CS constitute high affinity binding sites for various growth factors and axon guidance molecules, and play important roles in the proliferation of neural progenitor cells, neurite extension and neuronal migration. PTPzeta uses pleiotrophin as a ligand. The CS portion of PTPzeta constitutes a part of the pleiotrophin-binding site, and oversulfated D unit increases the binding affinity. Pleiotrophin-PTPzeta signaling regulates the morphogenesis of Purkinje cell by controlling the tyrosine phosphorylation of a Notch-related transmembrane protein, DNER. In the brain of adult animals, a subset of neurons are surrounded by CS-PG-rich extracellular matrix called perineuronal net, in which lecticans form complexes with hyaluronic acid and tenascin-R. CS-PGs in the perineuronal net regulate ocular dominance plasticity in the visual cortex by enhancing the uptake of Otx2 homeoprotein by parvalbumin-positive interneurons in a CS-dependent manner. These studies revealed unexpectedly complex mechanisms of CS-PG functions.
Brain temperature is a physiological parameter, reflecting the balance between metabolism-related intra-brain heat production and heat loss by cerebral circulation to the rest of the body and then to the external environment. First, we present data on brain temperature fluctuations occurring under physiological and behavioral conditions and discuss their mechanisms. Since most processes governing neural activity are temperature-dependent, we consider how naturally occurring temperature fluctuations could affect neural activity and neural functions. We also consider psychomotor stimulants and show that their hyperthermic effects are state-dependent and modulated by environmental conditions. Since high temperature could irreversibly damage neural cells and worsen various pathological processes, we consider the situations associated with pathological brain hyperthermia and evaluate its role in acute perturbations of brain functions, neurotoxicity, and neurodegeneration. We also discuss the limitations in consideration of brain temperature within the frameworks of physiological regulation and homeostasis. While different adaptive mechanisms could, within some limits, compensate for altered intra-brain heat balance, these mechanisms could fail in real-life situations, resulting in life-threatening health complications.
Over the past several years substantial evidence has documented that opioid receptor homo- and heterodimers form in cell lines expressing one or more of the opioid receptors. We used opioid receptor knockout mice to determine whether in vivo pharmacological characteristics of kappa1 and kappa2 opioid receptors changed following knockout of specific opioid receptors. Using displacement of the general opioid ligand diprenorphine, we observed that occupancy or knockout of the DOR-1 gene increases the binding density of kappa1 receptors and eliminates kappa2 receptors in crude membrane preparations while the total density of kappa opioid binding sites is unchanged. Further, the analgesic potency of U69,593 in cumulative dose response curves is enhanced in mice lacking the DOR-1 gene. These results demonstrate that the DOR-1 gene is required for the expression of the kappa2 opioid receptor subtype and are consistent with the possibility that a KOR-1/DOR-1 heterodimer mediates kappa2 pharmacology.
Cognitive ability and the properties of brain oscillation are highly heritable in humans. Genetic variation underlying oscillatory activity might give rise to differences in cognition and behavior. How genetic diversity translates into altered properties of oscillations and synchronization of neuronal activity is unknown. To address this issue, we investigated cellular and synaptic mechanisms of hippocampal fast network oscillations in eight genetically distinct inbred mouse strains. The frequency of carbachol-induced oscillations differed substantially between mouse strains. Since GABAergic inhibition sets oscillation frequency, we studied the properties of inhibitory synaptic inputs (IPSCs) received by CA3 and CA1 pyramidal cells of three mouse strains that showed the highest, lowest and intermediate frequencies of oscillations. In CA3 pyramidal cells, the frequency of rhythmic IPSC input showed the same strain differences as the frequency of field oscillations. Furthermore, IPSC decay times in both CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells were faster in mouse strains with higher oscillation frequencies than in mouse strains with lower oscillation frequency, suggesting that differences in GABA(A)-receptor subunit composition exist between these strains. Indeed, gene expression of GABA(A)-receptor 2 (Gabrb2) and 3 (Gabrb2) subunits was higher in mouse strains with faster decay kinetics compared with mouse strains with slower decay kinetics. Hippocampal pyramidal neurons in mouse strains with higher oscillation frequencies and faster decay kinetics fired action potential at higher frequencies. These data indicate that differences in genetic background may result in different GABA(A)-receptor subunit expression, which affects the rhythm of pyramidal neuron firing and fast network activity through GABA synapse kinetics.
Local circuit and long-range GABAergic projections provide powerful inhibitory control over the operation of hippocampal inhibitory circuits, yet little is known about the input- and target-specific organization of interacting inhibitory networks in relation to their specific functions. Using a combination of two-photon laser scanning photostimulation and whole-cell patch clamp recordings in mice hippocampal slices, we examined the properties of transmission at GABAergic synapses formed onto hippocampal CA1 stratum oriens - lacunosum moleculare (O-LM) interneurons by two major inhibitory inputs: local projection originating from stratum radiatum interneurons and septohippocampal GABAergic terminals. Optical mapping of local inhibitory inputs to O-LM interneurons revealed that vasoactive intestinal polypeptide- and calretinin-positive neurons, with anatomical properties typical of type III interneuron-specific interneurons, provided the major local source of inhibition to O-LM cells. Inhibitory postsynaptic currents evoked by minimal stimulation of this input exhibited small amplitude and significant paired-pulse and multiple-pulse depression during repetitive activity. Moreover, these synapses failed to show any form of long-term synaptic plasticity. In contrast, synapses formed by septohippocampal projection produced higher amplitude and persistent inhibition and exhibited long-term potentiation induced by theta-like activity. These results indicate the input and target-specific segregation in inhibitory control, exerted by two types of GABAergic projections and responsible for distinct dynamics of inhibition in O-LM interneurons. The two inputs are therefore likely to support the differential activity- and brain state-dependent recruitment of hippocampal feedback inhibitory circuits in vivo, crucial for dendritic disinhibition and computations in CA1 pyramidal cells.
The high pressure neurological syndrome develops during deep-diving (&gt;1.1 MPa) involving impairment of cognitive functions, alteration of synaptic transmission and increased excitability in cortico-hippocampal areas. The medial perforant path (MPP), connecting entorhinal cortex with the hippocampal formation, displays synaptic frequency-dependent-depression (FDD) under normal conditions. Synaptic FDD is essential for specific functions of various neuronal networks. We used rat cortico-hippocampal slices and computer simulations for studying the effects of pressure and its interaction with extracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](o)) on FDD at the MPP synapses. At atmospheric pressure, high [Ca(2+)](o) (4-6mM) saturated single MPP field EPSP (fEPSP) and increased FDD in response to short trains at 50Hz. High pressure (HP; 10.1 MPa) depressed single fEPSPs by 50%. Increasing [Ca(2+)](o) to 4mM at HP saturated synaptic response at a subnormal level (only 20% recovery of single fEPSPs), but generated a FDD similar to atmospheric pressure. Mathematical model analysis of the fractions of synaptic resources used by each fEPSP during trains (normalized to their maximum) and the total fraction utilized within a train indicate that HP depresses synaptic activity also by reducing synaptic resources. This data suggest that MPP synapses may be modulated, in addition to depression of single events, by reduction of synaptic resources and then may have the ability to conserve their dynamic properties under different conditions.
Functional maturation of visual cortex is linked with dynamic changes in synaptic expression of GABAergic mechanisms. These include setting the excitation-inhibition balance required for experience-dependent plasticity, as well as, intracortical inhibition underlying development and aging of receptive field properties. Animal studies have shown that there is developmental regulation of GABAergic mechanisms in visual cortex. In this study, we show for the first time how these mechanisms develop in the human visual cortex across the lifespan. We used Western blot analysis of postmortem tissue from human primary visual cortex (n = 30, range: 20 days to 80 years) to quantify expression of eight pre- and post-synaptic GABAergic markers. We quantified the inhibitory modulating cannabinoid receptor (CB1), GABA vesicular transporter (VGAT), GABA synthesizing enzymes (GAD65/GAD67), GABA(A) receptor anchoring protein (Gephyrin), and GABA(A) receptor subunits (GABA(A)alpha1, GABA(A)alpha2, GABA(A)alpha3). We found a complex pattern of different developmental trajectories, many of which were prolonged and continued well into the teen, young adult, and even older adult years. These included a monotonic increase or decrease (GABA(A)alpha1, GABA(A)alpha2), a biphasic increase then decrease (GAD65, Gephyrin), or multiple increases and decreases (VGAT, CB1) across the lifespan. Comparing the balances between the pre- and post-synaptic markers we found three main transition stages (early childhood, early teen years, aging) when there were rapid switches in the composition of the GABAergic signaling system, indicating that functioning of the GABAergic system must change as the visual cortex develops and ages. Furthermore, these results provide key information for translating therapies developed in animal models into effective treatments for amblyopia in humans.
During development, Gamma-aminobutyric acidergic (GABAergic) neurons mature at early stages, long before excitatory neurons. Conversely, GABA reuptake transporters become operative later than glutamate transporters. GABA is therefore not removed efficiently from the extracellular domain and it can exert significant paracrine effects. Hence, GABA-mediated activity is a prominent source of overall neural activity in developing CNS networks, while neurons extend dendrites and axons, and establish synaptic connections. One of the unique features of GABAergic functional plasticity is that in early development, activation of GABA(A) receptors results in depolarizing (mainly excitatory) responses and Ca(2+) influx. Although there is strong evidence from several areas of the CNS that GABA plays a significant role in neurite growth not only during development but also during adult neurogenesis, surprisingly little effort has been made into putting all these observations into a common framework in an attempt to understand the general rules that regulate these basic and evolutionary well-conserved processes. In this review, we discuss the current knowledge in this important field. In order to decipher common, universal features and highlight differences between systems throughout development, we compare findings about dendritic proliferation and remodeling in different areas of the nervous system and species, and we also review recent evidence for a role in axonal elongation. In addition to early developmental aspects, we also consider the GABAergic role in dendritic growth during adult neurogenesis, extending our discussion to the roles played by GABA during dendritic proliferation in early developing networks versus adult, well established networks.
Cortical neurons in vivo may operate in high-conductance states, in which the major part of the neuron's input conductance is due to synaptic activity, sometimes several-fold larger than the resting conductance. We examine here the contribution of inhibition in such high-conductance states. At the level of the absolute conductance values, several studies have shown that cortical neurons in vivo are characterized by strong inhibitory conductances. However, conductances are balanced and spiking activity is mostly determined by fluctuations, but not much is known about excitatory and inhibitory contributions to these fluctuations. Models and dynamic-clamp experiments show that, during high-conductance states, spikes are mainly determined by fluctuations of inhibition, or by inhibitory &quot;noise&quot;. This stands in contrast to low-conductance states, in which excitatory conductances determine spiking activity. To determine these contributions from experimental data, maximum likelihood methods can be designed and applied to intracellular recordings in vivo. Such methods indicate that action potentials are indeed mostly correlated with inhibitory fluctuations in awake animals. These results argue for a determinant role for inhibitory fluctuations in evoking spikes, and do not support feed-forward modes of processing, for which opposite patterns are predicted.
Experience is required for the shaping and refinement of developing neural circuits during well defined periods of early postnatal development called critical periods. Many studies in the visual cortex have shown that intracortical GABAergic circuitry plays a crucial role in defining the time course of the critical period for ocular dominance plasticity. With the end of the critical period, neural plasticity wanes and recovery from the effects of visual defects on visual acuity (amblyopia) or binocularity is much reduced or absent. Recent results pointed out that intracortical inhibition is a fundamental limiting factor for adult cortical plasticity and that its reduction by means of different pharmacological and environmental strategies makes it possible to greatly enhance plasticity in the adult visual cortex, promoting ocular dominance plasticity and recovery from amblyopia. Here we focus on the role of intracortical GABAergic circuitry in controlling both developmental and adult cortical plasticity. We shall also discuss the potential clinical application of these findings to neurological disorders in which synaptic plasticity is compromised because of excessive intracortical inhibition.
Over the past decade the advent of mouse transgenics has generated new perspectives on the study of cerebellar molecular mechanisms that are essential for eyeblink conditioning. However, it also appears that results from eyeblink conditioning experiments done in mice differ in some aspects from results previously obtained in other mammals. In this review article we will, based on studies using (cell-specific) mouse mutants and region-specific lesions, re-examine the general eyeblink behavior in mice and the neuro-anatomical circuits that might contribute to the different peaks in the conditioned eyeblink trace. We conclude that the learning process in mice has at least two stages: An early stage, which includes short-latency responses that are at least partly controlled by extracerebellar structures such as the amygdala, and a later stage, which is represented by well-timed conditioned responses that are mainly controlled by the pontocerebellar and olivocerebellar systems. We refer to this overall concept as the Amygdala-Cerebellum-Dynamic-Conditioning Model (ACDC model).
Neurons make synaptic connections at locations where axons and dendrites are sufficiently close in space. Typically the required proximity is based on the dimensions of dendritic spines and axonal boutons. Based on this principle one can search those locations in networks formed by reconstructed neurons or computer generated neurons. Candidate synapses are then located where axons and dendrites are within a given criterion distance from each other. Both experimentally reconstructed and model generated neurons are usually represented morphologically by piecewise-linear structures (line pieces or cylinders). Proximity tests are then performed on all pairs of line pieces from both axonal and dendritic branches. Applying just a test on the distance between line pieces may result in local clusters of synaptic sites when more than one pair of nearby line pieces from axonal and dendritic branches is sufficient close, and may introduce a dependency on the length scale of the individual line pieces. The present paper describes a new algorithm for defining locations of candidate synapses which is based on the crossing requirement of a line piece pair, while the length of the orthogonal distance between the line pieces is subjected to the distance criterion for testing 3D proximity.
This article proposes the concept of neuromorphological space as the multidimensional space defined by a set of measurements of the morphology of a representative set of almost 6000 biological neurons available from the NeuroMorpho database. For the first time, we analyze such a large database in order to find the general distribution of the geometrical features. We resort to McGhee's biological shape space concept in order to formalize our analysis, allowing for comparison between the geometrically possible tree-like shapes, obtained by using a simple reference model, and real neuronal shapes. Two optimal types of projections, namely, principal component analysis and canonical analysis, are used in order to visualize the originally 20-D neuron distribution into 2-D morphological spaces. These projections allow the most important features to be identified. A data density analysis is also performed in the original 20-D feature space in order to corroborate the clustering structure. Several interesting results are reported, including the fact that real neurons occupy only a small region within the geometrically possible space and that two principal variables are enough to account for about half of the overall data variability. Most of the measurements have been found to be important in representing the morphological variability of the real neurons.
Network activity and network connectivity mutually influence each other. Especially for fast processes, like spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP), which depends on the interaction of few (two) signals, the question arises how these interactions are continuously altering the behavior and structure of the network. To address this question a time-continuous treatment of plasticity is required. However, this is - even in simple recurrent network structures - currently not possible. Thus, here we develop for a linear differential Hebbian learning system a method by which we can analytically investigate the dynamics and stability of the connections in recurrent networks. We use noisy periodic external input signals, which through the recurrent connections lead to complex actual ongoing inputs and observe that large stable ranges emerge in these networks without boundaries or weight-normalization. Somewhat counter-intuitively, we find that about 40% of these cases are obtained with a long-term potentiation-dominated STDP curve. Noise can reduce stability in some cases, but generally this does not occur. Instead stable domains are often enlarged. This study is a first step toward a better understanding of the ongoing interactions between activity and plasticity in recurrent networks using STDP. The results suggest that stability of (sub-)networks should generically be present also in larger structures.
A major puzzle in the field of computational neuroscience is how to relate system-level learning in higher organisms to synaptic plasticity. Recently, plasticity rules depending not only on pre- and post-synaptic activity but also on a third, non-local neuromodulatory signal have emerged as key candidates to bridge the gap between the macroscopic and the microscopic level of learning. Crucial insights into this topic are expected to be gained from simulations of neural systems, as these allow the simultaneous study of the multiple spatial and temporal scales that are involved in the problem. In particular, synaptic plasticity can be studied during the whole learning process, i.e., on a time scale of minutes to hours and across multiple brain areas. Implementing neuromodulated plasticity in large-scale network simulations where the neuromodulatory signal is dynamically generated by the network itself is challenging, because the network structure is commonly defined purely by the connectivity graph without explicit reference to the embedding of the nodes in physical space. Furthermore, the simulation of networks with realistic connectivity entails the use of distributed computing. A neuromodulated synapse must therefore be informed in an efficient way about the neuromodulatory signal, which is typically generated by a population of neurons located on different machines than either the pre- or post-synaptic neuron. Here, we develop a general framework to solve the problem of implementing neuromodulated plasticity in a time-driven distributed simulation, without reference to a particular implementation language, neuromodulator, or neuromodulated plasticity mechanism. We implement our framework in the simulator NEST and demonstrate excellent scaling up to 1024 processors for simulations of a recurrent network incorporating neuromodulated spike-timing dependent plasticity.
Neurons have complex branching systems which allow them to communicate with thousands of other neurons. Thus understanding neuronal geometry is clearly important for determining connectivity within the network and how this shapes neuronal function. One of the difficulties in uncovering relationships between neuronal shape and its function is the problem of quantifying complex neuronal geometry. Even by using multiple measures such as: dendritic length, distribution of segments, direction of branches, etc, a description of three dimensional neuronal embedding remains incomplete. To help alleviate this problem, here we propose a new measure, a shape diffusiveness index (SDI), to quantify spatial relations between branches at the local and global scale. It was shown that growth of neuronal trees can be modeled by using diffusion limited aggregation (DLA) process. By measuring &quot;how easy&quot; it is to reproduce the analyzed shape by using the DLA algorithm it can be measured how &quot;diffusive&quot; is that shape. Intuitively, &quot;diffusiveness&quot; measures how tree-like is a given shape. For example shapes like an oak tree will have high values of SDI. This measure is capturing an important feature of dendritic tree geometry, which is difficult to assess with other measures. This approach also presents a paradigm shift from well-defined deterministic measures to model-based measures, which estimate how well a model with specific properties can account for features of analyzed shape.
Neural activity of behaving animals, especially in the prefrontal cortex, is highly heterogeneous, with selective responses to diverse aspects of the executed task. We propose a general model of recurrent neural networks that perform complex rule-based tasks, and we show that the diversity of neuronal responses plays a fundamental role when the behavioral responses are context-dependent. Specifically, we found that when the inner mental states encoding the task rules are represented by stable patterns of neural activity (attractors of the neural dynamics), the neurons must be selective for combinations of sensory stimuli and inner mental states. Such mixed selectivity is easily obtained by neurons that connect with random synaptic strengths both to the recurrent network and to neurons encoding sensory inputs. The number of randomly connected neurons needed to solve a task is on average only three times as large as the number of neurons needed in a network designed ad hoc. Moreover, the number of needed neurons grows only linearly with the number of task-relevant events and mental states, provided that each neuron responds to a large proportion of events (dense/distributed coding). A biologically realistic implementation of the model captures several aspects of the activity recorded from monkeys performing context-dependent tasks. Our findings explain the importance of the diversity of neural responses and provide us with simple and general principles for designing attractor neural networks that perform complex computation.
We have combined neurophysiologic recording, statistical analysis, and computational modeling to investigate the dynamics of the respiratory network in the brainstem. Using a multielectrode array, we recorded ensembles of respiratory neurons in perfused in situ rat preparations that produce spontaneous breathing patterns, focusing on inspiratory pre-motor neurons. We compared firing rates and neuronal synchronization among these neurons before and after a brief hypoxic stimulus. We observed a significant decrease in the number of spikes after stimulation, in part due to a transient slowing of the respiratory pattern. However, the median interspike interval did not change, suggesting that the firing threshold of the neurons was not affected but rather the synaptic input was. A bootstrap analysis of synchrony between spike trains revealed that both before and after brief hypoxia, up to 45% (but typically less than 5%) of coincident spikes across neuronal pairs was not explained by chance. Most likely, this synchrony resulted from common synaptic input to the pre-motor population, an example of stochastic synchronization. After brief hypoxia most pairs were less synchronized, although some were more, suggesting that the respiratory network was transiently &quot;rewired&quot; after the stimulus. To investigate this hypothesis, we created a simple computational model with feed-forward divergent connections along the inspiratory pathway. Assuming that (1) the number of divergent projections was not the same for all presynaptic cells, but rather spanned a wide range and (2) that the stimulus increased inhibition at the top of the network; this model reproduced the reduction in firing rate and bootstrap-corrected synchrony subsequent to hypoxic stimulation observed in our experimental data.
In the half-century since the seminal Hodgkin-Huxley papers were published, computational neuroscience has become an established discipline, evolving from computer modeling of neurons to attempts to understand the computational functions of the brain. Here, I narrate my experience of the early steps and sense of excitement in this field, with its promise of rapid development, paralleling that of computers.
Generalized Linear Models (GLMs) are commonly used statistical methods for modelling the relationship between neural population activity and presented stimuli. When the dimension of the parameter space is large, strong regularization has to be used in order to fit GLMs to datasets of realistic size without overfitting. By imposing properly chosen priors over parameters, Bayesian inference provides an effective and principled approach for achieving regularization. Here we show how the posterior distribution over model parameters of GLMs can be approximated by a Gaussian using the Expectation Propagation algorithm. In this way, we obtain an estimate of the posterior mean and posterior covariance, allowing us to calculate Bayesian confidence intervals that characterize the uncertainty about the optimal solution. From the posterior we also obtain a different point estimate, namely the posterior mean as opposed to the commonly used maximum a posteriori estimate. We systematically compare the different inference techniques on simulated as well as on multi-electrode recordings of retinal ganglion cells, and explore the effects of the chosen prior and the performance measure used. We find that good performance can be achieved by choosing an Laplace prior together with the posterior mean estimate.
Although all brain functions require coordinated activity of many neurons, it has been difficult to estimate the amount of information carried by a population of spiking neurons. We present here a Fourier-based method for estimating the information delivery rate from a population of neurons, which allows us to measure the redundancy of information within and between functional neuronal classes. We illustrate the use of the method on some artificial spike trains and on simultaneous recordings from a small population of neurons from the lateral geniculate nucleus of an anesthetized macaque monkey.
Multichannel intracranial recordings are used increasingly to study the functional organization of human cortex. Intracranial recordings of event-related activity, or electrocorticography (ECoG), are based on high density electrode arrays implanted directly over cortex, combining good temporal and spatial resolution. Developing appropriate statistical methods for analyzing event-related responses in these high dimensional ECoG datasets remains a major challenge for clinical and systems neuroscience. We present a novel methodological framework that combines complementary, existing methods adapted for statistical analysis of auditory event-related responses in multichannel ECoG recordings. This analytic framework integrates single-channel (time-domain, time-frequency) and multichannel analyses of event-related ECoG activity to determine statistically significant evoked responses, induced spectral responses, and effective (causal) connectivity. Implementation of this quantitative approach is illustrated using multichannel ECoG data from recent studies of auditory processing in patients with epilepsy. Methods described include a time-frequency matching pursuit algorithm adapted for modeling brief, transient cortical spectral responses to sound, and a recently developed method for estimating effective connectivity using multivariate autoregressive modeling to measure brief event-related changes in multichannel functional interactions. A semi-automated spatial normalization method for comparing intracranial electrode locations across patients is also described. The individual methods presented are published and readily accessible. We discuss the benefits of integrating multiple complementary methods in a unified and comprehensive quantitative approach. Methodological considerations in the analysis of multichannel ECoG data, including corrections for multiple comparisons are discussed, as well as remaining challenges in the development of new statistical approaches.
Analysis of multichannel recordings acquired with contemporary imaging or electrophysiological methods in neuroscience is often difficult due to the high dimensionality of the data and the low signal-to-noise ratio. We developed a method that addresses both problems by utilizing prior information about the temporal structure of the signal and the noise. This information is expressed mathematically in terms of sets of correlation matrices, a versatile approach that allows the treatment of a large class of signal and noise sources, including non-stationary sources or correlated signal and noise sources. We present a mathematical analysis of the algorithm, as well as application to an artificial dataset, and show that the algorithm is tolerant to inaccurate assumptions about the temporal structure of the data. We suggest that the algorithm, which we name temporally structured component analysis, can be highly beneficial to various multichannel measurement techniques, such as fMRI or optical imaging.
The integrate-and-fire neuron with exponential postsynaptic potentials is a frequently employed model to study neural networks. Simulations in discrete time still have highest performance at moderate numerical errors, which makes them first choice for long-term simulations of plastic networks. Here we extend the population density approach to investigate how the equilibrium and response properties of the leaky integrate-and-fire neuron are affected by time discretization. We present a novel analytical treatment of the boundary condition at threshold, taking both discretization of time and finite synaptic weights into account. We uncover an increased membrane potential density just below threshold as the decisive property that explains the deviations found between simulations and the classical diffusion approximation. Temporal discretization and finite synaptic weights both contribute to this effect. Our treatment improves the standard formula to calculate the neuron's equilibrium firing rate. Direct solution of the Markov process describing the evolution of the membrane potential density confirms our analysis and yields a method to calculate the firing rate exactly. Knowing the shape of the membrane potential distribution near threshold enables us to devise the transient response properties of the neuron model to synaptic input. We find a pronounced non-linear fast response component that has not been described by the prevailing continuous time theory for Gaussian white noise input.
Neural adaptation mechanisms have many similarities throughout the animal kingdom, enabling to study fundamentals of human adaptation in selected animal models with experimental approaches that are impossible to apply in man. This will be illustrated by reviewing research on three of such animal models, viz. (1) the egg-laying behavior of a snail, Lymnaea stagnalis: how one neuron type controls behavior, (2) adaptation to the ambient light condition by a toad, Xenopus laevis: how a neuroendocrine cell integrates complex external and neural inputs, and (3) stress, feeding, and depression in rodents: how a neuronal network co-ordinates different but related complex behaviors. Special attention is being paid to the actions of neurochemical messengers, such as neuropeptide Y, urocortin 1, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. While awaiting new technological developments to study the living human brain at the cellular and molecular levels, continuing progress in the insight in the functioning of human adaptation mechanisms may be expected from neuroendocrine research using invertebrate and vertebrate animal models.
There is growing evidence demonstrating that fibroblast growth factor (FGF) signaling is important for the development of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neuronal system. In humans, loss-of-function mutations in FGF receptor 1 (Fgfr1) and Fgf8 lead to hypogonadotropic hypogonadism (HH) with or without anosmia. Insights into how FGF signaling deficiency disrupts the GnRH system in humans are beginning to emerge from studies using transgenic mouse models. In this review, we summarize GnRH system defects in several lines of FGF signaling-deficient mice. We showed that FGF signaling is critically required for olfactory placode induction, differentiation, and GnRH neuronal fate specification and postnatal maintenance. Extrapolating from these transgenic mouse data, we suggest that idiopathic HH in patients harboring loss-of-function Fgfr1 and/or Fgf8 mutations is not merely a result of defective GnRH neuronal migration, but also insults accumulated in the GnRH system during fate specification and postnatal development.

Human cognition has been shaped both by our body structure and by its complex interactions with its environment. Our cognition is thus inextricably linked to our own and others' motor behavior. To model brain activity associated with natural cognition, we propose recording the concurrent brain dynamics and body movements of human subjects performing normal actions. Here we tested the feasibility of such a mobile brain/body (MoBI) imaging approach by recording high-density electroencephalographic (EEG) activity and body movements of subjects standing or walking on a treadmill while performing a visual oddball response task. Independent component analysis of the EEG data revealed visual event-related potentials that during standing, slow walking, and fast walking did not differ across movement conditions, demonstrating the viability of recording brain activity accompanying cognitive processes during whole body movement. Non-invasive and relatively low-cost MoBI studies of normal, motivated actions might improve understanding of interactions between brain and body dynamics leading to more complete biological models of cognition.
The specificity of neural responses to visual objects is a major topic in visual neuroscience. In humans, functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) studies have identified several regions of the occipital and temporal lobe that appear specific to faces, letter strings, scenes, or tools. Direct electrophysiological recordings in the visual cortical areas of epileptic patients have largely confirmed this modular organization, using either single-neuron peri-stimulus time-histogram or intracerebral event-related potentials (iERP). In parallel, a new research stream has emerged using high-frequency gamma-band activity (50-150Hz) (GBR) and low-frequency alpha/beta activity (8-24Hz) (ABR) to map functional networks in humans. An obvious question is now whether the functional organization of the visual cortex revealed by fMRI, ERP, GBR, and ABR coincide. We used direct intracerebral recordings in 18 epileptic patients to directly compare GBR, ABR, and ERP elicited by the presentation of seven major visual object categories (faces, scenes, houses, consonants, pseudowords, tools, and animals), in relation to previous fMRI studies. Remarkably both GBR and iERP showed strong category-specificity that was in many cases sufficient to infer stimulus object category from the neural response at single-trial level. However, we also found a strong discrepancy between the selectivity of GBR, ABR, and ERP with less than 10% of spatial overlap between sites eliciting the same category-specificity. Overall, we found that selective neural responses to visual objects were broadly distributed in the brain with a prominent spatial cluster located in the posterior temporal cortex. Moreover, the different neural markers (GBR, ABR, and iERP) that elicit selectivity toward specific visual object categories present little spatial overlap suggesting that the information content of each marker can uniquely characterize high-level visual information in the brain.
During reach planning, we integrate multiple senses to estimate the location of the hand and the target, which is used to generate a movement. Visual and proprioceptive information are combined to determine the location of the hand. The goal of this study was to investigate whether multi-sensory integration is affected by extraretinal signals, such as head roll. It is believed that a coordinate matching transformation is required before vision and proprioception can be combined because proprioceptive and visual sensory reference frames do not generally align. This transformation utilizes extraretinal signals about current head roll position, i.e., to rotate proprioceptive signals into visual coordinates. Since head roll is an estimated sensory signal with noise, this head roll dependency of the reference frame transformation should introduce additional noise to the transformed signal, reducing its reliability and thus its weight in the multi-sensory integration. To investigate the role of noisy reference frame transformations on multi-sensory weighting, we developed a novel probabilistic (Bayesian) multi-sensory integration model (based on Sober and Sabes, 2003) that included explicit (noisy) reference frame transformations. We then performed a reaching experiment to test the model's predictions. To test for head roll dependent multi-sensory integration, we introduced conflicts between viewed and actual hand position and measured reach errors. Reach analysis revealed that eccentric head roll orientations led to an increase of movement variability, consistent with our model. We further found that the weighting of vision and proprioception depended on head roll, which we interpret as being a result of signal dependant noise. Thus, the brain has online knowledge of the statistics of its internal sensory representations. In summary, we show that sensory reliability is used in a context-dependent way to adjust multi-sensory integration weights for reaching.
Electrode arrays are sometimes implanted in the brains of patients with intractable epilepsy to better localize seizure foci before epilepsy surgery. Analysis of intracranial EEG (iEEG) recordings is typically performed in the electrode channel domain without explicit separation of the sources that generate the signals. However, intracranial EEG signals, like scalp EEG signals, could be linear mixtures of local activity and volume-conducted activity arising in multiple source areas. Independent component analysis (ICA) has recently been applied to scalp EEG data, and shown to separate the signal mixtures into independently generated brain and non-brain source signals. Here, we applied ICA to unmix source signals from intracranial EEG recordings from four epilepsy patients during a visually cued finger movement task in the presence of background pathological brain activity. This ICA decomposition demonstrated that the iEEG recordings were not maximally independent, but rather are linear mixtures of activity from multiple sources. Many of the independent component (IC) projections to the iEEG recording grid were consistent with sources from single brain regions, including components exhibiting classic movement-related dynamics. Notably, the largest IC projection to each channel accounted for no more than 20-80% of the channel signal variance, implying that in general intracranial recordings cannot be accurately interpreted as recordings of independent brain sources. These results suggest that ICA can be used to identify and monitor major field sources of local and distributed functional networks generating iEEG data. ICA decomposition methods are useful for improving the fidelity of source signals of interest, likely including distinguishing the sources of pathological brain activity.
In multiple sclerosis (MS) functional changes in connectivity due to cortical reorganization could lead to cognitive impairment (CI), or reflect a re-adjustment to reduce the clinical effects of widespread tissue damage. Such alterations in connectivity could result in changes in neural activation as assayed by executive function tasks. We examined cognitive function in MS patients with mild to moderate CI and age-matched controls. We evaluated brain activity using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) during the successful performance of the Wisconsin card sorting (WCS) task by MS patients, showing compensatory maintenance of normal function, as measured by response latency and error rate. To assess changes in functional connectivity throughout the brain, we performed a global functional brain network analysis by computing voxel-by-voxel correlations on the fMRI time series data and carrying out a hierarchical cluster analysis. We found that during the WCS task there is a significant reduction in the number of smaller size brain functional networks, and a change in the brain areas representing the nodes of these networks in MS patients compared to age-matched controls. There is also a concomitant increase in the strength of functional connections between brain loci separated at intermediate-scale distances in these patients. These functional alterations might reflect compensatory neuroplastic reorganization underlying maintenance of relatively normal cognitive function in the face of white matter lesions and cortical atrophy produced by MS.
The default mode network (DMN) refers to regional brain activity that is greater during rest periods than during attention-demanding tasks; many studies have reported DMN alterations in patient populations. It has also been shown that the DMN is suppressed by scanner background noise (SBN), which is the noise produced by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). However, it is unclear whether different approaches to &quot;rest&quot; in the noisy MR environment can alter the DMN and constitute a confound in studies investigating the DMN in particular patient populations (e.g., individuals with schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease). We examined 27 healthy adult volunteers who completed an fMRI experiment with three different instructions for rest: (1) relax and be still, (2) attend to SBN, or (3) ignore SBN. Region of interest analyses were performed to determine the influence of rest period instructions on core regions of the DMN and DMN regions previously reported to be altered in patients with or at risk for Alzheimer's disease or schizophrenia. The dorsal medial prefrontal cortex (dmPFC) exhibited greater activity when specific resting instructions were given (i.e., attend to or ignore SBN) compared to when non-specific resting instructions were given. Condition-related differences in connectivity were also observed between regions of the dmPFC and inferior parietal/posterior superior temporal cortex. We conclude that rest period instructions and SBN levels should be carefully considered for fMRI studies on the DMN, especially studies on clinical populations and groups that may have different approaches to rest, such as first-time research participants and children.
Naturally occurring memory processes show features which are difficult to investigate by conventional cognitive neuroscience paradigms. Distortions of memory for problematic contents are described both by psychoanalysis (internal conflicts) and research on post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD; external traumata). Typically, declarative memory for these contents is impaired - possibly due to repression in the case of internal conflicts or due to dissociation in the case of external traumata - but they continue to exert an unconscious pathological influence: neurotic symptoms or psychosomatic disorders after repression or flashbacks and intrusions in PTSD after dissociation. Several experimental paradigms aim at investigating repression in healthy control subjects. We argue that these paradigms do not adequately operationalize the clinical process of repression, because they rely on an intentional inhibition of random stimuli (suppression). Furthermore, these paradigms ignore that memory distortions due to repression or dissociation are most accurately characterized by a lack of self-referential processing, resulting in an impaired integration of these contents into the self. This aspect of repression and dissociation cannot be captured by the concept of memory as a storage device which is usually employed in the cognitive neurosciences. It can only be assessed within the framework of a constructivist memory concept, according to which successful memory involves a reconstruction of experiences such that they fit into a representation of the self. We suggest several experimental paradigms that allow for the investigation of the neural correlates of repressed memories and trauma-induced memory distortions based on a constructivist memory concept.
The human capacity to communicate has been hypothesized to be causally dependent upon language. Intuitively this seems plausible since most communication relies on language. Moreover, intention recognition abilities (as a necessary prerequisite for communication) and language development seem to co-develop. Here we review evidence from neuroimaging as well as from neuropsychology to evaluate the relationship between communicative and linguistic abilities. Our review indicates that communicative abilities are best considered as neurally distinct from language abilities. This conclusion is based upon evidence showing that humans rely on different cortical systems when designing a communicative message for someone else as compared to when performing core linguistic tasks, as well as upon observations of individuals with severe language loss after extensive lesions to the language system, who are still able to perform tasks involving intention understanding.
Results of several investigations indicate that eye movements can reveal memory for elements of previous experience. These effects of memory on eye movement behavior can emerge very rapidly, changing the efficiency and even the nature of visual processing without appealing to verbal reports and without requiring conscious recollection. This aspect of eye movement based memory investigations is particularly useful when eye movement methods are used with special populations (e.g., young children, elderly individuals, and patients with severe amnesia), and also permits use of comparable paradigms in animals and humans, helping to bridge different memory literatures and permitting cross-species generalizations. Unique characteristics of eye movement methods have produced findings that challenge long-held views about the nature of memory, its organization in the brain, and its failures in special populations. Recently, eye movement methods have been successfully combined with neuroimaging techniques such as fMRI, single-unit recording, and magnetoencephalography, permitting more sophisticated investigations of memory. Ultimately, combined use of eye-tracking with neuropsychological and neuroimaging methods promises to provide a more comprehensive account of brain-behavior relationships and adheres to the &quot;converging evidence&quot; approach to cognitive neuroscience.
Understanding the fundamental mechanisms governing fluctuating oscillations in large-scale cortical circuits is a crucial prelude to a proper knowledge of their role in both adaptive and pathological cortical processes. Neuroscience research in this area has much to gain from understanding the Kuramoto model, a mathematical model that speaks to the very nature of coupled oscillating processes, and which has elucidated the core mechanisms of a range of biological and physical phenomena. In this paper, we provide a brief introduction to the Kuramoto model in its original, rather abstract, form and then focus on modifications that increase its neurobiological plausibility by incorporating topological properties of local cortical connectivity. The extended model elicits elaborate spatial patterns of synchronous oscillations that exhibit persistent dynamical instabilities reminiscent of cortical activity. We review how the Kuramoto model may be recast from an ordinary differential equation to a population level description using the nonlinear Fokker-Planck equation. We argue that such formulations are able to provide a mechanistic and unifying explanation of oscillatory phenomena in the human cortex, such as fluctuating beta oscillations, and their relationship to basic computational processes including multistability, criticality, and information capacity.
An important development in behavioral neuroscience in the past 20 years has been the demonstration that it is possible to stimulate functional recovery after cerebral injury in laboratory animals. Rodent models of cerebral injury provide an important tool for developing such rehabilitation programs. The models include analysis at different levels including detailed behavioral paradigms, electrophysiology, neuronal morphology, protein chemistry, and epigenetics. A significant challenge for the next 20 years will be the translation of this work to improve the outcome from brain injury and disease in humans. Our goal in the article will be to synthesize the multidisciplinary laboratory work on brain plasticity and behavior in the injured brain to inform the development of rehabilitation programs.
Endophenotypic research can be considered to be one of the most promising strategies to bridge the gap between genomic complexity and the phenotypic heterogeneity observed in neuropsychiatric disorders. However, despite the promising and systematic work initiated by our western counterparts, this research strategy is still not well known in developing countries. Thus, the purpose of this paper is to argue the merits and promise of a potentially useful database on phenotypes and endophenotypes for developing countries.
Being able to effectively explore our visual world is of fundamental importance, and it has been suggested that the straight-ahead gaze (primary position) might play a special role in this context. We employed fMRI in humans to investigate how neural activity might be modulated for saccades relative to this putative default position. Using an endogenous cueing paradigm, saccade direction and orbital starting position were systematically manipulated, resulting in saccades toward primary position (centripetal) and away from primary position (centrifugal) that were matched in amplitude, directional predictability, as well as orbital starting position. In accord with earlier research, we found that fMRI activity in the superior colliculus (SC), as well as in the frontal eye fields and the intraparietal sulcus, was enhanced contralateral to saccade direction across all saccade conditions. Furthermore, the SC exhibited a relative activity decrease during re-centering relative to centrifugal saccades, a pattern that was paralleled by faster saccadic reaction times. In contrast, activity within the cortical eye fields was not significantly modulated during re-centering saccades as compared to other saccade types, suggesting that the re-centering bias is predominantly implemented at a subcortical rather than cortical processing stage. Such a modulation might reflect a special coding bias facilitating the return of gaze to a default position in the gaze space in which retinotopic and egocentric reference frames are aligned and from which the visual world can be effectively explored.

The Implicit Association Test (IAT) is the most popular measure to evaluate implicit attitudes. Nevertheless, its neural correlates are not yet fully understood. We examined event related potentials (ERPs) in response to face- and word processing while indigenous and non-indigenous participants performed an IAT displaying faces (ingroup and outgroup members) and words (positive and negative valence) as targets of category judgments. The N170 component was modulated by valence of words and by ingroup/outgroup face categorization. Contextual effects (face-words implicitly associated in the task) had an influence on the N170 amplitude modulation. On the one hand, in face categorization, right N170 showed differences according to the association between social categories of faces and affective valence of words. On the other, in word categorization, left N170 presented a similar modulation when the task implied a negative-valence associated with ingroup faces. Only indigenous participants showed a significant IAT effect and N170 differences. Our results demonstrate an early ERP blending of stimuli processing with both intergroup and evaluative contexts, suggesting an integration of contextual information related to intergroup attitudes during the early stages of word and face processing. To our knowledge, this is the first report of early ERPs during an ethnicity IAT, opening a new branch of exchange between social neuroscience and social psychology of attitudes.
The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, we will review different approaches that one can use with transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) to study both its effects on motor behavior and on neural connections in the human brain. Second, we will present evidence obtained in TMS-based studies showing that the dorsal premotor area (PMd), the ventral premotor area (PMv), the supplementary motor area (SMA), and the pre-supplementary motor area (pre-SMA) each have different roles to play in motor behavior. We highlight the importance of the PMd in response selection based on arbitrary cues and in the control of arm movements, the PMv in grasping and in the discrimination of bodily actions, the SMA in movement sequencing and in bimanual coordination, and the pre-SMA in cognitive control. We will also discuss ways in which TMS can be used to chart &quot;true&quot; cerebral reorganization in clinical populations and how TMS might be used as a therapeutic tool to facilitate motor recovery after stroke. We will end our review by discussing some of the methodological challenges and future directions for using this tool in basic and clinical neuroscience.
The phase of ongoing theta (4-8 Hz) and alpha (8-12 Hz) electrophysiological oscillations is coupled to high gamma (80-150 Hz) amplitude, which suggests that low-frequency oscillations modulate local cortical activity. While this phase-amplitude coupling (PAC) has been demonstrated in a variety of tasks and cortical regions, it has not been shown whether task demands differentially affect the regional distribution of the preferred low-frequency coupling to high gamma. To address this issue we investigated multiple-rhythm theta/alpha to high gamma PAC in two subjects with implanted subdural electrocorticographic grids. We show that high gamma amplitude couples to the theta and alpha troughs and demonstrate that, during visual tasks, alpha/high gamma coupling preferentially increases in visual cortical regions. These results suggest that low-frequency phase to high-frequency amplitude coupling is modulated by behavioral task and may reflect a mechanism for selection between communicating neuronal networks.
Ethics is a growing interest for neuroscientists, but rather than signifying a commitment to the protection of human subjects, care of animals, and public understanding to which the professional community is engaged in a fundamental way, interest has been consumed by administrative overhead and the mission creep of institutional ethics reviews. Faculty, trainees, and staff (n=605) in North America whose work involves brain imaging and brain stimulation completed an online survey about ethics in their research. Using factor analysis and linear regression, we found significant effects for invasiveness of imaging technique, professional position, gender, and local presence of bioethics centers. We propose strategies for improving communication between the neuroscience community and ethics review boards, collaborations between neuroscientists and biomedical ethicists, and ethics training in graduate neuroscience programs to revitalize mutual goals and interests.
The ability to represent time and size is essential for thought and action. These domains have traditionally been investigated independently. However, the processing of events in time and space is postulated to have considerable anatomical and behavioral overlap. Here we formally tested for associations and dissociations of abilities in these domains. We examined patterns of impairments in temporal order and relative size judgments in 40 patients with unilateral brain lesions and 20 age-matched control participants. While brain damage can impair both size and temporal order judgments (TOJ), we did not find evidence for global hemispheric differences. When patients were analyzed individually compared to control subjects, we found double dissociations in performances on both kinds of judgments. Voxel lesion symptom mapping allowed us to investigate shared and unique contributions of brain damage to deficits in judgments noticing differences in temporal order and in spatial extent. We found that size and temporal order estimations have overlapping cortical vulnerabilities within the left inferior frontal gyrus, left superior temporal cortex, and bilateral inferior parietal lobule. However, vulnerability unique to TOJ occurred with damage predominantly in left lateralized regions involving inferior and middle frontal cortex and inferior parietal lobule. Conversely, vulnerability unique to size judgments occurred with damage predominantly in right lateralized regions in the supramarginal gyrus and superior temporal cortex. These data provide evidence for interactions between the processing of spatial extent and temporal order; however, they do not provide evidence for right lateralized systems.
Live theater is typically designed to alter the state of mind of the audience. Indeed, the perceptual inputs issuing from a live theatrical performance are intended to represent something else, and the actions, emphasized by the writing and staging, are the key prompting the adhesion of viewers to fiction, i.e., their belief that it is real. This phenomenon raises the issue of the cognitive processes governing access to a fictional reality during live theater and of their cerebral underpinnings. To get insight into the physiological substrates of adhesion we recreated the peculiar context of watching live drama in a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) experiment, with simultaneous recording of heart activity. The instants of adhesion were defined as the co-occurrence of theatrical events determined a priori by the stage director and the spectators' offline reports of moments when fiction acted as reality. These data served to specify, for each spectator, individual fMRI time-series, used in a random-effect group analysis to define the pattern of brain response to theatrical events. The changes in this pattern related to subjects' adhesion to fiction, were investigated using a region of interest analysis. The results showed that adhesion to theatrical events correlated with increased activity in the left BA47 and posterior superior temporal sulcus, together with a decrease in dynamic heart rate variability, leading us to discuss the hypothesis of subtle changes in the subjects' state of awareness, enabling them to mentally dissociate physical and mental (drama-viewing) experiences, to account for the phenomenon of adhesion to dramatic fiction.
It is often assumed that decisions are made by rank-ordering and thus comparing the available choice options based on their subjective values. Rank-ordering requires that the alternatives' subjective values are mentally represented at least on an ordinal scale. Because one alternative cannot be at the same time better and worse than another alternative, choices should satisfy transitivity (if alternative A is preferred over B, and B is preferred over C, A should be preferred over C). Yet, individuals often demonstrate striking violations of transitivity (preferring C over A). We used functional magnetic resonance imaging to study the neural correlates of intransitive choices between gambles varying in magnitude and probability of financial gains. Behavioral intransitivities were common. They occurred because participants did not evaluate the gambles independently, but in comparison with the alternative gamble presented. Neural value signals in prefrontal and parietal cortex were not ordinal-scaled and transitive, but reflected fluctuations in the gambles' local, pairing-dependent preference-ranks. Detailed behavioral analysis of gamble preferences showed that, depending on the difference in the offered gambles' attributes, participants gave variable priority to magnitude or probability and thus shifted between preferring richer or safer gambles. The variable, context-dependent priority given to magnitude and probability was tracked by insula (magnitude) and posterior cingulate (probability). Their activation-balance may reflect the individual decision rules leading to intransitivities. Thus, the phenomenon of intransitivity is reflected in the organization of the neural systems involved in risky decision-making.
Memory disorders are among the most frequent and most debilitating cognitive impairments following acquired brain damage. Cognitive remediation strategies attempt to restore lost memory capacity, provide compensatory techniques or teach the use of external memory aids. Memory rehabilitation has strongly been influenced by memory theory, and the interaction between both has stimulated the development of techniques such as spaced retrieval, vanishing cues or errorless learning. These techniques partly rely on implicit memory and therefore enable even patients with dense amnesia to acquire new information. However, knowledge acquired in this way is often strongly domain-specific and inflexible. In addition, individual patients with amnesia respond differently to distinct interventions. The factors underlying these differences have not yet been identified. Behavioral management of memory failures therefore often relies on a careful description of environmental factors and measurement of associated behavioral disorders such as unawareness of memory failures. The current evidence suggests that patients with less severe disorders benefit from self-management techniques and mnemonics whereas rehabilitation of severely amnesic patients should focus on behavior management, the transmission of domain-specific knowledge through implicit memory processes and the compensation for memory deficits with memory aids.
In autism, impairments in face processing are a relatively recent discovery, but have quickly become a widely accepted aspect of the behavioral profile. Only a handful of studies have investigated potential atypicalities in autism in the development of the neural substrates mediating face processing. High-functioning individuals with autism (HFA) and matched typically developing (TD) controls watched dynamic movie vignettes of faces, common objects, buildings, and scenes of navigation while undergoing an fMRI scan. With these data, we mapped the functional topography of category-selective activation for faces bilaterally in the fusiform gyrus, occipital face area, and posterior superior temporal sulcus. Additionally, we mapped category-selective activation for objects in the lateral occipital area and for places in the parahippocampal place area in the two groups. Our findings do not indicate a generalized disruption in the development of the entire ventral visual pathway in autism. Instead, our results suggest that the functional topography of face-related cortex is selectively disrupted in autism and that this alteration is present in early adolescence. Furthermore, for those HFA adolescents who do exhibit face-selective activation, this activation tends to be located in traditionally object-related regions, which supports the hypothesis that perceptual processing of faces in autism may be more akin to the perceptual processing of common objects in TD individuals.
The term &quot;predictive brain&quot; depicts one of the most relevant concepts in cognitive neuroscience which emphasizes the importance of &quot;looking into the future&quot;, namely prediction, preparation, anticipation, prospection or expectations in various cognitive domains. Analogously, it has been suggested that predictive processing represents one of the fundamental principles of neural computations and that errors of prediction may be crucial for driving neural and cognitive processes as well as behavior. This review discusses research areas which have recognized the importance of prediction and introduces the relevant terminology and leading theories in the field in an attempt to abstract some generative mechanisms of predictive processing. Furthermore, we discuss the process of testing the validity of postulated expectations by matching these to the realized events and compare the subsequent processing of events which confirm to those which violate the initial predictions. We conclude by suggesting that, although a lot is known about this type of processing, there are still many open issues which need to be resolved before a unified theory of predictive processing can be postulated with regard to both cognitive and neural functioning.
Converging lines of evidence indicate that schizophrenia is characterized by impairments of synaptic machinery within cerebral cortical circuits. Efforts to localize these alterations in brain tissue from subjects with schizophrenia have frequently been limited to the quantification of structures that are non-selectively identified (e.g., dendritic spines labeled in Golgi preparations, axon boutons labeled with synaptophysin), or to quantification of proteins using methods unable to resolve relevant cellular compartments. Multiple label fluorescence confocal microscopy represents a means to circumvent many of these limitations, by concurrently extracting information regarding the number, morphology, and relative protein content of synaptic structures. An important adaptation required for studies of human disease is coupling this approach to stereologic methods for systematic random sampling of relevant brain regions. In this review article we consider the application of multiple label fluorescence confocal microscopy to the mapping of synaptic alterations in subjects with schizophrenia and describe the application of a novel, readily automated, iterative intensity/morphological segmentation algorithm for the extraction of information regarding synaptic structure number, size, and relative protein level from tissue sections obtained using unbiased stereological principles of sampling. In this context, we provide examples of the examination of pre- and post-synaptic structures within excitatory and inhibitory circuits of the cerebral cortex.
Almost all cortical areas in the vertebrate brain take part in recurrent connections through the subcortical basal ganglia (BG) nuclei, through parallel inhibitory and excitatory loops. It has been suggested that these circuits can modulate our reactions to external events such that appropriate reactions are chosen from many available options, thereby imposing volitional control over behavior. The saccade system is an excellent model system to study cortico-BG interactions. In this study two possible pathways were investigated that might regulate automaticity of eye movements in the human brain; the cortico-tectal pathway, running directly between the frontal eye fields (FEF) and superior colliculus (SC) and the cortico-striatal pathway from the FEF to the SC involving the caudate nucleus (CN) in the BG. In an event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) paradigm participants made pro- and anti-saccades. A diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) scan was made for reconstruction of white matter tracts between the FEF, CN and SC. DTI fiber tracts were used to divide both the left and right FEF into two sub-areas, projecting to either ipsilateral SC or CN. For each of these FEF zones an event-related fMRI timecourse was extracted. In general activity in the FEF was larger for anti-saccades. This increase in activity was lateralized with respect to anti-saccade direction in FEF zones connected to the SC but not for zones only connected to the CN. These findings suggest that activity along the contralateral FEF-SC projection is responsible for directly generating anti-saccades, whereas the pathway through the BG might merely have a gating function withholding or allowing a pro-saccade.
Great advancements in brain imaging during the last few decades have opened a large number of new possibilities for neuroscientists. The most dominant methodologies (electrophysiological and magnetic resonance-based methods) emphasize temporal and spatial information, respectively. However, theorizing about brain function has recently emphasized the importance of rapid (within 100 ms or so) interactions between different elements of complex neuronal networks. Fast optical imaging, and in particular the event-related optical signal (EROS, a technology that has emerged over the last 15 years) may provide descriptions of localized (to sub-cm level) brain activity with a temporal resolution of less than 100 ms. The main limitations of EROS are its limited penetration, which allows us to image cortical structures not deeper than 3 cm from the surface of the head, and its low signal-to-noise ratio. Advantages include the fact that EROS is compatible with most other imaging methods, including electrophysiological, magnetic resonance, and trans-cranial magnetic stimulation techniques, with which can be recorded concurrently. In this paper we present a summary of the research that has been conducted so far on fast optical imaging, including evidence for the possibility of recording neuronal signals with this method, the properties of the signals, and various examples of applications to the study of human cognitive neuroscience. Extant issues, controversies, and possible future developments are also discussed.
The occipital face area (OFA) is face-selective. This enhanced activation to faces could reflect either generic face and shape-related processing or high-level conceptual processing of identity. Here we examined these two possibilities using a state-dependent transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) paradigm. The lateral occipital (LO) cortex which is activated non-selectively by various types of objects served as a control site. We localized OFA and LO on a per-participant basis using functional MRI. We then examined whether TMS applied to either of these regions affected the ability of participants to decide whether two successively presented and physically different face images were of the same famous person or different famous people. TMS was applied during the delay between first and second face presentations to investigate whether neuronal populations in these regions played a causal role in mediating the behavioral effects of identity repetition. Behaviorally we found a robust identity repetition effect, with shorter reaction times (RTs) when identity was repeated, regardless of the fact that the pictures were physically different. Surprisingly, TMS applied over LO (but not OFA) modulated overall RTs, compared to the No-TMS condition. But critically, we found no effects of TMS to either area that were modulated by identity repetition. Thus, we found no evidence to suggest that OFA or LO contain neuronal representations selective for the identity of famous faces which play a causal role in identity processing. Instead, these brain regions may be involved in the processing of more generic features of their preferred stimulus categories.
Like other species, humans are sensitive to the decisions and actions of conspecifics, which can lead to herd behavior and undesirable outcomes such as stock market bubbles and bank runs. However, how the brain processes this socially derived influence is only poorly understood. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we scanned participants as they made decisions on whether to buy stocks after observing others' buying decisions. We demonstrate that activity in the ventral striatum, an area heavily implicated in reward processing, tracked the degree of influence on participants' decisions arising from the observation of other peoples' decisions. The signal did not track non-human, non-social control decisions. These findings lend weight to the notion that the ventral striatum is involved in the processing of complex social aspects of decision making and identify a possible neural basis for herd behavior.
To investigate the neural systems that contribute to the formation of complex, self-relevant emotional memories, dedicated fans of rival college basketball teams watched a competitive game while undergoing functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). During a subsequent recognition memory task, participants were shown video clips depicting plays of the game, stemming either from previously-viewed game segments (targets) or from non-viewed portions of the same game (foils). After an old-new judgment, participants provided emotional valence and intensity ratings of the clips. A data driven approach was first used to decompose the fMRI signal acquired during free viewing of the game into spatially independent components. Correlations were then calculated between the identified components and post-scanning emotion ratings for successfully encoded targets. Two components were correlated with intensity ratings, including temporal lobe regions implicated in memory and emotional functions, such as the hippocampus and amygdala, as well as a midline fronto-cingulo-parietal network implicated in social cognition and self-relevant processing. These data were supported by a general linear model analysis, which revealed additional valence effects in fronto-striatal-insular regions when plays were divided into positive and negative events according to the fan's perspective. Overall, these findings contribute to our understanding of how emotional factors impact distributed neural systems to successfully encode dynamic, personally-relevant event sequences.
The question of whether our behavior is guided by our conscious intentions is gaining momentum within the field of cognitive neuroscience. It has been demonstrated that the subjective experience that conscious intentions are the driving force of our actions, is built partially on a post hoc reconstruction. Our hypothesis was that this reconstructive process is mediated by an action-monitoring system that compares the predicted and the actual sensory consequences of an action. We applied event-related potentials (ERP) to a variant of the Libet's task in which participants were asked to press a button and to report the time of decision - will judgment (W) - to press. We provided delayed auditory feedbacks after participants' action to signify an action time later than the actual action. We found that auditory feedbacks evoked a negative component in the 250-300 time range, namely action-effect negativity (N(AE)), that is thought to reflect the activity of a system that detects violation from expectancies. We showed that the amplitude of the N(AE) was sensitive to the delay of the auditory feedback, with a larger amplitude for more delayed feedbacks. Furthermore, changes in the N(AE) were also associated with changes in the reported W. These results not only confirm that we infer the time we decided to act from events occurring after the response, but these results also indicate that the subjective experience of when an action is decided is influenced by the activity of an action-monitoring system that detects mismatches between predicted and actual sensory consequences of the actions.
Although positive reward prediction error, a key element in learning that is signaled by dopamine cells, has been extensively studied, little is known about negative reward prediction errors in humans. Detailed animal electrophysiology shows that the habenula, an integrative region involved in many processes including learning, reproduction, and stress responses, also encodes negative reward-related events such as negative reward prediction error signals. In humans, however, the habenula's extremely small size has prevented direct assessments of its function. We developed a method to functionally locate and study the habenula in humans using fMRI, based on the expected reward-dependent response phenomenology of habenula and striatum and, we provide conclusive evidence for activation in human habenula to negative reward prediction errors.
Inferring causality is a fundamental feature of human cognition that allows us to theorize about and predict future states of the world. Michotte suggested that humans automatically perceive causality based on certain perceptual features of events. However, individual differences in judgments of perceptual causality cast doubt on Michotte's view. To gain insights in the neural basis of individual difference in the perception of causality, our participants judged causal relationships in animations of a blue ball colliding with a red ball (a launching event) while fMRI-data were acquired. Spatial continuity and temporal contiguity were varied parametrically in these stimuli. We did not find consistent brain activation differences between trials judged as caused and those judged as non-caused, making it unlikely that humans have universal instantiation of perceptual causality in the brain. However, participants were slower to respond to and showed greater neural activity for violations of causality, suggesting that humans are biased to expect causal relationships when moving objects appear to interact. Our participants demonstrated considerable individual differences in their sensitivity to spatial and temporal characteristics in perceiving causality. These qualitative differences in sensitivity to time or space in perceiving causality were instantiated in individual differences in activation of the left basal ganglia or right parietal lobe, respectively. Thus, the perception that the movement of one object causes the movement of another is triggered by elemental spatial and temporal sensitivities, which themselves are instantiated in specific distinct neural networks.
Polarised light imaging (PLI) utilises the birefringence of the myelin sheaths in order to visualise the orientation of nerve fibres in microtome sections of adult human post-mortem brains at ultra-high spatial resolution. The preparation of post-mortem brains for PLI involves fixation, freezing and cutting into 100-mum-thick sections. Hence, geometrical distortions of histological sections are inevitable and have to be removed for 3D reconstruction and subsequent fibre tracking. We here present a processing pipeline for 3D reconstruction of these sections using PLI derived multimodal images of post-mortem brains. Blockface images of the brains were obtained during cutting; they serve as reference data for alignment and elimination of distortion artefacts. In addition to the spatial image transformation, fibre orientation vectors were reoriented using the transformation fields, which consider both affine and subsequent non-linear registration. The application of this registration and reorientation approach results in a smooth fibre vector field, which reflects brain morphology. PLI combined with 3D reconstruction and fibre tracking is a powerful tool for human brain mapping. It can also serve as an independent method for evaluating in vivo fibre tractography.
Neuroimaging studies of biological motion perception have found a network of coordinated brain areas, the hub of which appears to be the human posterior superior temporal sulcus (STSp). Understanding the functional role of the STSp requires characterizing the response tuning of neuronal populations underlying the BOLD response. Thus far our understanding of these response properties comes from single-unit studies of the monkey anterior STS, which has individual neurons tuned to body actions, with a small population invariant to changes in viewpoint, position and size of the action being viewed. To measure for homologous functional properties on the human STS, we used fMR-adaptation to investigate action, position and size invariance. Observers viewed pairs of point-light animations depicting human actions that were either identical, differed in the action depicted, locally scrambled, or differed in the viewing perspective, the position or the size. While extrastriate hMT+ had neural signals indicative of viewpoint specificity, the human STS adapted for all of these changes, as compared to viewing two different actions. Similar findings were observed in more posterior brain areas also implicated in action recognition. Our findings are evidence for viewpoint invariance in the human STS and related brain areas, with the implication that actions are abstracted into object-centered representations during visual analysis.
Current research in affective neuroscience suggests that the emotional content of visual stimuli activates brain-body responses that could be critical to general health and physical disease. The aim of this study was to develop an integrated neurophysiological approach linking central and peripheral markers of nervous activity during the presentation of natural scenes in order to determine the temporal stages of brain processing related to the bodily impact of emotions. More specifically, whole head magnetoencephalogram (MEG) data and skin conductance response (SCR), a reliable autonomic marker of central activation, were recorded in healthy volunteers during the presentation of emotional (unpleasant and pleasant) and neutral pictures selected from the International Affective Picture System (IAPS). Analyses of event-related magnetic fields (ERFs) revealed greater activity at 180 ms in an occipitotemporal component for emotional pictures than for neutral counterparts. More importantly, these early effects of emotional arousal on cerebral activity were significantly correlated with later increases in SCR magnitude. For the first time, a neuromagnetic cortical component linked to a well-documented marker of bodily arousal expression of emotion, namely, the SCR, was identified and located. This finding sheds light on the time course of the brain-body interaction with emotional arousal and provides new insights into the neural bases of complex and reciprocal mind-body links.
Healthy aging is typically accompanied by some decline in cognitive performance, as well as by alterations in brain structure and function. Here we report the results of a randomized, controlled trial designed to determine the effects of a novel cognitive training program on resting cerebral blood flow (CBF) and gray matter (GM) volume in healthy older adults. Sixty-six healthy older adults participated in 8 weeks of either a training program targeting attention and distractibility or an educational control program. This training program produced significantly larger increases in resting CBF to the prefrontal cortex than the control program. Increases in blood flow were associated with reduced susceptibility to distraction after training, but not with alterations in GM volume. These data demonstrate that cognitive training can improve resting CBF in healthy older adults and that cerebral perfusion rates may be a more sensitive indicator of the benefits of cognitive training than volumetric analyses.
THE STUDY OF SOCIOECONOMIC STATUS (SES) AND THE BRAIN FINDS ITSELF IN A CIRCUMSTANCE UNUSUAL FOR COGNITIVE NEUROSCIENCE: large numbers of questions with both practical and scientific importance exist, but they are currently under-researched and ripe for investigation. This review aims to highlight these questions, to outline their potential significance, and to suggest routes by which they might be approached. Although remarkably few neural studies have been carried out so far, there exists a large literature of previous behavioural work. This behavioural research provides an invaluable guide for future neuroimaging work, but also poses an important challenge for it: how can we ensure that the neural data contributes predictive or diagnostic power over and above what can be derived from behaviour alone? We discuss some of the open mechanistic questions which Cognitive Neuroscience may have the power to illuminate, spanning areas including language, numerical cognition, stress, memory, and social influences on learning. These questions have obvious practical and societal significance, but they also bear directly on a set of longstanding questions in basic science: what are the environmental and neural factors which affect the acquisition and retention of declarative and nondeclarative skills? Perhaps the best opportunity for practical and theoretical interests to converge is in the study of interventions. Many interventions aimed at improving the cognitive development of low SES children are currently underway, but almost all are operating without either input from, or study by, the Cognitive Neuroscience community. Given that longitudinal intervention studies are very hard to set up, but can, with proper designs, be ideal tests of causal mechanisms, this area promises exciting opportunities for future research.
A long-standing debate in cognitive neuroscience pertains to the innate nature of language development and the underlying factors that determine this faculty. We explored the neural correlates associated with language processing in a unique individual who is early blind, congenitally deaf, and possesses a high level of language function. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we compared the neural networks associated with the tactile reading of words presented in Braille, Print on Palm (POP), and a haptic form of American Sign Language (haptic ASL or hASL). With all three modes of tactile communication, indentifying words was associated with robust activation within occipital cortical regions as well as posterior superior temporal and inferior frontal language areas (lateralized within the left hemisphere). In a normally sighted and hearing interpreter, identifying words through hASL was associated with left-lateralized activation of inferior frontal language areas however robust occipital cortex activation was not observed. Diffusion tensor imaging -based tractography revealed differences consistent with enhanced occipital-temporal connectivity in the deaf-blind subject. Our results demonstrate that in the case of early onset of both visual and auditory deprivation, tactile-based communication is associated with an extensive cortical network implicating occipital as well as posterior superior temporal and frontal associated language areas. The cortical areas activated in this deaf-blind subject are consistent with characteristic cortical regions previously implicated with language. Finally, the resilience of language function within the context of early and combined visual and auditory deprivation may be related to enhanced connectivity between relevant cortical areas.

The nucleus accumbens (NA) has been hypothesized to be part of a circuit in which cue-evoked information about expected outcomes is mobilized to guide behavior. Here we tested this hypothesis using a Pavlovian reinforcer devaluation task, previously applied to assess outcome-guided behavior after damage to regions such as the orbitofrontal cortex and amygdala that send projections to NA. Rats with sham lesions or neurotoxic lesions of either the core or shell subdivision of NA were trained to associate a 10-s CS+ with delivery of three food pellets. After training, half of the rats in each lesion group received food paired with illness induced by LiCl injections; the remaining rats received food and illness unpaired. Subsequently, responding to the CS+ was assessed in an extinction probe test. Both sham and lesioned rats conditioned to the CS+ and formed a conditioned taste aversion. However only sham rats reduced their conditioned responding as a result of reinforcer devaluation; devalued rats with lesions of either core or shell showed levels of responding that were similar to lesioned, non-devalued rats. This impairment was not due to the loss of motivational salience conferred to the CS+ in lesioned rats as both groups responded similarly for the cue in conditioned reinforcement testing. These data suggest that NA core and shell are part of a circuit necessary for the use of cue-evoked information about expected outcomes to guide behavior.
Primates often rely on vocal communication to mediate social interactions. Although much is known about the acoustic structure of primate vocalizations and the social context in which they are usually uttered, our knowledge about the neocortical control of audio-vocal interactions in primates is still incipient, being mostly derived from lesion studies in squirrel monkeys and macaques. To map the neocortical areas related to vocal control in a New World primate species, the common marmoset, we employed a method previously used with success in other vertebrate species: Analysis of the expression of the immediate early gene Egr-1 in freely behaving animals. The neocortical distribution of Egr-1 immunoreactive cells in three marmosets that were exposed to the playback of conspecific vocalizations and vocalized spontaneously (H/V group) was compared to data from three other marmosets that also heard the playback but did not vocalize (H/n group). The anterior cingulate cortex, the dorsomedial prefrontal cortex and the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex presented a higher number of Egr-1 immunoreactive cells in the H/V group than in H/n animals. Our results provide direct evidence that the ventrolateral prefrontal cortex, the region that comprises Broca's area in humans and has been associated with auditory processing of species-specific vocalizations and orofacial control in macaques, is engaged during vocal output in marmosets. Altogether, our results support the notion that the network of neocortical areas related to vocal communication in marmosets is quite similar to that of Old world primates. The vocal production role played by these areas and their importance for the evolution of speech in primates are discussed.
We evaluated to what extent the influence of eye position in the auditory pathway of primates can be described as a gain field. We compared single unit activity in the inferior colliculus (IC), core auditory cortex (A1) and the caudomedial belt (CM) region of auditory cortex (AC) in primates, and found stronger evidence for gain field-like interactions in the IC than in AC. In the IC, eye position signals showed both multiplicative and additive interactions with auditory responses, whereas in AC the effects were not as well predicted by a gain field model.
We assessed whether the presence of contextual cues paired with alcohol would disrupt rats' capacity to express appropriate goal-directed action control. Rats were first given differential context conditioning such that one set of contextual cues was paired with the injection of ethanol and a second, distinctive set of cues was paired with the injection of saline. All rats were then trained in a third, neutral context to press one lever for grain pellets and another lever for sucrose pellets. They were then given two extinction tests to evaluate their ability to choose between the two actions in response to the devaluation of one of the two food outcomes with one test conducted in the alcohol-paired context and the other conducted in the control (saline-paired) context. In the control context, rats exhibited goal-directed action control; i.e., they were able selectively to withhold the action that previously earned the now devalued outcome. However, these same rats were impaired when tested in the alcohol-paired context, performing both actions at the same rate regardless of the current value of their respective outcomes. Subsequent testing revealed that the rats were capable of overcoming this impairment if they were giving response-contingent feedback about the current value of the food outcomes. These results provide a clear demonstration of the disruptive influence that alcohol-paired cues can exert on decision-making in general and goal-directed action selection and choice in particular.
The mediodorsal thalamus (MD) is a crucial component of the neural network involved in the learning and generation of goal-directed actions. A series of experiments reported here examined the contributions of MD to the temporal differentiation of reward-guided actions. In Experiment 1, we trained rats on a discrete-trial, fixed-criterion temporal differentiation task, in which only lever presses exceeding a threshold duration value were rewarded. Pre-training MD lesions impaired temporal differentiation of action duration, by increasing the dispersion of the duration distribution. Post-training MD lesions also impaired differentiation, but by reducing the average emitted press durations, thus shifting the distribution without increasing the dispersion. In Experiment 2, we trained rats to space their lever pressing above criterion inter-press-intervals in order to earn rewards. Both pre-training and post-training MD lesions impaired the differentiation of inter-press-intervals. These results show that MD plays an important role in the acquisition and expression of action differentiation.
Interval schedules of reinforcement are known to generate habitual behavior, the performance of which is less sensitive to revaluation of the earned reward and to alterations in the action-outcome contingency. Here we report results from experiments using different types of interval schedules of reinforcement in mice to assess the effect of uncertainty, in the time of reward availability, on habit formation. After limited training, lever pressing under fixed interval (FI, low interval uncertainty) or random interval schedules (RI, higher interval uncertainty) was sensitive to devaluation, but with more extended training, performance of animals trained under RI schedules became more habitual, i.e. no longer sensitive to devaluation, whereas performance of those trained under FI schedules remained goal-directed. When the press-reward contingency was reversed by omitting reward after pressing but presenting reward in the absence of pressing, lever pressing in mice previously trained under FI decreased more rapidly than that of mice trained under RI schedules. Further analysis revealed that action-reward contiguity is significantly reduced in lever pressing under RI schedules, whereas action-reward correlation is similar for the different schedules. Thus the extent of goal-directedness could vary as a function of uncertainty about the time of reward availability. We hypothesize that the reduced action-reward contiguity found in behavior generated under high uncertainty is responsible for habit formation.
The neocortex plays a critical role in the gradual formation and storage of remote declarative memories. Because the circuitry mechanisms of systems-level consolidation are not well understood, the precise cortical sites for memory storage and the nature of enduring memory correlates (mnemonic plasticity) are largely unknown. Detailed maps of neuronal activity underlying recent and remote memory recall highlight brain regions that participate in systems consolidation and constitute putative storage sites, and thus may facilitate detection of mnemonic plasticity. To localize cortical regions involved in the recall of a spatial memory task, we trained rats in a water-maze and then mapped mRNA expression patterns of a neuronal activity marker Arc/Arg3.1 (Arc) upon recall of recent (24 h after training) or remote (1 month after training) memories and compared them with swimming and naive controls. Arc gene expression was significantly more robust 24 h after training compared to 1 month after training. Arc expression diminished in the parietal, cingulate and visual areas, but select segments in the prefrontal, retrosplenial, somatosensory and motor cortical showed similar robust increases in the Arc expression. When Arc expression was compared across select segments of sensory, motor and associative regions within recent and remote memory groups, the overall magnitude and cortical laminar patterns of task-specific Arc expression were similar (stereotypical). Arc mRNA fractions expressed in the upper cortical layers (2/3, 4) increased after both recent and remote recall, while layer 6 fractions decreased only after the recent recall. The data suggest that robust recall of remote memory requires an overall smaller increase in neuronal activity within fewer cortical segments. This activity trend highlights the difficulty in detecting the storage sites and plasticity underlying remote memory. Application of the Arc maps may ameliorate this difficulty.
In contrast with for example audiovisual speech, the relation between visual and auditory properties of letters and speech sounds is artificial and learned only by explicit instruction. The arbitrariness of the audiovisual link together with the widespread usage of letter-speech sound pairs in alphabetic languages makes those audiovisual objects a unique subject for crossmodal research. Brain imaging evidence has indicated that heteromodal areas in superior temporal, as well as modality-specific auditory cortex are involved in letter-speech sound processing. The role of low level visual areas, however, remains unclear. In this study the visual counterpart of the auditory mismatch negativity (MMN) is used to investigate the influences of speech sounds on letter processing. Letter and non-letter deviants were infrequently presented in a train of standard letters, either in isolation or simultaneously with speech sounds. Although previous findings showed that letters systematically modulate speech sound processing (reflected by auditory MMN amplitude modulation), the reverse does not seem to hold: our results did not show evidence for an automatic influence of speech sounds on letter processing (no visual MMN amplitude modulation). This apparent asymmetric recruitment of low level sensory cortices during letter-speech sound processing, contrasts with the symmetric involvement of these cortices in audiovisual speech processing, and is possibly due to the arbitrary nature of the link between letters and speech sounds.
In general, individuals look where they attend and next intend to act. Many animals, including our own species, use observed gaze as a deictic (&quot;pointing&quot;) cue to guide behavior. Among humans, these responses are reflexive and pervasive: they arise within a fraction of a second, act independently of task relevance, and appear to undergird our initial development of language and theory of mind. Human and nonhuman animals appear to share basic gaze-following behaviors, suggesting the foundations of human social cognition may also be present in nonhuman brains.
The overall goal of this study was to determine if parasympathetic nervous system (PsNS) activity is a significant biomarker of sensory processing difficulties in children. Several studies have demonstrated that PsNS activity is an important regulator of reactivity in children, and thus, it is of interest to study whether PsNS activity is related to sensory reactivity in children who have a type of condition associated with sensory processing disorders termed sensory modulation dysfunction (SMD). If so, this will have important implications for understanding the mechanisms underlying sensory processing problems of children and for developing intervention strategies to address them. The primary aims of this project were: (1) to evaluate PsNS activity in children with SMD compared to typically developing (TYP) children, and (2) to determine if PsNS activity is a significant predictor of sensory behaviors and adaptive functions among children with SMD. We examine PsNS activity during the Sensory Challenge Protocol; which includes baseline, the administration of eight sequential stimuli in five sensory domains, recovery, and also evaluate response to a prolonged auditory stimulus. As a secondary aim we examined whether subgroups of children with specific physiological and behavioral sensory reactivity profiles can be identified. Results indicate that as a total group the children with severe SMD demonstrated a trend for low baseline PsNS activity, compared to TYP children, suggesting this may be a biomarker for SMD. In addition, children with SMD as a total group demonstrated significantly poorer adaptive behavior in the communication and daily living subdomains and in the overall Adaptive Behavior Composite of the Vineland than TYP children. Using latent class analysis, the subjects were grouped by severity and the severe SMD group had significantly lower PsNS activity at baseline, tones and prolonged auditory. These results provide preliminary evidence that children who demonstrate severe SMD may have physiological activity that is different from children without SMD, and that these physiological and behavioral manifestations of SMD may affect a child's ability to engage in everyday social, communication, and daily living skills.

The diversity of neuronal cell types and how to classify them are perennial questions in neuroscience. The advent of global gene expression analysis raised the possibility that comprehensive transcription profiling will resolve neuronal cell types into groups that reflect some or all aspects of their phenotype. This approach has been successfully used to compare gene expression between groups of neurons defined by a common property. Here we extend this approach to ask whether single neuron gene expression profiling can prospectively resolve neuronal subtypes into groups, independent of any phenotypic information, and whether those groups reflect meaningful biological properties of those neurons. We applied methods we have developed to compare gene expression among single neural stem cells to study global gene expression in 18 randomly picked neurons from layer II/III of the early postnatal mouse neocortex. Cells were selected by morphology and by firing characteristics and electrical properties, enabling the definition of each cell as either fast- or regular-spiking, corresponding to a class of inhibitory interneurons or excitatory pyramidal cells. Unsupervised clustering of young neurons by global gene expression resolved the cells into two groups and those broadly corresponded with the two groups of fast- and regular-spiking neurons. Clustering of the entire, diverse group of 18 neurons of different developmental stages also successfully grouped neurons in accordance with the electrophysiological phenotypes, but with more cells misassigned among groups. Genes specifically enriched in regular spiking neurons were identified from the young neuron expression dataset. These results provide a proof of principle that single-cell gene expression profiling may be used to group and classify neurons in a manner reflecting their known biological properties and may be used to identify cell-specific transcripts.
mRNP granules at adult central synapses are postulated to regulate local mRNA translation and synapse plasticity. However, they are very poorly characterized in vivo. Here, in Drosophila olfactory synapses, we present early observations and characterization of candidate synaptic mRNP particles, one of which contains a widely conserved, DEAD-box helicase, Me31B. In Drosophila, Me31B is required for translational repression of maternal and miRNA-target mRNAs. A role in neuronal translational control is primarily suggested by Me31B's localization, in cultured primary neurons, to neuritic mRNP granules that contain: (i) various translational regulators; (ii) CaMKII mRNA; and (iii) several P-body markers including the mRNA hydrolases, Dcp1, and Pcm/Xrn-1. In adult neurons, Me31B localizes to P-body like cytoplasmic foci/particles in neuronal soma. In addition it is present to synaptic foci that may lack RNA degradative enzymes and localize predominantly to dendritic elements of olfactory sensory and projection neurons (PNs). MARCM clones of PNs mutant for Me31B show loss of both Me31B and Dcp1-positive dendritic puncta, suggesting potential interactions between these granule types. In PNs, expression of validated hairpin-RNAi constructs against Me31B causes visible knockdown of endogenous protein, as assessed by the brightness and number of Me31B puncta. Knockdown of Me31B also causes a substantial elevation in observed levels of a translational reporter of CaMKII, a postsynaptic protein whose mRNA has been shown to be localized to PN dendrites and to be translationally regulated, at least in part through the miRNA pathway. Thus, neuronal Me31B is present in dendritic particles in vivo and is required for repression of a translationally regulated synaptic mRNA.
Locomotion is a fundamental motor act that, to a large degree, is controlled by central pattern-generating (CPG) networks in the spinal cord. Glutamate is thought to be responsible for most of the excitatory input to and the excitatory activity within the locomotor CPG. However, previous studies in mammals have produced conflicting results regarding the necessity and role of the different ionotropic glutamate receptors (GluRs) in the CPG function. Here, we use electrophysiological and pharmacological techniques in the in vitro neonatal mouse lumbar spinal cord to investigate the role of a broad range of ionotropic GluRs in the control of locomotor speed and intrinsic locomotor network function. We show that non-NMDA (non-NMDARs) and NMDA receptor (NMDAR) systems may independently mediate locomotor-like activity and that these receptors set different speeds of locomotor-like activity through mechanisms acting at various network levels. AMPA and kainate receptors are necessary for generating the highest locomotor frequencies. For coordination, NMDARs are more important than non-NMDARs for conveying the rhythmic signal from the network to the motor neurons during long-lasting and steady locomotor activity. This study reveals that a diversity of ionotropic GluRs tunes the network to perform at different locomotor speeds and provides multiple levels for potential regulation and plasticity.
Synapses are important functional units that determine how information flows through the brain. Understanding their biophysical properties and the molecules that underpin them is an important goal of cellular neuroscience. Thus, it is of interest to develop protocols that allow easy measurement of synaptic parameters in model systems that permit molecular manipulations. Here, we used a sensitive and high-time resolution optical approach that allowed us to characterize two functional parameters critical to presynaptic efficacy: vesicle fusion probability (Pv) and readily-releasable pool size (RRP). We implemented two different approaches to determine the RRP size that were in broad agreement: depletion of the RRP by high-frequency stimulation and saturation of the calcium sensor during single action potential stimuli. Our methods are based on reporters that provide a robust, quantitative, purely presynaptic readout and present a new avenue to study molecules that affect synaptic vesicle exocytosis.
An endogenous electrical field effect, i.e., ephaptic transmission, occurs when an electric field associated with activity occurring in one neuron polarizes the membrane of another neuron. It is well established that field effects occur during pathological conditions, such as epilepsy, but less clear if they play a functional role in the healthy brain. Here, we describe the principles of field effect interactions, discuss identified field effects in diverse brain structures from the teleost Mauthner cell to the mammalian cortex, and speculate on the function of these interactions. Recent evidence supports that relatively weak endogenous and exogenous field effects in laminar structures reach significance because they are amplified by network interactions. Such interactions may be important in rhythmogenesis for the cortical slow wave and hippocampal sharp wave-ripple, and also during transcranial stimulation.
Acetylcholine is the primary neuromodulator involved in cortical arousal in mammals. Cholinergic modulation is involved in conscious awareness, memory formation and attention - processes that involve intercommunication between different cortical regions. Such communication is achieved in part through temporal structuring of neuronal activity by population rhythms, particularly in the beta and gamma frequency ranges (12-80 Hz). Here we demonstrate, using in vitro and in silico models, that spectrally identical patterns of beta2 and gamma rhythms are generated in primary sensory areas and polymodal association areas by fundamentally different local circuit mechanisms: Glutamatergic excitation induced beta2 frequency population rhythms only in layer 5 association cortex whereas cholinergic neuromodulation induced this rhythm only in layer 5 primary sensory cortex. This region-specific sensitivity of local circuits to cholinergic modulation allowed for control of the extent of cortical temporal interactions. Furthermore, the contrasting mechanisms underlying these beta2 rhythms produced a high degree of directionality, favouring an influence of association cortex over primary auditory cortex.
Neurons in the deepest layer of mammalian cerebral cortex are morphologically and physiological diverse and are situated in a strategic position to modulate neuronal activity locally and in other structures. The variety of neuronal circuits within which layer 6 neurons participate differs across species and cortical regions. However even amidst this diversity, common organizational features emerge. Examination of the anatomical and physiological characteristics of different classes of layer 6 neuron, each specialized to participate in distinct circuits, provides insight into the functional contributions of layer 6 neurons toward cortical information processing.
Whole-cell recordings were obtained from mossy fibre terminals in adult turtles in order to characterize the basic membrane properties. Calcium imaging of presynaptic calcium signals was carried out in order to analyse calcium dynamics and presynaptic GABA B inhibition. A tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive fast Na(+) spike faithfully followed repetitive depolarizing pulses with little change in spike duration or amplitude, while a strong outward rectification dominated responses to long-lasting depolarizations. High-threshold calcium spikes were uncovered following addition of potassium channel blockers. Calcium imaging using Calcium-Green dextran revealed a stimulus-evoked all-or-none TTX-sensitive calcium signal in simple and complex rosettes. All compartments of a complex rosette were activated during electrical activation of the mossy fibre, while individual simple and complex rosettes along an axon appeared to be isolated from one another in terms of calcium signalling. CGP55845 application showed that GABA B receptors mediated presynaptic inhibition of the calcium signal over the entire firing frequency range of mossy fibres. A paired-pulse depression of the calcium signal lasting more than 1 s affected burst firing in mossy fibres; this paired-pulse depression was reduced by GABA B antagonists. While our results indicated that a presynaptic rosette electrophysiologically functioned as a unit, topical GABA application showed that calcium signals in the branches of complex rosettes could be modulated locally, suggesting that cerebellar glomeruli may be dynamically sub-compartmentalized due to ongoing inhibition mediated by Golgi cells. This could provide a fine-grained control of mossy fibre-granule cell information transfer and synaptic plasticity within a mossy fibre rosette.
Physiological measurements in neuroscience experiments often involve complex stimulus paradigms and multiple data channels. Ephus (http://www.ephus.org) is an open-source software package designed for general-purpose data acquisition and instrument control. Ephus operates as a collection of modular programs, including an ephys program for standard whole-cell recording with single or multiple electrodes in typical electrophysiological experiments, and a mapper program for synaptic circuit mapping experiments involving laser scanning photostimulation based on glutamate uncaging or channelrhodopsin-2 excitation. Custom user functions allow user-extensibility at multiple levels, including on-line analysis and closed-loop experiments, where experimental parameters can be changed based on recently acquired data, such as during in vivo behavioral experiments. Ephus is compatible with a variety of data acquisition and imaging hardware. This paper describes the main features and modules of Ephus and their use in representative experimental applications.
The canonical view of striatal GABAergic interneurons has evolved over several decades of neuroanatomical/neurochemical and electrophysiological studies. From the anatomical studies, three distinct GABAergic interneuronal subtypes are generally recognized. The best-studied subtype expresses the calcium-binding protein, parvalbumin. The second best known interneuron type expresses a number of neuropeptides and enzymes, including neuropeptide Y, somatostatin, and nitric oxide synthase. The last GABAergic interneuron subtype expresses the calcium binding protein, calretinin. There is no overlap or co-localization of these three different sets of markers. The parvalbumin-immunoreactive GABAergic interneurons have been recorded in vitro and shown to exhibit a fast-spiking phenotype characterized by short duration action potentials with large and rapid spike AHPs. They often fire in a stuttering pattern of high frequency firing interrupted by periods of silence. They are capable of sustained firing rates of over 200Hz. The NPY/SOM/NOS interneurons have been identified as PLTS cells, exhibiting very high input resistances, low threshold spike and prolonged plateau potentials in response to intracellular depolarization or excitatory synaptic stimulation. Thus far, no recordings from identified CR interneurons have been obtained. Recent advances in technological approaches, most notably the generation of several BAC transgenic mouse strains which express a fluorescent marker, enhanced green fluorescent protein, specifically and selectively only in neurons of a certain genetic makeup (e.g., parvalbumin-, neuropeptide Y-, or tyrosine hydroxylase-expressing neurons etc.) have led to the ability of electrophysiologists to visualize and patch specific neuron types in brain slices with epifluorescence illumination. This has led to a rapid expansion of the number of neurochemically and/or electrophysiologically identified interneuronal cell types in the striatum and elsewhere. This article will review the anatomy, neurochemistry, electrophysiology, synaptic connections, and function of the three &quot;classic&quot; striatal GABAergic interneurons as well as more recent data derived from in vitro recordings from BAC transgenic mice as well as recent in vivo data.
An important component of the architecture of cortico-basal ganglia connections is the parallel, re-entrant looped projections that originate and return to specific regions of the cerebral cortex. However, such loops are unlikely to have been the first evolutionary example of a closed-loop architecture involving the basal ganglia. A phylogenetically older, series of subcortical loops can be shown to link the basal ganglia with many brainstem sensorimotor structures. While the characteristics of individual components of potential subcortical re-entrant loops have been documented, the full extent to which they represent functionally segregated parallel projecting channels remains to be determined. However, for one midbrain structure, the superior colliculus (SC), anatomical evidence for closed-loop connectivity with the basal ganglia is robust, and can serve as an example against which the loop hypothesis can be evaluated for other subcortical structures. Examination of ascending projections from the SC to the thalamus suggests there may be multiple functionally segregated systems. The SC also provides afferent signals to the other principal input nuclei of the basal ganglia, the dopaminergic neurones in substantia nigra and to the subthalamic nucleus. Recent electrophysiological investigations show that the afferent signals originating in the SC carry important information concerning the onset of biologically significant events to each of the basal ganglia input nuclei. Such signals are widely regarded as crucial for the proposed functions of selection and reinforcement learning with which the basal ganglia have so often been associated.
Involuntary movements or dyskinesia, represent a debilitating complication of levodopa therapy for Parkinson's disease. Dyskinesia is, ultimately, experienced by the vast majority of the patients. Despite the importance of this problem, little was known about the cause of dyskinesia, a situation that has dramatically evolved in the last few years with a focus upon the molecular and signaling changes induced by chronic levodopa treatment. Departing from this, we here review the progress made in functional anatomy and neuroimaging that have had a tremendous impact on our understanding of the anatomo-functional organization of the basal ganglia in Parkinsonism and dyskinetic states, notably the demonstration that dyskinesia are linked to a pathological processing of limbic and cognitive information.
Since the pioneer work of Lorente de N, Ramn y Cajal, Brodmann, Mountcastle, Hubel and Wiesel and others, the cerebral cortex has been seen as a jigsaw of anatomic and functional modules involved in the processing of different sets of information. In fact, a columnar distribution of neurons displaying similar functional properties throughout the cerebral cortex has been observed by many researchers. Although it has been suggested that much of the anatomical substrate for such organization would be already specified at early developmental stages, before activity-dependent mechanisms could take place, it is still unclear whether gene expression in the ventricular zone (VZ) could play a role in the development of discrete functional units, such as minicolumns or columns. Cell lineage experiments using replication-incompetent retroviral vectors have shown that the progeny of a single neuroepithelial/radial glial cell in the dorsal telencephalon is organized into discrete radial clusters of sibling excitatory neurons, which have a higher propensity for developing chemical synapses with each other rather than with neighboring non-siblings. Here, we will discuss the possibility that the cell lineage of single neuroepithelial/radial glia cells could contribute for the columnar organization of the neocortex by generating radial columns of sibling, interconnected neurons. Borrowing some concepts from the studies on cell-cell recognition and transcription factor networks, we will also touch upon the potential molecular mechanisms involved in the establishment of sibling-neuron circuits.
Three-dimensional morphological information about neural microcircuits is of high interest in neuroscience, but acquiring this information remains challenging. A promising new correlative technique for brain imaging is array tomography (Micheva and Smith, 2007), in which series of ultrathin brain sections are treated with fluorescent antibodies against neurotransmitters and synaptic proteins. Treated sections are repeatedly imaged in the fluorescence light microscope (FLM) and then in the electron microscope (EM). We explore a similar correlative imaging technique in which we differentially label distinct populations of projection neurons, the key routers of electrical signals in the brain. In songbirds, projection neurons can easily be labeled using neural tracers, because the vocal control areas are segregated into separate nuclei. We inject tracers into areas afferent and efferent to the main premotor area for vocal production, HVC, to retrogradely and anterogradely label different classes of projection neurons. We optimize tissue preparation protocols to achieve high fluorescence contrast in the FLM and good ultrastructure in the EM (using osmium tetroxide). Although tracer fluorescence is lost during EM preparation, we localize the tracer molecules after fixation and embedding by using fluorescent antibodies against them. We detect signals mainly in somata and dendrites, allowing us to classify synapses within a single ultrathin section as belonging to a particular type of projection neuron. The use of our method will be to provide statistical information about connectivity among different neuron classes, and to elucidate how signals in the brain are processed and routed among different areas.
Ramn y Cajal's studies in the field of neuroscience provoked a radical change in the course of its history. For this reason he is considered as the father of modern neuroscience. Some of his original preparations are housed at the Cajal Museum (Cajal Institute, CSIC, Madrid, Spain). In this article, we catalogue and analyse more than 4,500 of Cajal's histological preparations, the same preparations he used during his scientific career. Furthermore, we catalogued Cajal's original correspondence, both manuscripts and personal letters, drawings and plates. This is the first time anyone has compiled an account of Cajal's enormous scientific production, offering some curious insights into his work and his legacy.
THE SEARCH FOR THE FUNDAMENTAL BUILDING BLOCK OF THE CEREBRAL CORTEX HAS HIGHLIGHTED THREE STRUCTURES, PERPENDICULAR TO THE CORTICAL SURFACE: (i) columns of neurons with radially invariant response properties, e.g., receptive field position, sensory modality, stimulus orientation or direction, frequency tuning etc., (ii) minicolumns of radially aligned cell bodies and (iii) bundles, constituted by the apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons with cell bodies in different layers. The latter were described in detail, and sometimes quantitatively, in several species and areas. It was recently suggested that the dendritic bundles consist of apical dendrites belonging to neurons projecting their axons to specific targets. We review the concept above and suggest that another structural and computational unit of cerebral cortex is the cortical output unit, i.e., an assembly of bundles of apical dendrites and their parent cell bodies including each of the outputs to distant cortical or subcortical structures, of a given cortical locus (area or part of an area). This somato-dendritic assembly receives inputs some of which are common to the whole assembly and determine its radially invariant response properties, others are specific to one or more dendritic bundles, and determine the specific response signature of neurons in the different cortical layers and projecting to different targets.

The development of effective pharmacotherapy for obesity will benefit from a more complete understanding of the neural pathways and the neurochemical signals whose actions result in the reduction of the size of meals. This review examines the neural control of meal size and the integration of two principal sources of that control--satiation signals arising from the gastrointestinal tract and CNS leptin signaling. Four types of integrations that are central to the control of meal size are described and each involves the neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) in the dorsal hindbrain. Data discussed show that NTS neurons integrate information arising from: (1) ascending GI-derived vagal afferent projections, (2) descending neuropeptidergic projections from leptin-activated arcuate and paraventricular nucleus neurons, (3) leptin signaling in NTS neurons themselves and (4) melanocortinergic projections from NTS and hypothalamic POMC neurons to NTS neurons and melanocortinergic modulation of vagal afferent nerve terminals that are presynaptic to NTS neurons.
Over the last decade there has been a striking increase in the early onset of metabolic disease, including obesity and diabetes. The regulation of energy homeostasis is complex and involves the intricate integration of peripheral and central systems, including the hypothalamus. This review provides an overview of the development of brain circuitry involved in the regulation of energy homeostasis as well as recent findings related to the impact of both prenatal and postnatal maternal environment on the development of these circuits. There is surprising evidence that both overnutrition and undernutrition impact the development of these circuits in a similar manner as well as having similar consequences of increased obesity and diabetes later in life. There is also a special focus on relevant species differences in the development of hypothalamic circuits. A deeper understanding of the mechanisms involved in the development of brain circuitry is needed to fully understand how the nutritional and/or maternal environments impact the functional circuitry as well as the behavior and physiological outcomes.
Assessing neuronal activity by non-invasive functional brain imaging techniques which are based on the hemodynamic response depends totally on the physiological cascade of metabolism and blood flow. At present, functional brain imaging with near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) or BOLD-fMRI is widely used in cognitive neuroscience in healthy subjects where neurovascular coupling and cerebrovascular reactivity can be assumed to be intact. Local activation studies as well as studies investigating functional connectivity between brain regions of the resting brain provide a rapidly increasing body of knowledge on brain function in humans and animals. Furthermore, functional NIRS and MRI techniques are increasingly being used in patients with severe brain diseases and this use might gain more and more importance for establishing their use in the clinical routine. However, more and more experimental evidence shows that changes in baseline physiological parameters, pharmacological interventions, or disease-related vascular changes may significantly alter the normal response of blood flow and blood oxygenation and thus may lead to misinterpretation of neuronal activity. In this article we present examples of recent experimental findings on pathophysiological changes of neurovascular coupling parameters in animals and discuss their potential implications for functional imaging based on hemodynamic signals such as fNIRS or BOLD-fMRI. To enable correct interpretation of neuronal activity by vascular signals, future research needs to deepen our understanding of the basic mechanisms of neurovascular coupling and the specific characteristics of disturbed neurovascular coupling in the diseased brain.
Laser speckle flowmetry (LSF) was initially developed to measure blood flow in the retina. More recently, its primary application has been to image baseline blood flow and activity-dependent changes in blood flow in the brain. We now describe experiments in the rat retina in which LSF was used in conjunction with confocal microscopy to monitor light-evoked changes in blood flow in retinal vessels. This dual imaging technique permitted us to stimulate retinal photoreceptors and measure vessel diameter with confocal microscopy while simultaneously monitoring blood flow with LSF. We found that a flickering light dilated retinal arterioles and evoked increases in retinal blood velocity with similar time courses. In addition, focal light stimulation evoked local increases in blood velocity. The spatial distribution of these increases depended on the location of the stimulus relative to retinal arterioles and venules. The results suggest that capillaries are largely unresponsive to local neuronal activity and that hemodynamic responses are mediated primarily by arterioles. The use of LSF to image retinal blood flow holds promise in elucidating the mechanisms mediating functional hyperemia in the retina and in characterizing changes in blood flow that occur during retinal pathology.
Modern non-invasive brain imaging techniques utilize changes in cerebral blood flow, volume and oxygenation that accompany brain activation. However, stimulus-evoked hemodynamic responses display considerable inter-trial variability even when identical stimuli are presented and the sources of this variability are poorly understood. One of the sources of this response variation could be ongoing spontaneous hemodynamic fluctuations. To investigate this issue, 2-dimensional optical imaging spectroscopy was used to measure cortical hemodynamics in response to sensory stimuli in anesthetized rodents. Pre-stimulus cortical hemodynamics displayed spontaneous periodic fluctuations and as such, data from individual stimulus presentation trials were assigned to one of four groups depending on the phase angle of pre-stimulus hemodynamic fluctuations and averaged. This analysis revealed that sensory evoked cortical hemodynamics displayed distinctive response characteristics and magnitudes depending on the phase angle of ongoing fluctuations at stimulus onset. To investigate the origin of this phenomenon, &quot;null-trials&quot; were collected without stimulus presentation. Subtraction of phase averaged &quot;null trials&quot; from their phase averaged stimulus-evoked counterparts resulted in four similar time series that resembled the mean stimulus-evoked response. These analyses suggest that linear superposition of evoked and ongoing cortical hemodynamic changes may be a property of the structure of inter-trial variability.
In the last few years two-photon microscopy has been used to perform in vivo high spatial resolution imaging of neurons, glial cells and vascular structures in the intact neocortex. Recently, in parallel to its applications in imaging, multi-photon absorption has been used as a tool for the selective disruption of neural processes and blood vessels in living animals. In this review we present some basic features of multi-photon nanosurgery and we illustrate the advantages offered by this novel methodology in neuroscience research. We show how the spatial localization of multi-photon excitation can be exploited to perform selective lesions on cortical neurons in living mice expressing fluorescent proteins. This methodology is applied to disrupt a single neuron without causing any visible collateral damage to the surrounding structures. The spatial precision of this method allows to dissect single processes as well as individual dendritic spines, preserving the structural integrity of the main neuronal arbor. The same approach can be used to breach the blood-brain barrier through a targeted photo-disruption of blood vessels walls. We show how the vascular system can be perturbed through laser ablation leading toward two different models of stroke: intravascular clot and extravasation. Following the temporal evolution of the injured system (either a neuron or a blood vessel) through time lapse in vivo imaging, the physiological response of the target structure and the rearrangement of the surrounding area can be characterized. Multi-photon nanosurgery in live brain represents a useful tool to produce different models of neurodegenerative disease.

Because regional blood flow increases in association with the increased metabolic demand generated by localized increases in neural activity, functional imaging researchers often assume that changes in blood flow are an accurate read-out of changes in underlying neural activity. An understanding of the mechanisms that link changes in neural activity to changes in blood flow is crucial for assessing the validity of this assumption, and for understanding the processes that can go wrong during disease states such as ischaemic stroke. Many studies have investigated the mechanisms of neurovascular regulation in arterioles but other evidence suggests that blood flow regulation can also occur in capillaries, because of the presence of contractile cells, pericytes, on the capillary wall. Here we review the evidence that pericytes can modulate capillary diameter in response to neuronal activity and assess the likely importance of neurovascular regulation at the capillary level for functional imaging experiments. We also discuss evidence suggesting that pericytes are particularly sensitive to damage during pathological insults such as ischaemia, Alzheimer's disease and diabetic retinopathy, and consider the potential impact that pericyte dysfunction might have on the development of therapeutic interventions and on the interpretation of functional imaging data in these disorders.
Flavoprotein fluorescence imaging (FFI) is a novel intrinsic optical signal that is steadily gaining ground as a valuable imaging tool in neuroscience research due to its closer relationship with local metabolism relative to the more commonly used hemodynamic signals. We have developed a technique for FFI imaging in the primary visual cortex (V1) of alert monkeys. Due to the nature of neurovascular coupling, hemodynamic signals are known to spread beyond the locus of metabolic activity. To determine whether FFI signals could provide a more focal measure of cortical activity in alert animals, we compared FFI and hemodynamic point spreads (i.e. responses to a minimal visual stimulus) and functional mapping signals over V1 in macaques performing simple fixation tasks. FFI responses were biphasic, with an early and focal fluorescence increase followed by a delayed and spatially broader fluorescence decrease. As expected, the early fluorescence increase, indicating increased local oxidative metabolism, was somewhat narrower than the simultaneously observed hemodynamic response. However, the later FFI decrease was broader than the hemodynamic response and started prior to the cessation of visual stimulation suggesting different mechanisms underlying the two phases of the fluorescence signal. FFI mapping signals were free of vascular artifacts and comparable in amplitude to hemodynamic mapping signals. These results indicate that the FFI response may be a more local and direct indicator of cortical metabolism than the hemodynamic response in alert animals.
Approximately 15 years ago we reported that cytochrome c oxidase (CcO) was persistently inhibited as a consequence of endogenous induction and activation of nitric oxide ((*)NO) synthase-2 (NOS2) in astrocytes. Furthermore, the reactive nitrogen species implicated was peroxynitrite. In contrast to the reversible inhibition by (*)NO, which occurs rapidly, in competition with O(2), and has signaling regulatory implications, the irreversible CcO damage by peroxynitrite is progressive in nature and follows and/or is accompanied by damage to other key mitochondrial bioenergetic targets. In purified CcO it has been reported that the irreversible inhibition occurs through a mechanism involving damage of the heme a(3)-Cu(B) binuclear center leading to an increase in the K(m) for oxygen. Astrocyte survival, as a consequence of peroxynitrite exposure, is preserved due to their robust bioenergetic and antioxidant defense mechanisms. However, by releasing peroxynitrite to the neighboring neurons, whose antioxidant defense can, under certain conditions, be fragile, activated astrocytes trigger bioenergetic stress leading to neuronal cell death. Thus, such irreversible inhibition of CcO by peroxynitrite may be a plausible mechanism for the neuronal death associated with neurodegenerative diseases, in which the activation of astrocytes plays a crucial role.
Rehabilitation of sensory and/or motor functions in patients with neurological diseases is more and more dealing with artificial electrical stimulation and recording from populations of neurons using biocompatible chronic implants. As more and more patients have benefited from these approaches, the interest in neural interfaces has grown significantly. However an important problem reported with all available microelectrodes to date is long-term viability and biocompatibility. Therefore it is essential to understand the signals that lead to neuroglial activation and create a targeted intervention to control the response, reduce the adverse nature of the reactions and maintain an ideal environment for the brain-electrode interface. We discuss some of the exciting opportunities and challenges that lie in this intersection of neuroscience research, bioengineering, neurology and biomaterials.
Based on experiments performed with high-resolution Active Pixel Sensor microelectrode arrays (APS-MEAs) coupled with spontaneously active hippocampal cultures, this work investigates the spatial resolution effects of the neuroelectronic interface on the analysis of the recorded electrophysiological signals. The adopted methodology consists, first, in recording the spontaneous activity at the highest spatial resolution (interelectrode separation of 21 mum) from the whole array of 4096 microelectrodes. Then, the full resolution dataset is spatially downsampled in order to evaluate the effects on raster plot representation, array-wide spike rate (AWSR), mean firing rate (MFR) and mean bursting rate (MBR). Furthermore, the effects of the array-to-network relative position are evaluated by shifting a subset of equally spaced electrodes on the entire recorded area. Results highlight that MFR and MBR are particularly influenced by the spatial resolution provided by the neuroelectronic interface. On high-resolution large MEAs, such analysis better represent the time-based parameterization of the network dynamics. Finally, this work suggest interesting capabilities of high-resolution MEAs for spatial-based analysis in dense and low-dense neuronal preparation for investigating signaling at both local and global neuronal circuitries.
A Cyber-Workstation (CW) to study in vivo, real-time interactions between computational models and large-scale brain subsystems during behavioral experiments has been designed and implemented. The design philosophy seeks to directly link the in vivo neurophysiology laboratory with scalable computing resources to enable more sophisticated computational neuroscience investigation. The architecture designed here allows scientists to develop new models and integrate them with existing models (e.g. recursive least-squares regressor) by specifying appropriate connections in a block-diagram. Then, adaptive middleware transparently implements these user specifications using the full power of remote grid-computing hardware. In effect, the middleware deploys an on-demand and flexible neuroscience research test-bed to provide the neurophysiology laboratory extensive computational power from an outside source. The CW consolidates distributed software and hardware resources to support time-critical and/or resource-demanding computing during data collection from behaving animals. This power and flexibility is important as experimental and theoretical neuroscience evolves based on insights gained from data-intensive experiments, new technologies and engineering methodologies. This paper describes briefly the computational infrastructure and its most relevant components. Each component is discussed within a systematic process of setting up an in vivo, neuroscience experiment. Furthermore, a co-adaptive brain machine interface is implemented on the CW to illustrate how this integrated computational and experimental platform can be used to study systems neurophysiology and learning in a behavior task. We believe this implementation is also the first remote execution and adaptation of a brain-machine interface.
We describe an application of the BIRN mediator to the integration of neuroscience experimental data sources. The BIRN mediator is a general purpose solution to the problem of providing integrated, semantically-consistent access to biomedical data from multiple, distributed, heterogeneous data sources. The system follows the mediation approach, where the data remains at the sources, providers maintain control of the data, and the integration system retrieves data from the sources in real-time in response to client queries. Our aim with this paper is to illustrate how domain-specific data integration applications can be developed quickly and in a principled way by using our general mediation technology. We describe in detail the integration of two leading, but radically different, experimental neuroscience sources, namely, the human imaging database, a relational database, and the eXtensible neuroimaging archive toolkit, an XML web services system. We discuss the steps, sources of complexity, effort, and time required to build such applications, as well as outline directions of ongoing and future research on biomedical data integration.
The aim of this paper is to apply a non-parametric statistical tool, Ripley's K-function, to analyze the 3-dimensional distribution of pyramidal neurons. Ripley's K-function is a widely used tool in spatial point pattern analysis. There are several approaches in 2D domains in which this function is executed and analyzed. Drawing consistent inferences on the underlying 3D point pattern distributions in various applications is of great importance as the acquisition of 3D biological data now poses lesser of a challenge due to technological progress. As of now, most of the applications of Ripley's K-function in 3D domains do not focus on the phenomenon of edge correction, which is discussed thoroughly in this paper. The main goal is to extend the theoretical and practical utilization of Ripley's K-function and corresponding tests based on bootstrap resampling from 2D to 3D domains.
A neuroinformatics (NI) system is critical to brain imaging research in order to shorten the time between study conception and results. Such a NI system is required to scale well when large numbers of subjects are studied. Further, when multiple sites participate in research projects organizational issues become increasingly difficult. Optimized NI applications mitigate these problems. Additionally, NI software enables coordination across multiple studies, leveraging advantages potentially leading to exponential research discoveries. The web-based, Mind Research Network (MRN), database system has been designed and improved through our experience with 200 research studies and 250 researchers from seven different institutions. The MRN tools permit the collection, management, reporting and efficient use of large scale, heterogeneous data sources, e.g., multiple institutions, multiple principal investigators, multiple research programs and studies, and multimodal acquisitions. We have collected and analyzed data sets on thousands of research participants and have set up a framework to automatically analyze the data, thereby making efficient, practical data mining of this vast resource possible. This paper presents a comprehensive framework for capturing and analyzing heterogeneous neuroscience research data sources that has been fully optimized for end-users to perform novel data mining.
Terms used to describe nervous system parts and their interconnections are rife with synonyms, partial correspondences, and even homonyms, making effective scientific communication unnecessarily difficult. To address this problem a new Topological Relations schema for the Relations module of BAMS (Brain Architecture Knowledge Management System) was created. It includes a representation of the qualitative spatial relations between nervous system parts defined in different neuroanatomical nomenclatures or atlases and is general enough to record data and metadata from the literature, regardless of description level or species. Based on this foundation a Projections Translations inference engine was developed for the BAMS interface that automatically translates neuroanatomical projection (axonal inputs and outputs) reports across nomenclatures from translated information. To make BAMS more useful to the neuroscience community three things were done. First, we implemented a simple schema for validation of the translated neuroanatomical projections. Second, more than 1,000 topological relations between brain gray matter regions for the rat were inserted, along with associated details. Finally, a case study was performed to enter all historical or legacy published information about terminology related to one relatively complex gray matter region of the rat. The bed nuclei of the stria terminalis (BST) were chosen and 21 different nomenclatures from 1923 to present were collated, along with 284 terms for parts (gray matter differentiations), 360 qualitative topological relations between parts, and more than 7,000 details about spatial relations between parts, all of which was annotated with appropriate metadata. This information was used to construct a graphical &quot;knowledge map&quot; of relations used in the literature to describe subdivisions of the rat BST.
Temperature disturbances are common in patients with severe traumatic brain injury. The possibility of an adaptive, potentially beneficial role for fever in patients with severe brain trauma has been dismissed, but without good justification. Fever might, in some patients, confer benefit. A cadre of clinicians and scientists met to debate the clinically relevant, but often controversial issue about whether raised brain temperature after human traumatic brain injury (TBI) should be regarded as &quot;good or bad&quot; for outcome. The objective was to produce a consensus document of views about current temperature measurement and pyrexia treatment. Lectures were delivered by invited speakers with National and International publication track records in thermoregulation, neuroscience, epidemiology, measurement standards and neurocritical care. Summaries of the lectures and workshop discussions were produced from transcriptions of the lectures and workshop discussions. At the close of meeting, there was agreement on four key issues relevant to modern temperature measurement and management and for undergirding of an evidence-based practice, culminating in a consensus statement. There is no robust scientific data to support the use of hypothermia in patients whose intracranial pressure is controllable using standard therapy. A randomized clinical trial is justified to establish if body cooling for control of pyrexia (to normothermia) vs moderate pyrexia leads to a better patient outcome for TBI patients.
Previous studies have shown that numerous sprouts originating from a neuroma, after nerve injury in neonatal animals, can invade spinal nerve roots. However, no study with a focus on how such sprouts behave when they reach the border between the central and peripheral nervous system (CNS-PNS border) has been published. In this study we have in detail examined the CNS-PNS border of ventral roots in kittens with light and electron microscopy after early postnatal sciatic nerve resection. A transient ingrowth of substance P positive axons was observed into the CNS, but no spouts remained 6weeks after the injury. Using serial sections and electron microscopy it was possible to identify small bundles of unmyelinated axons that penetrated from the root fascicles for a short distance into the CNS. These axons ended blindly, sometimes with a growth cone-like terminal swelling filled with vesicles. The axon bundles were accompanied by p75 positive cells in both the root fascicles and the pia mater, but not in the CNS. It may thus be suggested that neurotrophin presenting p75 positive cells could facilitate axonal growth into the pia mater and that the lack of such cells in the CNS compartment might contribute to the failure of growth into the CNS. A maldevelopment of myelin sheaths at the CNS-PNS border of motor axons was observed and it seems possible that this could have consequences for the propagation of action potential across this region after neonatal nerve injury. Thus, in this first detailed study on the behavior of recurrent sprouts at the CNS-PNS border.
The biological substrate for cognition remains a challenge as much as defining this function of living beings. Here, we examine some of the difficulties to understand normal and disordered cognition in humans. We use aspects of Alzheimer's disease and related disorders to illustrate how the wealth of information at many conceptually separate, even intellectually decoupled, physical scales - in particular at the Molecular Neuroscience versus Systems Neuroscience/Neuropsychology levels - presents a challenge in terms of true interdisciplinary integration towards a coherent understanding. These unresolved dilemmas include critically the as yet untested quantum brain hypothesis, and the embryonic attempts to develop and define the so-called connectome in humans and in non-human models of disease. To mitigate these challenges, we propose a scheme incorporating the vast array of scales of the space and time (space-time) manifold from at least the subatomic through cognitive-behavioral dimensions of inquiry, to achieve a new understanding of both normal and disordered cognition, that is essential for a new era of progress in the Generative Sciences and its application to translational efforts for disease prevention and treatment.

Interactions between nicotinic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) critically determine whether paravertebral sympathetic ganglia behave as simple synaptic relays or as integrative centers that amplify preganglionic activity. Synaptic connectivity in this system is characterized by an n + 1 pattern of convergence, where each ganglion cell receives one very strong primary input and a variable number (n) of weak secondary inputs that are subthreshold in strength. To test whether pairs of secondary nicotinic EPSPs can summate to fire action potentials (APs) and thus mediate ganglionic gain in the rat superior cervical ganglion, we recorded intracellularly at 34C and used graded presynaptic stimulation to isolate individual secondary synapses. Weak EPSPs in 40 of 53 neurons had amplitudes of 0.5-7mV (mean 3.5  0.3mV). EPSPs evoked by paired pulse stimulation were either depressing (n = 10), facilitating (n = 9), or borderline (n = 10). In 15 of 29 cells, pairs of weak secondary EPSPs initiated spikes when elicited within a temporal window &lt;20ms, irrespective of EPSP amplitude or paired pulse response type. In six other neurons, we observed novel secondary EPSPs that were strong enough to straddle spike threshold without summation. At stimulus rates &lt;1 Hz straddling EPSPs appeared suprathreshold in strength. However, their limited ability to drive firing could be blocked by the afterhyperpolarization following an AP. When viewed in a computational context, these findings support the concept that weak and straddling secondary nicotinic synapses enable mammalian sympathetic ganglia to behave as use-dependent amplifiers of preganglionic activity.
There is a strong body of data directly interrelating sleep problems with mood disorders. There is a growing data base directly associating sleep disorders with attention and memory problems. Motor disorders, especially involving the dopaminergic system, may produce sleep problems, including a possible association between disordered sleep and nocturnal falls. Sleep disorders may be causal conditions for metabolic diseases and increased risk for morbidity and mortality. Sleep and health are directly interrelated. To further probe these issues, especially as related to the aging process, investigators need to utilize tools and concepts from genomics and epigenetics, proteomics, metabolomics, any future omics, molecular neuroimaging, and cognitive neuroscience.
Ernest Hemingway is one of the most popular and widely acclaimed American writers of the 20th century. His works and life epitomize the image of the hyper-masculine hero, facing the cruelties of life with 'grace under pressure'. Most of his writings have a quasi-autobiographical quality, which allowed many commentators to draw comparisons between his personality and his art. Here, we examine the psychological and physical burdens that hindered Hemingway's life and contributed to his suicide. We first take a look at his early years, and review his psychopathology as an adult. A number of authors have postulated specific diagnoses to explain Hemingway's behavior: borderline personality disorder, bipolar disorder, major depression, multiple head trauma, and alcoholism. The presence of hemochromatosis, an inherited metabolic disorder, has also been suggested. We describe the circumstances of his suicide at 61 as the outcome of accumulated physical deterioration, emotional distress and cognitive decline. Special attention is paid to the war wound he suffered in 1918, which seemed to involve a peculiar altered state of consciousness sometimes called 'near-death experience'. The out-of-body experience, paradoxical analgesia and conviction that dying is 'the easiest thing' seemed to infl uence his future work. The constant presence of danger, death, and violence in his works, as well as the emphasis on the typical Hemingway 'code hero', can all be traced to particular psychological and neurological disorders, as well as his early brush with death.
Yawning is a common behavioral event that is observed in humans, as well as other mammals, birds and reptiles. In humans, yawning often occurs just before bed and upon waking up, and is also associated with tedious or boring situations. Although the physiologic roles of yawning have yet to be fully elucidated, the past 50 years of research has led to a much greater understanding of the neuropharmacologic regulation of yawning. While many of the early studies concluded that yawning was primarily driven by changes in cholinergic neurotransmission, we now know that numerous neurotransmitters and neurohormones are involved in the mediation of yawning, including acetylcholine, dopamine, glutamate, serotonin, oxytocin, GABA, opioids, adrenergics, nitric oxide, as well as the proopiomelanocortin-derived peptides ACTH and alpha-MSH. Furthermore, antagonist interaction studies have clearly defined at least 3 distinct neural pathways involved in the induction of yawning, as well as the hierarchical order through which these different neurotransmitter systems interact to regulate yawning. The following sections will discuss the state of knowledge for each of the major neurotransmitters and neurohormones involved in the regulation of yawning, their interactions with one another, and their place in the hierarchical organization of yawning.

The phenomenon of yawning is just as intriguing and fascinating as sleep, yet understanding of its causes and consequences has defied the human mind for centuries. Hippocrates, Sennert, Boerhaave and de Gorter each advanced a theory in his time. From the release of tainted humor to the awakening of animal spirits and improved brain oxygenation, the metaphors that developed from these theories are all characterized by their popular success, which endured until the time of J.M. Charcot and even into our own day. However, starting in the early 19th century, a neuromuscular theory developed from the experimental physiology of Broussais and Flourens, which Dumpert (working in Germany after World War I) explained in detail. Experimental ethology and pharmacology in the 20th century brought the neuromediators and subcortical structures involved in yawning and pandiculation to light. Phylogenetically and ontogenetically primitive, these motor behaviors have been remarkably well preserved during evolution and are nearly universal in vertebrates. They are closer to an emotional stereotypy than to a reflex. Originating in the diencephalon, they appear to exteriorize homeostatic processes in the systems controlling arousal, hunger and sexuality.
A growing body of evidence in cognitive science and neuroscience points towards the existence of a deep interconnection between cognition, perception and action. According to this embodied perspective language is grounded in the sensorimotor system and language understanding is based on a mental simulation process (Jeannerod, 2007; Gallese, 2008; Barsalou, 2009). This means that during action words and sentence comprehension the same perception, action, and emotion mechanisms implied during interaction with objects are recruited. Among the neural underpinnings of this simulation process an important role is played by a sensorimotor matching system known as the mirror neuron system (Rizzolatti and Craighero, 2004). Despite a growing number of studies, the precise dynamics underlying the relation between language and action are not yet well understood. In fact, experimental studies are not always coherent as some report that language processing interferes with action execution while others find facilitation. In this work we present a detailed neural network model capable of reproducing experimentally observed influences of the processing of action-related sentences on the execution of motor sequences. The proposed model is based on three main points. The first is that the processing of action-related sentences causes the resonance of motor and mirror neurons encoding the corresponding actions. The second is that there exists a varying degree of crosstalk between neuronal populations depending on whether they encode the same motor act, the same effector or the same action-goal. The third is the fact that neuronal populations' internal dynamics, which results from the combination of multiple processes taking place at different time scales, can facilitate or interfere with successive activations of the same or of partially overlapping pools.
The current research extends our framework for embodied language and action comprehension to include a teleological representation that allows goal-based reasoning for novel actions. The objective of this work is to implement and demonstrate the advantages of a hybrid, embodied-teleological approach to action-language interaction, both from a theoretical perspective, and via results from human-robot interaction experiments with the iCub robot. We first demonstrate how a framework for embodied language comprehension allows the system to develop a baseline set of representations for processing goal-directed actions such as &quot;take,&quot; &quot;cover,&quot; and &quot;give.&quot; Spoken language and visual perception are input modes for these representations, and the generation of spoken language is the output mode. Moving toward a teleological (goal-based reasoning) approach, a crucial component of the new system is the representation of the subcomponents of these actions, which includes relations between initial enabling states, and final resulting states for these actions. We demonstrate how grammatical categories including causal connectives (e.g., because, if-then) can allow spoken language to enrich the learned set of state-action-state (SAS) representations. We then examine how this enriched SAS inventory enhances the robot's ability to represent perceived actions in which the environment inhibits goal achievement. The paper addresses how language comes to reflect the structure of action, and how it can subsequently be used as an input and output vector for embodied and teleological aspects of action.
A vast literature implicates the ventral striatum in the processing of reward-related information and in mediating the impact of such information on behavior. It is characterized by heterogeneity at the local circuit, connectivity, and functional levels. A tool for dissecting this complex structure that has received relatively little attention until recently is the analysis of ventral striatal local field potential oscillations, which are more prominent in the gamma band compared to the dorsal striatum. Here we review recent results on gamma oscillations recorded from freely moving rats. Ventral striatal gamma separates into distinct frequency bands (gamma-50 and gamma-80) with distinct behavioral correlates, relationships to different inputs, and separate populations of phase-locked putative fast-spiking interneurons. Fast switching between gamma-50 and gamma-80 occurs spontaneously but is influenced by reward delivery as well as the application of dopaminergic drugs. These results provide novel insights into ventral striatal processing and highlight the importance of considering fast-timescale dynamics of ventral striatal activity.
Expression of heterologous proteins in adult mammalian neurons is a valuable technique for the study of neuronal function. The post-mitotic nature of mature neurons prevents effective DNA transfection using simple, cationic lipid-based methods. Adequate heterologous protein expression is often only achievable using complex techniques that, in many cases, are associated with substantial toxicity. Here, a simple method for high efficiency transfection of mammalian primary neurons using in vitro transcribed mRNA and the cationic lipid transfection reagent Lipofectamine 2000 is described. Optimal transfection conditions were established in adult mouse dissociated dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons using a 96-well based luciferase activity assay. Using these conditions, a transfection efficiency of 25% was achieved in DRG neurons transfected with EGFP mRNA. High transfection efficiencies were also obtained in dissociated rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) neurons and mouse cortical and hippocampal cultures. Endogenous Ca(2+) currents in EGFP mRNA-transfected SCG neurons were not significantly different from untransfected neurons, which suggested that this technique is well suited for heterologous expression in patch clamp recording experiments. Functional expression of a cannabinoid receptor (CB1R), a G protein inwardly rectifying K(+) channel (GIRK4) and a dominant-negative G protein -subunit mutant (G(oA) G203T) indicate that the levels of heterologous protein expression attainable using mRNA transfection are suitable for most functional protein studies. This study demonstrates that mRNA transfection is a straightforward and effective method for heterologous expression in neurons and is likely to have many applications in neuroscience research.
We performed comprehensive data mining to explore the vomeronasal receptor (V1R and V2R) repertoires in mouse and rat using the mm5 and rn3 genome, respectively. This bioinformatic analysis was followed by investigation of gene expression using a custom designed high-density oligonucleotide array containing all of these receptors and other selected genes of interest. This array enabled us to detect the specific expression of V1R and V2Rs which were previously identified solely based on computational prediction from gene sequence data, thereby establishing that these genes are indeed part of the vomeronasal system, especially the V2Rs. One hundred sixty-eight V1Rs and 98 V2Rs were detected to be highly enriched in mouse vomeronasal organ (VNO), and 108 V1Rs and 87 V2Rs in rat VNO. We monitored the expression profile of mouse VR genes in other non-VNO tissues with the result that some VR genes were re-designated as VR-like genes based on their non-olfactory expression pattern. Temporal expression profiles for mouse VR genes were characterized and their patterns were classified, revealing the developmental dynamics of these so-called pheromone receptors. We found numerous patterns of temporal expression which indicate possible behavior-related functions. The uneven composition of VR genes in certain patterns suggests a functional differentiation between the two types of VR genes. We found the coherence between VR genes and transcription factors in terms of their temporal expression patterns. In situ hybridization experiments were performed to evaluate the cell number change over time for selected receptor genes.
Decisions can arise in different ways, such as from a gut feeling, doing what worked last time, or planful deliberation. Different decision-making systems are dissociable behaviorally, map onto distinct brain systems, and have different computational demands. For instance, &quot;model-free&quot; decision strategies use prediction errors to estimate scalar action values from previous experience, while &quot;model-based&quot; strategies leverage internal forward models to generate and evaluate potentially rich outcome expectancies. Animal learning studies indicate that expectancies may arise from different sources, including not only forward models but also Pavlovian associations, and the flexibility with which such representations impact behavior may depend on how they are generated. In the light of these considerations, we review the results of van der Meer and Redish (2009a), who found that ventral striatal neurons that respond to reward delivery can also be activated at other points, notably at a decision point where hippocampal forward representations were also observed. These data suggest the possibility that ventral striatal reward representations contribute to model-based expectancies used in deliberative decision making.
Drosophila models of Parkinson's disease are characterized by two principal phenotypes: the specific loss of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the aging brain and defects in motor behavior. However, an age-related analysis of these baseline parameters in wildtype Drosophila is lacking. Here we analyzed the DA system and motor behavior in aging Drosophila. DA neurons in the adult brain can be grouped into bilateral symmetric clusters, each comprising a stereotypical number of cells. Analysis of TH&gt;mCD8::GFP and cell type-specific MARCM clones revealed that DA neurons show cluster-specific, stereotypical projection patterns with terminal arborization in target regions that represent distinct functional areas of the adult brain. Target areas include the mushroom bodies, involved in memory formation and motivation, and the central complex, involved in the control of motor behavior, indicating that similar to the mammalian brain, DA neurons in the fly brain are involved in the regulation of specific behaviors. Behavioral analysis revealed that Drosophila show an age-related decline in startle-induced locomotion and negative geotaxis. Motion tracking however, revealed that walking activity, and exploration behavior, but not centrophobism increase at late stages of life. Analysis of TH&gt;Dcr2, mCD8::GFP revealed a specific effect of Dcr2 expression on walking activity but not on exploratory or centrophobic behavior, indicating that the siRNA pathway may modulate distinct DA behaviors in Drosophila. Moreover, DA neurons were maintained between early- and late life, as quantified by TH&gt;mCD8::GFP and anti-TH labeling, indicating that adult onset, age-related degeneration of DA neurons does not occur in the aging brain of Drosophila. Taken together, our data establish baseline parameters in Drosophila for the study of Parkinson's disease as well as other disorders affecting DA neurons and movement control.
This paper introduces Pyff, the Pythonic feedback framework for feedback applications and stimulus presentation. Pyff provides a platform-independent framework that allows users to develop and run neuroscientific experiments in the programming language Python. Existing solutions have mostly been implemented in C++, which makes for a rather tedious programming task for non-computer-scientists, or in Matlab, which is not well suited for more advanced visual or auditory applications. Pyff was designed to make experimental paradigms (i.e., feedback and stimulus applications) easily programmable. It includes base classes for various types of common feedbacks and stimuli as well as useful libraries for external hardware such as eyetrackers. Pyff is also equipped with a steadily growing set of ready-to-use feedbacks and stimuli. It can be used as a standalone application, for instance providing stimulus presentation in psychophysics experiments, or within a closed loop such as in biofeedback or brain-computer interfacing experiments. Pyff communicates with other systems via a standardized communication protocol and is therefore suitable to be used with any system that may be adapted to send its data in the specified format. Having such a general, open-source framework will help foster a fruitful exchange of experimental paradigms between research groups. In particular, it will decrease the need of reprogramming standard paradigms, ease the reproducibility of published results, and naturally entail some standardization of stimulus presentation.
While there seems to be relatively wide agreement about perceptual decision making relying on integration-to-threshold mechanisms, proposed models differ in a variety of details. This study compares a range of mechanisms for multi-alternative perceptual decision making, including integration with and without leakage, feedforward and feedback inhibition for mediating the competition between integrators, as well as linear and non-linear mechanisms for combining signals across alternatives. It is shown that a number of mechanisms make very similar predictions for the decision behavior and are therefore able to explain previously published data from a multi-alternative perceptual decision task. However, it is also demonstrated that the mechanisms differ in their internal dynamics and therefore make different predictions for neuorphysiological experiments. The study further addresses the relationship of these mechanisms with decision theory and statistical testing and analyzes their optimality.
Mefloquine (a marketed anti-malaria drug) prophylaxis has a high risk of causing adverse events. Interestingly, animal studies have shown that mefloquine imposes a major deficit in motor learning skills by affecting the connexin 36 gap junctions of the inferior olive. We were therefore interested in assessing whether mefloquine might induce similar effects in humans. The main aim of this study was to investigate the effect of mefloquine on olivary-related motor performance and motor learning tasks in humans. We subjected nine participants to voluntary motor timing (dart throwing task), perceptual timing (rhythm perceptual task) and reflex timing tasks (eye-blink task) before and 24h after the intake of mefloquine. The influence of mefloquine on motor learning was assessed by subjecting participants with and without mefloquine intake (controls: n = 11 vs mefloquine: n = 8) to an eye-blink conditioning task. Voluntary motor performance, perceptual timing, and reflex blinking were not affected by mefloquine use. However, the influence of mefloquine on motor learning was substantial; both learning speed as well as learning capacity was impaired by mefloquine use. Our data suggest that mefloquine disturbs motor learning skills. This adverse effect can have clinical as well as social clinical implications for mefloquine users. Therefore, this side-effect of mefloquine should be further investigated and recognized by clinicians.
Sensory decisions may be influenced by non-sensory information regarding reward magnitude or reward likelihood. Given identical sensory information, it is more optimal to choose an option if it is a priori more likely to be correct and hence rewarded (prior reward likelihood bias), or if it yields a larger reward, given that it is the correct choice (reward magnitude bias). Here, we investigated the ability of macaque monkeys to integrate reward magnitude and prior reward likelihood information into a categorical decision about stimuli with high signal strength but variable decision uncertainty. In the asymmetric reward magnitude condition, monkeys over-adjusted their decision criterion such that they chose the highly rewarded alternative far more often than was optimal; in contrast, monkeys did not adjust their decision criterion in response to asymmetric reward likelihood. This finding shows that in this setting, monkeys did not adjust their decision criterion based on the product of reward likelihood and reward magnitude as has been reported to be the case in value-based decisions that do not involve decision uncertainty due to stimulus categorization.
From our research and literature search we propose an understanding of the mechanism of action of antidepressants treatments (ADTs) that should lead to increase efficacy and tolerance. We understand that ADTs promote synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis. This promotion is linked with stimulation of dopaminergic receptors. Previous evidence shows that all ADTs (chemical, electroconvulsive therapy, repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation, sleep deprivation) increase at least one monoamine neurotransmitter serotonin (5-HT), noradrenaline (NA) or dopamine (DA); this article focuses on DA release or turn-over in the frontal cortex. DA increased dopaminergic activation promotes synaptic plasticity with an inverted U shape dose-response curve. Specific interaction between DA and glutamate is mediated by D1 receptor subtypes and Glutamate (NMDA) receptors with neurotrophic factors likely to play a modulatory role. With the understanding that all ADTs have a common, final, DA-ergic stimulation that promotes synaptic plasticity we can predict that (1) AD efficiency is related to the compound strength for inducing DA-ergic stimulation. (2) ADT efficiency presents a therapeutic window that coincides with the inverted U shape DA response curve. (3) ADT delay of action is related to a &quot;synaptogenesis and neurogenesis delay of action.&quot; (4) The minimum efficient dose can be found by starting at a low dosage and increasing up to the patient response. (5) An increased tolerance requires a concomitant prescription of a few ADTs, with different or opposite adverse effects, at a very low dose. (6) ADTs could improve all diseases with cognitive impairments and synaptic depression by increasing synaptic plasticity and neurogenesis.
The cerebral cortex is a vastly complex structure consisting of multiple distinct populations of neurons residing in functionally specialized cortical compartments. A fundamental goal in systems neuroscience is to understand the interactions among cortical neurons and their relationship to behavior. It is hypothesized that dynamic activity patterns, such as oscillations in global neuronal activity, could span large, heterogeneous populations of cortical neurons in such a manner as to bind together the activity of otherwise disparate cortical networks. Little is known about the mechanisms by which such global oscillatory patterns entrain cortical networks, or the contribution of such activity patterns to cortical function. An important step toward elucidating the role of such patterned activity in cortical information processing is understanding these interactions at the local circuit level. Here, we highlight recent findings that provide insight into how dynamic activity patterns affect specific neuronal populations and circuits.


Decision neuroscience research, as currently practiced, employs the methods of neuroscience to investigate concepts drawn from the social sciences. A typical study selects one or more variables from psychological or economic models, manipulates or measures choices within a simplified choice task, and then identifies neural correlates. Using this &quot;neuroeconomic&quot; approach, researchers have described brain systems whose functioning shapes key economic variables, most notably aspects of subjective value. Yet, the standard approach has fundamental limitations. Important aspects of the mechanisms of decision making - from the sources of variability in decision making to the very computations supported by decision-related regions - remain incompletely understood. Here, I outline 10 outstanding challenges for future research in decision neuroscience. While some will be readily addressed using current methods, others will require new conceptual frameworks. Accordingly, a new strain of decision neuroscience will marry methods from economics and cognitive science to concepts from neurobiology and cognitive neuroscience.

The development of sophisticated, translatable mouse-based assays modeling the behavioral manifestations of neuropsychiatric diseases, such as schizophrenia, has lagged the advances in molecular and genomic techniques. Our laboratory has made efforts to fill this gap by investing in the development of novel assays, including adapting a touchscreen-based method for measuring cognitive and executive functions for use in mice. As part of these efforts, a recent study by Brigman et al. (2009) investigated the effects of subchronic phencyclidine treatment on mouse touchscreen-based pairwise visual discrimination and reversal learning. Here, we summarize the results of that study, and place them in the larger context of ongoing efforts to develop valid mouse &quot;models&quot; of schizophrenia, with a focus on reversal learning and other measures of cognitive flexibility. Touchscreen-based systems could provide a tractable platform for fully utilizing the mouse to elucidate the pathophysiology of cognitive inflexibility in schizophrenia and other neuropsychiatric disorders.
The recent and rapid development of open source software tools for the analysis of neurophysiological datasets consisting of simultaneous multiple recordings of spikes, field potentials and other neural signals holds the promise for a significant advance in the standardization, transparency, quality, reproducibility and variety of techniques used to analyze neurophysiological data and for the integration of information obtained at different spatial and temporal scales. In this review we focus on recent advances in open source toolboxes for the information theoretic analysis of neural responses. We also present examples of their use to investigate the role of spike timing precision, correlations across neurons, and field potential fluctuations in the encoding of sensory information. These information toolboxes, available both in MATLAB and Python programming environments, hold the potential to enlarge the domain of application of information theory to neuroscience and to lead to new discoveries about how neurons encode and transmit information.
Major depression is the most common form of mental illness, and is treated with antidepressant compounds that increase serotonin (5-HT) neurotransmission. Increased 5-HT1A autoreceptor levels in the raphe nuclei act as a &quot;brake&quot; to inhibit the 5-HT system, leading to depression and resistance to antidepressants. Several 5-HT1A receptor agonists (buspirone, flesinoxan, ipsapirone) that preferentially desensitize 5-HT1A autoreceptors have been tested for augmentation of antidepressant drugs with mixed results. One explanation could be the presence of the C(-1019)G 5-HT1A promoter polymorphism that prevents gene repression of the 5-HT1A autoreceptor. Furthermore, down-regulation of 5-HT1A autoreceptor expression, not simply desensitization of receptor signaling, appears to be required to enhance and accelerate antidepressant action. The current review focuses on the transcriptional regulators of 5-HT1A autoreceptor expression, their roles in permitting response to 5-HT1A-targeted treatments and their potential as targets for new antidepressant compounds for treatment-resistant depression.
Neuronal oscillations appear throughout the nervous system, in structures as diverse as the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, subcortical nuclei and sense organs. Whether neural rhythms contribute to normal function, are merely epiphenomena, or even interfere with physiological processing are topics of vigorous debate. Sensory pathways are ideal for investigation of oscillatory activity because their inputs can be defined. Thus, we will focus on sensory systems as we ask how neural oscillations arise and how they might encode information about the stimulus. We will highlight recent work in the early visual pathway that shows how oscillations can multiplex different types of signals to increase the amount of information that spike trains encode and transmit. Last, we will describe oscillation-based models of visual processing and explore how they might guide further research.
Encouraged by a rise of reciprocal interest between the machine learning and neuroscience communities, several recent studies have demonstrated the explanatory power of statistical learning techniques for the analysis of neural data. In order to facilitate a wider adoption of these methods, neuroscientific research needs to ensure a maximum of transparency to allow for comprehensive evaluation of the employed procedures. We argue that such transparency requires &quot;neuroscience-aware&quot; technology for the performance of multivariate pattern analyses of neural data that can be documented in a comprehensive, yet comprehensible way. Recently, we introduced PyMVPA, a specialized Python framework for machine learning based data analysis that addresses this demand. Here, we review its features and applicability to various neural data modalities.
Transcripts encoding 5-HT(2C) receptors are modified posttranscriptionally by RNA editing, generating up to 24 protein isoforms. In recombinant cells, the fully edited isoform, 5-HT(2C-VGV), exhibits blunted G-protein coupling and reduced constitutive activity. The present studies examine the signal transduction properties of 5-HT(2C-VGV) receptors in brain to determine the in vivo consequences of altered editing. Using mice solely expressing the 5-HT(2C-VGV) receptor (VGV/Y), we demonstrate reduced G-protein coupling efficiency and high-affinity agonist binding of brain 5-HT(2C-VGV) receptors. However, enhanced behavioral sensitivity to a 5-HT(2C) receptor agonist was also seen in mice expressing 5-HT(2C-VGV) receptors, an unexpected finding given the blunted G-protein coupling. In addition, mice expressing 5-HT(2C-VGV) receptors had greater sensitivity to a 5-HT(2C) inverse agonist/antagonist enhancement of dopamine turnover relative to wild-type mice. These behavioral and biochemical results are most likely explained by increases in 5-HT(2C) receptor binding sites in the brains of mice solely expressing 5-HT(2C-VGV) receptors. We conclude that 5-HT(2C-VGV) receptor signaling in brain is blunted, but this deficiency is masked by a marked increase in 5-HT(2C) receptor binding site density in mice solely expressing the VGV isoform. These findings suggest that RNA editing may regulate the density of 5-HT(2C) receptor binding sites in brain. We further caution that the pattern of 5-HT(2C) receptor RNA isoforms may not reflect the pattern of protein isoforms, and hence the inferred overall function of the receptor.


A vast literature implicates the ventral striatum in the processing of reward-related information and in mediating the impact of such information on behavior. It is characterized by heterogeneity at the local circuit, connectivity, and functional levels. A tool for dissecting this complex structure that has received relatively little attention until recently is the analysis of ventral striatal local field potential oscillations, which are more prominent in the gamma band compared to the dorsal striatum. Here we review recent results on gamma oscillations recorded from freely moving rats. Ventral striatal gamma separates into distinct frequency bands (gamma-50 and gamma-80) with distinct behavioral correlates, relationships to different inputs, and separate populations of phase-locked putative fast-spiking interneurons. Fast switching between gamma-50 and gamma-80 occurs spontaneously but is influenced by reward delivery as well as the application of dopaminergic drugs. These results provide novel insights into ventral striatal processing and highlight the importance of considering fast-timescale dynamics of ventral striatal activity.

The relationship between alternans and arrhythmogenicity was studied in genetically modified murine hearts modeling catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia (CPVT) during Langendorff perfusion, before and after treatment with catecholamines and a -adrenergic antagonist. Heterozygous (RyR2(p/s)) and homozygous (RyR2(s/s)) RyR2-P2328S hearts, and wild-type (WT) controls, were studied before and after treatment with epinephrine (100nM and 1 M) and propranolol (100nM). Monophasic action potential recordings demonstrated significantly greater incidences of arrhythmia in RyR2(p/s) and RyR2(s/s) hearts as compared to WTs. Arrhythmogenicity in RyR2(s/s) hearts was associated with alternans, particularly at short baseline cycle lengths. Both phenomena were significantly accentuated by treatment with epinephrine and significantly diminished by treatment with propranolol, in full agreement with clinical expectations. These changes took place, however, despite an absence of changes in mean action potential durations, ventricular effective refractory periods or restitution curve characteristics. Furthermore pooled data from all hearts in which arrhythmia occurred demonstrated significantly greater alternans magnitudes, but similar restitution curve slopes, to hearts that did not demonstrate arrhythmia. These findings thus further validate the RyR2-P2328S murine heart as a model for human CPVT, confirming an alternans phenotype in common with murine genetic models of the Brugada syndrome and the congenital long-QT syndrome type 3. In contrast to these latter similarities, however, this report demonstrates the dissociation of alternans from changes in the properties of restitution curves for the first time in a murine model of a human arrhythmic syndrome.
This essay is presented with two principal objectives in mind: first, to document the prevalence of fractals at all levels of the nervous system, giving credence to the notion of their functional relevance; and second, to draw attention to the as yet still unresolved issues of the detailed relationships among power-law scaling, self-similarity, and self-organized criticality. As regards criticality, I will document that it has become a pivotal reference point in Neurodynamics. Furthermore, I will emphasize the not yet fully appreciated significance of allometric control processes. For dynamic fractals, I will assemble reasons for attributing to them the capacity to adapt task execution to contextual changes across a range of scales. The final Section consists of general reflections on the implications of the reviewed data, and identifies what appear to be issues of fundamental importance for future research in the rapidly evolving topic of this review.
Parkinson's disease (PD) represents a major challenge for health care systems around the world: it is the most common degenerative movement disorder of old age, affecting over 100,000 people in the UK alone (Schrag et al., 2000). Despite the remarkable success of treatments directed at potentiating or replacing dopamine within the brain, which can relieve symptoms for over a decade, PD remains an incurable and invariably fatal disorder. As such, efforts to understand the processes that lead to cell death in the brains of patients with PD are a priority for neurodegenerative researchers. A great deal of progress has been made in this regard by taking advantage of advances in genetics, initially by the identification of genes responsible for rare Mendelian forms of PD (outlined in Table 1), and more recently by applying genome wide association studies (GWAS) to the sporadic form of the disease (Hardy et al., 2009). Several such GWAS have now been carried out, with a meta-analysis currently under way. Using over 6000 cases and 10,000 controls, two of these studies have identified variation at a number of loci as being associated with an increased risk of disease (Satake et al., 2009; Simon-Sanchez et al., 2009). Three genes stand out as candidates from these studies - the SNCA gene, coding for -synuclein, the LRRK2 gene, coding for leucine rich repeat kinase 2, and MAPT, coding for the microtubule-associated protein tau. Mutations at all three of these loci have been associated with Mendelian forms of disease presenting with the clinical syndrome of Parkinsonism, however only SNCA and LRRK2 have been previously associated with pathologically defined PD (Hardy et al., 2009). Point mutations in -synuclein, along with gene multiplication events, result in autosomal dominant PD, often with a significant dementia component. In addition to this, -synuclein is the principle component of the main pathological hallmark of idiopathic PD, the Lewy body, making it an unsurprising hit in the GWAS (Spillantini et al., 1997). Mutations in LRRK2 are the most common genetic cause of PD, and so again made this gene a likely candidate as a susceptibility locus for the sporadic form of disease (Kumari and Tan, 2009). More surprising, perhaps, was the identification of tau as a susceptibility factor for Parkinson's. In this review we will outline the role of tau in neurodegeneration and in different forms of Parkinsonism, and speculate as to what the functional basis of the association between MAPT and PD might be.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the extracellular deposition of -amyloid in senile plaques, the intraneuronal accumulation of hyperphosphorylated tau aggregates as neurofibrillary tangles, and progressive neuronal loss leading to the onset of dementia. Increasing evidence suggests that neuroinflammatory processes contribute to the progression of AD. Minocycline is a semi-synthetic tetracycline derivative commonly used in the treatment of acne. Many studies have revealed that minocycline also has potent anti-inflammatory actions that are neuroprotective in rodent models of Huntington's disease, Parkinson's disease and motor neuron disease. Recently, we demonstrated that minocycline reduces the development of abnormal tau species in the htau mouse model of Alzheimer's disease. We have now extended these findings by examining the impact of minocycline on inflammatory processes in htau mice. Immunohistochemical analysis revealed that minocycline treatment resulted in fewer activated astrocytes in several cortical regions of htau mice, but did not affect astrocytosis in the hippocampus. We found htau mice have significantly elevated amounts of several cortical pro-inflammatory cytokines. In addition, we find that minocycline treatment significantly reduced the amounts of several inflammatory factors, including monocyte chemoattractant proteins 1 and 5, interleukins -6 and -10, eotaxin, and I-309. Furthermore, the reduced amounts of these cytokines significantly correlated with the amount of tau phosphorylated at Ser396/404 in the cortex of htau mice. These results may reveal new cytokine targets of minocycline that could be associated with its inhibition of tau pathology development in vivo. It is possible that further investigation of the role of these cytokines in neurodegenerative processes may identify novel therapeutic targets for Alzheimer's disease and related disorders.
Acetaldehyde (ACD) is the first metabolite of ethanol. Although, the role of ACD in ethanol addiction has been controversial, there are data showing a relationship. The objective of the current study was to further test the hypothesis that ACD itself is reinforcing. For this reason, we carried out a study on operant oral ACD self-administration. Wistar rats were trained to self-administer tap water or ACD by nose-poking in daily 30min sessions for 15 consecutive days. Response on active nose-poke caused delivery of ACD solution or tap water, whereas responses on inactive nose-poke had no consequences. The results show that ACD maintains oral self-administration behavior and rates of active nose-pokes significantly higher than tap water. The dose-response plot for oral ACD self-administration is a &quot;bell-shaped&quot; curve suggesting reinforcing properties only in a limited range of doses. Furthermore, rats self-administering ACD show a deprivation effect upon ACD removal and gradually reinstated active nose-poke response when ACD was reintroduced. Overall, this study shows that ACD is orally self-administered and further supports the hypothesis that ACD possesses reinforcing properties, which suggests that some of the pharmacological effects attributed to ethanol may result from its biotransformation into ACD, thereby supporting an active involvement of ACD in ethanol addiction.
The present study was designed to evaluate (a) alcohol self-administration behavior of selectively bred, Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) rats exposed to the so-called &quot;sipper&quot; procedure (characterized by the temporal separation between alcohol-seeking and -taking phases), and (b) the effect of the positive allosteric modulator of the GABA(B) receptor, GS39783, on alcohol self-administration in sP rats exposed to this procedure. To this end, sP rats were initially trained to lever-respond under a reinforcement requirement (RR) 55 (RR55) for alcohol. Achievement of RR55 resulted in the 20-min presentation of the alcohol (15%, v/v)-containing sipper bottle. Once stable levels of lever-responding and alcohol consumption were reached, rats were treated with 0, 25, 50, and 100mg/kg GS39783 (i.g.) 60min before the self-administration session. Rats displayed robust alcohol-seeking (as suggested by relatively short latencies to the first lever-response and high frequencies of lever-responding) and -taking (as suggested by alcohol intakes averaging approximately 1.5g/kg) behaviors. Pretreatment with GS39783 inhibited both alcohol-seeking (the number of rats achieving RR55 and the mean RR value were virtually halved) and -taking (the amount of self-administered alcohol was reduced by approximately 60%). The results of the present study suggest the power of the &quot;sipper&quot; procedure in triggering high levels of alcohol-seeking and -taking behavior in sP rats. Further, these results extend to this additional procedure of alcohol self-administration the capacity of GS39783 to reduce the motivational properties of alcohol and alcohol consumption in sP rats.
The most prominent changes in neurodegenerative diseases are protein accumulation and inclusion formation. Several neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's, the Synucleinopathies and Tauopathies share several overlapping clinical symptoms manifest in Parkinsonism, cognitive decline and dementia. As degeneration progresses in the disease process, clinical symptoms suggest convergent pathological pathways. Biochemically, protein cleavage, ubiquitination and phosphorylation seem to play fundamental roles in protein aggregation, inclusion formation and inflammatory responses. In the following we provide a synopsis of the current knowledge about protein accumulation and astrogliosis as a common denominator in neurodegenerative diseases, and we propose insights into protein degradation and anti-inflammation. We review the E3-ubiquitin ligase and other possible functions of parkin as a suppressant of inflammatory signs and a strategy to clear amyloid proteins in neurodegenerative diseases.


Whether young children understand that others may hold false beliefs is a hotly debated topic in psychology and neuroscience. Much evidence suggests that children do not pass this milestone in their understanding of other people until the age of 5 years. Other evidence suggests that they understand already in their second year. This study proposes a novel account of the logic of conversations about certain mental states. By modifying the discourse accordingly, children passed three false belief tasks at 3 years of age while they failed standard false belief tasks. The results support the view that even young children construe other people in adult-like psychological terms.
Visual short-term memory (VSTM) enables us to actively maintain information in mind for a brief period of time after stimulus disappearance. According to recent studies, VSTM consists of three stages - iconic memory, fragile VSTM, and visual working memory - with increasingly stricter capacity limits and progressively longer lifetimes. Still, the resolution (or amount of visual detail) of each VSTM stage has remained unexplored and we test this in the present study. We presented people with a change detection task that measures the capacity of all three forms of VSTM, and we added an identification display after each change trial that required people to identify the &quot;pre-change&quot; object. Accurate change detection plus pre-change identification requires subjects to have a high-resolution representation of the &quot;pre-change&quot; object, whereas change detection or identification only can be based on the hunch that something has changed, without exactly knowing what was presented before. We observed that people maintained 6.1 objects in iconic memory, 4.6 objects in fragile VSTM, and 2.1 objects in visual working memory. Moreover, when people detected the change, they could also identify the pre-change object on 88% of the iconic memory trials, on 71% of the fragile VSTM trials and merely on 53% of the visual working memory trials. This suggests that people maintain many high-resolution representations in iconic memory and fragile VSTM, but only one high-resolution object representation in visual working memory.
The classical concept of efference copies in the context of internal forward models has stimulated productive research in cognitive science and neuroscience. There are compelling reasons to argue for such a mechanism, but finding direct evidence in the human brain remains difficult. Here we investigate the dynamics of internal forward models from an unconventional angle: mental imagery, assessed while recording high temporal resolution neuronal activity using magnetoencephalography. We compare two overt and covert tasks; our covert, mental imagery tasks are unconfounded by overt input/output demands - but in turn necessitate the development of appropriate multi-dimensional topographic analyses. Finger tapping (studies 1 and 2) and speech experiments (studies 3-5) provide temporally constrained results that implicate the estimation of an efference copy. We suggest that one internal forward model over parietal cortex subserves the kinesthetic feeling in motor imagery. Secondly, observed auditory neural activity ~170ms after motor estimation in speech experiments (studies 3-5) demonstrates the anticipated auditory consequences of planned motor commands in a second internal forward model in imagery of speech production. Our results provide neurophysiological evidence from the human brain in favor of internal forward models deploying efference copies in somatosensory and auditory cortex, in finger tapping and speech production tasks, respectively, and also suggest the dynamics and sequential updating structure of internal forward models.
A major goal in perceptual neuroscience is to understand how signals from different sensory modalities are combined to produce stable and coherent representations. We previously investigated interactions between audition and touch, motivated by the fact that both modalities are sensitive to environmental oscillations. In our earlier study, we characterized the effect of auditory distractors on tactile frequency and intensity perception. Here, we describe the converse experiments examining the effect of tactile distractors on auditory processing. Because the two studies employ the same psychophysical paradigm, we combined their results for a comprehensive view of how auditory and tactile signals interact and how these interactions depend on the perceptual task. Together, our results show that temporal frequency representations are perceptually linked regardless of the attended modality. In contrast, audio-tactile loudness interactions depend on the attended modality: Tactile distractors influence judgments of auditory intensity, but judgments of tactile intensity are impervious to auditory distraction. Lastly, we show that audio-tactile loudness interactions depend critically on stimulus timing, while pitch interactions do not. These results reveal that auditory and tactile inputs are combined differently depending on the perceptual task. That distinct rules govern the integration of auditory and tactile signals in pitch and loudness perception implies that the two are mediated by separate neural mechanisms. These findings underscore the complexity and specificity of multisensory interactions.
Dysfunctional social reward and social attention are present in a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders including autism, schizophrenia, and social anxiety. Here we show that similar social reward and attention dysfunction are present in anorexia nervosa (AN), a disorder defined by avoidance of food and extreme weight loss. We measured the implicit reward value of social stimuli for female participants with (n=11) and without (n=11) AN using an econometric choice task and also tracked gaze patterns during free viewing of images of female faces and bodies. As predicted, the reward value of viewing bodies varied inversely with observed body weight for women with anorexia but not control women, in contrast with their explicit ratings of attractiveness. Surprisingly, women with AN, unlike control women, did not find female faces rewarding and avoided looking at both the face and eyes - independent of observed body weight. These findings suggest comorbid dysfunction in the neural circuits mediating gustatory and social reward in anorexia nervosa.
This essay proposes and defends a pluralistic theory of conceptual embodiment. Our concepts are represented in at least two ways: (i) through sensorimotor simulations of our interactions with objects and events and (ii) through sensorimotor simulations of natural language processing. Linguistic representations are &quot;dis-embodied&quot; in the sense that they are dynamic and multimodal but, in contrast to other forms of embodied cognition, do not inherit semantic content from this embodiment. The capacity to store information in the associations and inferential relationships among linguistic representations extends our cognitive reach and provides an explanation of our ability to abstract and generalize. This theory is supported by a number of empirical considerations, including the large body of evidence from cognitive neuroscience and neuropsychology supporting a multiple semantic code explanation of imageability effects.
Is time an embodied concept? People often talk and think about temporal concepts in terms of space. This observation, along with linguistic and experimental behavioral data documenting a close conceptual relation between space and time, is often interpreted as evidence that temporal concepts are embodied. However, there is little neural data supporting the idea that our temporal concepts are grounded in sensorimotor representations. This lack of evidence may be because it is still unclear how an embodied concept of time should be expressed in the brain. The present paper sets out to characterize the kinds of evidence that would support or challenge embodied accounts of time. Of main interest are theoretical issues concerning (1) whether space, as a mediating concept for time, is itself best understood as embodied and (2) whether embodied theories should attempt to bypass space by investigating temporal conceptual grounding in neural systems that instantiate time perception.
Animals are notoriously impulsive in common laboratory experiments, preferring smaller, sooner rewards to larger, delayed rewards even when this reduces average reward rates. By contrast, the same animals often engage in natural behaviors that require extreme patience, such as food caching, stalking prey, and traveling long distances to high-quality food sites. One possible explanation for this discrepancy is that standard laboratory delay discounting tasks artificially inflate impulsivity by subverting animals' common learning strategies. To test this idea, we examined choices made by rhesus macaques in two variants of a standard delay discounting task. In the conventional variant, post-reward delays were uncued and adjusted to render total trial length constant; in the second, all delays were cued explicitly. We found that measured discounting was significantly reduced in the cued task, with discount parameters well below those reported in studies using the standard uncued design. When monkeys had complete information, their decisions were more consistent with a strategy of reward rate maximization. These results indicate that monkeys, and perhaps other animals, are more patient than is normally assumed, and that laboratory measures of delay discounting may overstate impulsivity.
We set out to distinguish level 1 (VPT-1) and level 2 (VPT-2) perspective taking with respect to the embodied nature of the underlying processes as well as to investigate their dependence or independence of response modality (motor vs. verbal). While VPT-1 reflects understanding of what lies within someone else's line of sight, VPT-2 involves mentally adopting someone else's spatial point of view. Perspective taking is a high-level conscious and deliberate mental transformation that is crucially placed at the convergence of perception, mental imagery, communication, and even theory of mind in the case of VPT-2. The differences between VPT-1 and VPT-2 mark a qualitative boundary between humans and apes, with the latter being capable of VPT-1 but not of VPT-2. However, our recent data showed that VPT-2 is best conceptualized as the deliberate simulation or emulation of a movement, thus underpinning its embodied origins. In the work presented here we compared VPT-2 to VPT-1 and found that VPT-1 is not at all, or very differently embodied. In a second experiment we replicated the qualitatively different patterns for VPT-1 and VPT-2 with verbal responses that employed spatial prepositions. We conclude that VPT-1 is the cognitive process that subserves verbal localizations using &quot;in front&quot; and &quot;behind,&quot; while VPT-2 subserves &quot;left&quot; and &quot;right&quot; from a perspective other than the egocentric. We further conclude that both processes are grounded and situated, but only VPT-2 is embodied in the form of a deliberate movement simulation that increases in mental effort with distance and incongruent proprioception. The differences in cognitive effort predict differences in the use of the associated prepositions. Our findings, therefore, shed light on the situated, grounded and embodied basis of spatial localizations and on the psychology of their use.
Choosing how to use tools to accomplish a task is a natural and seemingly trivial aspect of our lives, yet engages complex neural mechanisms. Recently, work in healthy populations has led to the idea that tool knowledge is grounded to allow for appropriate recall based on some level of personal history. This grounding has presumed neural loci for tool use, centered on parieto-temporo-frontal areas to fuse perception and action representations into one dynamic system. A challenge for this idea is related to one of its great benefits. For such a system to exist, it must be very plastic, to allow for the introduction of novel tools or concepts of tool use and modification of existing ones. Thus, learning new tool usage (familiar tools in new situations and new tools in familiar situations) must involve mapping into this grounded network while maintaining existing rules for tool usage. This plasticity may present a challenging breadth of encoding that needs to be optimally stored and accessed. The aim of this work is to explore the challenges of plasticity related to changing or incorporating representations of tool action within the theory of grounded cognition and propose a modular model of tool-object goal related accomplishment. While considering the neuroscience evidence for this approach, we will focus on the requisite plasticity for this system. Further, we will highlight challenges for flexibility and organization of already grounded tool actions and provide thoughts on future research to better evaluate mechanisms of encoding in the theory of grounded cognition.
CEREBELLAR FUNCTIONS IN TWO TYPES OF PERCEPTUAL TIMING WERE ASSESSED: the absolute (duration-based) timing of single intervals and the relative (beat-based) timing of rhythmic sequences. Continuous transcranial magnetic theta-burst stimulation (cTBS) was applied over the medial cerebellum and performance was measured adaptively before and after stimulation. A large and significant effect was found in the TBS (n=12) compared to the SHAM (n=12) group for single-interval timing but not for the detection of a regular beat or a deviation from it. The data support the existence of distinct perceptual timing mechanisms and an obligatory role of the cerebellum in absolute interval timing with a functional dissociation from relative timing of interval within rhythmic sequences based on a regular beat.
Performance on traditional selective attention tasks, like the Stroop and flanker protocols, is subject to modulation by trial history, whereby the magnitude of congruency (or conflict) effects is often found to decrease following an incongruent trial compared to a congruent one. These &quot;congruency sequence effects&quot; (CSEs) typically appear to reflect a mesh of memory- and attention-based processes. The current study aimed to shed new light on the nature of the attention-based contribution to CSEs, by characterizing the shape of the CSE time-course while controlling for mnemonic influences. Existing attention-based accounts of CSEs are either ambiguous in their predictions of CSE time-courses, or predict CSEs to persist or grow over the post-stimulus/response interval in anticipation of an upcoming stimulus. We gauged CSE time-courses by systematically varying inter-stimulus (Experiment 1) and response-to-stimulus (Experiment 2) intervals across a wide temporal range, in a face-word Stroop task. In spite of an exponential increase in the likelihood of stimulus appearance with increasing interval duration (i.e., an exponential hazard function), results from both experiments showed CSEs to be most pronounced at the shortest intervals, to quickly decay in magnitude with increasing interval length, and to be absent at longer intervals. These data refute the idea that attentional contributions to CSEs remain static over post-stimulus/response intervals and are incompatible with the notion that CSEs reflect expectation-guided preparatory biasing in anticipation of a forthcoming stimulus. The data are compatible, however, with the notion that attentional contributions to CSEs reflect a short-lived, phasic enhancement of attentional set in reaction to processing conflict.
A great challenge to the field of visual neuroscience is to understand how faces are encoded and represented within the human brain. Here we show evidence from functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) for spatially distributed processing of the whole face and its components in face-sensitive human visual cortex. We used multi-class linear pattern classifiers constructed with a leave-one-scan-out verification procedure to discriminate brain activation patterns elicited by whole faces, the internal features alone, and the external head outline alone. Furthermore, our results suggest that whole faces are represented disproportionately in the fusiform cortex (FFA) whereas the building blocks of faces are represented disproportionately in occipitotemporal cortex (OFA). Faces and face components may therefore be organized with functional clustering within both the FFA and OFA, but with specialization for face components in the OFA and the whole face in the FFA.

The speech signal consists of a continuous stream of consonants and vowels, which must be de- and encoded in human auditory cortex to ensure the robust recognition and categorization of speech sounds. We used small-voxel functional magnetic resonance imaging to study information encoded in local brain activation patterns elicited by consonant-vowel syllables, and by a control set of noise bursts. First, activation of anterior-lateral superior temporal cortex was seen when controlling for unspecific acoustic processing (syllables versus band-passed noises, in a &quot;classic&quot; subtraction-based design). Second, a classifier algorithm, which was trained and tested iteratively on data from all subjects to discriminate local brain activation patterns, yielded separations of cortical patches discriminative of vowel category versus patches discriminative of stop-consonant category across the entire superior temporal cortex, yet with regional differences in average classification accuracy. Overlap (voxels correctly classifying both speech sound categories) was surprisingly sparse. Third, lending further plausibility to the results, classification of speech-noise differences was generally superior to speech-speech classifications, with the no\ exception of a left anterior region, where speech-speech classification accuracies were significantly better. These data demonstrate that acoustic-phonetic features are encoded in complex yet sparsely overlapping local patterns of neural activity distributed hierarchically across different regions of the auditory cortex. The redundancy apparent in these multiple patterns may partly explain the robustness of phonemic representations.
A statistically significant result, and a non-significant result may differ little, although significance status may tempt an interpretation of difference. Two studies are reported that compared interpretation of such results presented using null hypothesis significance testing (NHST), or confidence intervals (CIs). Authors of articles published in psychology, behavioral neuroscience, and medical journals were asked, via email, to interpret two fictitious studies that found similar results, one statistically significant, and the other non-significant. Responses from 330 authors varied greatly, but interpretation was generally poor, whether results were presented as CIs or using NHST. However, when interpreting CIs respondents who mentioned NHST were 60% likely to conclude, unjustifiably, the two results conflicted, whereas those who interpreted CIs without reference to NHST were 95% likely to conclude, justifiably, the two results were consistent. Findings were generally similar for all three disciplines. An email survey of academic psychologists confirmed that CIs elicit better interpretations if NHST is not invoked. Improved statistical inference can result from encouragement of meta-analytic thinking and use of CIs but, for full benefit, such highly desirable statistical reform requires also that researchers interpret CIs without recourse to NHST.
Previous studies recording eye gaze during face perception have rendered somewhat inconclusive findings with respect to fixation differences between familiar and unfamiliar faces. This can be attributed to a number of factors that differ across studies: the type and extent of familiarity with the faces presented, the definition of areas of interest subject to analyses, as well as a lack of consideration for the time course of scan patterns. Here we sought to address these issues by recording fixations in a recognition task with personally familiar and unfamiliar faces. After a first common fixation on a central superior location of the face in between features, suggesting initial holistic encoding, and a subsequent left eye bias, local features were focused and explored more for familiar than unfamiliar faces. Although the number of fixations did not differ for un-/familiar faces, the locations of fixations began to differ before familiarity decisions were provided. This suggests that in the context of familiarity decisions without time constraints, differences in processing familiar and unfamiliar faces arise relatively early - immediately upon initiation of the first fixation to identity-specific information - and that the local features of familiar faces are processed more than those of unfamiliar faces.

Spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) is considered as an ubiquitous rule for associative plasticity in cortical networks in vitro. However, limited supporting evidence for its functional role has been provided in vivo. In particular, there are very few studies demonstrating the co-occurrence of synaptic efficiency changes and alteration of sensory responses in adult cortex during Hebbian or STDP protocols. We addressed this issue by reviewing and comparing the functional effects of two types of cellular conditioning in cat visual cortex. The first one, referred to as the &quot;covariance&quot; protocol, obeys a generalized Hebbian framework, by imposing, for different stimuli, supervised positive and negative changes in covariance between postsynaptic and presynaptic activity rates. The second protocol, based on intracellular recordings, replicated in vivo variants of the theta-burst paradigm (TBS), proven successful in inducing long-term potentiation in vitro. Since it was shown to impose a precise correlation delay between the electrically activated thalamic input and the TBS-induced postsynaptic spike, this protocol can be seen as a probe of causal (&quot;pre-before-post&quot;) STDP. By choosing a thalamic region where the visual field representation was in retinotopic overlap with the intracellularly recorded cortical receptive field as the afferent site for supervised electrical stimulation, this protocol allowed to look for possible correlates between STDP and functional reorganization of the conditioned cortical receptive field. The rate-based &quot;covariance protocol&quot; induced significant and large amplitude changes in receptive field properties, in both kitten and adult V1 cortex. The TBS STDP-like protocol produced in the adult significant changes in the synaptic gain of the electrically activated thalamic pathway, but the statistical significance of the functional correlates was detectable mostly at the population level. Comparison of our observations with the literature leads us to re-examine the experimental status of spike timing-dependent potentiation in adult cortex. We propose the existence of a correlation-based threshold in vivo, limiting the expression of STDP-induced changes outside the critical period, and which accounts for the stability of synaptic weights during sensory cortical processing in the absence of attention or reward-gated supervision.
Central inter-neuronal synapses employ various molecular mechanisms to sustain neurotransmitter release during phases of high-frequency synaptic activity. One of the features ensuring this property is the presence of a pool of synaptic vesicles (SVs) in the presynaptic terminal. At rest and low rates of stimulation, most of the vesicles composing this pool remain in a tight cluster. They are actively utilized when neurons fire action potentials at higher rates and the capability of the recycling machinery is limited. In addition, SV clusters are capable of migrating between release sites and reassemble into clusters at neighboring active zones (AZs). Within the cluster, thin &quot;tethers&quot; interconnect SVs. These dynamic filamentous structures are reorganized during stimulation thereby releasing SVs from the cluster. So far, one protein family, the synapsins, which bind actin filaments and vesicles in a phosphorylation-dependent manner, has been implicated in SV clustering in vertebrate synapses. As evident from recent studies, many endocytic proteins reside in the SV cluster in addition to synapsin. Here we discuss alternative possible mechanisms involved in the organization of this population of SVs. We propose a model in which synapsins together with other synaptic proteins, a large proportion of which is involved in SV recycling, form a dynamic proteinaceous &quot;matrix&quot; which limits the mobility of SVs. Actin filaments, however, do not seem to contribute to SV crosslinking within the SV cluster, but instead they are present peripherally to it, at sites of neurotransmitter release, and at sites of SV recycling.
Experience-dependent development of visual cortex depends on the balance between excitatory and inhibitory activity. This activity is regulated by key excitatory (NMDA, AMPA) and inhibitory (GABA(A)) receptors. The composition of these receptors changes developmentally, affecting the excitatory-inhibitory (E/I) balance and synaptic plasticity. Until now, it has been unclear how abnormal visual experience affects this balance. To examine this question, we measured developmental changes in excitatory and inhibitory receptor subunits in visual cortex following normal visual experience and monocular deprivation. We used Western blot analysis to quantify expression of excitatory (NR1, NR2A, NR2B, GluR2) and inhibitory (GABA(A)1, GABA(A)3) receptor subunits. Monocular deprivation promoted a complex pattern of changes in receptor subunit expression that varied with age and was most severe in the region of visual cortex representing the central visual field. To characterize the multidimensional pattern of experience-dependent change in these synaptic mechanisms, we applied a neuroinformatics approach using principal component analysis. We found that monocular deprivation (i) causes a large portion of the normal developmental trajectory to be bypassed, (ii) shifts the E/I balance in favor of more inhibition, and (iii) accelerates the maturation of receptor subunits. Taken together, these results show that monocularly deprived animals have an abnormal balance of the synaptic machinery needed for functional maturation of cortical circuits and for developmental plasticity. This raises the possibility that interventions intended to treat amblyopia may need to address multiple synaptic mechanisms to produce optimal recovery.
A computationally rich algorithm of synaptic plasticity has been proposed based on the experimental observation that the sign and amplitude of the change in synaptic weight is dictated by the temporal order and temporal contiguity between pre- and postsynaptic activities. For more than a decade, this spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) has been studied mainly in brain slices of different brain structures and cultured neurons. Although not yet compelling, evidences for the STDP rule in the intact brain, including primary sensory cortices, have been provided lastly. From insects to mammals, the presentation of precisely timed sensory inputs drives synaptic and functional plasticity in the intact central nervous system, with similar timing requirements than the in vitro defined STDP rule. The convergent evolution of this plasticity rule in species belonging to so distant phylogenic groups points to the efficiency of STDP, as a mechanism for modifying synaptic weights, as the basis of activity-dependent development, learning and memory. In spite of the ubiquity of STDP phenomena, a number of significant variations of the rule are observed in different structures, neuronal types and even synapses on the same neuron, as well as between in vitro and in vivo conditions. In addition, the state of the neuronal network, its ongoing activity and the activation of ascending neuromodulatory systems in different behavioral conditions have dramatic consequences on the expression of spike-timing-dependent synaptic plasticity, and should be further explored.
Although the brain has classically been considered &quot;immune-privileged&quot;, current research suggests an extensive communication between the immune and nervous systems in both health and disease. Recent studies demonstrate that immune molecules are present at the right place and time to modulate the development and function of the healthy and diseased central nervous system (CNS). Indeed, immune molecules play integral roles in the CNS throughout neural development, including affecting neurogenesis, neuronal migration, axon guidance, synapse formation, activity-dependent refinement of circuits, and synaptic plasticity. Moreover, the roles of individual immune molecules in the nervous system may change over development. This review focuses on the effects of immune molecules on neuronal connections in the mammalian central nervous system - specifically the roles for MHCI and its receptors, complement, and cytokines on the function, refinement, and plasticity of geniculate, cortical and hippocampal synapses, and their relationship to neurodevelopmental disorders. These functions for immune molecules during neural development suggest that they could also mediate pathological responses to chronic elevations of cytokines in neurodevelopmental disorders, including autism spectrum disorders (ASD) and schizophrenia.
During the last few decades synaptic vesicles have been assigned to a variety of functional and morphological classes or &quot;pools&quot;. We have argued in the past (Rizzoli and Betz, 2005) that synaptic activity in several preparations is accounted for by the function of three vesicle pools: the readily releasable pool (docked at active zones and ready to go upon stimulation), the recycling pool (scattered throughout the nerve terminals and recycling upon moderate stimulation), and finally the reserve pool (occupying most of the vesicle clusters and only recycling upon strong stimulation). We discuss here the advancements in the vesicle pool field which took place in the ensuing years, focusing on the behavior of different pools under both strong stimulation and physiological activity. Several new findings have enhanced the three-pool model, with, for example, the disparity between recycling and reserve vesicles being underlined by the observation that the former are mobile, while the latter are &quot;fixed&quot;. Finally, a number of altogether new concepts have also evolved such as the current controversy on the identity of the spontaneously recycling vesicle pool.
Spike-timing dependent plasticity (STDP) has been studied extensively in a variety of animal models during the past decade but whether it can be studied at the systems level of the human cortex has been a matter of debate. Only recently newly developed non-invasive brain stimulation techniques such as transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) have made it possible to induce and assess timing dependent plasticity in conscious human subjects. This review will present a critical synopsis of these experiments, which suggest that several of the principal characteristics and molecular mechanisms of TMS-induced plasticity correspond to those of STDP as studied at a cellular level. TMS combined with a second phasic stimulation modality can induce bidirectional long-lasting changes in the excitability of the stimulated cortex, whose polarity depends on the order of the associated stimulus-evoked events within a critical time window of tens of milliseconds. Pharmacological evidence suggests an NMDA receptor mediated form of synaptic plasticity. Studies in human motor cortex demonstrated that motor learning significantly modulates TMS-induced timing dependent plasticity, and, conversely, may be modulated bidirectionally by prior TMS-induced plasticity, providing circumstantial evidence that long-term potentiation-like mechanisms may be involved in motor learning. In summary, convergent evidence is being accumulated for the contention that it is now possible to induce STDP-like changes in the intact human central nervous system by means of TMS to study and interfere with synaptic plasticity in neural circuits in the context of behavior such as learning and memory.
Spike time dependent plasticity (STDP) has been observed in both developing and adult animals. Theoretical studies suggest that it implicitly leads to both competition and homeostasis in addition to correlation-based plasticity, making it a good candidate to explain developmental refinement and plasticity in a number of systems. However, it has only been observed to play a clear role in development in a small number of cases. Because the fast time scales necessary to elicit STDP, it would likely be inefficient in governing synaptic modifications in the absence of fast correlations in neural activity. In contrast, later stages of development often depend on sensory inputs that can drive activity on much faster time scales, suggesting a role in STDP in many sensory systems after opening of the eyes and ear canals. Correlations on fast time scales can be also be present earlier in developing microcircuits, such as those produced by specific transient &quot;teacher&quot; circuits in the cerebral cortex. By reviewing examples of each case, we suggest that STDP is not a universal rule, but rather might be masked or phased in, depending on the information available to instruct refinement in different developing circuits. Thus, this review describes selected cases where STDP has been studied in developmental contexts, and uses these examples to suggest a more general framework for understanding where it could be playing a role in development.
While it has been appreciated for decades that synapse location in the dendritic tree has a powerful influence on signal processing in neurons, the role of dendritic synapse location on the induction of long-term synaptic plasticity has only recently been explored. Here, we review recent work revealing how learning rules for spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) in cortical neurons vary with the spatial location of synaptic input. A common principle appears to be that proximal synapses show conventional STDP, whereas distal inputs undergo plasticity according to novel learning rules. One crucial factor determining location-dependent STDP is the backpropagating action potential, which tends to decrease in amplitude and increase in width as it propagates into the dendritic tree of cortical neurons. We discuss additional location-dependent mechanisms as well as the functional implications of heterogeneous learning rules at different dendritic locations for the organization of synaptic inputs.
A phenomenological model of synaptic plasticity is able to account for a large body of experimental data on spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP). The basic ingredient of the model is the correlation of presynaptic spike arrival with postsynaptic voltage. The local membrane voltage is used twice: a first term accounts for the instantaneous voltage and the second one for a low-pass filtered voltage trace. Spike-timing effects emerge as a special case. We hypothesize that the voltage dependence can explain differential effects of STDP in dendrites, since the amplitude and time course of backpropagating action potentials or dendritic spikes influences the plasticity results in the model. The dendritic effects are simulated by variable choices of voltage time course at the site of the synapse, i.e., without an explicit model of the spatial structure of the neuron.
Exposure of an organism to environmental challenges activates two hormonal systems that help the organism to adapt. As part of this adaptational process, brain processes are changed such that appropriate behavioral strategies are selected that allow optimal performance at the short term, while relevant information is stored for the future. Over the past years it has become evident that chronic uncontrollable and unpredictable stress also exerts profound effects on structure and function of limbic neurons, but the impact of chronic stress is not a mere accumulation of repeated episodes of acute stress exposure. Dendritic trees are reduced in some regions but expanded in others, and cells are generally exposed to a higher calcium load upon depolarization. Synaptic strengthening is largely impaired. Neurotransmitter responses are also changed, e.g., responses to serotonin. We here discuss: (a) the main cellular effects after chronic stress with emphasis on the hippocampus, (b) how such effects could contribute to the development of psychopathology in genetically vulnerable individuals, and (c) their normalization by brief treatment with anti-glucocorticoids.
Spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) has attracted considerable experimental and theoretical attention over the last decade. In the most basic formulation, STDP provides a fundamental unit - a spike pair - for quantifying the induction of long-term changes in synaptic strength. However, many factors, both pre- and postsynaptic, can affect synaptic transmission and integration, especially when multiple spikes are considered. Here we review the experimental evidence for multiple types of nonlinear temporal interactions in STDP, focusing on the contributions of individual spike pairs, overall spike rate, and precise spike timing for modification of cortical and hippocampal excitatory synapses. We discuss the underlying processes that determine the specific learning rules at different synapses, such as postsynaptic excitability and short-term depression. Finally, we describe the success of efforts toward building predictive, quantitative models of how complex and natural spike trains induce long-term synaptic modifications.
Synaptic plasticity has historically been investigated most intensely in the hippocampus and therefore it is somewhat surprising that the majority of studies on spike timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) have focused not in the hippocampus but on synapses in the cortex. One of the major reasons for this bias is the relative ease in obtaining paired electrophysiological recordings from synaptically coupled neurons in cortical slices, in comparison to hippocampal slices. Another less obvious reason has been the difficulty in achieving reliable STDP in the hippocampal slice preparation and confusion surrounding the conditions required. The original descriptions of STDP in the hippocampus was performed on paired recordings from neurons in dissociated or slice cultures utilizing single pairs of presynaptic and postsynaptic spikes and were subsequently replicated in acute hippocampal slices. Further work in several laboratories using conditions that more closely replicate the situation in vivo revealed a requirement for multiple postsynaptic spikes that necessarily complicate the absolute timing rules for STDP. Here we review the hippocampal STDP literature focusing on data from acute hippocampal slice preparations and highlighting apparently contradictory results and the variations in experimental conditions that might account for the discrepancies. We conclude by relating the majority of the available experimental data to a model for STDP induction in the hippocampus based on a critical role for postsynaptic Ca(2+) dynamics.
Development of cognitive function requires the formation and refinement of synaptic networks of neurons in the brain. Morphological abnormalities of synaptic spines occur throughout the brain in a wide variety of syndromic and non-syndromic disorders of mental retardation (MR). In both neurons from human post-mortem tissue and mouse models of retardation, the changes observed in synaptic spine and dendritic morphology can be subtle, in the range of 10-20% alterations for spine protrusion length and density. Functionally, synapses in hippocampus and cortex show deficits in long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) in an array of neurodevelopmental disorders including Down's, Angelman, Fragile X and Rett syndrome. Recent studies have shown that in principle the machinery for synaptic plasticity is in place in these synapses, but that significant alterations in spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) induction rules exist in cortical synaptic pathways of Fragile X MR syndrome. In this model, the threshold for inducing timing-dependent long-term potentiation (tLTP) is increased in these synapses. Increased postsynaptic activity can overcome this threshold and induce normal levels of tLTP. In this review, we bring together recent studies investigating STDP in neurodevelopmental learning disorders using Fragile X syndrome as a model and we argue that alterations in dendritic excitability underlie deficits seen in STDP. Known and candidate dendritic mechanisms that may underlie the plasticity deficits are discussed. Studying STDP in monogenic MR syndromes with clear deficits in information processing at the cognitive level also provides the field with an opportunity to make direct links between cognition and processing rules at the synapse during development.
Synapses are the key elements for signal processing and plasticity in the brain. They are composed of nearly the same structural subelements, an apposition zone including a pre- and postsynaptic density, a cleft and a pool of vesicles. It is, however, their actual composition that determines their different behavior in synaptic transmission and plasticity. Here, we describe and discuss the structural factors underlying the unique functional properties of the hippocampal mossy fiber (MF) synapse. Two membrane specializations, active zones (AZs; transmitter release sites), and puncta adherentia (PA), putative adhesion complexes were found. On average, individual boutons had 20 AZs with a mean surface area of 0.1m(2) and a short distance of 0.45m between individual AZs. Mossy fiber boutons (MFBs) and their target structures were isolated from each other by astrocytes, but fine glial processes never reached the AZs. Therefore, two structural factors are likely to promote synaptic cross-talk: the short distance and the absence of fine glial processes between individual AZs. Thus, synaptic crosstalk may contribute to the high efficacy of hippocampal MF synapses. On average, an adult bouton contained 16,000 synaptic vesicles; 600 vesicles were located within 60nm from the AZ, 4000 between 60nm and 200nm, and the remaining beyond 200nm, suggesting large readily releasable, recycling, and reserve pools. Thus, the size of the three pools together with the number and distribution of AZs underlie the unique extent of synaptic efficacy and plasticity of the hippocampal MF synapse.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder that is characterized by dopamine depletion in the striatum. One consistent pathophysiological hallmark of PD is an increase in spontaneous oscillatory activity in the basal ganglia thalamocortical networks. We evaluated these effects using resting state functional connectivity MRI in mild to moderate stage Parkinson's patients on and off l-DOPA and age-matched controls using six different striatal seed regions. We observed an overall increase in the strength of cortico-striatal functional connectivity in PD patients off l-DOPA compared to controls. This enhanced connectivity was down-regulated by l-DOPA as shown by an overall decrease in connectivity strength, particularly within motor cortical regions. We also performed a frequency content analysis of the BOLD signal time course extracted from the six striatal seed regions. PD off l-DOPA exhibited increased power in the frequency band 0.02-0.05Hz compared to controls and to PD on l-DOPA. The l-DOPA associated decrease in the power of this frequency range modulated the l-DOPA associated decrease in connectivity strength between striatal seeds and the thalamus. In addition, the l-DOPA associated decrease in power in this frequency band correlated with the l-DOPA associated improvement in cognitive performance. Our results demonstrate that PD and l-DOPA modulate striatal resting state BOLD signal oscillations and cortico-striatal network coherence.
The focus of most research on auditory cortical neurons has concerned the effects of rather simple stimuli, such as pure tones or broad-band noise, or the modulation of a single acoustic parameter. Extending these findings to feature coding in more complex stimuli such as natural sounds may be difficult, however. Generalizing results from the simple to more complex case may be complicated by non-linear interactions occurring between multiple, simultaneously varying acoustic parameters in complex sounds. To examine this issue in the frequency domain, we performed a parametric study of the effects of two global features, spectral pattern (here ripple frequency) and bandwidth, on primary auditory (A1) neurons in awake macaques. Most neurons were tuned for one or both variables and most also displayed an interaction between bandwidth and pattern implying that their effects were conditional or interdependent. A spectral linear filter model was able to qualitatively reproduce the basic effects and interactions, indicating that a simple neural mechanism may be able to account for these interdependencies. Our results suggest that the behavior of most A1 neurons is likely to depend on multiple parameters, and so most are unlikely to respond independently or invariantly to specific acoustic features.
Patients suffering from focal drug-resistant epilepsy who are explored using intracranial electrodes allow to obtain data of exceptional value for studying brain dynamics in correlation with pathophysiological and cognitive processes. Direct electrical stimulation (DES) of cortical regions and axonal tracts in those patients elicits a number of very specific perceptual or behavioral responses, but also abnormal responses due to specific configurations of epileptic networks. Here, we review how anatomo-functional brain connectivity and epilepsy network mechanisms can be assessed from DES responses measured in patients. After a brief summary of mechanisms of action of brain electrical stimulation, we recall the conceptual framework for interpreting DES results in the context of brain connectivity and review how DES can be used for the characterization of functional networks, the identification of the seizure onset zone, the study of brain plasticity mechanisms, and the anticipation of epileptic seizures. This pool of exceptional data may be underexploited by fundamental research on brain connectivity and leaves much to be learned.
Modularity is a fundamental concept in systems neuroscience, referring to the formation of local cliques or modules of densely intra-connected nodes that are sparsely inter-connected with nodes in other modules. Topological modularity of brain functional networks can quantify theoretically anticipated abnormality of brain network community structure - so-called dysmodularity - in developmental disorders such as childhood-onset schizophrenia (COS). We used graph theory to investigate topology of networks derived from resting-state fMRI data on 13 COS patients and 19 healthy volunteers. We measured functional connectivity between each pair of 100 regional nodes, focusing on wavelet correlation in the frequency interval 0.05-0.1Hz, then applied global and local thresholding rules to construct graphs from each individual association matrix over the full range of possible connection densities. We show how local thresholding based on the minimum spanning tree facilitates group comparisons of networks by forcing the connectedness of sparse graphs. Threshold-dependent graph theoretical results are compatible with the results of a k-means unsupervised learning algorithm and a multi-resolution (spin glass) approach to modularity, both of which also find community structure but do not require thresholding of the association matrix. In general modularity of brain functional networks was significantly reduced in COS, due to a relatively reduced density of intra-modular connections between neighboring regions. Other network measures of local organization such as clustering were also decreased, while complementary measures of global efficiency and robustness were increased, in the COS group. The group differences in complex network properties were mirrored by differences in simpler statistical properties of the data, such as the variability of the global time series and the internal homogeneity of the time series within anatomical regions of interest.
Neurological and neuropsychiatric disorders are major causes of morbidity worldwide. A systems level analysis including functional and structural neuroimaging is particularly useful when the pathology leads to disorders of higher order cognitive functions in human patients. However, an analysis that is restricted to regional effects is impoverished and insensitive, compared to the analysis of distributed brain networks. We discuss the issues to consider when choosing an appropriate connectivity method, and compare the results from several different methods that are relevant to fMRI and PET data. These include psychophysiological interactions in general linear models, structural equation modeling, dynamic causal modeling, and independent components analysis. The advantages of connectivity analysis are illustrated with a range of structural and neurodegenerative brain disorders. We illustrate the sensitivity of these methods to the presence or severity of disease and/or treatment, even where analyses of voxel-wise activations are insensitive. However, functional and structural connectivity methods should be seen as complementary to, not a substitute for, other imaging and behavioral approaches. The functional relevance of changes in connectivity, to motor or cognitive performance, are considered alongside the complex relationship between structural and functional changes and neuropathology. Finally some of the problems associated with connectivity analysis are discussed. We suggest that the analysis of brain connectivity is an essential complement to the analysis of regionally specific dysfunction, in order to understand neurological and neuropsychiatric disease, and to evaluate the mechanisms of effective therapies.

Corticomuscular coherence has previously been reported between primary motor cortex (M1) and contralateral muscles. We examined whether such coherence could also be seen from somatosensory areas. Local field potentials (LFPs) were recorded from primary somatosensory cortex (S1; areas 3a and 2) and posterior parietal cortex (PPC; area 5) simultaneously with M1 LFP and forearm EMG activity in two monkeys during an index finger flexion task. Significant beta-band ( approximately 20 Hz) corticomuscular coherence was found in all areas investigated. Directed coherence (Granger causality) analysis was used to investigate the direction of effects. Surprisingly, the strongest beta-band directed coherence was in the direction from S1/PPC to muscle; it was much weaker in the ascending direction. Examination of the phase of directed coherence provided estimates of the time delay from cortex to muscle. Delays were longer from M1 ( approximately 62 ms for the first dorsal interosseous muscle) than from S1/PPC ( approximately 36 ms). We then looked at coherence and directed coherence between M1 and S1 for clues to this discrepancy. Directed coherence showed large beta-band effects from S1/PPC to M1, with smaller directed coherence in the reverse direction. The directed coherence phase suggested a delay of approximately 40 ms from M1 to S1. Corticomuscular coherence from S1/PPC could involve multiple pathways; the most important is probably common input from M1 to S1/PPC and muscles. If correct, this implies that somatosensory cortex receives oscillatory efference copy information from M1 about the motor command. This could allow sensory inflow to be interpreted in the light of its motor context.
A growing body of evidence suggests that the midbrain dopamine system plays a key role in reinforcement learning and disruption of the midbrain dopamine system in Parkinson's disease (PD) may lead to deficits on tasks that require learning from feedback. We examined how changes in dopamine levels (&quot;ON&quot; and &quot;OFF&quot; their dopamine medication) affect sequence learning from stochastic positive and negative feedback using Bayesian reinforcement learning models. We found deficits in sequence learning in patients with PD when they were &quot;ON&quot; and &quot;OFF&quot; medication relative to healthy controls, but smaller differences between patients &quot;OFF&quot; and &quot;ON&quot;. The deficits were mainly due to decreased learning from positive feedback, although across all participant groups learning was more strongly associated with positive than negative feedback in our task. The learning in our task is likely mediated by the relatively depleted dorsal striatum and not the relatively intact ventral striatum. Therefore, the changes we see in our task may be due to a strong loss of phasic dopamine signals in the dorsal striatum in PD.
A fundamental goal in vision science is to determine how many neurons in how many areas are required to compute a coherent interpretation of the visual scene. Here I propose six principles of cortical dynamics of visual processing in the first 150 ms following the appearance of a visual stimulus. Fast synaptic communication between neurons depends on the driving neurons and the biophysical history and driving forces of the target neurons. Under these constraints, the retina communicates changes in the field of view driving large populations of neurons in visual areas into a dynamic sequence of feed-forward communication and integration of the inward current of the change signal into the dendrites of higher order area neurons (30-70 ms). Simultaneously an even larger number of neurons within each area receiving feed-forward input are pre-excited to sub-threshold levels. The higher order area neurons communicate the results of their computations as feedback adding inward current to the excited and pre-excited neurons in lower areas. This feedback reconciles computational differences between higher and lower areas (75-120 ms). This brings the lower area neurons into a new dynamic regime characterized by reduced driving forces and sparse firing reflecting the visual areas interpretation of the current scene (140 ms). The population membrane potentials and net-inward/outward currents and firing are well behaved at the mesoscopic scale, such that the decoding in retinotopic cortical space shows the visual areas' interpretation of the current scene. These dynamics have plausible biophysical explanations. The principles are theoretical, predictive, supported by recent experiments and easily lend themselves to experimental tests or computational modeling.
In the past decade, resting-state functional MRI (R-fMRI) measures of brain activity have attracted considerable attention. Based on changes in the blood oxygen level-dependent signal, R-fMRI offers a novel way to assess the brain's spontaneous or intrinsic (i.e., task-free) activity with both high spatial and temporal resolutions. The properties of both the intra- and inter-regional connectivity of resting-state brain activity have been well documented, promoting our understanding of the brain as a complex network. Specifically, the topological organization of brain networks has been recently studied with graph theory. In this review, we will summarize the recent advances in graph-based brain network analyses of R-fMRI signals, both in typical and atypical populations. Application of these approaches to R-fMRI data has demonstrated non-trivial topological properties of functional networks in the human brain. Among these is the knowledge that the brain's intrinsic activity is organized as a small-world, highly efficient network, with significant modularity and highly connected hub regions. These network properties have also been found to change throughout normal development, aging, and in various pathological conditions. The literature reviewed here suggests that graph-based network analyses are capable of uncovering system-level changes associated with different processes in the resting brain, which could provide novel insights into the understanding of the underlying physiological mechanisms of brain function. We also highlight several potential research topics in the future.
In this study, we applied coherence to voxel-wise measurement of regional homogeneity of resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (RS-fMRI) signal. We compared the current method, regional homogeneity based on coherence (Cohe-ReHo), with previously proposed method, ReHo based on Kendall's coefficient of concordance (KCC-ReHo), in terms of correlation and paired t-test in a large sample of healthy participants. We found the two measurements differed mainly in some brain regions where physiological noise is dominant. We also compared the sensitivity of these methods in detecting difference between resting-state conditions [eyes open (EO) vs. eyes closed (EC)] and in detecting abnormal local synchronization between two groups [attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) patients vs. normal controls]. Our results indicated that Cohe-ReHo is more sensitive than KCC-ReHo to the difference between two conditions (EO vs. EC) as well as that between ADHD and normal controls. These preliminary results suggest that Cohe-ReHo is superior to KCC-ReHo. A possible reason is that coherence is not susceptible to random noise induced by phase delay among the time courses to be measured. However, further investigation is still needed to elucidate the sensitivity and specificity of these methods.
Resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) has attracted more and more attention because of its effectiveness, simplicity and non-invasiveness in exploration of the intrinsic functional architecture of the human brain. However, user-friendly toolbox for &quot;pipeline&quot; data analysis of resting-state fMRI is still lacking. Based on some functions in Statistical Parametric Mapping (SPM) and Resting-State fMRI Data Analysis Toolkit (REST), we have developed a MATLAB toolbox called Data Processing Assistant for Resting-State fMRI (DPARSF) for &quot;pipeline&quot; data analysis of resting-state fMRI. After the user arranges the Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) files and click a few buttons to set parameters, DPARSF will then give all the preprocessed (slice timing, realign, normalize, smooth) data and results for functional connectivity, regional homogeneity, amplitude of low-frequency fluctuation (ALFF), and fractional ALFF. DPARSF can also create a report for excluding subjects with excessive head motion and generate a set of pictures for easily checking the effect of normalization. In addition, users can also use DPARSF to extract time courses from regions of interest.
Over the past several decades, structural MRI studies have provided remarkable insights into human brain development by revealing the trajectory of gray and white matter maturation from childhood to adolescence and adulthood. In parallel, functional MRI studies have demonstrated changes in brain activation patterns accompanying cognitive development. Despite these advances, studying the maturation of functional brain networks underlying brain development continues to present unique scientific and methodological challenges. Resting-state fMRI (rsfMRI) has emerged as a novel method for investigating the development of large-scale functional brain networks in infants and young children. We review existing rsfMRI developmental studies and discuss how this method has begun to make significant contributions to our understanding of maturing brain organization. In particular, rsfMRI has been used to complement studies in other modalities investigating the emergence of functional segregation and integration across short and long-range connections spanning the entire brain. We show that rsfMRI studies help to clarify and reveal important principles of functional brain development, including a shift from diffuse to focal activation patterns, and simultaneous pruning of local connectivity and strengthening of long-range connectivity with age. The insights gained from these studies also shed light on potentially disrupted functional networks underlying atypical cognitive development associated with neurodevelopmental disorders. We conclude by identifying critical gaps in the current literature, discussing methodological issues, and suggesting avenues for future research.
The basic unit of any nervous system is the neuron. Therefore, understanding the operation of nervous systems ultimately requires an inventory of their constituent neurons and synaptic connectivity, which form neural circuits. The presence of uniquely identifiable neurons or classes of neurons in many invertebrates has facilitated the construction of cellular-level connectivity diagrams that can be generalized across individuals within a species. Homologous neurons can also be recognized across species. Here we describe NeuronBank.org, a web-based tool that we are developing for cataloging, searching, and analyzing neuronal circuitry within and across species. Information from a single species is represented in an individual branch of NeuronBank. Users can search within a branch or perform queries across branches to look for similarities in neuronal circuits across species. The branches allow for an extensible ontology so that additional characteristics can be added as knowledge grows. Each entry in NeuronBank generates a unique accession ID, allowing it to be easily cited. There is also an automatic link to a Wiki page allowing an encyclopedic explanation of the entry. All of the 44 previously published neurons plus one previously unpublished neuron from the mollusc, Tritonia diomedea, have been entered into a branch of NeuronBank as have 4 previously published neurons from the mollusc, Melibe leonina. The ability to organize information about neuronal circuits will make this information more accessible, ultimately aiding research on these important models.
The last 15 years have witnessed a steady increase in the number of resting-state functional neuroimaging studies. The connectivity patterns of multiple functional, distributed, large-scale networks of brain dynamics have been recognised for their potential as useful tools in the domain of systems and other neurosciences. The application of functional connectivity methods to areas such as cognitive psychology, clinical diagnosis and treatment progression has yielded promising preliminary results, but is yet to be fully realised. This is due, in part, to an array of methodological and interpretative issues that remain to be resolved. We here present a review of the methods most commonly applied in this rapidly advancing field, such as seed-based correlation analysis and independent component analysis, along with examples of their use at the individual subject and group analysis levels and a discussion of practical and theoretical issues arising from this data 'explosion'. We describe the similarities and differences across these varied statistical approaches to processing resting-state functional magnetic resonance imaging signals, and conclude that further technical optimisation and experimental refinement is required in order to fully delineate and characterise the gross complexity of the human neural functional architecture.
Perceptual categorization is a fundamental cognitive process that gives meaning to an often graded sensory environment. Previous research has subdivided the visual pathway into posterior regions that processes the physical properties of a stimulus, and frontal regions that process more abstract properties such as category information. The superior temporal sulcus (STS) is known to be involved in face and emotion perception, but the nature of its processing remains unknown. Here, we used targeted fMRI measurements of the STS to investigate whether its representations of facial expressions are categorical or noncategorical. Multivoxel pattern analysis showed that even though subjects were performing a categorization task, the left STS contained graded, noncategorical representations. In the right STS, representations showed evidence for both stimulus-related gradations and a categorical boundary.
Digital three dimensional standard brain atlases (SBAs) are valuable tools for integrating neuroimaging data of different preparations. In insects, SBAs of five species are available, including the atlas of the female Heliothis virescens moth brain. Like for the other species, the antennal lobes (ALs) of the moth brain atlas were integrated as one material identity without internal structures. Different from the others, the H. virescens SBA exclusively included the glomerular layer of the AL. This was an advantage in the present study for performing a direct registration of the glomerular layer of individual preparations into the standard brain. We here present the H. virescens female SBA with a new model of the AL glomeruli integrated into the atlas, i.e. with each of the 66 glomeruli identified and labelled with a specific number. The new model differs from the previous H. virescens AL model both in respect to the number of glomeruli and the numbering system; the latter according to the system used for the AL atlases of two other heliothine species. For identifying female specific glomeruli comparison with the male AL was necessary. This required a new male AL atlas, included in this paper. As demonstrated by the integration of three AL projection neurons of different preparations, the new SBA with the integrated glomruli is a helpful tool for determining the glomeruli innervated as well as the relative position of the axonal projections in the protocerebrum.
Stroke is a sexually dimorphic disease, with differences between males and females observed both clinically and in the laboratory. While males have a higher incidence of stroke throughout much of the lifespan, aged females have a higher burden of stroke. Sex differences in stroke result from a combination of factors, including elements intrinsic to the sex chromosomes as well as the effects of sex hormone exposure throughout the lifespan. Research investigating the sexual dimorphism of stroke is only in the beginning stages, but early findings suggest that different cell death pathways are activated in males and females after ischemic stroke. A greater understanding of the mechanisms underlying sex differences in stroke will lead to more appropriate treatment strategies for patients of both sexes.

Dietary fiber is a term that reflects a heterogeneous group of natural food sources, processed grains, and commercial supplements. Several forms of dietary fiber have been used as complementary or alternative agents in the management of manifestations of the metabolic syndrome, including obesity. Not surprisingly, there is a great variation in the biological efficacy of dietary fiber in the metabolic syndrome and body weight control. Diverse factors and mechanisms have been reported as mediators of the effects of dietary fiber on the metabolic syndrome and obesity. Among this array of mechanisms, the modulation of gastric sensorimotor influences appears to be crucial for the effects of dietary fiber but also quite variable. This report focuses on the role, mechanism of action, and benefits of different forms of fiber and supplements on obesity and the metabolic syndrome, glycemia, dyslipidemia, and cardiovascular risk and explores the effects of dietary fiber on gastric sensorimotor function and satiety in mediating these actions of dietary fiber.


Mammalian genomes are highly complex, with neighbouring genes arranged in divergent, convergent, tandem, antisense, and interleaving fashions. Despite the vast genomic space, a substantial portion of human genes (approximately 10%) are arranged in a divergent, head-to-head fashion and controlled by bidirectional promoters. Here we define a small core bidirectional promoter that drives expression of the mouse genes Recql4, on one strand, and Lrrc14; a novel member of the LRR gene family, on the opposite strand. Regulation of Lrrc14 expression is highly complex, involving multiple promoters' and alternative splicing. Expression of this gene is predominately restricted to neural tissue during embryogenesis and is expressed in a wide range of tissues in the adult.
Epigenetic inactivation of tumor suppressor genes is common in human cancer. Using a large-scale whole-genome approach in an earlier study, the authors identified epigenetically silenced genes with potential tumor suppressor function in glioblastoma (GBM). Three genes identified in this analysis-DKK1, SFRP1, and WIF1-are potent inhibitors of the Wnt signal transduction pathway. Here, the authors confirm decreased expression of these genes in GBM tumor tissue samples relative to nontumor brain tissue samples using real-time PCR. They then show that expression of all 3 genes is restored in T98 GBM cells by treatment with the histone deacetylase inhibitor Trichostatin A (TSA), but only DKK1 expression is restored by treatment with the demethylating agent 5-azacytidine. Bisulfite sequencing did not reveal significant methylation in the promoter region of DKK1, whereas histone acetylation and chromatin accessibility increased significantly for all 3 genes after TSA treatment. Ectopic expression of DKK1 significantly reduces colony formation and increases chemotherapy-induced apoptosis in T98 cells. Ectopic expression of the canonical Wnt pathway inhibitors WIF1 and SFRP1 shows a relative lack of response. Chronic Wnt3a stimulation only partially reverses growth suppression after DKK1 reexpression, whereas a specific inhibitor of the JNK pathway significantly reverses the effect of DKK1 reexpression on colony formation and apoptosis in T98 cells. These results support a potential growth-suppressive function for epigenetically silenced DKK1 in GBM and suggest that DKK1 restoration could modulate Wnt signaling through both canonical and noncanonical pathways.
A 58 Mb region on rat chromosome 4 known to regulate experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) was genetically dissected. High-resolution linkage analysis in an advanced intercross line (AIL) revealed four quantitative trait loci (QTLs), Eae24-Eae27. Both Eae24 and Eae25 regulated susceptibility and severity phenotypes, whereas Eae26 regulated severity and Eae27 regulated susceptibility. Analyses of the humoral immune response revealed that the levels of serum anti-myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein (MOG) immunoglobin G1 (IgG1) antibodies are linked to Eae24 and anti-MOG IgG2b antibodies are linked to both Eae24 and Eae26. We tested the parental DA strain and six recombinant congenic strains that include overlapping fragments of this region in MOG-EAE. Eae24 and Eae25 showed significant protection during the acute phase of EAE, whereas Eae25 and Eae26 significantly modified severity but not susceptibility. The smallest congenic fragment, which carries Eae25 alone, influenced both susceptibility and severity, and protected from the chronic phase of disease. These results support the multiple QTLs identified in the AIL. By demonstrating several QTLs comprising immune-related genes, which potentially interact, we provide a significant step toward elucidation of the polygenically regulated pathogenesis of MOG-EAE and possibly multiple sclerosis (MS), and opportunities for comparative genetics and testing in MS case-control cohorts.



Neural stem cells (NSCs) are undifferentiated neural cells characterized by their high proliferative potential and the capacity for self-renewal with retention of multipotency. Over the past two decades, there has been a huge effort to identify NSCs morphologically, genetically, and molecular biologically. It is still controversial, however, what bona fide NSCs are. To define and characterize NSCs more systematically, it is crucial to explore novel cell-surface marker molecules of NSCs. In this study, we focused on GD3, a b-series ganglioside that is enriched in the immature brain and the subventricular zone (SVZ) of the postnatal and adult brain, and evaluated the usefulness of GD3 as a cell-surface biomarker for identifying NSCs. We demonstrated that GD3 was expressed in more than 80% of NSCs prepared from embryonic, postnatal, and adult mouse brain tissue by the neurosphere culture method. The percentage of GD3-expressing NSCs in neurospheres was nearly the same as it was in neurospheres derived from embryonic, postnatal, and adult brains but decreased drastically to about 40% after differentiation. GD3(+) cells isolated from embryonic mouse striata, postnatal, and adult mouse SVZs by fluorescence-activated cell sorting with an R24 anti-GD3 monoclonal antibody efficiently generated neurospheres compared with GD3(-) cells. These cells possessed multipotency to differentiate into neurons, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. These data indicate that GD3 is a unique and powerful cell-surface biomarker to identify and isolate NSCs.
Patients with cluster headache or any of the trigeminal autonomic cephalalgias (TACs) are often good candidates for preventive treatment as their headaches are frequent and severe. While acute and symptomatic therapies must be used often, they do not alter the course of the cluster period or the duration of the TACs, and they do not usually decrease the frequency of attacks. In this chapter we discuss the aim and the choice of prevention. Verapamil is considered the first choice for prevention of cluster headache, but as with all of the medications to be mentioned, it has various adverse effects to be aware of. Other frequently used preventives for cluster include lithium carbonate, methysergide where available, methylergonovine, clonidine, melatonin, valproate, gabapentin, topiramate, and others. Several other medications can be used as bridge therapy, to decrease the frequency of cluster temporarily, giving time for the preventives to begin to work. The most commonly used bridge therapies are 7-21 days of prednisone at high and then tapering doses and ergots such as ergotamine tartrate and dihydroergotamine. Patients with chronic cluster headache who are unresponsive to all medical therapies can be considered for occipital nerve stimulation and various surgical procedures such as ganglyogliolysis of all three branches of the ipsilateral trigeminal nerve at the root entry zone. A somewhat controversial but highly successful procedure, at least as done by the neurosurgeons in Professor Bussone's group at the Institute of Neurology in Milan, has been deep-brain stimulation of the posterior hypothalamus. Other TACs, such as short-lasting unilateral neuralgiform headache attacks with conjunctival injection and tearing (SUNCT), can be hard to treat effectively with medications, but the paroxysmal hemicranias and cluster tic respond somewhat better to traditional therapies.
Acute treatment of migraine has benefited first from major advances in pharmacological science followed in short order, sometimes preceded, by an improved understanding of pathogenesis, especially of headache. This chapter reviews the mechanisms of migraine that provide an understanding of the pharmacology and therapeutic targets for acute migraine medications. General clinical approaches to acute therapy are reviewed, and indices of acceptable acute therapeutic outcomes are discussed. Currently the serotonin (5-HT) 1B/1D agonist group of drugs, triptans, forms the mainstay of acute therapeutic regimens. Other approaches to acute treatment such as simple analgesics, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), ergots, and combination medications are reviewed. Finally, the newest acute treatments that are currently exploratory or under clinical investigation are discussed.

Headache is one of the most common types of pain and, in the absence of biological markers, headache diagnosis depends only on information obtained from clinical interviews and physical and neurological examinations. Headache diaries make it possible to record prospectively the characteristics of every attack and the use of headache calendars is indicated for evaluating the time pattern of headache, identifying aggravating factors, and evaluating the efficacy of preventive treatment. This may reduce the recall bias and increase accuracy in the description. The use of diagnostic headache diaries does have some limitations because the patient's general acceptance is still limited and some subjects are not able to fill in a diary. In this chapter, we consider diaries and calendars specially designed for migraine and, in particular, aim to: (1) determine what instruments are available in clinical practice for diagnosis and follow-up of treatments; and (2) describe the tools that have been developed for research and their main applications in the headache field. In addition, we include information on diaries available online and proposals for future areas of research.
Epidemiological studies conducted in the general population point to average headache prevalence rates of 46% for 1-year prevalence and of 64% for lifetime prevalence. For migraine, most studies conducted in the adult general population of western Europe and North America indicate rates between 5% and 9% in men, and between 12% and 25% in women. Non-western countries report lower figures. Migraine shows no gender differences in children, while in the elderly its frequency appears much reduced in both genders. About one-third of migraineurs suffer from migraine with aura. For tension-type headache, prevalence data reports in the literature are few and conflicting: rates range from 11% in Singapore to 20-40% in the USA and over 80% in Denmark. It is worth noting that the highest figures are found in studies where a personal interview has been employed. This probably indicates that the prevalence of this headache subtype is particularly sensitive to the method of data collection. Cluster headache occurs in 1-3 per thousand of the general population, with a gender (M:F) ratio of about 3:1. About 4% of the adult general population suffers from chronic daily headache.
The history of cell transplantation in the nervous system is reviewed in four main sections. The &quot;early era&quot; spans the period from 1890 to 1940, during which the first attempts at cell transplantation in the brain were undertaken. Many contemporary themes were first addressed such as surgical factors to achieve survival of grafted cells and how that should be assessed, immunological factors, use of tumors as a readily viable cell source; and use of the anterior eye chamber as a model transplantation site. However, such studies generally exhibited only low levels of viability or successful implantation. The &quot;middle era&quot; from 1940 to 1970 spans the period when the techniques for viable and reliable cell transplantation using embryonic donor tissues implanted into sites with effective vascularization were first established in brain and neuroendocrine systems in a limited number of specialist centers. However, although sometimes impressive, these results were at variance with the prevailing view that the adult mammalian brain is immutable and resistant to plasticity, growth or regeneration, and were largely ignored. The &quot;modern era,&quot; since 1970, began with the pioneering studies that combined cell transplantation with the use of improved histochemical and ultrastructural anatomical techniques to demonstrate selectivity, specificity and regenerative capacity of implanted cells, and the slow acceptance that the adult brain does exhibit considerable potential for plasticity and repair. The last three decades have witnessed the identification of reliable and efficient transplantation technologies combined with progressively refined methods of molecular, cellular, biochemical, physiological and functional analysis. This now enables the ready use of cell transplantation as a powerful novel method within the neuroscience tool-kit, which is being used: to analyze normal organization and function of the nervous system; to reveal the biological mechanisms and principles of neuronal development, regeneration and plasticity; and to study the principles of surgically directed cell therapies for promoting plasticity, replacement and repair in response to injury and disease. The final section reviews recent progress in translating cell transplantation to the clinic for application in Parkinson's and other central nervous system diseases.
In comparison with most Western countries, neurology as a recognized medical specialty has a relatively brief history in Australia: the national body for neurologists, the Australian (since 2006: and New Zealand) Association of Neurologists, was founded only in 1950. The development of neurology in both countries was heavily influenced by British neurology, and until recently a period in the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery, Queen Square, London was regarded as essential to specialist training in neurology. Nevertheless, Australians have made significant contributions to international neurology since the early 20th century, commencing with the neuroanatomical research of the colorful expatriate Grafton Elliot Smith (1871-1937). Other Australian physicians who attracted early international attention through their work in clinical neuroscience included William John Adie (1886-1935), the anatomist John Irvine Hunter (1898-1924) and the surgeon Norman Royle (1888-1944). The first Australian physician to unambiguously commit himself to neurology was Alfred Walter Campbell (1868-1938), a remarkable personality who established an imposing reputation as neurocytologist and neuropathologist. The chapter provides a concise overview of the development of neurology as a clinical and academic specialty in Australia and New Zealand.

Early neurology in German-speaking countries evolved aside from mainstream medicine. Animists like Stahl in the 18th century saw the soul as the cause of health and disease, and the later Vitalists insisted on life-force as the specific property of living beings, contrary to skeptics like Albrecht von Haller, whose neurophysiology they left behind. Following Willis, they studied brain tracts and speculated about reflex action. They experimented with electrotherapy, and later devised early theories of electric nerve action. The controversial medical theories of animal magnetism and phrenology also advanced brain research and clinical neurology together with their sectarian programs, which seem absurd today. The impact on natural science and medicine of the last great Vitalist, Johannes Mller, and his mechanistic students such as Remak, Schwann, Schleiden, Helmholtz, Ludwig, Brcke, Virchow, Koelliker, and Wundt was unparalleled. They provided the anatomical and physiological infrastructure for the growth of neurology. From 1845 far into the 20th century, psychiatry and neurology evolved together. Neuropsychiatrists cared for their mental patients during the day, and studied their brain tissue slides at night, as in the case of Alzheimer and Nissl. Major advances in brain research were achieved by the hypnotists Forel and Vogt, and modern psychiatry was launched by the typical neuropsychiatrists Kraepelin, Moebius, Bleuler, and Adolf Meyer.
Neurology is well developed in Scandinavia (Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, and Sweden) with a large number of clinical departments and specialists. The care for neurological patients is fairly equally organized even if neurology has evolved from different sources, from psychiatry in Denmark and Finland, internal medicine in Sweden and electrotherapy in Norway. Evidence of diagnostic activity and treatment of neurological diseases can be found in Scandinavia for more than 5000 years. The oldest are trepanned skulls. Written documentation exists from the Viking era, describing treatment of seizures and possibly also the effect of ergotamine. The methods were in concordance with medical practice in the rest of Europe. Scandinavian neurobiologists have produced important contributions to neuroscience during the last 300 or 400 years. Their names can be recognized as eponyms and Nobel prize laureates. Examples are Niels Stensen (Nicolaus Stenoni), the Bartholin family and Knud Krabbe of Denmark, Ragnar Granit of Finland, Bjrn Sigurdsson (the concept of slow virus infections) of Iceland, Asbjrn Flling and Sigvald Refsum of Norway and Gunnar Wohlfart, Eric Kugelberg, Lisa Welander and Arvid Carlsson of Sweden. In addition, well known neurological diseases were described in Scandinavia long before those neuroscientists that today have their names attached to them: Otto Christian Stengel, Norway (1826: Batten-Spielmayer-Vogt's disease), Johan Christian Lund, Norway (1860: Huntington's chorea) and Ernst Alexander Homn, Finland (1889: Wilson's disease).
In the UK, neurology stemmed from general (internal) medicine rather than psychiatry. In 1886 the Neurological Society of London was founded, with Hughlings Jackson as its first President. After World War I, Kinnier Wilson was made Physician in Charge of the first independent department of neurology, which was at Westminster Hospital in London. Although before the 17th century there were British doctors who took an interest in diseases of the nervous system, e.g. Gilbertus Anglicus (c. 1230), who distinguished epilepsy from apoplexy, and Bartholomeus Anglicus, whose encyclopedia (c. 1260) provided the first picture of a dissection printed in English, John of Gaddesden (1280-1361) was the first in Britain to produce a manuscript on neurological disorders. Thomas Willis (1621-1675) was the founder of Neurology, being the first to use the term, and was also the leader of the first multidisciplinary team in neurological science, helping to shift attention from the chambers of the brain to the brain substance itself. He wrote seven books, all but the last in Latin, and his second one, Cerebri anatome (1664) was the first on the nervous system to include the brain, spinal cord and peripheral nerves, introducing such new terms as lentiform body, corpus striatum, optic thalamus, inferior olives and peduncles. Most of his neurology was in his fifth book, De anima brutorum (1672). Before Willis the brain was a mystery, but his work laid the foundations for neurological advances. After the 17th century of William Harvey and Thomas Sydenham and the 18th century of William Heberden and Robert Whytt there followed the 19th century of James Parkinson (1755-1824), John Cooke (1756-1838), Sir Charles Bell (1774-1842), Marshall Hall (1790-1856) and Bentley Todd (1809-1860). Besides its &quot;Father,&quot; Hughlings Jackson, the giants who established the unique superiority of British neurology were Sir William Gowers, Sir David Ferrier, Kinnier Wilson, Sir Gordon Holmes and Sir Charles Sherrington.
The great formative event in the history of North America, the Civil War of 1861 to 1865, was the stimulus for the development of clinical neurology and the neurosciences. The first neurological research center on the continent was the US Army hospital at Turner's Lane, Philadelphia, PA. Silas Weir Mitchell and his colleagues described causalgia (reflex sympathetic dystrophy), phantom limb sensation, and Horner's syndrome (before Horner). The medical leader of the Northern army was William Hammond. After the conclusion of hostilities, he began a huge clinical practice in New York City. In the United States, clinical neurology began in private practice, unlike Europe, where neurology began in institutions. Hammond's textbook, which first used the term athetosis, was used by a generation of physicians who encountered patients with neurological signs and symptoms. Early in the 20th century, neurological institutions were formed around universities; probably the most famous was the Montreal Neurological Institute founded by Wilder Penfield. The US federal government sponsored extensive research into the function and dysfunction of the nervous system through the Neurological Institute of Neurological Diseases and Blindness, later called the National Institute of Neurological Diseases and Stroke. The government officially classified the final 10 years of the 20th century as the Decade of the Brain and provided an even greater level of research funding.
An historical overview is presented that focuses on the changes both in approach and topics with respect to language disturbances due to brain lesions. Early cases of language disorders were described without any theorizing about language or its relation to the brain. Also, three forms of speech disorder were distinguished: traulotes, psellotes and ischophonia, which are only marginally related to aphasia. In the 18th century some authors, in particular Gesner and Crichton, attempted to explain language disorders in terms of mental processes. The great debate on both the anatomical (Broca, Wernicke) and functional (Wernicke, Lichtheim) aspects of aphasia dominated late 19th century discussion of localization of function, leading to the development of what we now call the cognitive neurosciences. In this period, language processing was described in terms of a simple functional model of word recognition and production; linguistic principles played no role. At the beginning of the 20th century the discussion on language disorders waned due to a decrease of interest in the issue of localization; aphasia became primarily a clinical issue of how best to classify patients. In the second half of the 20th century, the field of aphasia developed rapidly due to studies performed at the Boston Aphasia Unit and, more importantly, to a change of orientation to linguistic notions of language structure, as introduced by Chomsky.
The frontal lobes occupy an exalted position in neuroscience. The largest and most recently evolved of the cerebrum's four lobes, these regions have long been regarded as harboring unique capacities most specific to the human mind. Understanding has been steadily developed, but a unitary function that captures the role of the frontal lobes has proven elusive. In antiquity, Hippocrates and Galen speculated that mental activities were located in the brain, and in the Renaissance, Leonardo and Vesalius made important advances in brain neuroanatomy. The 17th century witnessed Willis recognizing frontal brain regions, and in the 18th, Swedenborg first associated these areas with intellect. Defined neuroanatomically by Chaussier in 1807, the frontal lobes were soon assigned higher faculties by Gall and Spurzheim, and later, the case of Phineas Gage and the work of Broca clarified comportmental and linguistic dimensions of frontal lobe function. In the 20th century, progress came with Luria's observations of frontal lobe injuries and from the psychosurgery era, followed by contributions of behavioral neurology, neuroimaging, and neuroanatomy, which helped delineate frontal regions, circuits, and networks relevant to specific cognitive and emotional operations. Today, a host of important societal implications merit attention as neuroscientific investigation continues to enrich knowledge of the frontal lobes by identifying the basis of singular human behaviors.


Although the chemical study of the nervous system dates back well into the 19th century, molecular biology and especially molecular neurobiology only began to be established in the second half of the 20th century. This chapter reviews their impact on clinical neuroscience during the 50 years since Watson and Crick published their seminal paper. After a short review of the part played by F.O. Schmitt in establishing molecular neuroscience the chapter outlines work that led to a detailed understanding of the biochemical structure and function of nerve cell membranes and their embedded channel proteins, receptors, and other molecules. The chapter then turns to the numerous pathologies that result from disorders of these elements: the various channel and gap-junction pathologies. The chapter continues with a discussion of some of the diseases caused by defective DNA, especially the trinucleotide repeat expansion diseases (TREDs) and ends with a short account of the development of molecular approaches to prion diseases, myasthenia gravis, and the neurodegenerative diseases of old age. Francis Bacon said long ago that &quot;knowledge is power.&quot; The hope is that increasing molecular knowledge will help cure some of the human suffering seen in the neurological ward and clinic.
The history of neuroendocrinology is intimately related to one of the key questions, i.e. how does the brain manage to keep us alive and let our species survive? Neuroendocrinology, part of the answer to this question, is the discipline that studies hormone production by neurons, the sensitivity of neurons to hormones, and the dynamic, bidirectional interactions between neurons and endocrine glands. These interactions do not only occur through hormones, but are partly executed by the autonomic system that is regulated by the hypothalamus and that innervates not only the endocrine glands, but all our organs. The hypothalamus acts as a central integrator for endocrine, autonomic, and higher brain functions. The history of neuroendocrinology begins in 200 AD, with Galenus, who postulated that the brain excreted a residue from animal spirits (pituita), and continues into the last century, when researchers from different disciplines tried to understand how the brain regulates the vital functions of the body. Thanks to massive recent electronic publications of English and German scientific journals from the early 20th century we were able to rediscover fascinating articles, written in Europe before World War II, which showed that some of our most recent &quot;innovative&quot; concepts had in fact already been thought up some 50-100 years earlier. Apparently, World War II and the migration and exile of many researchers interrupted the development of concepts in this field and made rediscovery necessary. Our chapter gives an overview of the developments, both new and newly discovered.
This chapter examines the importance of visual materials for studying the brain in health and in disease. Surveying historical representations, this research confirms that images of the brain's form and function have long served as teaching tools and as historical reference points for neurological events. The research is divided into five sections: the first section, Early History to Printing Technology considers prehistoric and ancient imagery, pre-Renaissance thinking about the brain, and the impact of printing and printmaking on neurological research. The second section, Renaissance Illustration, focuses on Leonardo da Vinci, Andreas Vesalius, and other contributors who produced images of the brain as dissection restrictions eased. The third section, which turns to Early Modern and Modern Illustration, highlights the work of Thomas Willis, Charles Bell, and other scientists (throughout the 19th century) who demonstrated the value of a visual component within brain studies. The fourth section presents examples of Neurologically-Descriptive Illustrations, with the final section considering Historical Illustration and Contemporary Research.
Functional brain imaging in humans as we presently know it began when the experimental strategies of cognitive psychology were combined with modern brain imaging techniques, first positron emission tomography (PET) and then functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), to examine how brain function supports mental activities. This marriage of disciplines and techniques galvanized the field of cognitive neuroscience, which has rapidly expanded to include a broad range of the social sciences as well as basic scientists interested in the neurophysiology, cell biology and genetics of the imaging signals. While much of this work has transpired over the past couple of decades, its roots can be traced back more than a century.
Modern interests in cognitive assessment began with Franz Gall's early 19th century theory of mental organology and Paul Broca's reports in the 1860s on patients with focal brain injury and aphemia. These workers spurred interest in assessing delimited mental abilities in relation to discrete cerebral areas. With roots in experimental and educational psychology, the intelligence testing movement added assessment tools that could be applied to neurological patients. Early- to mid-20th-century landmarks were Alfred Binet and Theodore Simon's intelligence scale, Howard Knox's nonverbal performance tests, and the intelligence quotient conceived by Lewis Terman and refined by David Wechsler. Also developed during this era were Henry Head's Serial Tests for aphasic patients and Kurt Goldstein's tests for brain-injured patients with impairments in &quot;abstract attitude&quot; and concept formation. Other investigators have contributed procedures for the evaluation of language functions, memory, visuospatial and visuoconstructive skills, praxis, and executive functions. A further milestone was the development of short standardized cognitive instruments for dementia assessment. Within a neurological arena, the historical emphasis has been on a flexible, process-driven approach to the service of neurological diagnosis and syndrome identification. Advances in clinical psychology, neurology, and the cognate clinical neurosciences continue to enrich assessment options.
Jean-Martin Charcot (1825-1893) was the premier clinical neurologist of the 19th century. Charcot's research was anchored in the anatomo-clinical method, a two-part methodology that linked clinical signs with anatomical lesions. The first step of this method involved the careful documentation of clinical signs with longitudinal observation. At the time of death, the second step involved autopsy examination of the brain and spinal cord. With combined clinical and anatomical data, Charcot was able to suggest concrete clinical-anatomical correlations. This method helped to define the tracts and nuclei responsible for normal and abnormal neurological signs and was pivotal to a new classification of neurological diseases based on anatomy. The best-developed example of this method was Charcot's work with motor system degenerative disorders, specifically amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. These studies led to the international designation of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis as Charcot's disease. Other examples of the fruits of the anatomo-clinical method included several stroke syndromes and the linkage of specific signs to specific lesions in multiple sclerosis. The discipline fostered cortical localization theory, which moved neurologists away from the concept of the brain as a homogenous organ in preference to the concept that brain regions controlled specific motor, sensory and language functions. Charcot's attempts to apply his anatomo-clinical method to the knotty neurological diagnosis of hysteria led him to experiments and conclusions that drew criticism and even scorn from colleagues. These events tarnished Charcot's reputation at the close of his career. In the context of Charcot's extensive discoveries and lasting contributions, the anatomo-clinical method remains the anchor of modern neurological diagnosis and is Charcot's most important contribution to clinical neurology.
This chapter reviews a number of historical contributions of neurophysiology to clinical neurology in the hundred years that have elapsed since the publication of Sherrington's The Integrative Action of the Nervous System, a book generally considered the neurophysiologist's bible. In the past, many normal nervous functions have been inferred from disorderly functions in animals by neurophysiologists and in humans by clinical neurologists. If neurophysiologists have undoubtedly learned much from experimental lesions in animals, it has been the clinical neurologists who have obtained first-hand information on the effects of pathology on the functioning of the most complex and interesting of all nervous systems, that of man. Currently this division of labor is less clear, and convergent evidence from neurophysiology and clinical neurology alike has set our current knowledge about brain functions on a firm comparative foundation. This review of the relations between neurophysiology and clinical neurology reports contributions that have been recognized as &quot;historical&quot; by the scientific community because of their documented impact on the development of the entire field of neurosciences. The inclusion of further less famous neurophysiological achievements is justified by their potential influence on the advancement of neuroscience, as seen from the author's personal viewpoint.
The chapter provides an itinerary of knowledge on nervous system anatomy as one of the pillars of clinical neurology. The journey starts from the Renaissance explosion on the approach to the human body, its functions and its diseases, dealing with the seminal contributions of Leonardo da Vinci and Vesalius. The itinerary proceeds through the contributions of the 17th century, especially by Thomas Willis and the pioneering investigations of Marcello Malpighi and Antony van Leeuwenhoek, and onto the 18th century. The itinerary thus leads to the progress from gross anatomy to the microscopic investigation of the nervous system in the 19th century: the reticular theories, the revolution of the neural doctrine and their protagonists (Camillo Golgi and Santiago Ramn y Cajal), which initiated the modern era of the neurosciences. The chapter also includes sections on the contributions of developmental neuroanatomy to neurology, on the history of tract tracing, and on the cytoarchitecture of the cerebral cortex. The never-ending story of the anatomical foundations of clinical neurology continues to evolve at the dawn of the 21st century, including knowledge that guides deep brain stimulation, and novel approaches to the anatomy of the living brain based on rapidly developing neuroimaging technology.

The theory of cortical localization of function holds that different cerebral cortical territories serve different functions, such as vision and language. This theory began to be entertained in the mid-1700s, but it had no impact until Gall made it central to his thinking in the early 1800s. Gall's organology, with its emphasis on cranial bumps, soon fell into disrepute, but in the decades that followed Bouillaud, Aubertin, and Broca advanced the concept by turning to clinical cases of speech loss, and in 1870 Fritsch and Hitzig demonstrated its validity, studying motor functions with animals. The theory of cortical localization of function served as a guiding factor in changing the practice of neurology, and clinicians encountered new material supportive of the doctrine. Surgical neurology, anatomy, and physiology also supported the new way of thinking, contributing to a better understanding of the functional organization of the cerebral cortex and to clinical neurology.
The 18th century was an age of transition. The time-honored neuropsychology of classical and medieval times, mechanized in Descartes' hydraulic neurophysiology, was undermined by microscopical observations and careful physiological experimentation. Yet it was not until the very end of the century, when work on electric fish and amphibia began to suggest an acceptable successor to &quot;animal spirit,&quot; that the old understanding of human neurophysiology began to fade. This chapter traces this slow retreat from the iatrophysics of the early part of the century, with its hollow nerves and animal spirits, through a number of stop-gap explanations involving mysterious subtle fluids or forces described variously as irritability, lan vital, vis viva, vis insita, the spirit of animation etc., or perhaps involving vibrations and vibratiuncles and mysterious magnetic effluvia, to the dawning electrophysiology of the end of the century and the beginning of the next. This developing understanding filtered slowly through to affect medical education, and the 18th century saw the development of strong medical schools at Leiden, Edinburgh, Paris, Bologna and London. Associated with these developments there was a great increase, as a well-known physician looking back at the beginning of the following century noted, in a class of diseases that had little concerned physicians in the preceding century - &quot;nervous disorders.&quot;


&quot;Medicalized&quot; weapons--those that rely on advances in neuroscience, physiology, and pharmacology--offer the prospect of reducing casualties and protecting civilians. They could be especially useful in modern asymmetric wars in which conventional states are pitted against guerrilla or insurgent forces. But may physicians and other medical workers participate in their development?


The National Library of Australia (NLA) Australian Newspapers project went public in July 2008, but many historians and researchers are as yet unaware of its existence, or of its great potential for their research. This article will demonstrate the revolutionary potential of this project for the history of medicine in Australia. Using the case ofa largely-forgotten Western Australian chemist, dentist, and optician, Harcourt Whipple Ellis, a search of the NLA Australian Newspapers project produces a substantial amount of information on his at times scandalous career, a general physical description, a verbatim quotation, and many other witnesses statements attributed to him. These newspaper articles flesh out' Ellis, and also provide valuable insights into early-twentieth-century life in Perth.
There is increasing interest in the use of electro-acoustical stimulation in people with a cochlear implant that have residual low-frequency hearing in the implanted ear. This raises the issue of how electrical and acoustical stimulation interact in the cochlea. We have investigated the effect of electrical stimulation on the acoustically evoked compound action potential (CAP) in normal-hearing guinea pigs. CAPs were evoked by tone bursts, and electric stimuli were delivered at the base of the cochlea using extracochlear electrodes. CAPs could be suppressed by electrical stimulation under various conditions. The dependence of CAP suppression on several parameters was investigated, including frequency and level of the acoustic stimulus, current level of the electric stimulus and the interval between electric and acoustic stimulus (EAI). Most pronounced suppression was observed when CAPs were evoked with high-frequency tones of low level. Suppression increased with current level and at high currents low-frequency evoked CAPs could also be suppressed. Suppression was typically absent several milliseconds after the electric stimulus. Suppression mediated by direct neural responses and hair cell mediated (electrophonic) responses is discussed. We conclude that the high-frequency part of the cochlea can be stimulated electrically with little detrimental effects on CAPs evoked by low-frequency tones.

The hippocampus plays a key role in the acquisition of new memories for places and events. Evidence suggests that the consolidation of these memories is enhanced during sleep. At the neuronal level, reactivation of awake experience in the hippocampus during sharp-wave ripple events, characteristic of slow-wave sleep, has been proposed as a neural mechanism for sleep-dependent memory consolidation. However, a causal relation between sleep reactivation and memory consolidation has not been established. Here we show that disrupting neuronal activity during ripple events impairs spatial learning. We trained rats daily in two identical spatial navigation tasks followed each by a 1-hour rest period. After one of the tasks, stimulation of hippocampal afferents selectively disrupted neuronal activity associated with ripple events without changing the sleep-wake structure. Rats learned the control task significantly faster than the task followed by rest stimulation, indicating that interfering with hippocampal processing during sleep led to decreased learning.
Effects of irradiation on hippocampal function have been mostly studied in male rodents and relatively little is known about potential effects of irradiation on hippocampal function in female rodents. Moreover, although the long-term effects of clinical radiation on cognitive function have been well established, the effects of other forms of irradiation, such as high charged, high energy radiation (HZE particles) that astronauts encounter during space missions have not been well characterized. In this study we compared the effects of (56)Fe irradiation on fear conditioning in C57BL/6J female and male mice. Hippocampus-dependent contextual fear conditioning was impaired in female mice but improved in male mice following (56)Fe irradiation. Such impairment was not seen for hippocampus-independent cued fear conditioning. Thus, the effects of (56)Fe irradiation on hippocampus-dependent contextual fear conditioning are critically modulated by sex.
In a previous study, it was shown that transgenic mice, designated G-NonP, forget the location of a water maze hidden platform when tested 7 days after the last training day (Holahan and Routtenberg (2008) Hippocampus 18:1099-1102). The memory loss in G-NonP mice might be related to altered hippocampal architecture suggested by the fact that in the rat, 7 days after water maze training, there is discernible mossy fiber (MF) growth (Holahan et al. (2006) Hippocampus 16:560-570; Rekart et al. (2007) Learn Mem 14:416-421). In the present report, we studied the distribution of the MF system within the hippocampus of nave, untrained, G-NonP mouse. In WT mice, the MF projection was restricted to the stratum lucidum of CA3 with no detectable MF innervation in distal stratum oriens (dSO). In G-NonP mice, in contrast, there was an ectopic projection terminating in the CA3 dSO. Unexpectedly, there was nearly a complete loss of immunostaining for the axonal marker Tau1 in the G-NonP transgenic mice in the MF terminal fields indicating that transgenesis itself leads to off-target consequences (Routtenberg (1996) Trends Neurosci 19:471-472). Because transgenic mice overexpressing nonmutated, wild type GAP-43 do not show this ectopic growth (Rekart et al., in press) and the G-NonP mice overexpress a mutated form of GAP-43 precluding its phosphorylation by protein kinase C (PKC), the possibility exists that permanently dephosphorylated GAP-43 disrupts normal axonal fasciculation which gives rise to the ectopic growth into dSO.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) are two forms of synaptic plasticity thought to play functional roles in learning and memory processes. It is generally assumed that the direction of synaptic modifications (i.e., up- or down-regulation of synaptic strength) depends on the specific pattern of afferent inputs, with high frequency activity or stimulation effectively inducing LTP, while low-frequency patterns often elicit LTD. This dogma (&quot;high frequency-LTP, low frequency-LTD&quot;) has recently been challenged by evidence demonstrating low frequency stimulation (LFS)-induced synaptic potentiation in the rodent hippocampus and amygdala. Extensive work in the past decades has focused on deciphering the mechanisms by which high frequency stimulation of afferent fiber systems results in LTP. With this review, we will compare and contrast the well-known synaptic and cellular mechanisms underlying classical, high-frequency-induced LTP to those mediating the more recently discovered phenomena of LFS-induced synaptic enhancement. In addition, we argue that LFS protocols provide a means to more accurately mimic some endogenous, oscillatory activity patterns present in hippocampal and extra-hippocampal (especially neocortical) circuits during periods of memory consolidation. Consequently, LFS-induced synaptic potentiation offers a novel and important avenue to investigate cellular and systems-level mechanisms mediating the encoding, consolidation, and transfer of information throughout multiple forebrain networks implicated in learning and memory processes. (c) 2009 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
We previously showed that an acute stress (electric footshocks) induced both a rapid plasma corticosterone rise and a reversal of serial memory retrieval pattern in a contextual serial discrimination (CSD) task. This study is aimed at determining (i) if the rapid stress effects on CSD performance are mediated by the hippocampus; (ii) if hippocampal corticosterone membrane receptor activation is involved in the rapid stress effects on CSD performance. In experiment 1, microdialysis in the dorsal hippocampus (dHPC) was used to measure the stress-induced corticosterone rise; in parallel, the effect of acute stress on CSD performance was evaluated. In addition, the functional involvement of corticosterone in the behavioral effects of stress was assessed by administering metyrapone, a corticosterone synthesis inhibitor, before stress. In experiment 2, the involvement of hippocampal corticosterone membrane receptors in the stress-induced reversal of CSD performance was studied by injecting corticosterone-bovine serum albumin (BSA) (a membrane-impermeable complex) in the dHPC in non stressed mice. Results showed that (i) the acute stress induced a rapid (15 min) and transitory (90 min) corticosterone rise into the hippocampus dHPC, and a reversal of serial memory retrieval pattern; (ii) both the endocrinal and memory stress-induced effects were blocked by metyrapone; (iii) corticosterone-BSA injection into the dHPC in non stressed mice mimicked the effects of stress on serial retrieval pattern. Overall, our study is first to show that (i) a rapid stress-induced corticosterone rise into the dHPC transitorily reverses serial memory retrieval pattern and (ii) hippocampal corticosterone membrane receptors activation is involved in the rapid effects of acute stress on serial memory retrieval.
This article critically interrogates contemporary forms of addiction medicine that are portrayed by policy-makers as providing a &quot;rational&quot; or politically neutral approach to dealing with drug use and related social problems. In particular, it examines the historical origins of the biological facts that are today understood to provide a foundation for contemporary understandings of addiction as a &quot;disease of the brain.&quot; Drawing upon classic and contemporary work on &quot;styles of thought,&quot; it documents how, in the period between the mid-1960s and the mid 1970s, such facts emerged in relation to new neurobiological styles of explaining and managing social problems associated with drug abuse, and an alliance between a relatively marginal group of researchers and American policy-makers who were launching the &quot;War on Drugs.&quot; Beyond illustrating the political and material conditions necessary for the rise of addiction neuroscience, the article highlights the productivity of neurobiological thought styles, by focusing on the new biological objects, treatments and hopes that have emerged within the field of addiction studies over the last several decades.
Throughout his career, William James defended personal consciousness. In his &quot;Principles of Psychology&quot; (1890), he declared that psychology is the scientific study of states of consciousness as such and that he intended to presume from the outset that the thinker was the thought. But while writing it, he had been investigating a dynamic psychology of the subconscious, which found a major place in his Gifford Lectures, published as &quot;The Varieties of Religious Experience&quot; in 1902. This was the clearest statement James was able to make before he died with regard to his developing tripartite metaphysics of pragmatism, pluralism and radical empiricism, which essentially asked &quot;Is a science of consciousness actually possible?&quot; James's lineage in this regard, was inherited from an intuitive psychology of character formation that had been cast within a context of spiritual self-realization by the Swedenborgians and Transcendentalists of New England. Chief among these was his father, Henry James, Sr., and his godfather, Ralph Waldo Emerson. However, james was forced to square these ideas with the more rigorous scientific dictates of his day, which have endured to the present. As such, his ideas remain alive and vibrant, particularly among those arguing for the fusion of phenomenology, embodiment and cognitive neuroscience in the renewed search for a science of consciousness.
This article argues that a new diagram is emerging in the criminal justice system as it encounters developments in the neurosciences. This does not take the form that concerns many &quot;neuroethicists&quot; -- it does not entail a challenge to doctrines of free will and the notion of the autonomous legal subject -- but is developing around the themes of susceptibility, risk, pre-emption and precaution. I term this diagram &quot;screen and intervene&quot; and in this article I attempt to trace out this new configuration and consider some of the consequences.
The elimination of subjectivity through brain research and the replacement of so-called &quot;folk psychology&quot; by a neuroscientifically enlightened worldview and self-conception has been both hoped for and feared. But this cultural revolution is still pending. Based on nine months of fieldwork on the revival of hallucinogen research since the &quot;Decade of the Brain,&quot; this paper examines how subjective experience appears as epistemic object and practical problem in a psychopharmacological laboratory. In the quest for neural correlates of (drug-induced altered states of) consciousness, introspective accounts of test subjects play a crucial role in neuroimaging studies. Firsthand knowledge of the drugs' flamboyant effects provides researchers with a personal knowledge not communicated in scientific publications, but key to the conduct of their experiments. In many cases, the &quot;psychedelic experience&quot; draws scientists into the field and continues to inspire their self-image and way of life. By exploring these domains the paper points to a persistence of the subjective in contemporary neuropsychopharmacology.
The aim of this article is (1) to investigate the &quot;neurosciences&quot; as an object of study for historical and genealogical approaches and (2) to characterize what we identify as a particular &quot;style of thought&quot; that consolidated with the birth of this new thought community and that we term the &quot;neuromolecular gaze.&quot; This article argues that while there is a long history of research on the brain, the neurosciences formed in the 1960s, in a socio-historical context characterized by political change, faith in scientific and technological progress, and the rise of a molecular gaze in the life sciences. They flourished in part because these epistemological and technological developments were accompanied by multiple projects of institution-building. An array of stakeholders was mobilized around the belief that breakthroughs in understanding the brain were not only crucial, they were possible by means of collaborative efforts, cross-disciplinary approaches and the use of a predominantly reductionist neuromolecular method. The first part of the article considers some of the different approaches that have been adopted to writing the history of the brain sciences. After a brief outline of our own approach, the second part of the article uses this in a preliminary exploration of the birth of the neurosciences in three contexts. We conclude by arguing that the 1960s constitute an important &quot;break&quot; in the long path of the history of the brain sciences that needs further analysis. We believe this epistemological shift we term the &quot;neuromolecular gaze&quot; will shape the future intellectual development and social role of the neurosciences.
In line with their vast expansion over the last few decades, the brain sciences -- including neurobiology, psychopharmacology, biological psychiatry, and brain imaging -- are becoming increasingly prominent in a variety of cultural formations, from self-help guides and the arts to advertising and public health programmes. This article, which introduces the special issue of &quot;History of the Human Science&quot; on &quot;Neuroscience, Power and Culture,&quot; considers the ways that social and historical research can, through empirical investigations grounded in the observation of what is actually happening and has already happened in the sciences of mind and brain, complement speculative discussions of the possible social implications of neuroscience that now appear regularly in the media and in philosophical bioethics. It suggests that the neurosciences are best understood in terms of their lineage within the &quot;psy&quot;-disciplines, and that, accordingly, our analyses of them will be strengthened by drawing on existing literatures on the history and politics of psychology -- particularly those that analyze formations of knowledge, power and subjectivity associated with the discipline and its practical applications. Additionally, it argues against taking today's neuroscientific facts and brain-targetting technologies as starting points for analysis, and for greater recognition of the ways that these are shaped by historical, cultural and political-economic forces.
Since the 1930s scientists from fields such as biochemistry, pathology, immunology, genetics, neuroscience, and nutrition have studied the relation of dietary caloric intake to longevity and aging. This paper discusses how Clive Maine McCay, a professor of animal husbandry at Cornell University, began his investigation of the topic and promoted it as a productive research program in the multidisciplinary science of gerontology. Initially, McCay observed the effect of reduced-calorie diets on life span and senescence while pursuing his nutrition research in the context of animal husbandry and agriculture. But when he received funding from the Rockefeller Foundation and started to participate in the establishment of gerontology during the 1930s, the scope of his research was considerably expanded beyond his original disciplinary domain. It became a multidisciplinary research program that attracted scholars from a variety of scientific and medical disciplines. This paper argues that through this expansion McCay's research created a means of maintaining cooperation among the diverse and heterogeneous academic fields constituting gerontology.
Smail's &quot;On Deep History and the Brain&quot; is rightly critical of the functionalist fallacies that have plagued evolutionary theory, sociobiology, and evolutionary psychology. However, his attempt to improve on these efforts relies on functional explanations that themselves oversimplify the lessons of neuroscience. In addition, like explanations in evolutionary psychology, they are highly speculative and cannot be confirmed or disproved by evidence. Neuroscience research is too diverse to yield a single picture of brain functioning. Some recent developments in neuroscience research, however, do suggest that cognitive processing provides a kind of operating system that can support a great diversity of cultural material. These developments include evidence of top-down processing in motor control, in visual processing, in speech recognition, and in emotion regulation. The constraints that such a system may place on cultural learning and transmission are worth investigating. At the same time, historians are well advised to remain wary of the pitfalls of functionalism.
This review considers evidence which reveals considerable complexity and sex differences in the response of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic (NSDA) system to hormonal influences. This pathway degenerates in Parkinson's disease (PD) and sex hormones contribute to sex differences in PD, where men fare worse than women. Here we discuss evidence from animal studies which allows us to hypothesize that, contrary to expectations, the acclaimed neuroprotective property of physiological concentrations of estradiol arises not by promoting NSDA neuron survival, but by targeting powerful adaptive responses in the surviving neurons, which restore striatal DA functionality until over 60% of neurons are lost. Estrogen generated locally in the NSDA region appears to promote these adaptive mechanisms in females and males to preserve striatal DA levels in the partially injured NSDA pathway. However, responses to systemic steroids differ between the sexes. In females there is general agreement that gonadal steroids and exogenous estradiol promote striatal adaptation in the partially injured NSDA pathway to protect against striatal DA loss. In contrast, the balance of evidence suggests that in males gonadal factors and exogenous estradiol have negligible or even harmful effects. Sex differences in the organization of NSDA-related circuitry may well account for these differences. Compensatory mechanisms and sexually dimorphic hard-wiring are therefore likely to represent important biological substrates for sex dimorphisms. As these processes may be targeted differentially by systemic steroids in males and females, further understanding of the underlying processes would provide valuable insights into the potential for hormone-based therapies in PD, which would need to be sex-specific. Alternatively, evidence that estrogen generated locally is protective in the injured male NSDA pathway indicates the great therapeutic potential of harnessing central steroid synthesis to ameliorate neurodegenerative disorders. A clearer understanding of the relative contributions and inter-relationships of central and systemic steroids within the NSDA system is an important goal for future studies.
Recent evidence suggests that deficits of working memory may be a promising neurocognitive endophenotype of bipolar affective disorder. However, little is known about the neurobiological correlates of these deficits. The aim of this study was to determine possible pathophysiological trait markers of bipolar disorder in neural circuits involved in working memory. Functional magnetic resonance imaging was performed in 18 euthymic bipolar patients and 18 matched healthy volunteers using two circuit-specific experimental tasks established by prior systematic neuroimaging studies of working memory. Both euthymic bipolar patients and healthy controls showed working memory-related brain activations that were highly consistent with findings from previous comparable neuroimaging studies in healthy subjects. While these patterns of brain activation were completely preserved in the bipolar patients, only the patients exhibited activation of the right amygdala during the articulatory rehearsal task. In the same task, functional activation in right frontal and intraparietal cortex and in the right cerebellum was significantly enhanced in the patients. These findings indicate that the right amygdala is pathologically activated in euthymic bipolar patients during performance of a circuit-specific working memory task (articulatory rehearsal). This pathophysiological abnormality appears to be a trait marker in bipolar disorders that can be observed even in the euthymic state and that seems to be largely independent of task performance and medication.
While advances in network and pathway analysis have flourished in the era of genome-wide association analysis, understanding the genetic mechanism of individual loci on phenotypes is still readily accomplished using genetic modeling approaches. Here, we demonstrate two novel genotype-phenotype models implemented in a flexible genetic modeling platform. The examples come from analysis of families with specific language impairment (SLI), a failure to develop normal language without explanatory factors such as low IQ or inadequate environment. In previous genome-wide studies, we observed strong evidence for linkage to 13q21 with a reading phenotype in language-impaired families. First, we elucidate the genetic architecture of reading impairment and quantitative language variation in our samples using a bivariate analysis of reading impairment in affected individuals jointly with language quantitative phenotypes in unaffected individuals. This analysis largely recapitulates the baseline analysis using the categorical trait data (posterior probability of linkage (PPL) = 80%), indicating that our reading impairment phenotype captured poor readers who also have low language ability. Second, we performed epistasis analysis using a functional coding variant in the brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) gene previously associated with reduced performance on working memory tasks. Modeling epistasis doubled the evidence on 13q21 and raised the PPL to 99.9%, indicating that BDNF and 13q21 susceptibility alleles are jointly part of the genetic architecture of SLI. These analyses provide possible mechanistic insights for further cognitive neuroscience studies based on the models developed herein.

Neuroengineering and neuroscience frontiers are being discussed in this report. The forum for grand challenges in neuroengineering that took place in Washington, DC, on May 7-8, 2010. The major themes covered were: brain-machine interface, decoding brain activity, brain as computer-information processor, reverse engineering the brain and functional neuroimaging.
This contribution investigates the feasibility of the passive UHF RF identification technology for the wireless monitoring of human body movements in some common sleep disorders by means of passive tags equipped with inertial switches. Electromagnetic and mechanical models as well as preliminary experimentations are introduced to analyze all the significant issues concerning the required power, the tag antenna design, the read distance, and the expected biosignals collected by the interrogation device.

Passerine birds are important models in fundamental biological research, with as many as 300,000 individuals used in laboratory experiments worldwide annually. However, because the use of passerines is rare compared with that of more conventional laboratory animals, there is often a lack of information about the basic biology and husbandry requirements of these species. We aim to address this deficit by providing an overview of the most salient aspects of passerine biology and their implications for laboratory husbandry and welfare. We start by describing the characteristics that make these birds useful and interesting research subjects. Specifically, we highlight features (e.g., birdsong) of passerine biology that differentiate these birds from more common laboratory animals. Next, we consider the implications of passerine biology for husbandry in the laboratory. Many of the aspects of passerine biology that make these species valuable to scientists are also likely to be affected by environmental variables; a good knowledge of these variables is necessary in order to choose appropriate laboratory conditions for passerines. We outline how the developmental history of the birds and choices of caging, feeding, and environmental regimes might influence their physiology and behavior and thus affect both the welfare of the birds and the quality of the resulting data. We stress the importance of a sound understanding of the biology of any species to ensure good welfare and good science.
Over the past four decades songbirds have become a widely used model organism for neuroscientists studying complex sequential behaviors and sensory-guided motor learning. Like human babies, young songbirds learn many of the sounds they use for communication by imitating adults. This remarkable behavior emerges as a product of genetic predispositions and specific individual experiences. Research on different aspects of this behavior has elucidated key principles that may underlie vertebrate motor learning and motor performance in general, including (1) the mechanisms by which neural circuits generate sequential behaviors, (2) the existence of specialized neuronal circuits for the generation of exploratory variability, (3) the importance of basal ganglia-forebrain circuits for learning sequentially patterned behaviors, including speech and language, and (4) the existence of genetic toolkits that may have been coopted multiple times during evolution to play a role in learned vocal communication, such as the transcription factor FoxP2 and its molecular targets. This review presents new techniques, experiments, and findings in areas where songbirds have made significant contributions toward understanding of some of the most fundamental questions in neuroscience.
The human brain has accumulated many useful building blocks over its evolutionary history, and the best knowledge of these has often derived from experiments performed in animal species that display finely honed abilities. In this article we review a model system at the forefront of investigation into the neural bases of information processing, plasticity, and learning: the barn owl auditory localization pathway. In addition to the broadly applicable principles gleaned from three decades of work in this system, there are good reasons to believe that continued exploration of the owl brain will be invaluable for further advances in understanding of how neuronal networks give rise to behavior.







Psychiatrists of Indian origin are popular in Canada, being firmly rooted in the Canadian mental health system, and they have been making considerable contributions internationally. The Indian Psychiatric Society has long been collaborating with and inviting contributions from overseas Indian psychiatrists, particularly those in academics, and this collaboration has fructified well. There are several different challenges these psychiatrists have had to face in their own specialty work, with having to adjust to a new culture, new ways of living, and new ways of work. Our colleagues of Indian origin have demonstrated excellence in almost all fields of mental health and neurosciences. There are many popular teachers, outstanding researchers, and psychiatrists in community practice and community development. The Early Psychosis Program, Mood and Anxiety Program, Perinatal Psychiatry, Women's Mental Health, and Postpartum Mental Health are some of their key areas of research. Our basic scientists are involved in experimental design, neurochemistry, imaging, and genetics, where they have made their mark with acclaim. This article highlights some of the achievements of a few members and is by no means completely representative of the entire work that psychiatrists of Indian origin are doing in Canada, providing readers with a glimpse of our labors away from home.
The contribution of researchers from India in the field of electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) has been substantial. Over 250 papers have been published by authors from India in the past five decades on this issue; about half of these have appeared in the Indian Journal of Psychiatry. This article summarizes the papers on ECT research that have appeared in the Journal. A bulk of these articles has focused on establishing the efficacy in different disorders. Considerable numbers of papers describe refinement in the ECT procedure, including anesthetic modification, ECT machine and EEG monitoring. Papers on neurobiology of ECT and long-term follow-up of ECT-treated patients form a minority. Despite the decline in the use of ECT across the globe, papers on ECT have only increased in the recent decades in the Journal.
Obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) was considered a relatively rare disorder until about two decades ago. Since then, considerable advance has been made in understanding the various aspects of OCD that include epidemiology, clinical features, comorbidity, biology and treatment. In the last one decade, there has also been interest in a group of related disorders called obsessive-compulsive spectrum disorders. There is substantial research from India on various aspects of OCD, particularly from the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences (NIMHANS), Bangalore. We attempt to review all the relevant Indian data on OCD.
The biological basis of psychiatric disorders has been the focus of research in various studies across the world including India. In this selective overview we summarize findings of various EEG, neuro-imaging and blood related studies that have been reported in the Indian Journal of Psychiatry.
There is resurgence of first generation antipsychotics use due to the metabolic side effects associated with the use of second generation antipsychotics. Lenticular and corneal abnormalities were reported earlier with Chlorpromazine. However, there has not been much interest in the recent past. Nonetheless it is important for clinicians to be aware of this side effect as chlorpromazine is a commonly used antipsychotic in developing countries like India. We report a patient who developed cataract possibly due to chlorpromazine and reviewed the relevant literature.
The present investigation was aimed at studying the efficacy of cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) in reducing the symptoms of stuttering and dysfunctional cognitions and in enhancing assertiveness and quality of life in clients with stuttering. Five clients with stuttering who met the inclusion criteria (male clients with diagnosis of stuttering) and exclusion criteria (clients with brian damage), substance abuse or mental retardation were enrolled for the study. A single-case design was adopted. The pre-, mid- and post-assessment were carried out using Stuttering Severity Scale (SSI), Perception of Stuttering Inventory (PSI), Beck's Anxiety Inventory (BAI), Dysfunctional Attitude (DAS), Fear of Negative Evaluation (FNE), Assertiveness Scale (AS), Rosenberg's Self-Esteem Scale (RSES), and World Health Organization - Quality of Life Scale (WHO-QOL). Five clients received cognitive behavioral intervention comprising of psycho-education, relaxation, deep breathing, humming, prolongation, cognitive restructuring, problem-solving strategies and assertiveness. At post-treatment assessment, there was improvement. The findings of the study are discussed in the light of available research work, implications, limitations of the study and suggestions for future research.

In 1909, Cajal published an up-dated version in French (Cajal, 1909-1911) of his main work Texture of the Nervous System of Man and Vertebrates (Cajal, 1899-1904), considered the most important book devoted to the nervous system. Owing that last year was the centenary of this publication, we decided to produce an article focused on Cajals description of the morphological changes that dendritic trees undergo during development. We will emphasize his brilliant hypotheses explaining the modelling of dendritic trees (the neurotropic hypothesis and the role of neuronal activity in the patterning of the dendritic trees), and the status of this topic in present day Neuroscience. Here, we will show original photographs taken from a selected collection of Cajals slides housed in the Cajal Museum (Instituto Cajal, CSIC, Madrid, Spain) illustrating the principal changes in neuronal morphology at different stages of development of the spinal cord, cerebellum and cerebral cortex. We will also discuss Cajals initial proposals regarding the influence of neurotropic substances (chemotactic hypothesis) and neural activity in the modelling of the dendritic tree, as well as the evidence that later confirmed these theories.
Cell-surface-localized receptors and their extracellular ligands usually comprise distinct families and promote diversity of signal transduction regulation. The number of available ligand molecules is often the limiting factor for receptor activation during interpretation of the signal by the responding cell. Limited ligand availability in a particular area of tissue should lead to local competition between different members of a receptor family for binding and subsequent activation. Fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) 4 (FGFR4) is a less potent activator of downstream pathways than FGFR1, the major subtype of FGFR. Regional expression of Xenopus FGFR1 and FGFR4 (XFGFR1 and XFGFR4, respectively) overlap in the anterior part of prospective and developing neural tissue. In this paper we show that XFGFR1 and XFGFR4 have opposing effects on the positioning of expression domains of mid- and hindbrain markers when the expression levels of the receptors are altered. We present a line of evidence to support our hypothesis that competition between XFGFR1 and XFGFR4 for ligands is required for correct positioning of marker expression. Local competition between receptors with different potencies should provide an efficient means for a cell to interpret the ligand signal correctly, and may constitute a more general mechanism for regulating signal transduction.
The vertebrate Central Nervous System (CNS) originates from the embryonic dorsal ectoderm. Differentiation of the neural epithelium from the ectoderm and the formation of the neural plate constitute the first phase of a complex process called neurulation which culminates in the formation of the neural tube, the anlage of the CNS in sauropsids and mammals (for review see Smith and Schoenwolf, 1997; Colas and Schoenwolf, 2001). At neural plate and neural tube stages, local signaling centers in the neuroepithelium, known as secondary organizers, refine the antero-posterior specification of different neural territories (for review see Echevarria et al., 2003; Stern et al.,2006; Woltering and Durston, 2008). In this review, we will describe the principle aspects of CNS development in birds and mammals, starting from early stages of embryogenesis (gastrulation and neurulation) and culminating with the formation of a variety of different regions which contribute to the structural complexity of the brain (regionalization and morphogenesis). We will pay special attention to the cellular and molecular mechanisms involved in neural tube regionalization and the key role played by localized secondary organizers in the patterning of neural primordia.

Epidemiological studies have shown an association between short or disrupted sleep and an increased risk for metabolic disorders. To assess a possible causal relationship, we examined the effects of experimental sleep disturbance on glucose regulation in Wistar rats under controlled laboratory conditions. Three groups of animals were used: a sleep restriction group (RS), a group subjected to moderate sleep disturbance without restriction of sleep time (DS), and a home cage control group. To establish changes in glucose regulation, animals were subjected to intravenous glucose tolerance tests (IVGTTs) before and after 1 or 8 days of sleep restriction or disturbance. Data show that both RS and DS reduce body weight without affecting food intake and also lead to hyperglycemia and decreased insulin levels during an IVGTT. Acute sleep disturbance also caused hyperglycemia during an IVGTT, yet, without affecting the insulin response. In conclusion, both moderate and severe disturbances of sleep markedly affect glucose homeostasis and body weight control.
Circadian rhythms and &quot;clock gene&quot; expression are involved in successful reproductive cycles, mating, and pregnancy. Alterations or disruptions of biological rhythms, as commonly occurs in shift work, jet lag, sleep deprivation, or clock gene knock out models, are linked to significant disruptions in reproductive function. These impairments include altered hormonal secretion patterns, reduced conception rates, increased miscarriage rates and an increased risk of breast cancer. Female health may be particularly susceptible to the impact of desynchronizing work schedules as perturbed hormonal rhythms can further influence the expression patterns of clock genes. Estrogen modifies clock gene expression in the uterus, ovaries, and suprachiasmatic nucleus, the site of the primary circadian clock mechanism. Further work investigating clock genes, light exposure, ovarian hormones, and reproductive function will be critical for indentifying how these factors interact to impact health and susceptibility to disease.


HPV-DNA testing has entered in clinical practice. Three important questions remain controversial: 1) which is the best HPV-DNA technology? 2) Which age group should be targeted? 3) Is HPV-DNA testing predictive of disease outcome? The answers to these queries represent the endpoints of this study. The population of this retrospective study consisted of 272 women, each one having: baseline cytological diagnosis of Low-grade Squamous Intraepithelial Lesion (LSIL); baseline HPV-DNA reports by Hybrid Capture 2 (HC2) and MY09/11 consensus primers PCR; follow-up duration over 3-years; cytological report of disease status at follow-up time. Firstly, we assessed the concordance and the performances of both HPV-DNA testing, then we correlated, respectively HPV-DNA results and age of patients to disease outcome. DNA testing methods agreed in 83.4 percent of cases (K=0.66). Baseline HPV-DNA result was not significantly associated to disease outcome (p=0.06). Within HPV-DNA positive group, we found no evidence of correlation between age and LSIL prognosis (p=0.89). Confining the analysis to age-stratified HPV-DNA negative women, the differences were statistically significant (p=0.01). In conclusion, HPVDNA testing gives no information about the real behaviour of cervical abnormalities. These findings suggest the demand for additive markers, reflecting the risk of progression, in prevention strategy and clinical approach.
Dyslexia is a condition characterized by difficulty of reading given adequate intelligence and educational opportunities, primarily associated with a phonological processing deficit. In this study we show that dyslexic children also show a deficit in working memory compared to a control group, measured with fMRI. A working memory n-back task with three load levels was used. Behavioral data showed that the dyslexics had poorer performance compared to the controls. fMRI data showed that the dyslexics had reduced activation in the prefrontal and parietal cortices and the cerebellum compared with the controls. These results imply a working memory deficit in dyslexia.
Orbital decompression can be carried out, for rehabilitative reasons, using various techniques, but a general consensus on the ideal surgical approach has not been reached. Postoperative diplopia is the most common side effect of decompression surgery. The authors report 39 patients (72 orbits) who underwent lateral wall orbital decompression. Mean preoperative and postoperative Hertel exophthalmometry were 22.8+/-2.2mm (mean+/-SD; range 16-26 mm) and 18.2+/-2.1mm (range 15-22 mm), respectively. Mean proptosis reduction was 4.5+/-1.9 mm. A new appearance of diplopia postoperatively in the extreme gaze direction was observed in three patients (8%). The complication rate in this series was low, making the procedure safe and well tolerated. In the authors' opinion, when a single-wall approach is feasible, lateral wall decompression should be the first choice because of its effectiveness in terms of proptosis reduction and safeness in terms of postoperative diplopia.
Aging involves selective changes in attentional control. However, its precise effect on visual attention is difficult to discern from behavioural studies alone. In this paper, we employ a recently developed phase-locking measure of synchrony as an indicator of top-down/bottom-up control of attention to assess attentional control in the elderly. Fourteen participants (63-74 years) searched for a target item (coloured, oriented rectangular bar) among a display set of distractors. For the feature search condition, where none of the distractors shared a feature with the target, search time did not increase with display set size (two, or four items). For the conjunctive search condition, where each distractor shared either a colour or orientation feature with the target, search time increased with display size. Phase-locking analysis revealed a significant increase in high gamma-band (36-56 Hz) synchrony indicating greater bottom-up control for feature than conjunctive search. In view of our earlier study on younger (21-32 years) adults (Phillips and Takeda, 2009), these results suggest that older participants are more likely to use bottom-up control of attention, possibly triggered by their greater susceptibility to attentional capture, than younger participants.
The importance of analysis of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), especially oligoclonal IgG bands, in the diagnosis of multiple sclerosis (MS) and its predictive value in patients with clinically isolated syndromes has recently been evaluated and confirmed in several studies. Despite the focus on magnetic imaging techniques in modern MS diagnostic criteria, evaluation of CSF is of great usefulness both as a diagnostic and predictive tool.
Mitochondrial dynamics is a key feature for the interaction of mitochondria with other organelles within a cell and also for the maintenance of their own integrity. Four types of mitochondrial dynamics are discussed: Movement within a cell and interactions with the cytoskeleton, fusion and fission events which establish coherence within the chondriome, the dynamic behavior of cristae and their components, and finally, formation and disintegration of mitochondria (mitophagy). Due to these essential functions, disturbed mitochondrial dynamics are inevitably connected to a variety of diseases. Localized ATP gradients, local control of calcium-based messaging, production of reactive oxygen species, and involvement of other metabolic chains, that is, lipid and steroid synthesis, underline that physiology not only results from biochemical reactions but, in addition, resides on the appropriate morphology and topography. These events and their molecular basis have been established recently and are the topic of this review.
By controlling cell adhesion to the extracellular matrix, integrin receptors regulate processes as diverse as cell migration, proliferation, differentiation, apoptosis, and synaptic stability. Because the underlying mechanisms are generally accompanied by changes in transmembrane ion flow, a complex interplay occurs between integrins, ion channels, and other membrane transporters. This reciprocal interaction regulates bidirectional signal transduction across the cell surface and may take place at all levels of control, from transcription to direct conformational coupling. In particular, it is becoming increasingly clear that integrin receptors form macromolecular complexes with ion channels. Besides contributing to the membrane localization of the channel protein, the integrin/channel complex can regulate a variety of downstream signaling pathways, centered on regulatory proteins like tyrosine kinases and small GTPases. In turn, the channel protein usually controls integrin activation and expression. We review some recent advances in the field, with special emphasis on hematology and neuroscience. Some oncological implications are also discussed.
Taste receptor cells detect chemical compounds in the oral cavity and transfer their messages to gustatory afferent nerve fibers. Considering the coding of taste information, the sensitivity of taste cells and the connection between taste cells and gustatory fibers may be critical in this process. Broadly tuned taste cells and random connections between taste cells and fibers would produce gustatory fibers that have broad sensitivity to multiple taste qualities. Narrowly tuned taste cells and selective connections would yield gustatory nerve fibers that respond to specific taste quality. This review summarizes results showing molecular and morphological aspects of taste bud cells, physiological responses of taste cells, possible connections between taste cells and gustatory fibers, and transmitter release from taste cells, and discusses how taste qualities are encoded among taste bud cells and how taste information is transmitted from taste cells to gustatory nerve fibers.
Cellular apoptosis induced by T cells is mainly mediated by two pathways. One, granule exocytosis utilizes perforin/granzymes. The other involves signaling through death receptors of the TNF-alpha R super-family, especially FasL. Perforin plays a central role in apoptosis induced by granzymes. However, the mechanisms of perforin-mediated cytotoxicity are still not elucidated completely. Perforin is not only a pore-forming protein, but also performs multiple biological functions or perforin performs one biological function (cytolysis), but has multiple biological implications in the cellular immune responses, including regulation of proliferation of CD8+ CTLs.
Granzymes play a central role in cytotoxic T lymphocyte and natural killer cell-mediated apoptosis of target cell. Multiple granzymes are found in effector cells, and their mechanisms to lead to apoptosis are different. Effector cells kill target cells via multiple pathways. At least three pathways of apoptosis mediated by granzymes have been found. Moreover, the abnormal activity of granzymes is related to many human diseases, such as autoimmune diseases. Granzymes play an important role in inflammatory response in vivo. The biological features and mechanisms of granzyme A, B, C, K, and M to induce cellular apoptosis are summarized.
The catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) gene is of significant interest to neuroscience, due to its role in modulating dopamine function. COMT is dynamically regulated; its expression is altered during normal brain development and in response to environmental stimuli. In many cases the underlying molecular basis for these effects is unknown; however, in some cases (e.g., estrogenic regulation in the case of sex differences) regulatory mechanisms have been identified. COMT contains several functional polymorphisms and haplotypes, including the well-studied Val158Met polymorphism. Here I review the regulation of COMT and the functional polymorphisms within its sequence with respect to brain function.







Limit cycle-based mid-level theories that rationalize effective clinical treatments for chronic insomnia have empirical support from whole-organism studies of sleep physiology, but their relation to network-level and cellular neurobiologies remains obscure. The neurobiology of pharmacological treatments for insomnia has been increasingly understood, but has not been fully integrated with psychological theories or electroencephalographic descriptions of sleep. Better clinical diagnostic and treatment frameworks will require both greater conceptual clarity as to what an &quot;awakening&quot; is descriptively and detailed investigations to relate fundamental neuroscience to clinical technologies can be both accessible and diagnostically useful to clinicians.
Dreams have been studied from different perspectives: psychoanalysis, academic psychology, and neurosciences. After presenting the definition of dreaming and the methodological tools of dream research, the major findings regarding the phenomenology of dreaming and the factors influencing dream content are briefly reviewed. The so-called continuity hypothesis stating that dreams reflect waking-life experiences is supported by studies investigating the dreams of psychiatric patients and patients with sleep disorders, i.e., their daytime symptoms and problems are reflected in their dreams. Dreams also have an effect on subsequent waking life, e.g., on daytime mood and creativity. The question about the functions of dreaming is still unanswered and open to future research.
Although the main peripheral features of dreaming were identified two millennia ago, the neurobiological study of the basic and higher integrated processes underlying rapid eye movement (REM) sleep only began about 70 years ago. Today, the combined contributions of the successive and complementary methods of electrophysiology, imaging, pharmacology, and neurochemistry have provided a good level of knowledge of the opposite but complementary activating and inhibitory processes which regulate waking mentation and which are disturbed during REM sleep, inducing a schizophrenic-like mental activity.
The cerebellum controls balance, posture, motor coordination, and cognition, and studies suggest that ethanol impairs these cerebellar functions. However, the mechanisms through which ethanol produces these effects are not fully understood. Here, we review evidence suggesting that ethanol acts, in part, by impairing synaptic plasticity mechanisms at cerebellar Purkinje neurons. We will primarily focus on recent experiments indicating that long-term depression at both parallel fiber- and climbing fiber-Purkinje cell synapses is inhibited by acute ethanol exposure. We will also discuss experimental evidence showing that chronic prenatal ethanol exposure converts long-term depression into long-term potentiation at parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses.
Alcohol is a fast acting molecule that alters behavior within a few minutes of absorption. Its rapid behavioral impact suggests early action on ion channels. Of all voltage-gated potassium ion channels, BK channels, a subcategory of potassium channels characterized by their large unitary conductance, and by their capacity of being activated synergistically by membrane potential and intracellular free calcium, are unique due to their high sensitivity to alcohol. In this review, we discuss BK channels structure and function, and how they help us understand the various ways BK channel mediates alcohol's effects on neuronal function and on behavior in the striatum.
The prefrontal cortex occupies the anterior portion of the frontal lobes and is thought to be one of the most complex anatomical and functional structures of the mammalian brain. Its major role is to integrate and interpret inputs from cortical and sub-cortical structures and use this information to develop purposeful responses that reflect both present and future circumstances. This includes both action-oriented sequences involved in obtaining rewards and inhibition of behaviors that pose undue risk or harm to the individual. Given the central role in initiating and regulating these often complex cognitive and behavioral responses, it is no surprise that alcohol has profound effects on the function of the prefrontal cortex. In this chapter, we review the basic anatomy and physiology of the prefrontal cortex and discuss what is known about the actions of alcohol on the function of this brain region. This includes a review of both the human and animal literature including information on the electrophysiological and behavioral effects that follow acute and chronic exposure to alcohol. The chapter concludes with a discussion of unanswered questions and areas needing further investigation.
Alcoholism is a complex clinical disorder with genetic and environmental contributions. Although no animal model duplicates alcoholism, models for specific factors, such as the withdrawal syndrome, are useful to identify potential genetic determinants of liability in humans. Murine models have been invaluable to identify quantitative trait loci (QTLs) that influence a variety of alcohol responses. However, the QTL regions are typically large, at least initially, and contain numerous genes, making identification of the causal quantitative trait gene(s) (QTGs) challenging. Here, we present QTG identification strategies currently used in the field of alcohol genetics and discuss relevance to alcoholic human populations.
Recent simultaneous progress in human and animal model genetics and the advent of microarray whole genome expression profiling have produced prodigious data sets on genetic loci, potential candidate genes, and differential gene expression related to alcoholism and ethanol behaviors. Validated target genes or gene networks functioning in alcoholism are still of meager proportions. Genetical genomics, which combines genetic analysis of both traditional phenotypes and whole genome expression data, offers a potential methodology for characterizing brain gene networks functioning in alcoholism. This chapter will describe concepts, approaches, and recent findings in the field of genetical genomics as it applies to alcohol research.
Drosophila melanogaster is commonly found near rotting or fermenting fruit, reflected in its name pomace, or vinegar fly. In such environments, flies often encounter significant levels of ethanol. Three observations have made Drosophila a very promising model organism to understand the genetic contributions to the behavioral responses to alcohol. First, similar to higher vertebrates, flies show hyperactivation upon exposure to a low to medium dose of alcohol, while high doses can lead to sedation. In addition, when given a choice, flies will actually prefer alcohol-containing food over regular food. Second, the genes and biochemical pathways implicated in controlling these behavioral responses in flies are also participating in determining alcohol responses, and drinking behavior in mammals. Third, the fact that flies have been studied genetically for over one hundred years means that an exceptional repertoire of genetic tools are at our disposal. Here, we will review some of these tools and experimental approaches, survey the methods for, and measures after Drosophila ethanol exposure, and discuss the different molecular components and functional pathways involved in these behavioral responses to alcohol.

The characteristic change in ultrasound signal seen in the substantia nigra in Parkinson's disease and related disorders is known as hyperechogenicity and is suggested to be a risk or state marker for these disorders. The underlying cellular basis of this change, however, is unknown. Imaging studies on Parkinson's disease patients, experimental studies on animal models, and human postmortem studies support the hypotheses that an alteration in regional iron and/or change in regional cell composition within the substantia nigra underlie this echo feature. Future quantitative postmortem studies incorporating cellular and metal analyses of the substantia nigra, in Parkinson's disease patients and healthy controls of known echogenic status during life, will be important to clarify the cellular basis of this change.
Research in the area of gender and mental health indicates that women are disproportionately affected by common mental disorders (CMDs) as well as co-morbid mental disorders. However, the concept of gender disadvantage, its correlates, and mental health outcomes has received relatively less research attention. In addition, there are no known systematic reviews in the area of gender disadvantage and common mental disorders in recent years. In this review we have therefore attempted to deconstruct the concept of gender disadvantage, identify important correlates of gender disadvantage and illustrate their influence on common mental disorders. Since gender is a social construct and is greatly influenced by one's culture and ethnicity, we have made an attempt to integrate international literature on the subject and highlight cultural and ethnic relevance of topics as they emerge. Finally, we have provided take home messages from existing literature, identified gaps in literature, and formulated directions for future research in this area.
The review of epidemiological studies of psychiatric disorders in children and teenagers in Latin America, is validated and updated in this article. The present article incorporates variants that are contributed from the neurosciences, which allow us to see difficulties as opportunities, across such mechanisms as the plasticity neuronal, trying to change paradigms, frequently pessimistic in this type of review, and we call for the active participation of all the scientific societies of our countries in the development of public policies, based on prevention, for the vulnerability of the rights of our children and teenagers suggesting a multidisciplinary boarding in mental health.
Bioethics is concerned with the moral aspects of biology and medicine. The bioethical relevance of aggression and violence is clear, as very different moral and legal responsibilities may apply depending on whether aggression and violence are forms of behaviour that are innate or acquired, deliberate or automatic or not, or understandable and justifiable based on causes. Biological research and natural science theories are a basic ingredient for reflections, arguments and decisions on such matters. This study presents the problem of the causes of aggressive behaviour, the evolutionary understanding and definition of aggressive behaviour, the biological basis for this behaviour and the link between emotions and aggression. A growing body of evidence suggests that innate factors of behaviour (be they genetic or neurobiological) do not by themselves define behaviour and nor do acquired factors such as learning, cultural norms or worldviews. Both types of factor interact from the outset to shape a development process that mutually interacts to define beliefs or behaviour.
This article considers the social problem of violence and the alternative of resolution through cooperation and compassion from the perspective of cognitive neuroscience. Violence is a social problem, the manifestations of which have a biological basis reflected in the development of aggression and the neural mechanisms that regulate it. Cooperation and compassion are two forms of behaviour with similar developmental, cognitive and cerebral regulatory bases to the mechanisms activated in violence, even though they result in radically different forms of behaviour. The article examines violence and compassion as two mechanisms that lead to moral action that depends on whether sociocultural contexts are adverse or favourable to human well-being. It concludes that the neuro-cognitive system is a flexible and adaptable mechanism that regulates behaviour directly, according to the sociocultural context in which individuals live. Against that background, the UNESCO Declarations on the culture of peace refer to concepts relating to cognition or the human mind. Cognitive neuroscience therefore provides tools for creating and changing mental concepts that could eventually enable human beings to live together in peace.
Dramatic changes in body composition accompany aging in humans, particularly with respect to adiposity and the musculature. People accumulate fat as they age and lose muscle mass and strength. Caenorhabditis elegans nematodes are small, hermaphroditic soil nematodes that offer a flexible model for studying genetic pathways regulating body composition in humans. While there are significant physiological differences between worms and people, many of the genetic pathways relevant to human lipid and muscle homeostasis are present in worms. Initial studies indicate that adiposity increases in C. elegans during aging, as occurs in humans. Furthermore, substantial evidence demonstrates age-related loss of muscle mass in worms. Possible mechanisms for these changes in C. elegans are presented. Recent studies have highlighted neuroendocrine and environmental signals regulating C. elegans fat metabolism. Potential dysfunction of these pathways during aging could affect overall fat accumulation. By contrast, muscle decline in aging worms results from accumulated damage and 'wear-and-tear' over life span. However, neuroendocrine pathways also regulate muscle mass in response to food availability. Such pathways might provide useful therapeutic approaches for combating muscle loss during aging. From this chapter, readers will develop a deeper understanding of the ways that C.elegans can be used for mechanistic gerontological studies.
Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is a rare acquired disorder of clonal hematopoietic stem cells and it is characterized as a hypercoagulable disorder. We report a 36-year-old woman with the rare triad of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, cerebral sinus thrombosis triggered by infection, and rapid-onset heparin-induced thrombocytopenia after resensitization of heparin. This case raises caution for heparin-induced thrombocytopenia in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.

We describe a 52-year-old man with a history of increasing fatigability and gait disturbances that were first attributed to hypothyroidism. On examination, he had bilateral pseudo-internuclear ophthalmoplegia with weakness of adduction and abducting nystagmus. Convergence was also impaired and he showed proximal weakness of the limb. Intravenous edrophonium almost completely abolished the nystagmus and adducting muscle weakness, and improved the strength of proximal muscles groups. The clinical response to the administration of edrophonium, the presence of AChR binding antibodes and the repetitive nerve stimulation test findings indicated that the patient had pseudo-internuclear ophthalmoplegia as a manifestation of generalized myasthenia gravis. Whereas hypothyroidism was effectively controlled with levothyroxine, his subsequent response to thymectomy, prednisolone and cholinesterase inhibitors confirmed the diagnosis of generalized myasthenia gravis.


CNS infections require prompt appropriate therapy, but do not usually require tissue biopsy for diagnosis. We performed a 5 year audit of CNS infections which required brain or spinal biopsy to determine or confirm a diagnosis of CNS infection. Sixteen cases were identified in which clinical, radiological or additional investigations including culture, serology or PCR for the suspected specific infective agents were not diagnostic. 6 (37.5%) were bacterial abscesses presenting as space-occupying intracerebral lesions with a differential diagnosis of neoplasm. There were 3 (18.7%) cases of toxoplasmosis and 2 (12.5%) cases of aspergillosis. There was one case (6.2%) of herpes simplex encephalitis, one cysticercosis and one progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy, all biopsied as possible neoplasms. There were 2 (12.5%) cases of spinal tuberculosis, one multifocal, mimicking neurofibromatosis. This review highlights the usefulness of targeted biopsy in the rapid diagnosis of CNS infections. It also emphasizes the lack of specificity of 'negative' culture and serology in certain cases, especially in the setting of immune-compromise.
Tissues and organs change over time, regulated by intrinsic (genetic) determinants and environmental (and microenvironmental) adaptation. Brain changes during lifetime are especially critical, as the brain is the effector of cognition and the vast majority of neurons live throughout the life of the individual. In addition, brain aging mechanisms are especially critical for disease vulnerability, given the aging-related prevalence of pathologies that include neurodegenerative diseases. In this context, the present contribution concisely highlights data yielded by recent trends of research on the normal aging brain, and specifically: the occurrence of synaptic changes (rather than neuronal loss) and the altered regulation of adult neurogenesis (which represents a novel exciting field of knowledge); the development of a low-grade chronic inflammatory state which primes glial cells and may lead to changes in intercellular crosstalk, thus playing a potential role in the brain susceptibility to neurodegeneration; changes occurring in state-dependent behavior, sleep and wake, which are products of global brain functioning and underlie consciousness and cognitive performance; changes in the biological clock, the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus, which regulates sleep-wake alternation and other endogenous rhythms. Altogether, the present synopsis of recent studies at the molecular, cellular, and functional levels emphasizes the idea that the normal aging brain should be viewed as an example of adaptation and plasticity rather than as an obligatory decline.
Spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR), which are normotensive at birth and develop sustained hypertension between 3 and 6 months of age, are the model most extensively investigated for evaluating hypertensive brain damage and its treatment. The time-dependent rise of arterial blood pressure and the occurrence of brain atrophy, loss of nerve cells and glial reaction are shared to some extent with what occurs human hypertensive brain. SHR, therefore, can represent a reasonable model of hypertension-related brain damage. Our main studies on cerebrovascular and brain microanatomical changes occurring in SHR and their sensitivity to pharmacological interventions are summarized.
Few studies have examined whether attention can be improved with training, even though attention difficulties adversely affect academic achievement. The present study was a randomized-controlled trial evaluating the impact of Computerized Attention Training (CAT) and Computer Assisted Instruction (CAI) on attention and academic performance in 77 inattentive first graders. Students receiving either intervention were more likely than controls to show a moderate decline in teacher rated attention problems in first grade. Students receiving CAI also showed gains in reading fluency and in teacher ratings of academic performance. Intervention effects for attention were absent by second grade largely because attention problems declined in all groups. However, post hoc analyses indicated potential longer-term benefits for children with 6 or more inattentive symptoms at baseline. Persistent attention problems were associated with poorer academic performance in multiple domains. Results provide initial evidence that CAT and CAI can improve children's attention in the classroom - and support additional studies to determine whether more clinically significant benefits are attainable.
The affective impact of music arises from a variety of factors, including intensity, tempo, rhythm, and tonal relationships. The emotional coloring evoked by intensity, tempo, and rhythm appears to arise from association with the characteristics of human behavior in the corresponding condition; however, how and why particular tonal relationships in music convey distinct emotional effects are not clear. The hypothesis examined here is that major and minor tone collections elicit different affective reactions because their spectra are similar to the spectra of voiced speech uttered in different emotional states. To evaluate this possibility the spectra of the intervals that distinguish major and minor music were compared to the spectra of voiced segments in excited and subdued speech using fundamental frequency and frequency ratios as measures. Consistent with the hypothesis, the spectra of major intervals are more similar to spectra found in excited speech, whereas the spectra of particular minor intervals are more similar to the spectra of subdued speech. These results suggest that the characteristic affective impact of major and minor tone collections arises from associations routinely made between particular musical intervals and voiced speech.
Two forward-masking experiments were conducted with six cochlear implant listeners to test whether asymmetric pulse shapes would improve the place-specificity of stimulation compared to symmetric ones. The maskers were either cathodic-first symmetric biphasic, pseudomonophasic (i.e., with a second anodic phase longer and lower in amplitude than the first phase), or &quot;delayed pseudomonophasic&quot; (identical to pseudomonophasic but with an inter-phase gap) stimuli. In experiment 1, forward-masking patterns for monopolar maskers were obtained by keeping each masker fixed on a middle electrode of the array and measuring the masked thresholds of a monopolar signal presented on several other electrodes. The results were very variable, and no difference between pulse shapes was found. In experiment 2, six maskers were used in a wide bipolar (bipolar+9) configuration: the same three pulse shapes as in experiment 1, either cathodic-first relative to the most apical or relative to the most basal electrode of the bipolar channel. The pseudomonophasic masker showed a stronger excitation proximal to the electrode of the bipolar pair for which the short, high-amplitude phase was anodic. However, no difference was obtained with the symmetric and, more surprisingly, with the delayed pseudomonophasic maskers. Implications for cochlear implant design are discussed.
Apical distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) are comprised of at least two components, as evidenced by the interference pattern of alternating maxima and minima known as fine structure. DPOAE fine structure is produced by the shifting phase relationship in the ear canal, between the generator and characteristic frequency (CF) component of the response. Each component arises from a different cochlear region and, according to theory, reflects a distinct generation mechanism. The analysis of DPOAE components and phase in newborns may provide a window into targeted aspects of cochlear physiology during development. 2f(1)-f(2) DPOAE fine structure was recorded from 15 adults and 14 newborns using a swept-tone technique. DPOAE group delay, as well as magnitude and phase of each component, was compared between age groups. Results show narrower fine structure spacing, a longer group delay (steeper phase gradient) in low frequencies, and a stronger relative contribution from the CF component in newborns. The prolonged group delay for low-frequency DPOAEs could indicate immature basilar membrane motion in the apex of the cochlea and warrants further investigation. The enhanced contribution from the CF component may have implications for clinical practice as well as for theories of cochlear maturation.

The activation of inflammatory cascades has been consistently demonstrated in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Among several putative neuroinflammatory mechanisms, the tumor necrosis factor  (TNF-) signaling system has a central role in this process. Recent evidence indicates that the abnormal production of inflammatory factors may accompany the progression from mild cognitive impairment (MCI) to dementia. We aimed to examine serum levels of TNF- and its soluble receptors (sTNFR1 and sTNFR2) in patients with MCI and AD as compared to cognitively unimpaired elderly subjects. We further aimed to investigate whether abnormal levels of these cytokines predict the progression from MCI to AD upon follow-up. We utilized cross-sectional determination of serum levels of TNF-, sTNFR1, and sTNFR2 (ELISA method) in a test group comprising 167 older adults (31 AD, 72 MCI, and 64 healthy controls), and longitudinal reassessment of clinical status after 18.9  10.0 months. At baseline, there were no statistically significant differences in serum TNF-, sTNFR1, and sTNFR2 between patients with MCI and AD as compared to controls. Nevertheless, patients with MCI who progressed to AD had significantly higher serum sTNFR1 levels as opposed to patients who retained the diagnosis of MCI upon follow-up (p = 0.03). Cox regression analysis showed that high serum sTNFR1 levels predicted the conversion from MCI to AD (p = 0.003), whereas no significant differences were found with respect to serum levels of TNF- and sTNFR2. Abnormal activation of TNF- signaling system, represented by increased expression of sTNFR1, is associated with a higher risk of progression from MCI to AD.
We recently demonstrated that newly developed non-viral amyloid- (A) DNA vaccines are safe and effective in reducing A burdens in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) model mice. The present study was undertaken to examine whether DNA vaccines effectively and safely reduce A deposition in the brain of rhesus monkeys. For this purpose, DNA vaccines or empty vector at a dose of 3 mg were injected intramuscularly on a biweekly basis into rhesus monkeys (15-18 years old). Before and during vaccination, blood was drawn once a month and used for hematological and biochemical examinations. Six months after the first vaccination, it was demonstrated that anti-A antibodies in plasma of vaccinated monkeys were significantly elevated than that of control monkeys. Immunohistochemical examinations revealed that DNA vaccination reduced the A burden to approximately 50% of that found in control monkeys (p=0.026). There was neither inflammation nor microhemorrhage in the brain and no significant changes in cytokine and chemokine levels in the blood throughout the observation period. Taken together, DNA vaccination to monkeys is safe and effective in A reduction and provides useful information for performing preclinical and clinical trials.
Microtubule-associated protein tau (MAPT) and apolipoprotein E (APOE) are involved in the pathogenic mechanisms of Alzheimer's disease (AD). We prospectively followed three longitudinal independent samples (total n=319) with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and analyzed whether MAPT H1/H2 haplotypes and APOE 4 polymorphisms accelerated the rate of progression from MCI to dementia. At the end of the study, 172 subjects remained cognitively stable, whereas 147 progressed to dementia. APOE 4 and MAPT H1/H1 were independently associated with an increased rate of progression to dementia in the combined sample. Cox regression models of the combined MCI sample showed that MAPT H1/H1 carriers had an increased rate of progression to dementia compared with non carriers (Hazard Ratio =1.45; 95% CI=1.04-2.02; p=0.028) and time-to-progression was shortened by 1.37 years. APOE 4 allele also accelerated progression to dementia (Hazard Ratio=1.47; 95% CI= 1.06-2.04; p=0.020) and reduced the time-to-progression by 0.87 years. Additionally, MAPT H1/H1 genotype and APOE 4 allele had an additive effect in progression to dementia, increasing progression rate to dementia (Hazard Ratio=2.24, 95% CI =1.40-3.58; p=0.001) and shortening time-to-progression to dementia by 2.92 years. Similar results were obtained when only considering progression to AD-type dementia. Our results suggest that both MAPT H1/H1 genotype and APOE 4 allele lead to a more rapid progression to dementia among MCI subjects, probably mediating an increased rate of amyloid- and tau brain deposition.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) and healthy aging have been shown to be associated with mild parkinsonian signs (MPS). We performed a door-to-door observational and follow-up study amongst consenting residents of Wadi Ara Arab villages in northern Israel aged 65 years (n=687) to examine whether MPS represent a risk factor for MCI and/or conversion from MCI to Alzheimer's disease (AD). In Phase 1, 223 cognitively normal (CN) and 173 MCI subjects were assessed by interview for medical history, neurological examination, motor part of the Unified Parkinson Disease Rating Scale (mUPDRS) (divided into item-clusters: axial, limb bradykinesia, tremor and rigidity) and cognitive tests. MCI subjects (n=111) were re-evaluated in Phase 2 for conversion to AD at least one year after initial assessment. MCI subjects had a higher frequency of axial dysfunction (8.7% vs. 1.3%) and limb bradykinesia (10.4% vs. 1.3%) than CN subjects (p&lt;0.001, both). Stepwise logistic regression analysis estimating the probability of MCI vs. CN revealed higher mUPDRS (OR =1.19, 95% CI, 1.05 to 1.35, p=0.006) and higher limb bradykinesia scores (OR=1.75, 95% CI, 1.2 to 2.56, p=0.003) and not age as explanatory variables. Presence of MPS did not predict conversion to AD after adjustment for age and time-interval. These results suggest that axial and bradykinetic parkinsonian signs represent risk factors for MCI but MPS may not predict conversion from MCI to AD.
In the early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD), neurofibrillary tangles develop in the mesial temporal lobe (MTL), first in the anterior subhippocampal (perirhinal/entorhinal) cortex and then in the hippocampal formation. This region plays a key role in visualrecognition memory (VRM). VRM has been reported to be impaired in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). The aim of the present study was to determine if an impairment of VRM is associated with metabolic changes in the MTL using magnetic resonance spectroscopic imaging and if evaluating VRM can contribute to the early diagnosis of AD. 28 patients with aMCI and 28 controls underwent a full neuropsychological assessment including an evaluation of VRM using the DMS48. NAA/mIno ratios, reduced in patients with AD and associated with the severity of pathological changes, were determined in the MTL. aMCI-patients were further divided into two subgroups according to their VRM performance. aMCI-patients showed decreased NAA/mIno levels in the right hippocampus compared with controls. aMCI-patients with impaired VRM showed decreased NAA/mIno ratios in the MTL bilaterally, including a region that sampled the left anterior subhippocampal cortex, compared to controls. No changes were found in aMCI patients with normal VRM. Performance on the DMS48 correlated with NAA/mIno levels in the anterior MTL. Clinical 6-year follow-up data (available for 78.6% of the aMCI-patients) indicates that impaired performance on the DMS48 could predict conversion to AD with a sensitivity and specificity of 81.8%. These findings provide further evidence that impaired VRM, as a hallmark of MTL dysfunction, may contribute to the early diagnosis of AD.
Oxidative damage is greater in brain tissue from patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) than age-matched controls. The timing of this damage in relation to other pathogenic processes in AD remains unclear. We have examined the relationship of lipid peroxidation (thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances; TBARS) and antioxidant capacity (Trolox-equivalent) to APOE status, Braak tangle stage, amyloid- (A) plaque load, and the concentration of soluble and insoluble forms of A, post-synaptic and dendritic spine proteins PSD95 and drebrin, -secretase and A-degrading enzymes neprilysin (NEP), insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE), and angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE), in frontal, temporal, and parietal cortex from AD and control brains. Antioxidant capacity was significantly elevated in AD and directly related to disease severity as indicated by Braak tangle stage and the amount of insoluble A. APOE 4 was associated with increased antioxidant capacity in AD but not controls. In contrast, apart from a reduction in TBARS in Braak stages III-IV in frontal cortex, this measure of oxidative damage did not change significantly with any indicator of disease severity. It was, however, higher in APOE 4-positive than 4-negative AD patients and correlated with -secretase activity. Neither antioxidant capacity nor oxidative damage was related to the level of PSD95 or drebin or the activity of NEP, IDE, or ACE. Antioxidant capacity in AD is closely related to the level of insoluble A and increases with pathological progression of the disease. Increased -secretase activity associated with oxidative stress is likely to contribute to the accumulation of A and this, in turn, to induce antioxidant capacity.
A decline of cognitive functioning affecting several cognitive domains was frequently reported in patients with frontotemporal dementia. We were interested in determining if these deficits can be interpreted as reflecting an impairment of controlled cognitive processes by using an assessment tool specifically developed to explore the distinction between automatic and controlled processes, namely the process dissociation procedure (PDP) developed by Jacoby. The PDP was applied to a word stem completion task to determine the contribution of automatic and controlled processes to episodic memory performance and was administered to a group of 12 patients with the behavioral variant of frontotemporal dementia (bv-FTD) and 20 control subjects (CS). Bv-FTD patients obtained a lower performance than CS for the estimates of controlled processes, but no group differences was observed for estimates of automatic processes. The between-groups comparison of the estimates of controlled and automatic processes showed a larger contribution of automatic processes to performance in bv-FTD, while a slightly more important contribution of controlled processes was observed in control subjects. These results are clearly indicative of an alteration of controlled memory processes in bv-FTD.
Neuropathological studies have reported a strong neurofibrillary degeneration of the tuberomamillary nucleus, the region of origin of histamine neurons, in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Histaminergic neurons enhance cognition and memory, suggesting that their degeneration may contribute to the cognitive decline of AD. Besides neurons, the brain histaminergic system comprises mast cells and microglia that can also produce histamine. The level of activity of this histaminergic system in AD remained unknown. In the present study, we have measured the levels of the main histamine metabolite in brain, tele-methylhistamine (t-MeHA), an index of histaminergic system activity, in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of 97 non-AD (controls) and 91 AD patients, males or females. t-MeHA levels in CSF of controls tended to be higher, although non-significantly, in females than in males. t-MeHA levels of controls and AD significantly increased with age (1.66  0.13, 2.04  0.12, and 2.76  0.12 pmol/ml at 40, 60 and 80 years, respectively). In spite of the strong degeneration of histamine neurons in the disease, t-MeHA levels in CSF were only slightly decreased in AD compared to controls (2.14  0.10 vs 2.76  0.13 pmol/ml, -22%, p &lt; 0.01). This decrease was similar whatever the age, and was slightly higher in females than in males. The increase observed with age, and the limited magnitude of the decrease in AD even at late stages may result from the compensatory activation of spared neurons, as well as the neuroinflammation-induced activation of microglia occurring in senescence and AD.
To unveil the brain metabolic correlates of (un)awareness of memory deficit in subjects with amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI), forty-two outpatients underwent brain 18F-FDG-PET. Awareness of memory deficit was assessed with the Memory Complaint Questionnaire (MAC-Q), identifying two groups: low (MCI/unaware; 17 patients) and good (MCI/aware; 25 patients) aMCI awareness. Twenty-nine age-matched healthy subjects represented the control group. SPM2 was used to assess the correlation between brain metabolism and MAC-Q score, for comparisons between each patient group and controls, and between aMCI/unaware and aMCI/aware groups. The two aMCI groups were comparable in terms of age, gender, education, depression, and neuropsychological tests scores. In the whole 42-patient group, a positive correlation was found between MAC-Q score and metabolism in posterior cingulate cortex in both hemispheres and in inferior parietal lobule, middle cingulate cortex, precuneus and angular gyrus in the left hemisphere. Compared to controls, hypometabolism was found in aMCI/unaware in three large clusters, including precuneus, inferior parietal lobule and superior occipital gyrus, in the left hemisphere, and in inferior parietal lobule, angular gyrus and middle temporal gyrus in the right hemisphere. Smaller clusters of hypometabolism were found in bilateral temporal lobe in aMCI/aware. Hypometabolism in inferior parietal lobule, angular gyrus and superior temporal gyrus in the left hemisphere was highlighted in aMCI/unaware versus aMCI/aware. The significant correlation in all 42 aMCI patients points to posteromedial cortex as a key node of the network being involved in awareness of memory deficit. Patients with low awareness show a more severe hypometabolic pattern, typical of Alzheimer's disease and therefore could be more at risk of developing dementia.
Serum progranulin is decreased in frontotemporal dementia (FTD) patients with progranulin gene (PGRN) mutations. We investigate the utility of prospective serum screening as a surrogate diagnostic marker for progranulin mutations. A commercial ELISA was used to measure progranulin protein concentration in serum from 63 FTD patients and 32 normal controls, and DNA screening then performed. Four patients (2/17 behavioral variant, 2/8 corticobasal syndrome) had abnormally low progranulin levels with PGRN mutations confirmed on DNA testing. Surprisingly, elevated levels were found in 6/16 patients with progressive non-fluent aphasia, the significance of which is unclear. Serum testing is an accurate and cost effective means of predicting PGRN mutations.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the accumulation and aggregation of amyloid- peptide and loss of forebrain cholinergic neurons, resulting in progressive loss of memory and irreversible impairment of higher cognitive functions. Several studies have accounted for the close relationship between AD and the central cholinergic system, suggesting that a dysfunction of acetylcholine containing neurons in the brain contributes significantly to the cognitive deficit of individuals with AD. The aim of the present review is to survey current literature on this topic in order to provide a clear understanding of the role of the cholinergic system in the development and neurodegenerative process of AD. The implications for anesthesia are also discussed. This knowledge could be valuable to improve anesthesia performance and patient safety.
Mild cognitive impairment (MCI) has been considered an intermediate state between healthy aging and dementia. The early damage in anatomical connectivity and progressive loss of synapses that characterize early Alzheimer's disease suggest that MCI could also be a disconnection syndrome. Here, we compare the degree of synchronization of brain signals recorded with magnetoencephalography from patients (22) with MCI with that of healthy controls (19) during a memory task. Synchronization Likelihood, an index based on the theory of nonlinear dynamical systems, was used to measure functional connectivity. During the memory task patients showed higher interhemispheric synchronization than healthy controls between left and right -anterior temporo-frontal regions (in all studied frequency bands) and in posterior regions in the  band. On the other hand, the connectivity pattern from healthy controls indicated two clusters of higher synchronization, one among left temporal sensors and another one among central channels. Both of them were found in all frequency bands. In the  band, controls showed higher Synchronization Likelihood values than MCI patients between central-posterior and frontal-posterior channels and a high synchronization in posterior regions. The inter-hemispheric increased synchronization values could reflect a compensatory mechanism for the lack of efficiency of the memory networks in MCI patients. Therefore, these connectivity profiles support only partially the idea of MCI as a disconnection syndrome, as patients showed increased long distance inter-hemispheric connections but a decrease in antero-posterior functional connectivity.
Compromised cellular energy metabolism, cerebral hypoperfusion, and neuronal calcium dysregulation are involved in the pathological process of Alzheimer's disease (AD). ATP-sensitive potassium (KATP) channels in plasma membrane and inner mitochondrial membrane play important roles in modulating neuronal excitability, cell survival, and cerebral vascular tone. To investigate the therapeutic potential of drugs that activate KATP channels in AD, we first characterized the effects of the KATP channel opener diazoxide on cultured neurons, and then determined its ability to modify the disease process in the 3xTgAD mouse model of AD. Plasma and mitochondrial membrane potentials, cell excitability, intracellular Ca2+ levels and bioenergetics were measured in cultured cerebral cortical neurons exposed to diazoxide. Diazoxide hyperpolarized neurons, reduced the frequency of action potentials, attenuated Ca2+ influx through NMDA receptor channels, and reduced oxidative stress. 3xTgAD mice treated with diazoxide for 8 months exhibited improved performance in a learning and memory test, reduced levels of anxiety, decreased accumulation of A oligomers and hyperphosphorylated tau in the cortex and hippocampus, and increased cerebral blood flow. Our findings show that diazoxide can ameliorate molecular, cytopathological, and behavioral alterations in a mouse model of AD suggesting a therapeutic potential for drugs that activate KATP channels in the treatment of AD.
Oxidative damage and amyloid- (A) protein misfolding are prominent features of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In vitro studies indicated a direct linkage between these two features, where lipid oxidation products augmented A misfolding. We tested this linkage further, mimicking specific conditions present in amyloid plaques. In vitro lipid oxidation and lipid modification of A were thus performed with elevated levels of copper or physiological levels of calcium. These in vitro experiments were then confirmed by in vivo immunohistochemical and chemical tagging of oxidative damage in brains from the PSAPP mouse model of AD. Our in vitro findings indicate that: 1) high levels of copper prevent lipid oxidation; 2) physiological concentrations of calcium reduce 4 hydroxy-2-nonenal (HNE) modification of A; and 3) anti-A and HNE antibody epitopes are differentially masked. In vivo we demonstrated increased lipid oxidation around plaques but 4) a lack of immunological colocalization of HNE-adducts with A. Thus, the lack of colocalization of A and HNE-adduct immunostaining is most likely due to a combination of metals inhibiting HNE modification of A, quenching lipid oxidation and a masking of HNE-A histopathology. However, other forms of oxidative damage colocalize with A in plaques, as demonstrated using a chemical method for identifying oxidative damage. Additionally, these findings suggest that HNE modification of A may affect therapeutic antibodies targeting the amino terminal of A and that metals effect on lipid oxidation and lipid modification of A could raise concerns on emerging anti-AD treatments with metal chelators.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with deposition of amyloid- (A) in the brain, which is reflected by low concentration of the A(1-42) peptide in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). The -secretase inhibitor LY450139 (semagacestat) lowers plasma A(1-40) and A(1-42) in a dose-dependent manner but has no clear effect on the CSF level of these isoforms. Less is known about the potent -secretase modulator E2012. Using targeted proteomics techniques, we recently identified several shorter A isoforms in CSF, such as A(1-16), which is produced by a novel pathway. In a Phase II clinical trial on AD patients, A(1-14), A(1-15) and A(1-16) increased several-fold during -secretase inhibitor treatment. In the present study, 9 dogs were treated with a single dose of the -secretase modulator E2012, the -secretase inhibitor LY450139, or vehicle with a dosing interval of 1 week. The CSF A isoform pattern was analyzed by immunoprecipitation combined with MALDI-TOF mass spectrometry. We show here that A(1-15) and A(1-16) increase while A(1-34) decreases in response to treatment with the -secretase inhibitor LY450139, which is in agreement with previous studies. The isoform A(1-37) was significantly increased in a dose-dependent manner in response to treatment with E2012, while A(1-39), A(1-40) and A(1-42) decreased. The data presented suggests that the -secretase modulator E-2012 alters the cleavage site preference of -secretase. The increase in A(1-37) may inhibit A(1-42) oligomerization and toxicity.
Evidence has shown that the lack of tau produces subtle changes in neuronal structure and modest impairment in complex behaviors, suggesting compensatory mechanisms carried out by other neuronal microtubule-associated proteins. Here we show major abnormalities in sleep-wake cycle of tau-deficient animals including increased wakefulness duration and decreased non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep time, a higher number of state transitions between NREM and wake, and shortened sleep bouts. Altered sleep structure in tau-/- mice was accompanied by a significant decline in delta power together with an enhanced spectral density of sleep spindles during NREM sleep. No significant differences were observed in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep between the two mouse strains. Taken together, these results suggest that tau indirectly participates in the regulation of the sleep-wake cycle modulating not only the control and maintenance of global brain states but also the cerebral oscillatory patterns underlying sleep-wake states.
The purpose of our study was to investigate the effects of the mitochondria-targeted antioxidants, MitoQ and SS31, and the anti-aging agent resveratrol on neurons from a mouse model (Tg2576 line) of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and on mouse neuroblastoma (N2a) cells incubated with the amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide. Using electron and confocal microscopy, gene expression analysis, and biochemical methods, we studied mitochondrial structure and function and neurite outgrowth in N2a cells treated with MitoQ, SS31, and resveratrol, and then incubated with Abeta. In N2a cells only incubated with the Abeta, we found increased expressions of mitochondrial fission genes and decreased expression of fusion genes and also decreased expression of peroxiredoxins. Electron microscopy of the N2a cells incubated with Abeta revealed a significantly increased number of mitochondria, indicating that Abeta fragments mitochondria. Biochemical analysis revealed that function is defective in mitochondria. Neurite outgrowth was significantly decreased in Abeta-incubated N2a cells, indicating that Abeta affects neurite outgrowth. However, in N2a cells treated with MitoQ, SS31, and resveratrol, and then incubated with Abeta, abnormal expression of peroxiredoxins and mitochondrial structural genes were prevented and mitochondrial function was normal; intact mitochondria were present and neurite outgrowth was significantly increased. In primary neurons from amyloid-beta precursor protein transgenic mice that were treated with MitoQ and SS31, neurite outgrowth was significantly increased and cyclophilin D expression was significantly decreased. These findings suggest that MitoQ and SS31 prevent Abeta toxicity, which would warrant the study of MitoQ and SS31 as potential drugs to treat patients with AD.
The key cytopathologies in the brains of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients include mitochondrial dysfunction and energy hypometabolism, which are likely caused by the accumulation of toxic species of amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptides. This review discusses two potential approaches to delay the onset of AD. The first approach is use of diaminophenothiazines (e.g., methylene blue; MB) to prevent mitochondrial dysfunction and to attenuate energy hypometabolism. We have shown that MB increases heme synthesis, cytochrome c oxidase (complex IV), and mitochondrial respiration, which are impaired in AD brains. Consistently, MB is one of the most effective agents to delay senescence in normal human cells. A key action of MB appears to be enhancing mitochondrial function, which is achieved at nM concentrations. We propose that the cycling of MB between the reduced leucomethylene blue (MBH2) and the oxidized (MB) forms may explain, in part, the mitochondria-protecting activities of MB. The second approach is use of naturally occurring osmolytes to prevent the formation of toxic forms of Abeta. Osmolytes (e.g., taurine, carnosine) are brain metabolites typically accumulated in tissues at relatively high concentrations following stress conditions. Osmolytes enhance thermodynamic stability of proteins by stabilizing natively-folded protein conformation, thus preventing aggregation, without perturbing other cellular processes. Experimental evidence suggests that the level of carnosine is significantly lower in AD patients. Osmolytes may inhibit the formation of Abeta species in vivo, thus preventing the formation of soluble oligomers. Osmolytes are efficient antioxidants that may also increase neural resistance to Abeta. The potential significance of combining MB and osmolytes to treat AD are discussed.
The quote &quot;what does not kill you makes you stronger&quot; perfectly describes the preconditioning phenomenon - a paradigm that affords robust brain tolerance in the face of neurodegenerative insults. Over the last few decades, many attempts have been made to identify the molecular mechanisms involved in preconditioning-induced protective responses, and recent data suggests that many of these mechanisms converge on the mitochondria, positing mitochondria as master regulators of preconditioning-triggered endogenous neuroprotection. In this review, we critically discuss evidence for the involvement of mitochondria within the preconditioning paradigm. We will highlight the crucial targets and mediators by which mitochondria are integrated into neuroprotective signaling pathways that underlie preconditioning, putting focus on mitochondrial respiratory chain and mitochondrial reactive oxygen species, mitochondrial ATP-sensitive potassium channels, mitochondrial permeability transition pore, uncoupling proteins, and mitochondrial antioxidant enzyme manganese superoxide dismutase. We also discuss the role of mitochondria in the induction of hypoxia-inducible factor-1, a transcription factor engaged in preconditioning-mediated neuroprotective effects. The identification of intrinsic mitochondrial mechanisms involved in preconditioning will provide new insights which can be translated into potential pharmacological interventions aimed at counteracting neurodegeneration.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia in the elderly, can have a late-onset sporadic or an early-onset familial origin. In both cases, the neuropathological hallmarks are the same: senile plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. Despite AD having a proteinopathic nature, there is strong evidence for an organelle dysfunction-related neuropathology, namely dysfunctional mitochondria. In this regard, dysfunctional mitochondria and associated exacerbated generation of reactive oxygen species are among the earliest events in the progression of the disease. Since the maintenance of a healthy mitochondrial pool is essential given the central role of this organelle in several determinant cellular processes, mitochondrial dysfunction in AD would be predicted to have profound pluripotent deleterious consequences. Mechanistically, recent reports suggest that mitochondrial fission/fusion and mitophagy are altered in AD and in in vitro models of disease, and since both processes are reported to be protective, this review will discuss the role of mitochondrial fission/fusion and mitophagy in the pathogenesis of AD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a neurodegenerative disorder characterized clinically by progressive decline in memory and cognition and pathologically by extracellular amyloid-beta (Abeta) deposits and intraneuronal aggregates of hyperphosphorylated tau. Since its proposal in 1992, the amyloid cascade hypothesis implicates Abeta overproduction as a causative event in disease pathogenesis, and this thinking has predominated the field's understanding of AD pathogenesis and the development of potential therapeutics (i.e., Abeta-reducing agents). Though Abeta has been shown to induce AD pathology, unanswered questions for sporadic AD development suggests this hypothesis is best applied to familial disease only. The more recent mitochondrial cascade hypothesis is supported by data showing that early impairments of mitochondrial dysfunction and oxidative stress may precede Abeta overproduction and deposition. However, the development of Abeta-reducing agents continues. Unfortunately, these agents have not been efficiently tested for their effect on one of the earliest AD pathologies, i.e., mitochondrial dysfunction. This paper will review supporting data for the amyloid and mitochondrial cascade hypotheses, reports of the effects of secretase inhibitors on AD-phenotypic cells and animals, and begin to look at a potential role for gamma-secretase, which is localized to mitochondria, in AD-related mitochondrial dysfunction.
Oxidative stress and mitochondrial dysfunction are important features present in Alzheimer's disease (AD). They appear early and contribute to disease progression, both in human postmortem AD brains as well as in transgenic AD mouse brains. For this reason, targeting oxidative stress and mitochondria in AD may lead to the development of promising therapeutic strategies. Several exogenous antioxidant compounds have been tested and found beneficial in transgenic AD mice, such as vitamins and spices. However, their efficacy was much more modest in human trials. More recently, new strategies have been elaborated to promote endogenous antioxidant systems. Different pathways involved in oxidative stress response have been identified. Compounds able to upregulate these pathways are being generated and tested in animal models of AD and in human patients. Upregulation of antioxidant gene expression was beneficial in mice, giving hope for future avenues in the treatment of AD and other neurodegenerative disorders.
The concepts of brain and cognitive reserve stem from the observation that premorbid factors (e.g., education) result in variation in the response to brain pathology. Potential early influence of reserve on pathology, as assessed using the cerebrospinal fluid biomarkers total tau (t-tau) and amyloid-beta42, and cognition was explored in mild cognitive impairment (MCI) patients who remained stable over a two-year period. A total of 102 patients with stable MCI grouped on the basis of educational level were compared with regard to biomarker concentrations and cognitive performance. Stable MCI patients with higher education had lower concentrations of t-tau as compared to those with lower education. Also, educational level predicted a significant proportion of the total variance in t-tau concentrations. Our results suggest that higher education may offer protection against tauopathy.
Neuroscience, including research on Alzheimer's disease, is hampered by the lack of suitable in vitro models to study the human nervous system. To counteract this, many attempts to differentiate cell lines into more neuron-like cells have been performed, resulting in partial expression of neuronal features. Furthermore, it has been reported that neuroblastoma cell lines lack mature isoforms of tau. Our aim was to develop an improved in vitro model, generating sustainable cells with morphology and biochemistry of human, mature neurons. To obtain cells with neuronal differentiation and function, we investigated the effect of combining three-dimensional culturing of SH-SY5Y cells in extracellular matrix (ECM) gel with several factors reported to have neuro-differentiating effects. This resulted in cells with apparent neuronal morphology with long, extensively branched neurites. Further investigation revealed expression of several neurospecific markers including synapse protein Sv2 and nuclear marker NeuN, as well as the presence of synapses and axonal vesicle transport. In addition, these cells expressed mature tau isoforms, and tau protein expression was significantly increased compared to undifferentiated cells, reaching levels found in adult human brain. In conclusion, we found that pre-treatment with retinoic acid followed by ECM gel culturing in combination with brain derived neurotrophic factor, neuregulin beta1, nerve growth factor, and vitamin D3 treatment generated sustainable cells with unambiguous resemblance to adult neurons. These cells also expresses adult splicing forms of tau with neuronal localization, making this cellular in vitro model useful in many areas of neuroscience research, particularly the Alzheimer's disease field.
Alzheimer's disease (AD), the most common form of dementia, is characterized by the presence of excessive deposits of aggregated amyloid-beta (Abeta), which is derived from the amyloid-beta protein precursor (AbetaPP) following processing by beta- and gamma-secretase. Metal elements are implicated in the pathophysiology of AD. Magnesium affects many biochemical mechanisms vital for neuronal properties and synaptic plasticity, and magnesium levels were reported to be decreased in various tissues including brain of AD patients. However, the exact role of magnesium in the neurodegenerative process of AD remains elusive. In this study, we investigated the effects of physiological (0.8 mM, as normal control), low (0-0.4 mM), and high (1.2-4.0 mM) concentrations of extracellular magnesium ([Mg2+]o) on AbetaPP processing and Abeta secretion. Here we show the effects of varying [Mg2+]o on AbetaPP processing is time- and dose-dependent. After 24 h treatment, high [Mg2+]o increased C-terminal fragment-alpha (CTFalpha) levels and soluble alpha-secretase cleaved AbetaPP (sAbetaPPalpha) release via enhancing retention of AbetaPP on plasma membrane. In contrast, low [Mg2+]o enhanced CTFbeta accumulation and Abeta secretion, and reduced cell surface AbetaPP level. Varying [Mg2+]o did not alter protein contents of full length AbetaPP. However, decreased total intracellular magnesium level by magnesium deprivation over 24 hr impaired cell viability. Normal AbetaPP processing could be restored when magnesium was adjusted back to physiological concentration. These data demonstrate that AbetaPP processing can be modulated by magnesium and at high [Mg2+]o, AbetaPP processing favors the alpha-secretase cleavage pathway. Our findings suggest that supplementation of magnesium has a therapeutic potential for preventing AD.
Much is unknown regarding the regulation of Alzheimer-related amyloid-beta protein precursor (AbetaPP)-processing in the human central nervous system. It has been hypothesized that amyloidogenic AbetaPP-processing preferentially occurs in the regulated secretory pathway of neurons. To test this hypothesis we looked for correlations of AbetaPP-derived molecules in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) with chromogranin (Cg) derived peptides, representing the regulated secretion. Patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD, N=32), multiple sclerosis (MS, N=50), and healthy controls (N= 70) were enrolled. CSF was analyzed for the amyloid peptides Abeta1-42, Abetax-42, Abetax-40, Abetax-38, alpha-cleaved soluble AbetaPP (sAbetaPPalpha), beta-cleaved soluble AbetaPP (sAbetaPPbeta), and peptides derived from CgB and SgII (Secretogranin-II, CgC). We investigated CSF levels of the protease BACE1, which processes AbetaPP into Abeta, in relation to Cg-levels. Finally, we measured Cg levels in cell media from untreated and BACE1-inhibited SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells. CSF Cg levels correlated to sAbetaPP and Abeta peptides in AD, MS, and controls, and to CSF BACE1. Cell medium from BACE1-inhibited cells had decreased CgB levels. These results suggest that a large part of AbetaPP in the human central nervous system is processed in the regulated secretory pathway of neurons.
Amyloid-beta (Abeta) accumulates in several types of retinal degeneration and in Alzheimer's disease (AD), but its source has been unclear. We detected the neuronal 695 amino acid form of amyloid-beta protein precursor (AbetaPP) in the normal retina and AbetaPP751 in the retinal pigment epithelium (RPE) and anterior eye tissues. Similar to the brain, alpha- and beta-secretases cleaved AbetaPP to soluble derivatives (sAbetaPP) alpha or beta and membrane-bound C-terminal fragments alpha or beta in the retina and RPE. Levels of sAbetaPP were particularly high in the vitreous and low in aqueous humor revealing a molecular barrier for AbetaPP. In contrast, Abeta40 and Abeta42 levels were only 50% lower in the aqueous than the vitreous humor, indicating relatively barrier-free movement of Abeta. These studies demonstrated a relatively high yield of AbetaPP and Abeta in the ocular fluids, which may serve as a trackable marker for AD. In addition, failure of free clearance from the eye may trigger retina degeneration in a manner similar to Abeta-related neurodegeneration in AD.
This article reviews the role of amyloid-beta (Abeta) and mitochondria in synaptic damage and cognitive decline found in patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Recent molecular, cellular, animal model, and postmortem brain studies have revealed that Abeta and mitochondrial abnormalities are key factors that cause synaptic damage and cognitive decline in AD. Abeta is reported to accumulate in subcellular compartments and to impair the normal function of neurons in AD patients. Further, recent studies using biochemical methods and electron microscopy have revealed that the accumulation of Abeta at nerve terminals affect synaptic activities, including the release of neurotransmitters and synaptic vesicles. Recent studies of the relationship between mitochondria and Abeta in AD patients suggest that in mitochondria, structural changes caused by Abeta result in increased mitochondrial fragmentation, decreased mitochondrial fusion, mitochondrial dysfunction, and synaptic damage. This paper discusses the latest research on Abeta, mitochondria, age-dependent factors of AD in the brain, and synaptic damage in AD. This paper also briefly discusses potential mitochondrial therapeutics in the treatment of patients with AD.
Alzheimer's disease is a neurodegenerative disease whose sole initial symptom is memory impairment. However, the mechanisms which make the neurons involved in learning and memory particularly vulnerable to the formation of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles remain completely unknown. Here, I propose a hypothesis that may resolve this puzzle. A growing body of evidence suggests that memory formation involves epigenetic mechanisms that regulate patterns of gene expression. Therefore, it is conceivable that the process of memory consolidation may include the synthesis of novel proteins that are recognized by the immune system as &quot;non-self&quot; antigens. Normally, neurons involved in formation and storage of memory are isolated from the organism's immune system by the blood-brain barrier. Since all known genetic and environmental risk factors for Alzheimer's disease can compromise this barrier, I hypothesize that the disease is initiated as an autoimmune reaction against the memory-bearing neurons. This reaction gradually makes these neurons vulnerable to the subsequent formation of amyloid plaques and neurofibrillary tangles. This hypothesis suggests that early therapy of Alzheimer's disease could be devoted to preventing impairments in the blood-brain barrier. Recent evidence that formation of the blood-brain barrier is controlled via the Wnt/beta-catenin signaling pathway may suggest potential directions to addressing this problem.

Type 2 (T2) diabetes mellitus (DM) has been associated with an increased incidence of neurodegenerative disorders, including Alzheimer's disease (AD). Several pathological features are shared between diabetes and AD, including dysfunctional insulin signaling and a dysregulation of glucose metabolism. It has therefore been suggested that not only may the two conditions share specific molecular mechanisms but also that agents with proven efficacy in one may be useful against the other. Hence, the present study characterized the effects of a clinically approved long-acting analogue, exendin-4 (Ex-4), of the endogenous insulin releasing incretin, glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1), on stress-induced toxicity in neuronal cultures and on amyloid-beta protein (Abeta) and tau levels in triple transgenic AD (3xTg-AD) mice with and without streptozocin (STZ)-induced diabetes. Ex-4 ameliorated the toxicity of Abeta and oxidative challenge in primary neuronal cultures and human SH-SY5Y cells in a concentration-dependent manner. When 11 to 12.5 month old female 3xTg AD mice were challenged with STZ or saline, and thereafter treated with a continuous subcutaneous infusion of Ex-4 or vehicle, Ex-4 ameliorated the diabetic effects of STZ in 3xTg-AD mice, elevating plasma insulin and lowering both plasma glucose and hemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) levels. Furthermore, brain levels of Abeta protein precursor and Abeta, which were elevated in STZ 3xTg-AD mice, were significantly reduced in Ex-4 treated mice. Brain tau levels were unaffected following STZ challenge, but showed a trend toward elevation that was absent following Ex-4 treatment. Together, these results suggest a potential value of Ex-4 in AD, particularly when associated with T2DM or glucose intolerance.
Neurochemical Dementia Diagnostics (NDD), i.e., analysis of the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of amyloid-beta peptides and tau/phospho-tau proteins plays important role in the diagnosis of neurodegeneration and dementias. Several studies show alterations of these biomarkers in Alzheimer's disease (AD), however, only a few reports address alterations of other CSF biomarkers (albumin and immunoglobulins' quotients, cell count, lactate concentration, etc.) in the pathophysiology and diagnostic procedures of dementias. Therefore, we analyzed these biomarkers in patients diagnosed for dementia syndromes and carefully characterized with the state-of-the-art NDD analysis: Abeta1-42, Abetax-42, Abetax-42/x-40 ratio, tau, and ptau181. We found intrathecal IgG synthesis in 5 out of 112 patients showing alterations of the NDD biomarkers, and in four out of these five subjects, we could not find any satisfying reason for the intrathecal humoral response. In 25.9% of the patients with altered NDD biomarkers, we found an increased albumin quotient indicating a dysfunction of the blood-CSF barrier; however a similar figure of 25.2% was found in the group of patients without alterations in the NDD. Our findings suggest that at least some patients with increased CSF concentrations of tau/ptau proteins and decreased concentrations of Abeta{42} peptides show simultaneously CSF alterations found otherwise in neuroinflammatory processes. This, in turn, suggests that extended diagnosis should be performed in patients with &quot;isolated&quot; alterations of NDD biomarkers or intrathecal immunoglobulin synthesis.
Despite progress in human gene discovery, we believe that regulations regarding subject protections have not fully kept pace. We believe that weaknesses in the current regulatory system include variations in the understanding of genetic principles and in the application of regulations. We discuss what our thoughts regarding steps needed to create an environment where information is gathered from all parties involved, including via research into many of the remaining questions, in order to ensure that research participant protection is adequate, appropriate and is an evolving process which will allow it to keep pace with the rapid advances in human genetics.
Caffeine, the most widely consumed psychoactive drug, enhances attention/vigilance, stabilizes mood, and might also independently enhance cognitive performance. Notably, caffeine displays clearer and more robust beneficial effects on memory performance when memory is perturbed by stressful or noxious stimuli either in human or animal studies. Thus, caffeine restores memory performance in sleep-deprived or aged human individuals, a finding replicated in rodent animal models. Likewise, in animal models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), caffeine alleviates memory dysfunction, which is in accordance with the tentative inverse correlation between caffeine intake and the incidence of AD in different (but not all) cohorts. Caffeine also affords beneficial effects in animal models of conditions expected to impair memory performance such as Parkinson's disease, chronic stress, type 2 diabetes, attention deficit and hyperactivity disorder, early life convulsions, or alcohol-induced amnesia. Thus, caffeine should not be viewed as a cognitive enhancer but instead as a cognitive normalizer. Interestingly, these beneficial effects of caffeine on stress-induced memory disturbance are mimicked by antagonists of adenosine A2A receptors. This prominent role of A2A receptors in preventing memory deterioration is probably related to the synaptic localization of this receptor in limbic areas and its ability to control glutamatergic transmission, especially NMDA receptor-dependent plasticity, and to control apoptosis, brain metabolism, and the burden of neuroinflammation. This opens the real and exciting possibility that caffeine consumption might be a prophylactic strategy and A2A receptor antagonists may be a novel therapeutic option to manage memory dysfunction both in AD and in other chronic neurodegenerative disorders where memory deficits occur.
Increasing evidence suggests that the repair of DNA lesions, particularly oxidative DNA lesions, might be compromised in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Studies performed in brains and peripheral tissues of both AD patients and individuals affected by mild cognitive impairment (MCI) revealed that oxidative DNA damage is one of the earliest detectable events during the progression from healthy aging to dementia. Moreover, the increase in DNA damage is paralleled by a decrease in DNA repair activities. Several hypotheses are currently tested in order to explain the decreased DNA repair activity observed in MCI and AD subjects. Some authors have suggested that mutations or polymorphisms in DNA repair genes might impair DNA repair. However, this hypothesis does not seem to be confirmed by recent genetic association studies. Others suggest that DNA repair proteins might be inactivated by oxidative induced post-translational modifications or degradation. There is also indication that different isoforms of the same repair protein might be involved in the progression from early to late stages AD. Moreover, a widespread activation of DNA repair pathways might generate death signals ending with neuronal apoptosis. A link between environmental induced epigenetic modification, oxidation, and repair of AD related genes has been also proposed. Most of these studies have been performed during the last few years, and we are still at the beginning of understanding the complex interplay between oxidative DNA damage, DNA repair, and neuronal death in the brain leading to Alzheimer's dementia, making this topic an exciting and promising field for future investigation.
People with diabetes mellitus are at increased risk of cognitive dysfunction. This review explores the relation between caffeine intake, diabetes, cognition and dementia, focusing on type 2 diabetes (T2DM). Epidemiological studies on caffeine/coffee intake and T2DM risk are reviewed. Next, the impact of T2DM on cognition is addressed. Finally, the potential for caffeine to modulate the risk of cognitive decline in the context of diabetes is explored. The conclusion is that, although epidemiological studies indicate that coffee/caffeine consumption is associated with a decreased risk of T2DM and possibly also with a decreased dementia risk, we can at present not be certain that these associations are causal. For now, recommendations for coffee consumption in individuals with T2DM or pre-diabetic stages are therefore difficult to establish, but it should be acknowledged that caffeine does appear to have several properties that warrant further investigations in this field.
The relationship between cerebrovascular impairment and Alzheimer's disease is a controversial debate. An important and topical aspect in clinical research is the attempt to define the role of atherosclerosis and its determinants in the presentation and evolution of dementia. In this article, we discuss the evidence of the interaction between degenerative and vascular mechanisms in the pathogenesis of dementia. Moreover, we present data about the influence of hypertension and dyslipidemia, usually considered among the most important risk factors for atherosclerosis, on the evolution of Alzheimer's disease. The effects of antihypertensive and lipid-lowering drugs on cognitive impairment will be also discussed.
Few studies to date have looked at the effects of caffeine on synaptic plasticity, and those that did used very high concentrations of caffeine, whereas the brain concentrations attained by regular coffee consumption in humans should be in the low micromolar range, where caffeine exerts pharmacological actions mainly by antagonizing adenosine receptors. Accordingly, rats drinking caffeine (1 g/L) for 3 weeks, displayed a concentration of caffeine of circa 22 microM in the hippocampus. It is known that selective adenosine A1 receptor antagonists facilitate, whereas selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonists attenuate, long term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus. Although caffeine is a non-selective antagonist of adenosine receptors, it attenuates frequency-induced LTP in hippocampal slices in a manner similar to selective adenosine A2A receptor antagonists. These effects of low micromolar concentration of caffeine (30 microM) are maintained in aged animals, which is important when a possible beneficial effect for caffeine in age-related cognitive decline is proposed. Future studies will still be required to confirm and detail the involvement of A1 and A2A receptors in the effects of caffeine on hippocampal synaptic plasticity, using both pharmacological and genetic approaches.
Amyloid-beta (Abeta) peptide plays a significant role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Previously we found that Abeta induces both mitochondrial and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) dysfunction leading to apoptosis, and now we address the relevance of ER-mitochondria crosstalk in apoptotic cell death triggered by Abeta peptide. Using mitochondrial DNA-depleted rho0 cells derived from the human NT2 teratocarcinoma cell line, characterized by the absence of functional mitochondria, and the parental rho+ cells, we report here that treatment with the synthetic Abeta1-40 peptide, or the classical ER stressors thapsigargin or brefeldin A, increases GRP78 expression levels and caspase activity, two ER stress markers, and also depletes ER calcium stores. Significantly, we show that the presence of functional mitochondria is required for ER stress-mediated apoptotic cell death triggered by toxic insults such as Abeta. We found that the increase in the levels of the pro-apoptotic transcription factor GADD153/CHOP, which mediates ER stress-induced cell death, as well as caspase-9 and -3 activation and increased number of TUNEL-positive cells, occurs in treated parental rho+ cells but is abolished in rho0 cells. Our results strongly support the close communication between ER and mitochondria during apoptotic cell death induced by the Abeta peptide and provide insights into the molecular cascade of cell death in AD.

The computer self test (CST) is an interactive, internet-based instrument designed to assess functional cognitive domains impaired by Alzheimer's disease (AD) and mild cognitive impairment (MCI). This study consisted of 215 total subjects with a mean age of 75.24. The 84 cognitively impaired patients (excluding patients diagnosed as MCI) met all criteria set forth by NINCDS/ADRDA for the diagnosis of AD. Control participants consisted of 104 age-matched individuals who were cognitively unimpaired. All patients completed the CST prior to other routine neurocognitive procedures. The CST accurately classified 96% of the cognitively impaired individuals as compared to controls, while the Mini-Mental Status Examination (MMSE) accurately classified 71% and the Mini-Cog 69% in the same respect. In addition, the CST accurately classified 91% of the six experimental groups (control, MCI, early AD, mild to moderate, moderate to severe, and severe) as compared to 54% for the MMSE and 48% for the Mini-Cog. In conclusions, the CST demonstrates a high degree of sensitivity and specificity and is capable of accurately identifying cognitive impairment in patients with variable degrees of cognitive abnormality. This interactive internet-based cognitive screening tool may aid in early detection of cognitive impairment in the primary care setting. The ease of use and interpretation may also provide the means to obtain an accurate baseline from which to monitor cognitive changes over time.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by accumulation of toxic amyloid-beta (Abeta) in the brain, with neuronal death, and an associated increased Abeta(42/40) ratio. Several mutations in presenilin 1 (PSEN1), presenilin 2 (PSEN2), and amyloid-beta precursor protein are involved in the etiology of familial AD (FAD); these mutations alter the Abeta(42/40) ratio and promote apoptosis. We describe an Italian pedigree linked to a novel mutation (S175C) at the third transmembrane domain of PSEN2. Clinical phenotype in these individuals is characterized by fast cognitive decline with progressive memory impairment, early involvement of executive functions, behavioral disturbances, and extrapyramidal signs.

We review the electrophysiological studies concerning the effects of caffeine on muscle, lower and upper motor neuron excitability and cognition. Several different methods have been used, such as electromyography, recruitment analysis, H-reflex, transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS), electroencephalography and event-related potentials. The positive effect of caffeine on vigilance, attention, speed of reaction, information processing and arousal is supported by a number of electrophysiological studies. The evidence in favor of an increased muscle fiber resistance is not definitive, but higher or lower motor neuron excitability can occur as a consequence of a greater excitation of the descending input from the brainstem and upper motor neurons. TMS can address the influence of caffeine on the upper motor neuron. Previous studies showed that cortico-motor threshold and intracortical excitatory and inhibitory pathways are not influenced by caffeine. Nonetheless, our results indicate that cortical silent period (CSP) is reduced in resting muscles after caffeine consumption, when stimulating the motor cortex with intensities slightly above threshold. We present new data demonstrating that this effect is also observed in fatigued muscle. We conclude that CSP can be considered a surrogate marker of the effect of caffeine in the brain, in particular of its central ergogenic effect.
The corpus callosum (CC), which connects the two cerebral hemispheres, is the largest white matter fiber bundle in the human brain. This structure presents a peculiar myelination pattern: it has small diameter fibers, located in the genu, which myelinate much later in normal development, and large diameter fibers of the splenium, which myelinate early in development. Although the pathology of AD mainly involves the cerebral gray matter structure, there is evidence that white matter may also be involved. To illustrate callosal white matter changes in AD pathology, in this review we summarize in vivo imaging studies in humans, focusing on region of interest, voxel-based morphometry, diffusion-weighted imaging, and diffusion tensor imaging techniques. Our aims were to identify where in the CC, when in the different stages of AD, and how callosal changes can be detected with different MRI techniques. Results showed that changes in the anterior (genu and anterior body) as well as in the posterior (isthmus and splenum) portions of the CC might already be present in the early stages of AD. These findings support the hypothesis that two mechanisms, Wallerian degeneration and myelin breakdown, might be responsible for the region-specific changes detected in AD patients. Wallerian degeneration affects the posterior CC subregion, which receives axons directly from those brain areas (temporo-parietal lobe regions) primarily affected by the AD pathology. Instead, the myelin breakdown process affects the later-myelinating CC subregion and explains the earlier involvement of the genu in CC atrophy.
Caffeine causes most of its biological effects via antagonizing all types of adenosine receptors (ARs): A1, A2A, A3, and A2B and, as does adenosine, exerts effects on neurons and glial cells of all brain areas. In consequence, caffeine, when acting as an AR antagonist, is doing the opposite of activation of adenosine receptors due to removal of endogenous adenosinergic tonus. Besides AR antagonism, xanthines, including caffeine, have other biological actions: they inhibit phosphodiesterases (PDEs) (e.g., PDE1, PDE4, PDE5), promote calcium release from intracellular stores, and interfere with GABA-A receptors. Caffeine, through antagonism of ARs, affects brain functions such as sleep, cognition, learning, and memory, and modifies brain dysfunctions and diseases: Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, Huntington's disease, Epilepsy, Pain/Migraine, Depression, Schizophrenia. In conclusion, targeting approaches that involve ARs will enhance the possibilities to correct brain dysfunctions, via the universally consumed substance that is caffeine.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a devastating age-related neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive impairment of cognition and short-term memory loss. The deposition of amyloid-beta (Abeta) 1-42 into senile plaques is an established feature of AD neuropathology. Controversy still exists about the amyloid pathway as the initiating mechanism or a mere consequence of the events leading to AD. Nevertheless, Abeta toxicity has been probed in vitro and in vivo and increased production or decreased clearance of Abeta peptides are reported to play a major role in the development of AD. Treatment of neural stem cells with Abeta in vitro induces neuronal differentiation. Increased neurogenesis has been also described in AD patients as well as in amyloid-beta protein precursor (AbetaPP) transgenic mice. Adult neurogenesis is greatly enhanced in young AbetaPP transgenic mice, before other AD-liked pathologies, and reduced in older animals. This increased neurogenesis at young ages might be the first pathology related to AD, which is detectable long before other harmful manifestation of the disease. Therefore, understanding the mechanisms of Abeta-induced neurogenesis will reveal insights into the pathogenesis of AD and may prove useful as an early AD biomarker.

Mild cognitive impairment is often considered a transitional condition prodromal to Alzheimer's disease. The dissection of genetic risk factors predisposing to mild cognitive impairment is paramount to assess the individual predisposition and reliably evaluate the effectiveness of early therapeutic interventions. We designed a cross-sectional analysis to test whether the occurrence of mild cognitive impairment is influenced by variations of the tau protein gene. The genotypes of seven polymorphisms tagging the major tau haplotypes were assayed on 186 patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment and 191 unrelated controls. Association study was conducted by logistic regression including APOE genotype and age as covariates. Case-control analysis showed that the common H1 haplotype is significantly overrepresented in patients (OR, 95% CI: 2.31, 1.52-3.51; p&lt;0.001), whereas did not provide positive signals for any of the H1 sub-haplotypes that had been described as associated with Alzheimer inverted exclamation mark s disease. This finding was confirmed when the epsilon4 allele of the APOE gene was taken into account (OR, 95% CI: 2.319, 1.492-3.603; p&lt;0.001). These results firstly suggest that the risk of mild cognitive impairment is influenced by tau protein gene variations and that mild cognitive impairment shares a common genetic background with Alzheimer's disease. They may help elucidating the genetic risk to cognitive decline and designing effective clinical trials.
The mechanisms by which tau-containing lesions are propagated between adjacent and synaptically interconnected parts of the brain are a potentially important but poorly understood component of human tauopathies such as Alzheimer's disease, Pick's disease, and corticobasal degeneration. Since the utility of currently available transgenic models for studying intercellular aspects of tauopathy is limited by their broad patterns of tau expression in the central nervous system, we used an in situ tauopathy model that replicates tau-induced cytodegeneration in identified neurons on a tau-negative background to determine whether tau secretion or interneuronal transfer might play a role in lesion propagation. We found that the N-terminal half of tau is required for tau secretion and is efficiently exported to the extracellular space and adjacent neurons at relatively low levels of overexpression. By contrast, full-length tau is secreted by a separate mechanism that is correlated with phosphorylation of tau at tyrosine 18 and dendritic degeneration, is exacerbated by tauopathy mutations, and blocked by mutations that inhibit tau:tau interactions. Anterograde transneuronal tau movement occurred with the expression of tau containing the P301L tauopathy mutant, but not with wild type tau isoforms. Our results are consistent with recent studies suggesting a role for molecular &quot;templating&quot; in the propagation of neurofibrillary lesions and provide a novel conceptual and experimental basis for studying the mechanisms of interneuronal propagation and toxicity in human neurodegenerative disease.
In a recent clinical study, the thiazolidinedione (TZD) pioglitazone (Actos was reported to preserve cognitive function in patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease and type II diabetes mellitus. TZDs are agonists of the nuclear hormone receptor peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor-gamma (PPARgamma), are peripheral insulin sensitizers, and have recently been reported to increase mitochondrial biogenesis in the central nervous system and dendritic spine density. We report a transcriptional profile of the TZD pioglitazone and the non-TZD PPARgamma agonist GW347845 in primary cortical culture. We observed that pioglitazone, but not GW347845, increased cholesterol biosynthetic and lipogenic gene expression after 6 h, and the expression of the cholesterol efflux transporters Abca1 and Abcg1 after 24 h. Co-treatment of pioglitazone with the PPARgamma antagonist GW9662 did not significantly reduce these effects, suggesting a PPARgamma-independent mechanism. These findings suggest a novel effect of TZDs in neurons that may be of relevance as a novel approach against Alzheimer's disease.
Previous dual task studies have demonstrated minimal costs when healthy individuals simultaneously perform two tasks at their own individual ability levels. Conversely, Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients show dual task decrements, but it is unclear whether the problem arises at the encoding, maintenance, and/or retrieval phases of memory. Two experiments combined digit recall and visuo-motor tracking to investigate dual task effects during encoding, maintenance, and/or retrieval for AD patients compared with healthy adults. The demands of each single task were titrated for the ability of each participant. In Experiment 1, the dual task requirement was present throughout both encoding and retrieval of digit recall and the differential dual task effects on a secondary tracking task were examined post-hoc. In Experiment 2, the impact of dual task during encoding only, during maintenance only, and during retrieval only was examined systematically. The findings suggest that the specific AD deficit reflects impairment of a cognitive function that supports the simultaneous performance of two tasks in the healthy brain, particularly during the encoding and retrieval phases of the memory task.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a highly prevalent neurodegenerative disease. In addition to its enormous personal and socioeconomic costs, the situation is worsened by the lack of an effective prevention and treatment. Anti-amyloid-beta (Abeta) immunization strategies showed excellent results when tested on AD transgenic models. However, clinical studies with active and passive immunotherapy have been disappointing in several aspects, especially lately, when reports analyzing long term result of immunization protocols failed to show improvement in cognitive function and disease progression. Furthermore, some of the active immunotherapy protocols appear to be associated with severe side effects, including brain inflammation and amyloid angiopathy mediated hemorrhage. However, even through detailed information on the mechanism for Abeta clearance is still missing, results are valuable for the understanding of the disease. The focus of this review is to discuss the current experience with the various types of immunotherapy tested in animal models and AD patients, and the information they provide regarding disease mechanisms. In light of those results, alternatives or conditions that could improve immunotherapy utility are analyzed. Regardless of the setbacks, immunotherapy as a combination therapy, including humoral and cell-based approaches, still holds a promise for the treatment of AD.
Copper plays a central role in conserved processes such as respiration, and in highly specialized processes, such as protein modification. The metalloprotease neprilysin (NEP) degrades a variety of bioactive peptides and is involved in many physiological processes. However, very little is known about the regulation of NEP activity. In the current study, we focused on the effect of Cu2+ on the enzymatic activity and protein stability of NEP. Using mouse neuroblastoma N2a cells, we found that the enzymatic activity of NEP was decreased by treatment with Cu2+ in a dose- and time-dependent manner. In our investigation of the mechanism by which Cu2+ downregulates NEP enzyme activity, we found that treatment with Cu2+ caused a decrease in the level of NEP as determined by Western blot analysis. Quantitative analysis of NEP mRNA with RT-PCR excluded the possibility that Cu2+ downregulates NEP protein at the gene transcription level. Moreover, specific proteasome inhibitors, MG132 and lactacystin, blocked the turnover of NEP, whereas inhibitors of lysosome had no significant effect, suggesting that Cu2+-induced degradation of NEP is via a proteasome pathway. Taken together, our data suggest that copper downregulates NEP activity through modulation of NEP protein degradation.
Disturbances in cerebral cholesterol metabolism have been implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we provide evidence that alterations in brain cholesterol homeostasis also can be a consequence of disease progression. We found that APPSLxPS1mut mice, at the age of 9 months when AD-like pathology starts to develop, display increased levels of the cholesterol precursor desmosterol and of the cholesterol metabolite 27-hydroxy(OH)cholesterol in their cerebellum in comparison with wild-type controls. At the age of 21 months, when APPSLxPS1mut brain contains abundant amyloid deposits, desmosterol levels had further increased (&gt; 200% in comparison with wild-type mice) in all brain regions examined. 24(S)-OHcholesterol levels were increased in hippocampus and cerebellum of the APPSLxPS1mut mice, while 27-OHcholesterol levels were increased in cerebellum exclusively. Brain cholesterol levels remained unaffected. In line with the fact that desmosterol and 24(S)-OHcholesterol are Liver X Receptor (LXR) activators, the LXR-target genes Abca1 and Apoc1 were upregulated predominantly in hippocampus of APPSLxPS1mut mice at both ages evaluated. The reduced expression of the enzyme that converts desmosterol into cholesterol, the Selective AD indicator 1 gene (Seladin-1/Dhcr24), in both cortex and cerebellum may underlie the increased desmosterol levels in 21 month-old APPSLxPS1mut mice.
Sirtuins are a family of conserved proteins with deacetylase and ADP-ribosyltransferase activity. In humans they are coded by seven genes (SIRT1-7). The most widely investigated and best known sirtuin is SIRT1, which can be activated by the natural phytocompound resveratrol and plays a role in several physiologic (embryogenesis, glucose metabolism, apoptosis, autophagy, chromatin integrity, and transcriptional state) and pathologic (diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disorders, and neurodegeneration) conditions. In the field of neurodegeneration, resveratrol and SIRT1 have proved beneficial in in vitro and in vivo models of Alzheimer's disease (AD), reducing amyloid-beta protein accumulation, considered one of the pathogenic mechanisms. In contrast to these promising biological data, however, genetic studies linking SIRT1 variability to AD are negative (this is the case for other sirtuins too, e.g., SIRT3). In this review, we summarize the in vitro, in vivo, and genetic experimental results linking SIRT1 and the other sirtuins to AD, while a description of sirtuins' biochemical features and modulating compounds, as well as sirtuins' involvement in other neurodegenerative disorders are discussed as collateral aims.
NAP (Asn-Ala-Pro-Val-Ser-Ile-Pro-Gln) is a neuroprotective peptide that shows cognitive protection in patients with amnestic mild cognitive impairment, a precursor to Alzheimer's disease. NAP exhibits potent neuroprotective properties in several in vivo and cellular models of neural injury. While NAP has been found in many studies to affect microtubule assembly and/or stability in neuronal and glial cells at fM concentrations, it has remained unclear whether NAP acts directly or indirectly on tubulin or microtubules. We analyzed the effects of NAP (1 fM-1 microM) on the assembly of reconstituted bovine brain microtubules in vitro and found that it did not significantly (p&lt; 0.05) alter polymerization of either purified tubulin or of a mixture of tubulin and unfractionated microtubule-associated proteins. NAP also had no significant effect (p &lt; 0.05) on the growing and shortening dynamics of steady-state microtubules at their plus ends, nor did it alter the polymerization or dynamics of microtubules assembled in the presence of 3-repeat or 4-repeat tau. Thus, the neuroprotective activity of NAP does not appear to involve a direct action on the polymerization or dynamics of purified tubulin or microtubules.
Synaptic dysfunction is an early event in the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and relates closely to the cognitive impairment characterizing this neurodegenerative process. A causative association has been proposed, largely on the basis of in vitro studies, between memory decline, soluble amyloid- (A) oligomers and alterations of glutamatergic neurotransmission. We aimed here to characterize in vivo N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR)-mediated signaling, at an early stage of AD, before extracellular amyloid plaques are deposited. We assessed the functional link between cognitive abilities and NMDAR-mediated pharmacological responses of six-month-old APP23 transgenic mice (APP23tg), overexpressing the human amyloid- protein precursor carrying the Swedish double mutation. We found evidence of cognitive impairments in these mice, indicated by deficits in the delayed-non-matching-to-place task. Alterations of NMDAR-mediated signaling in this mouse model were confirmed by the reduced sensitivity of motor-activation and working memory to pharmacological inhibition of NMDAR activity. At the molecular level, APP23tg mice show hippocampal alterations in the trafficking of synaptic NMDAR subunits NR2A and NR2B and at an ultrastructural analysis show A oligomers intracellularly localized in the synaptic compartments. Importantly, the behavioral and biochemical alterations of NMDAR signaling are associated with the inhibition of long-term synaptic potentiation and inversion of metaplasticity at CA1 synapses in hippocampal slices from APP23tg mice. These results indicate a general impairment of synaptic function and learning and memory in young APP23tg mice with A oligomers but no amyloid plaques.
The neural network activated during Topographical Memory (TM) tasks in controls overlaps with the earliest affected regions in Alzheimer's disease (AD) but not with those of Semantic Dementia (SD). This suggests that clinical TM tests could be more bespoke to neural dysfunction in early AD and therefore more sensitive and specific. We hypothesized that TM impairment would be characteristic of AD but not of SD making it useful both for early diagnosis and differential diagnosis. TM was assessed in 69 patients (22 mild AD, 15 SD, 32 with mild cognitive impairment (MCI)) and 35 controls, using three tasks: the four mountains test and two novel tests in a virtual town (the Virtual Route Learning Test (VRLT) and the Heading Orientation Test). AD patients were impaired on all TM tasks. The VRLT was the most discriminatory; had the highest correlation with caregiver reports of navigation problems; and correlated strongly with memory, attention/executive function, and to a lesser degree, visuospatial ability. In contrast, SD patients performed well on the TM battery only becoming abnormal with very advanced dementia and performance correlated exclusively with attention/executive function. The VRLT achieved 95% sensitivity and 94% specificity in discriminating AD patients from controls; at the same cutoff, 70% of MCI patients were impaired. When combined with either naming performance or global dementia severity, there was complete separation of AD from SD. The VRLT is ecologically valid, highly sensitive to early AD, and useful in discriminating AD from the non-Alzheimer dementia, SD.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by the deposition of amyloid plaques, loss of neurons, neuritic degeneration, accumulation of fibrillary tangles in neurons, and a progressive loss of cognitive function. Amyloid- peptide (A) appears to play a pivotal role in the development of AD. Clearance of A from the brain represents an important therapeutic strategy for prevention and treatment of AD. Immunotherapy targeting A is effective to remove the peptide from the brain. However, it is associated with detrimental adverse effects, such as autoimmune meningoencephalitis and microhemorrhage. These are presumably the results of brain infiltration of provoked autoimmune T lymphocytes in response to A vaccination and release of proinflammatory cytokines from microglia activated by the immune complex of A and antibodies. An improvement of the safety of the immunotherapy is a major goal of the immunotherapy study. Here, we review the mechanisms involved in modified immunological strategies, as well as their adverse effects. We discuss the following: the development of B epitope vaccines to avoid activation of autoimmune T lymphocytes; DNA vaccines containing appropriate immunostimulatory and immunomodulatory sequences to induce the desired humoral immune responses; antibody modifications to avoid activation of microglia and subsequent release of proinflammatory cytokines; single chain antibodybased gene therapy; immunotherapy targeting A oligomers; modulation of antibody delivery approach and dose; and application of autoantibodies against A. These ultimately represent future directions of therapeutic approaches toward safer and effective A clearance.
Laser ablation inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (LA-ICP-MS) has been established as a powerful technique for the determination of metal and nonmetal distributions within biological systems with high sensitivity. An imaging LA-ICP-MS technique for Fe, Cu, Zn, and Mn was developed to produce large series of quantitative element maps in native brain sections of mice subchronically intoxicated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridin (MPTP) as a model of Parkinson's disease. Images were calibrated using matrix-matched laboratory standards. A software solution allowing a precise delineation of anatomical structures was implemented. Coronal brain sections were analyzed crossing the striatum and the substantia nigra, respectively. Animals sacrificed 2 h, 7 d, or 28 d after the last MPTP injection and controls were investigated. We observed significant decreases of Cu concentrations in the periventricular zone and the fascia dentata at 2 h and 7d and a recovery or overcompensation at 28 d, most pronounced in the rostral periventricular zone (+40%). In the cortex Cu decreased slightly to -10%. Fe increased in the interpeduncular nucleus (+40%) but not in the substantia nigra. This pattern is in line with a differential regulation of periventricular and parenchymal Cu, and with the histochemical localization of Fe, and congruent to regions of preferential MPTP binding described in the rodent brain. The LA-ICP-MS technique yielded valid and statistically robust results in the present study on 39 slices from 19 animals. Our findings underline the value of routine micro-local analytical techniques in the life sciences and affirm a role of Cu availability in Parkinson's disease.
Important recent developments in brain and cognitive sciences offer new avenues for productive cooperation between archaeology and neuroscience. Archaeologists can now learn more about the biological and neural substrates of the human cognitive abilities and use that knowledge to better define and identify their archaeologically visible traces and possible signatures. In addition, important questions and prevailing assumptions about the emergence of modern human cognition can be critically reviewed in the light of recent neuroscientific findings. Thus there is great prospect in the archaeology of mind for developing a systematic cross-disciplinary endeavor to map the common ground between archaeology and neuroscience, frame the new questions, and bridge the diverge analytical levels and scales of time. The term &quot;neuroarchaeology&quot; is introduced to articulate this rapidly developing field of cross-disciplinary research, focusing on questions and problems that emerge at the interface between brain and culture over the long- term developmental trajectories of human becoming. Neuroarchaeology aims at constructing an analytical bridge between brain and culture by putting material culture, embodiment, time and long term change at center stage in the study of mind. This paper presents a critical overview of this new research field and introduces the notion of &quot;metaplasticity&quot; to describe the enactive constitutive intertwining between neural and cultural plasticity. In this context, I summarize the main objectives, cross-disciplinary links, and theoretical grounding of this new approach to the archaeology of mind and outline some of the foundational issues and methodological challenges such a project might face.
In animals, thiamine deficiency leads to specific brain lesions, generally attributed to decreased levels of thiamine diphosphate, an essential cofactor in brain energy metabolism. However, another far less abundant derivative, thiamine triphosphate (ThTP), may also have a neuronal function. Here, we show that in the rat brain, ThTP is essentially present and synthesized in mitochondria. In mitochondrial preparations from brain (but not liver), ThTP can be produced from thiamine diphosphate and P(i). This endergonic process is coupled to the oxidation of succinate or NADH through the respiratory chain but cannot be energized by ATP hydrolysis. ThTP synthesis is strongly inhibited by respiratory chain inhibitors, such as myxothiazol and inhibitors of the H(+) channel of F(0)F(1)-ATPase. It is also impaired by disruption of the mitochondria or by depolarization of the inner membrane (by protonophores or valinomycin), indicating that a proton-motive force (Deltap) is required. Collapsing Deltap after ThTP synthesis causes its rapid disappearance, suggesting that both synthesis and hydrolysis are catalyzed by a reversible H(+)-translocating ThTP synthase. The synthesized ThTP can be released from mitochondria in the presence of external P(i). However, ThTP probably does not accumulate in the cytoplasm in vivo, because it is not detected in the cytosolic fraction obtained from a brain homogenate. Our results show for the first time that a high energy triphosphate compound other than ATP can be produced by a chemiosmotic type of mechanism. This might shed a new light on our understanding of the mechanisms of thiamine deficiency-induced brain lesions.
There are many kinds of limitative results in the sciences, some of which are philosophical. I am interested in examining one kind of limitative result in the neurosciences that is mathematical-a result secured by the Gdel incompleteness theorems. I will view the incompleteness theorems as independence results, develop a connection with independence results in set theory, and then argue that work in the neurosciences (as well as in molecular, systems and synthetic biology) may well avoid these mathematical limitative results. In showing this, I argue that demonstrating that one cannot avoid them is a computational task that is beyond the computational capacities of finitary minds. Along the way, I reformulate three philosophical claims about the nature of consciousness in terms of the Gdel incompleteness theorems and argue that these precise reformulations of the claims can be disarmed.
Two decades of molecular, cellular, and functional studies considerably increased our understanding of dystrophins function and unveiled the complex etiology of the cognitive deficits in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), which involves altered expression of several dystrophin-gene products in brain. Dystrophins are normally part of critical cytoskeleton-associated membrane-bound molecular scaffolds involved in the clustering of receptors, ion channels, and signaling proteins that contribute to synapse physiology and blood-brain barrier function. The utrophin gene also drives brain expression of several paralogs proteins, which cellular expression and biological roles remain to be elucidated. Here we review the structural and functional properties of dystrophins and utrophins in brain, the consequences of dystrophins loss-of-function as revealed by numerous studies in mouse models of DMD, and we discuss future challenges and putative therapeutic strategies that may compensate for the cognitive impairment in DMD based on experimental manipulation of dystrophins and/or utrophins brain expression.
Histologically, Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by senile plaques and cerebrovascular amyloid deposits. In previous studies we demonstrated that in AD patients, amyloid-beta (A beta) peptide also accumulates in choroid plexus, and that this process is associated with mitochondrial dysfunction and epithelial cell death. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying A beta accumulation at the choroid plexus epithelium remain unclear. A beta clearance, from the brain to the blood, involves A beta carrier proteins that bind to megalin, including gelsolin, a protein produced specifically by the choroid plexus epithelial cells. In this study, we show that treatment with gelsolin reduces A beta-induced cytoskeletal disruption of blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barrier at the choroid plexus. Additionally, our results demonstrate that gelsolin plays an important role in decreasing A beta-induced cytotoxicity by inhibiting nitric oxide production and apoptotic mitochondrial changes. Taken together, these findings make gelsolin an appealing tool for the prophylactic treatment of AD.
First introduced in the 1980s, laser speckle contrast imaging is a powerful tool for full-field imaging of blood flow. Recently laser speckle contrast imaging has gained increased attention, in part due to its rapid adoption for blood flow studies in the brain. We review the underlying physics of speckle contrast imaging and discuss recent developments to improve the quantitative accuracy of blood flow measures. We also review applications of laser speckle contrast imaging in neuroscience, dermatology and ophthalmology.
Awake monkey fMRI and diffusion MRI combined with conventional neuroscience techniques has the potential to study the structural and functional neural network. The majority of monkey fMRI and diffusion MRI experiments are performed with single coils which suffer from severe EPI distortions which limit resolution. By constructing phased array coils for monkey MRI studies, gains in SNR and anatomical accuracy (i.e., reduction of EPI distortions) can be achieved using parallel imaging. The major challenges associated with constructing phased array coils for monkeys are the variation in head size and space constraints. Here, we apply phased array technology to a 4-channel phased array coil capable of improving the resolution and image quality of full brain awake monkey fMRI and diffusion MRI experiments. The phased array coil is that can adapt to different rhesus monkey head sizes (ages 4-8) and fits in the limited space provided by monkey stereotactic equipment and provides SNR gains in primary visual cortex and anatomical accuracy in conjunction with parallel imaging and improves resolution in fMRI experiments by a factor of 2 (1.25 mm to 1.0 mm isotropic) and diffusion MRI experiments by a factor of 4 (1.5 mm to 0.9 mm isotropic).
As vertebral artery dissections may cause stroke, they must be identified and treated promptly. The association of arterial dissection with dental procedures has been previously observed. In this article, we report on a patient presenting with posterior circulation stroke secondary to vertebral artery dissection following a dental procedure. The clinical course, radiologic findings and management are described and the literature regarding vertebral dissections is reviewed.

Fibrates, one group of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) activators, are lipid lowering drugs. Fibrates have been shown to attenuate brain tissue injury after focal cerebral ischemia. In this study, we investigated the impact of fenofibrate on cerebral blood flow (CBF) in male wild type and PPARalpha-null mice. Animals were treated for 7 days with fenofibrate and subjected to 2 h of filamentous middle cerebral artery occlusion and reperfusion under isoflurane anesthesia. Cortical surface CBF was measured by laser speckle imaging. Regional CBF (rCBF) in nonischemic animals was measured by (14)C-iodoantipyrine autoradiography. Fenofibrate did not affect rCBF and mean arterial blood pressure in nonischemic animals. In ischemic animals, laser speckle imaging showed delayed expansions of ischemic area, which was attenuated by fenofibrate. Fenofibrate also enhanced CBF recovery after reperfusion. However, such effects of fenofibrate on CBF in the ischemic brain were not observed in PPARalpha-null mice. These findings show that fenofibrate improves CBF in the ischemic hemisphere. Moreover, fenofibrate requires PPARalpha expression for the cerebrovascular protective effects in the ischemic brain.
Because a prolonged compression of the major scalp arteries blocks migraine attacks in a substantial number of patients, we studied the effect of the use of a simple handmade device in blocking an incoming headache attack in children and adolescents. Thirty-seven consecutive ambulatory patients were instructed to apply, at the onset of each migraine attack, a handmade device firmly compressing both temporal arteries. Thirteen patients interrupted treatment because of intolerance of the local pain provoked by compression of the device. Of the remaining 24 patients, 17 reported benefit from using the device and 7 no effect. In these 17 patients, the percentage of attacks aborted or attenuated by early use of the device was 90.5% in the first month and 95.7% in the second month; the consumption of antipain drugs dropped from the mean 4.4 +/- 2.6 in the pre-device month to 1.3 +/- 1.6 in the first and 0.6 +/- 0.9 in the second month.
Mutations in small heat-shock protein 27 and small heat-shock protein 22 genes were found in association with Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 2 and distal hereditary motor neuropathy. We searched for mutations in small heat-shock protein 27 gene in an Italian family with peripheral neuropathy and intrafamilial phenotypic variability. A novel heterozygous frame-shift mutation c.476_477delCT was found while point mutations in most genes associated with hereditary neuropathies were ruled out. In the proband, who showed a severe early onset peripheral neuropathy, an independent pathogenetic effect on the peripheral nervous system secondary to the tetanus toxoid injection may be supposed. This is the first truncating nonsense mutation in the small heat-shock protein 27 gene identified so far and the clinical, neurophysiologic, and neuropathological findings are discussed.
Amphetamines are a group of sympathomimetic drugs that exhibit strong central nervous system stimulant effects. D-Amphetamine ((+)-alpha-methylphenetylamine) is the parent drug in this class to which all others are structurally related. In drug discovery, d-amphetamine is extensively used either for the exploration of novel mechanisms involving the catecholaminergic system, or for the validation of new behavioural animal models. Due to this extensive use of D-amphetamine in drug research and its interest in toxicologic-forensic investigation, a specific and high-throughput method, with minimal sample preparation, is necessary for routine analysis of D-amphetamine in biological samples. We propose here a sensitive, specific and high-throughput bioanalytical method for the quantitative determination of D-amphetamine in rat blood using MS(3) scan mode on a hybrid triple quadrupole-linear ion trap mass spectrometer (LC-MS/MS/MS). Blood samples, following dilution with water, were prepared by fully automated protein precipitation with acetonitrile containing an internal standard. The chromatographic separation was achieved on a Waters XTerra C18 column (2.1mm x 30mm, 3.5microm) using gradient elution at a flow rate of 1.0mL/min over a 2min run time. An Applied Biosystems API4000 QTRAP mass spectrometer equipped with turbo ion-spray ionization source was operated simultaneously in MS(3) scan mode for the d-amphetamine and in multiple reaction monitoring (MRM) for the internal standard. The MS/MS/MS ion transition monitored was m/z 136.1--&gt;119.1--&gt;91.1 for the quantitation of d-amphetamine and for the internal standard (rolipram) the MS/MS ion transition monitored was m/z 276.1--&gt;208.2. The linear dynamic range was established over the concentration range 0.5-1000ng/mL (r(2)=0.9991). The method was rugged and sensitive with a lower limit of quantification (LLOQ) of 0.5ng/mL. All the validation data, such as accuracy, precision, and inter-day repeatability, were within the required limits. This method was successfully applied to evaluate the pharmacokinetics of d-amphetamine in rat. On a more general extent, this work demonstrated that the selectivity of the fragmentation pathway (MS(3)) can be used as alternative approach to significantly improve detection capability in complex situation (e.g., small molecules in complex matrices) rather than increasing time for sample preparation and chromatographic separation.
Depression is the most common comorbidity among adults with obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), yet little is known about depressive symptoms in childhood OCD. This study examined clinical and cognitive variables associated with depressive symptomatology in 71 youths (62% male, M age = 12.7 years) with primary OCD. Youths presented with a range of depressive symptoms, with 21% scoring at or above the clinical cutoff on the self-report measure of depression. Higher levels of depressive symptoms were associated with higher levels of cognitive distortions assessed on measures of insight, perceived control, competence, and contingencies. Depressive symptoms were also linked to older age and more severe OCD. Low perceived control and self-competence and high OCD severity independently predicted depression scores.
The Pittsburgh Girls Study is a longitudinal, community-based study of 2,451 girls who were initially recruited when they were between the ages of 5 and 8 years. The primary aim of the study was testing developmental models of conduct disorder, major depressive disorder, and their co-occurrence in girls. In the current article, we summarize the published findings from the past 5 years of the PGS and place those results in the context of what it known to date about developmental psychopathology in girls. Key results suggest that DSM-IV mental disorders tend to have an insidious onset often beginning with subsyndromal symptom manifestation, and that there appear to be shared and unique developmental precursors to disorder in subgroups of girls based on race and poverty.
The present study investigated how maternal HIV and mediating family processes are associated with adolescent distress, substance use, and risky sexual behavior. Mother-adolescent (ages 12-21) dyads (N = 264) were recruited from neighborhoods where the HIV-affected families resided (161 had mothers with HIV). Mediating family processes were youth aggressive conflict style, maternal bonding, maternal role reversal expectations, and overall family functioning. Results of structural equation modeling indicated that youth aggressive conflict resolution style was strongly associated with adolescent distress, substance use, and risky sexual behavior. In HIV-affected families, youth less frequently reported using an aggressive conflict resolution style and more frequently reported positive maternal bonds; their mothers reported less positive family functioning than control families. Finally, maternal distress indirectly affected adolescent distress and risk behavior via youth aggressive conflict resolution style.

We report here a case study of a rare neurological patient with bilateral brain damage encompassing a substantial portion of the so-called &quot;limbic system.&quot; The patient, Roger, has been studied in our laboratory for over 14 years, and the current article presents his complete neuroanatomical and neuropsychological profiles. The brain damage occurred in 1980 following an episode of herpes simplex encephalitis. The amount of destroyed neural tissue is extensive and includes bilateral damage to core limbic and paralimbic regions, including the hippocampus, amygdala, parahippocampal gyrus, temporal poles, orbitofrontal cortex, basal forebrain, anterior cingulate cortex, and insular cortex. The right hemisphere is more extensively affected than the left, although the lesions are largely bilateral. Despite the magnitude of his brain damage, Roger has a normal IQ, average to above-average attention, working memory, and executive functioning skills, and very good speech and language abilities. In fact, his only obvious presenting deficits are a dense global amnesia and a severe anosmia and ageusia. Roger's case presents a rare opportunity to advance our understanding of the critical functions underlying the human limbic system, and the neuropsychological and neuroanatomical data presented here provide a critical foundation for such investigations.
The present study investigated whether the Childhood Executive Function Inventory (CHEXI) can discriminate between young children fulfilling the diagnostic criteria for attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) and normally developing children. Unlike other executive function rating instruments, the CHEXI focuses specifically on inhibitory control and working memory, without including items that overlap with the diagnostic criteria of ADHD. The CHEXI was found to discriminate very well between children fulfilling the criteria for ADHD and normally developing children, also when controlling for the effect of IQ and socioeconomic status (SES). Both sensitivity and specificity of the two CHEXI subscales were shown to be high using either parent or teacher ratings. The highest overall classification rate was found for parent ratings on the inhibition subscale, with sensitivity and specificity reaching 93.3. To summarize, the CHEXI should be considered a promising measure for identifying young children with ADHD, although it is for future research to determine whether the CHEXI can be successfully used to also discriminate between different psychopathological groups.

Stem cell-based approaches have received much hype as potential treatments for neurodegenerative disorders. Indeed, transplantation of stem cells or their derivatives in animal models of neurodegenerative diseases can improve function by replacing the lost neurons and glial cells and by mediating remyelination, trophic actions, and modulation of inflammation. Endogenous neural stem cells are also potential therapeutic targets because they produce neurons and glial cells in response to injury and could be affected by the degenerative process. As we discuss here, however, significant hurdles remain before these findings can be responsibly translated to novel therapies. In particular, we need to better understand the mechanisms of action of stem cells after transplantation and learn how to control stem cell proliferation, survival, migration, and differentiation in the pathological environment.
Inherited mutations in voltage-gated sodium channels (VGSCs; or Nav) cause many disorders of excitability, including epilepsy, chronic pain, myotonia, and cardiac arrhythmias. Understanding the functional consequences of the disease-causing mutations is likely to provide invaluable insight into the roles that VGSCs play in normal and abnormal excitability. Here, we sought to test the hypothesis that disease-causing mutations lead to increased resurgent currents, unusual sodium currents that have not previously been implicated in disorders of excitability. We demonstrated that a paroxysmal extreme pain disorder (PEPD) mutation in the human peripheral neuronal sodium channel Nav1.7, a paramyotonia congenita (PMC) mutation in the human skeletal muscle sodium channel Nav1.4, and a long-QT3/SIDS mutation in the human cardiac sodium channel Nav1.5 all substantially increased the amplitude of resurgent sodium currents in an optimized adult rat-derived dorsal root ganglion neuronal expression system. Computer simulations indicated that resurgent currents associated with the Nav1.7 mutation could induce high-frequency action potential firing in nociceptive neurons and that resurgent currents associated with the Nav1.5 mutation could broaden the action potential in cardiac myocytes. These effects are consistent with the pathophysiology associated with the respective channelopathies. Our results indicate that resurgent currents are associated with multiple channelopathies and are likely to be important contributors to neuronal and muscle disorders of excitability.
Ophthalmic segment aneurysms account for about 5% of all intracranial aneurysms. Anatomical complexity of the paraclinoid region makes surgical management of aneurysms arising from the ophthalmic segment challenging. This study was carried out to assess the presenting features, complications and outcomes after surgical treatment of ophthalmic segment aneurysms. The authors retrospectively analysed the clinical records of patients with ophthalmic aneurysms treated at our Institute from January 2001 to September 2008, which constituted about 9% (78/850) of all intracranial aneurysms. Of the 78 ophthalmic segment aneurysms, six patients (8%) had giant aneurysms and 19 (24%) patients had multiple aneurysms. Fifty-six patients underwent microsurgery, with direct clipping in most. The mean age was 42 years (range 12-75 years) and the mean follow-up was 8 months (range, 2-93 months). A good outcome was achieved in 46 (83%) patients (Glasgow Outcome Scale [GOS] score 4-5) and 17% had a poor outcome (GOS score 1-3) at last follow-up. The overall complication rate was 21% (12/56), most of which were transient complications, with 3.5% (2/56) mortality. Direct microsurgical clipping remains our preferred treatment approach, whenever possible, for ophthalmic segment aneurysms. This surgery has an acceptable complication rate and leads to a good outcome in more than 80% of patients with ophthalmic aneurysms. Use of modern microsurgical instrumentation and endovascular adjuncts can further reduce the surgical morbidity associated with these vascular lesions.
Surgery for psychiatric disorders has a controversial history. Traditionally, procedures were undertaken to physically disconnect or destroy certain areas of the brain thought to constitute critical components of the limbic pathways. The relatively recent advent of the much safer and non-destructive technique known as deep brain stimulation has coincided with a resurgence in interest in psychosurgery. Contemporary approaches to the surgical management of obsessive-compulsive disorder are discussed, together with our current understanding of its pathophysiology.

To develop an individualized treatment plan that addresses both psychotic and affective symptoms in patients with schizoaffective disorder, clinicians can take several steps. First, clinicians can confirm the diagnosis. In the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fourth Edition, Text Revision (DSM-IV-TR) and in the International Classification of Diseases, Tenth Revision (ICD-10), schizoaffective disorder is defined differently, but, diagnostically, the disorder falls on a spectrum between bipolar disorder and schizophrenia and can be divided into bipolar and depressive types. Next, clinicians can evaluate predictors of outcome. Outcomes can be predicted by previous functioning, number of previous episodes, persistence of psychotic symptoms, and level of cognitive impairment. Then, clinicians can use evidence from clinical trials to guide selection of acute and maintenance phase treatment. Although data are limited, direct and indirect evidence from clinical trials support pharmacologic and psychoeducational interventions. In bipolar type schizoaffective disorder, evidence supports the use of an atypical antipsychotic and a mood stabilizer or atypical antipsychotic monotherapy. In the depressive type of the disorder, the combination of an atypical antipsychotic and an antidepressant is probably the best choice, but an atypical antipsychotic and a mood stabilizer could also be used. In both types of the disorder, patient psychoeducation can be beneficial in the maintenance phase of treatment. Adherence to treatment is essential for optimal outcome, and, besides patient psychoeducation, long-acting injectable antipsychotics and psychoeducation for caregivers may also improve adherence. In refractory cases, electroconvulsive therapy is an option.
Psychobiologic evidence and psychosocial functioning in patients with schizoaffective disorder suggest that the disease may be a distinct disorder, a variant of schizophrenia or affective disorders, the comorbidity of schizophrenia and a mood disorder, or an intermediate disorder on a spectrum that ranges from schizophrenia to mood disorders. These data, although inconclusive, contribute to clinicians' understanding of the etiology of the disorder. Further research may lead to an increased understanding of the disorder, improved treatment, and, ultimately, better outcomes.

Depression in older adults can be difficult to diagnose and a challenge to treat. Clinicians must address treatment issues caused by aging, such as comorbid medical illness, physical limitations, or the presence of cognitive impairments. Proven treatments for depression in older adults include psychotherapy, medications, and electroconvulsive therapy. When choosing therapies for older patients, possible adverse side effects, drug interactions, and patient limitations should guide treatment selection.
Cutaneous leishmania life cycle images on cytology smears are very rare. We report herein a gallery of cytologic images from a case of sporadic cutaneous leishmaniasis in a 61 year old man presenting with ulcerative skin lesion.
Dancers undergo specific activity-dependent neuromuscular adaptations following long-term training that allow them to develop the refined motor skills required for success in dance. The spinal stretch reflex circuit has demonstrated specific adaptations following prolonged dance training. Adaptations in the spinal stretch reflex can be studied using H-reflex methodology, first described by Paul Hoffmann in 1910. This article discusses H-reflex methodology and presents data that examine the neural mechanisms that contribute to adaptations in the spinal stretch reflex with dance training. Two groups of subjects, modern dancers (N = 5) and untrained controls (N = 5), were tested. On one-half of the trials common peronal nerve (CPN) conditioning of the soleus H-reflex was used to assess one spinal mechanism, pre-synaptic inhibition; the other half tested the soleus H-reflex only (unconditioned). The dependent variables were the H(max)/M(max) ratios, unconditioned and with CPN conditioning, expressed as percent values. The results revealed three main findings: 1. Modern dancers had smaller H(max)/M(max) ratios than control subjects; 2. The H(max)/M(max) ratio was smaller in standing posture than in prone among both dancers and controls; and 3. Pre-synaptic inhibition was not different between dancers and controls in standing. In conclusion, modern dancers have smaller H-reflexes than untrained controls, but pre-synaptic inhibition does not appear to explain this difference.
Gastroparesis and other types of gastric dysfunction result in substantial morbidity in diabetes patients. The pathophysiology of these disorders is incompletely understood. This article reviews techniques applicable to the assessment of gastric function in diabetes patients, including the measurement of emptying, accommodation, and contractility. Available treatment options are also reviewed, including novel yet unapproved serotonin 5-HT(4) agonist pharmacological treatments, as well as the role of endoscopic, surgical, and device treatments of gastroparesis.
This study investigated the influence of including a covariate and/or a distal outcome on growth mixture modeling (GMM). GMM was used to examine patterns of days of heroin use over 16 years among 471 heroin users and the relationship of those patterns to mortality (distal outcome). Comparisons were made among four types of models: without a covariate and a distal outcome (two-stage approach), with a distal outcome, with a covariate, and with a covariate and a distal outcome in conjunction with three different covariates. The two-stage approach and models with the inclusion of a distal outcome resulted in different conclusions when testing the impact of latent trajectory membership on the distal outcome. Differences in membership classifications between unconditional and conditional models were mainly determined by two factors: (1) the associations of the trajectories with the covariate and the distal outcome, and (2) the distribution of the covariate in the study sample.
GH levels increase to high concentrations immediately before puberty then progressively decline with age. GH deficiency (GHD) originating in childhood is treated with GH supplementation to foster somatic development during adolescence. It is not clear if or how early GH replacement affects memory in adulthood, or whether it can prevent the cognitive deficits commonly observed in adults with childhood-onset GHD. Rats homozygous for the Dw-4 mutation (dwarf) do not exhibit the normal increase in GH at 4 weeks of age when GH levels normally rise and are used to model childhood or early-onset GHD (EOGHD). One group of these rats was injected with GH from 4 to 14 weeks of age to model GH supplementation during adolescence with GHD beginning in adulthood (adult-onset GHD; AOGHD). Another group received GH from 4 weeks throughout the lifespan to model normal lifespan GH (GH-replete). Age-matched, Dw-4 heterozygous rats (HZ) do not express the dwarf phenotype and were used as controls. At 8 and 18 months of age, spatial learning in the water maze was assessed. At 8 months of age all experimental groups were equally proficient. However, at 18 months of age, the EOGHD group had poor spatial learning compared to the AOGHD, GH-replete, and HZ groups. Our data indicate that GHD during adolescence has negative effects on learning and memory that emerge by middle-age unless prevented by GH supplementation.


We explored the perceptual structure of facial expressions of six basic emotions, varying systematically in intensity, in adults and children aged 7 and 14 years. Multidimensional scaling suggested that three- or four-dimensional structures were optimal for all groups. Two groups of adults demonstrated nearly identical structure, which had dimensions representing pleasure, potency, arousal, and intensity, despite the fact that one group was tested with a child-friendly &quot;odd-man-out&quot; paradigm and the other group was tested with a conventional similarity-rating paradigm. When tested with the odd-man-out paradigm, the 7-year-olds showed systematic structure, which differed from that of adults in both the meaning of some dimensions and the proximities among some of the expression categories. When tested with similarity judgments, the 14-year-olds showed an adult-like pattern on all measures except that their similarity judgments were more influenced by physical differences than were those of adults. We conclude that an adult-like representation of facial expressions develops slowly during childhood.
Increased signaling from Met, the receptor for Hepatocyte Growth Factor, promotes pancreatic tumorigenesis and poor patient prognosis by enhancing tumor cell growth, survival and motility. Increased Met levels can result from gene amplification or increased transcription. However, receptor down regulation--a process that normally functions to attenuate Met signaling in vivo--could if impaired, amplify Met signaling in pancreatic tumor cells. Here we report that the lysosomal down regulation of Met is uncoupled in pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell lines. Interestingly, different endocytic mechanisms are employed to escape receptor down regulation and prolong Met signaling. Specifically, ligand treatment does not result in Met retention on the plasma membrane. Rather impaired binding of the E3 ubiquitin ligase Cbl to internalized Met in pancreatic Suit-2 cells causes reduced receptor ubiquitination and enhances Met recycling to the cell surface. Conversely, transient ligand-induced Met ubiquitination in pancreatic BxPC-3 cells correlates with prolonged Met stability and signaling. Moreover, increased Met stability and signaling enhances Suit-2 and BxPC-3 cell viability and chemotaxis towards Hepatocyte Growth Factor. Together our data indicate that uncoupled Met down regulation likely functions to amplify the oncogenic signaling of Met in pancreatic tumor cells.

This paper provides an example of the application of neuropastoral care and counseling using neuroscience research on glossolalia, that is, speaking in tongues as practiced in Pentecostal Christianity. The paper is based in part on a 2006 article by Andrew Newberg and assesses glossolalia's biogenic, psychogenic, and theogenic dimensions. The assessment concludes glossolalia is an implicitly learned sacred behavior. Unconsciously learned fears may interfere with the practice of glossolalia. A person, from a Pentecostal Christian background, might see this inability as an act of disobedience or a lack of faith. In such cases, verbal counseling would be of limited assistance. Neuropastoral care and counseling responses begin with reassurance followed by cognitive behavioral interventions such as passive extinction, cognitive emotion regulation strategies, and guided imagery.
Contemporary interest in Asian meditation raises questions about when Westerners began investigating these practices. A synopsis of Western-originating scientific meditation research is followed by a brief introduction to mesmerism. Next, the unappreciated ways the mesmerists explored Oriental mind powers is recounted. How the mesmerists' cultural positioning, philosophy, and interest in mind-body practices facilitated their inquiries of Oriental medicine and Hindu contemplative practices is explored, followed by a consideration of why these investigations were unique for the era. The way this work subverted Western cultural imperialism is examined. A consideration of the historical continuities and discontinuities between the mesmerists' inquiries and twentieth-century meditation research concludes the article.
Classical macrophage activation is inhibited by the CD200 receptor (CD200R). Here, we show that CD200R expression was specifically induced on human in vitro polarized macrophages of the alternatively activated M2a subtype, generated by incubation with IL-4 or IL-13. In mice, peritoneal M2 macrophages, elicited during infection with the parasites Taenia crassiceps or Trypanosoma brucei brucei, expressed increased CD200R levels compared to those derived from uninfected mice. However, in vitrostimulation of mouse peritoneal macrophages and T. crassiceps infection in IL-4-/- and IL-4R-/- mice showed that, in contrast to humans, induction of CD200R in mice was not IL-4 or IL-13 dependent. Our data identify CD200R as a suitable marker for alternatively activated macrophages in humans and corroborate observations of distinct species- and/or site-specific mechanisms regulating macrophage polarization in mouse and man.
Metaphors are a fundamental aspect of human cognition. The major neuropsychological hypothesis that metaphoric processing relies primarily on the right hemisphere is not confirmed consistently. We propose ways to advance our understanding of the neuropsychology of metaphor that go beyond simple laterality. Neuropsychological studies need to more carefully control confounding lexical and sentential factors, and consider the role of different parts of speech as they are extended metaphorically. They need to incorporate recent theoretical frameworks such as the career of metaphor theory, and address factors such as novelty. We also advocate the use of new methods such as voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping, which permits precise and formal tests of hypotheses correlating behavior with lesions sites. Finally, we outline a plausible model for the neural basis of metaphor. (JINS, 2009, 16, 1-5.).

Alcohol and substance abuse are prevalent in our society. Advances in neuroscience have led to a clearer understanding of the effects of abused substances on the brain. Clues are now available regarding how a person goes from a &quot;user&quot; to being addicted based on brain chemistry, anatomy, and genetic risk. During this process the person loses at least partial, if not complete, control, over their compulsive substance use. This article attempts to put modern notions of alcohol and substance abuse and dependency into a societal and cultural context with the hope of reducing the stigma of this illness while shifting the focus a bit more away from criminal solutions to those offered by health care and treatment options.
Experiments with two diffusion-weighting periods applied successively in a single experiment, so-called double-wave-vector (DWV) diffusion-weighting experiments, are a promising tool for the investigation of material or tissue structure on a microscopic level, e.g. to determine cell or compartment sizes or to detect pore or cell anisotropy. However, the theoretical descriptions presented so far for experiments that aim to investigate the microscopic anisotropy with a long mixing time between the two diffusion weightings, are limited to certain wave vector orientations, specific pore shapes, and macroscopically isotropic samples. Here, the signal equations for fully restricted diffusion are re-investigated in more detail. A general description of the signal behavior for arbitrary wave vector directions, pore or cell shapes, and orientation distributions of the pores or cells is obtained that involves a fourth-order tensor approach. From these equations, a rotationally invariant measure of the microscopic anisotropy, termed MA, is derived that yields information complementary to that of the (macroscopic) anisotropy measures of standard diffusion-tensor acquisitions. Furthermore, the detailed angular modulation for arbitrary cell shapes with an isotropic orientation distribution is derived. Numerical simulations of the MR signal with a Monte-Carlo algorithms confirm the theoretical considerations. The extended theoretical description and the introduction of a reliable measure of the microscopic anisotropy may help to improve the applicability and reliability of corresponding experiments.
Proteins in the nucleus accumbens mediate many cocaine-induced behaviors. In an effort to measure changes in nucleus accumbens protein expression as potential biomarkers for addiction, coronal tissue sections were obtained from rats that developed behavioral sensitization after daily administration of cocaine, or from daily saline-treated controls. The tissue sections were subjected to matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization (MALDI) mass spectrometry (MS) profiling and tissue imaging. For profiling experiments, brain sections were manually spotted with matrix over the nucleus accumbens, a brain region known to regulate cocaine sensitization. Summed mass spectra (10,000 laser shots, grid) were acquired and spectra were aligned to reference peaks. Using bioinformatics tools, eight spectral features were found to be altered by cocaine treatment. Based on additional sequencing experiments with MALDI tandem MS and database searches of measured masses, secretoneurin (m/z 3653) was identified as having an increased expression. In addition, the distribution of m/z 3653 in the nucleus accumbens was determined by MALDI tissue imaging, and the increased expression of its precursor protein, secretogranin II, was verified by immunoblotting.
The ratio of hydroxyapatite (HA) nanoparticles (NP) to trehalose in composite microparticle (MP) vaccine vehicles by determining inter-nanoparticle space potentially influences antigen release. Mercury porosimetry and gas adsorption analysis have been used quantify this space. Larger pores are present in MPs spray dried solely from nanoparticle gel compared with MPs spray dried from nanoparticle colloid which have less inter-nanoparticle volume. This is attributed to tighter nanoparticle packing caused by citrate modification of their surface charge. The pore size distributions (PSD) for MP where the trehalose has been eliminated by combustion generally broaden and shifts to higher values with increasing initial trehalose content. Modal pore size, for gel derived MPs is comparable to modal NP width below 30% initial trehalose content and approximates to modal NP length (approximately 50 nm) at 60% initial trehalose content. For colloidally derived MPs this never exceeds the modal NP width. Pore-sizes are comparable, to surface inter-nanoparticle spacings observed by SEM.

Although synaptic transmission was assumed to use the same mechanisms in the case of different synapses of the central and peripheral nervous system, recent research revealed a great variety of different processes. Time might be a crucial factor to be considered in this diversity. It is recalled that the speed of a chemical reaction is inversely related to affinity. &quot;Time is gained at the expense of sensitivity&quot; as noticed by Bernard Katz (1989). Therefore, synaptic transmission will occur at a high speed only if it is supported by low affinity reactions. In the present work, we compare two examples of ultra-rapid transmission (the Torpedo nerve electroplaque synapse and the rat hippocampus mossy fiber/CA3 synapses), with a cholinergic process operating with high affinity but at a low speed: the release of glutamate elicited by nicotine from mossy fibers of the rat hippocampus.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) hydrolyzes its physiological substrate acetylcholine at one of the highest known catalytic rates. Two sites of ligand interaction have been identified: an acylation site or A-site at the base of the active-site gorge and a peripheral site or P-site at its mouth. Although much is known about AChE structure and the role of specific residues in catalysis, a detailed understanding of the catalytic mechanism and the role of the P-site has lagged far behind. In recent years, we have clarified how the P-site and A-site interact to promote catalysis. Our studies revealed that the P-site mediates substrate trapping and that ligand binding to the P-site can result in steric blockade of the A-site as well as allosteric activation of substrate hydrolysis. Because a general, nonequilibrium treatment of AChE catalysis results in complex enzyme kinetic formulations, three simpler, overlapping strategies are presented here that provide significant insights into the AChE catalytic mechanism. The strategies are (1) to choose substrates, preferably close analogs of acetylcholine, that render some intermediates in the general reaction scheme negligible; (2) obtain some of the thermodynamic parameters in this scheme with experiments that are independent of kinetic measurements.
Mesolimbic dopamine (DA) systems play a critical role in tobacco addiction driven by nicotine. Nicotine activates midbrain DA neurons and, consequently, elevates DA concentrations in targets, especially in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) of the ventral striatum. The route of drug administration influences the impact of addictive drugs. Here, we examine whether the nature of the administration alters DA neuron activity and DA concentrations in the NAc. Using unhabituated nave freely moving rats, microdialysis measurements showed that nicotine administered via needle injection caused greater DA release in the NAc than the same dose administered via an implanted chronic cannula. After habituation to the needle injections, however, there was no significant difference in DA signaling between the needle and cannula routes of administration. Consistent with these microdialysis results after habituation, our in vivo tetrode unit recordings showed no significant difference in midbrain DA neuron activity in response to nicotine delivered by needle or cannula as long as predictive cues were avoided
The main immunogenic region on the alpha1 subunits of muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptors provokes half or more of the autoantibodies in myasthenia gravis and its animal model. Many of these autoantibodies depend on the native conformation of the receptor for their ability to bind with high affinity. We mapped this region and explained the conformation dependence of its epitopes by making chimeras in which sequences of human muscle alpha1 subunits were replaced in human neuronal alpha7 subunits or Aplysia acetylcholine binding protein. These chimeras also revealed that the main immunogenic region can play a major role in promoting conformational maturation and, consequently, assembly of receptor subunits.
Ubiquitination is a key event for protein degradation by the proteasome system, membrane protein internalization, and protein trafficking among cellular compartments. Few data are available on the role of the ubiquitin-proteasome system (UPS) in the trafficking of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs). Experiments conducted in neuron-like differentiated rat pheochromocytoma cells (PC12 cells) show that the alpha3, beta2, and beta4 nAChR subunits are ubiquitinated and that their ubiquitination is necessary for degradation. A 24-h treatment with the proteasome inhibitor PS-341 increased the total levels of alpha3 and the two beta subunits in both whole cell lysates and fractions enriched for the ER/Golgi compartment. nAChR subunit upregulation was also detected in plasma membrane-enriched fractions. Inhibition of the lysosomal degradation machinery by E-64 had a significantly smaller effect on nAChR turnover. The present data, together with previous results showing that the alpha7 nAChR subunit is a target of the UPS, point to a prominent role of the proteasome in nAChR trafficking.
The mammalian muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is composed of five membrane-spanning subunits and its composition differs between embryonic and adult muscles. In embryonic muscles, it is composed of two alpha-, one beta-, one delta-, and one gamma-subunit; the gamma-subunit is later replaced by the epsilon-subunit during postnatal development. This unique temporal expression pattern of the gamma-subunit suggests it may play specific roles in embryonic muscles. To address this issue, we examined the formation and function of the neuromuscular junction in mouse embryos deficient in the gamma-subunit. At embryonic day 15.5, AChR clusters were absent and the spontaneous miniature endplate potentials were undetectable in the mutant muscles. However, electrical stimulation of the nerves triggered muscle contraction and elicited postsynaptic endplate potential (EPP) in the mutant muscles, although the magnitude of the muscle contraction and the amplitudes of the EPPs were smaller in the mutant compared to the wild-type muscles. Reintroducing a wild-type gamma-subunit into the mutant myotubes restored the formation of AChR clusters in vitro. Together, these results have demonstrated that functional AChRs were present in the mutant muscle membrane, but at reduced levels. Thus, in the absence of the gamma-subunit, a combination of alpha, beta, and delta subunits may assemble into functional receptors in vivo. These results also suggest that the gamma-subunit maybe involved in interacting with rapsyn, a cytoplasmic protein required for AChR clustering.
In non-food-deprived rats a palatable meal induces a transient increase in dopamine output in the prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens shell and core; habituation to this response develops with a second palatable meal, selectively in the shell, unless animals are food-deprived. A palatable meal also induces time-dependent modifications in the dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of Mr 32 000 (DARPP-32) phosphorylation pattern that are prevented when SCH 23390, a selective dopamine D(1) receptor antagonist, is administered shortly after the meal. This study investigated whether dopaminergic habituation in the shell had a counterpart in DARPP-32 phosphorylation changes. In non-food-deprived rats, two consecutive palatable meals were followed by similar sequences of modifications in DARPP-32 phosphorylation levels in the prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens core, while changes after the second meal were blunted in the shell. In food-deprived rats two consecutive meals also induced similar phosphorylation changes in the shell. Finally, SCH 23390 administered shortly after the first palatable meal in non-food-deprived rats inhibited DARPP-32 phosphorylation changes in response to the first meal, and prevented the habituation to a second meal in terms of dopaminergic response and DARPP-32 phosphorylation changes. Thus, dopamine D(1) receptor stimulation plays a role in the development of habituation.
We have previously demonstrated that parathyroid hormone 2 (PTH2) receptors are expressed in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons and that its endogenous agonist tuberoinfundibular peptide of 39 residues (TIP39) causes nociceptive paw flexor responses after intraplantar administration. Here we found that the PTH2 receptor is selectively localized on myelinated A-, but not unmyelinated C-fibers using immunohistochemical labeling, based on PTH2 receptor expression on antibody N52-positive medium/large-sized DRG neurons, but not on TRPV1, substance P, P2X(3) receptor or isolectin B4-binding protein-positive small-sized DRG neurons. Pharmacological studies showed that TIP39-induced nociceptive responses were mediated by activation of G(s) and cAMP-dependent protein kinase. We also found that nociceptive responses induced by TIP39- or the cAMP analog 8-bromo-cAMP were significantly greater following partial sciatic nerve injury induced neuropathic pain, without changes in PTH2 receptor expression. Together these data suggest that activation of PTH2 receptors stimulates nociceptive A-fiber through G(s)-cAMP-dependent protein kinase signaling, and this pathway has elevated sensitization following nerve injury.
Seizures early in life cause long-term behavioral modifications, namely long-term memory deficits in experimental animals. Since caffeine and adenosine A(2A) receptor (A(2A)R) antagonists prevent memory deficits in adult animals, we now investigated if they also prevented the long-term memory deficits caused by a convulsive period early in life. Administration of kainate (KA, 2 mg/kg) to 7-days-old (P7) rats caused a single period of self-extinguishable convulsions which lead to a poorer memory performance in the Y-maze only when rats were older than 90 days, without modification of locomotion or anxiety-like behavior in the elevated-plus maze. In accordance with the relationship between synaptotoxicity and memory dysfunction, the hippocampus of these adult rats treated with kainate at P7 displayed a lower density of synaptic proteins such as SNAP-25 and syntaxin (but not synaptophysin), as well as vesicular glutamate transporters type 1 (but not vesicular GABA transporters), with no changes in PSD-95, NMDA receptor subunits (NR1, NR2A, NR2B) or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate receptor subunits (GluR1, GluR2) compared with controls. Caffeine (1 g/L) or the A(2A)R antagonist, KW6002 (3 mg/kg) applied in the drinking water from P21 onwards, prevented these memory deficits in P90 rats treated with KA at P7, as well as the accompanying synaptotoxicity. These results show that a single convulsive episode in early life causes a delayed memory deficit in adulthood accompanied by a glutamatergic synaptotoxicity that was prevented by caffeine or adenosine A(2A)R antagonists.
Considerable evidence suggests that the brainstem pedunculopontine tegmentum (PPT) neurons are critically involved in the regulation of rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and wakefulness (W); however, the molecular mechanisms operating within the PPT to regulate these two behavioral states remain relatively unknown. Here we demonstrate that the levels of calcium/calmodulin kinase II (CaMKII) and phosphorylated CaMKII expression in the PPT decreased and increased with 'low W with high REM sleep' and 'high W/low REM sleep' periods, respectively. These state-specific expression changes were not observed in the cortex, or in the immediately adjacent medial pontine reticular formation. Next, we demonstrate that CaMKII activity in the PPT is negatively and positively correlated with the 'low W with high REM sleep' and 'high W/low REM sleep' periods, respectively. These differences in correlations were not seen in the medial pontine reticular formation CaMKII activity. Finally, we demonstrate that with increased PPT CaMKII activity observed during high W/low REM sleep, there were marked shifts in the expression of genes that are involved in components of various signal transduction pathways. Collectively, these results for the first time suggest that the increased CaMKII activity within PPT neurons is associated with increased W at the expense of REM sleep, and this process is accomplished through the activation of a specific gene expression profile.
Recognizing the similarities between Huntington's disease (HD) pathophysiology and the neurotoxicology of various metals, we hypothesized that they may exhibit disease-toxicant interactions revealing cellular pathways underlying neurodegeneration. Here, we utilize metals and the STHdh mouse striatal cell line model of HD to perform a gene-environment interaction screen. We report that striatal cells expressing mutant Huntingtin exhibit elevated sensitivity to cadmium toxicity and resistance to manganese toxicity. This neuroprotective gene-environment interaction with manganese is highly specific, as it does not occur with iron, copper, zinc, cobalt, cadmium, lead, or nickel ions. Analysis of the Akt cell stress signaling pathway showed diminished activation with manganese exposure and elevated activation after cadmium exposure in the mutant cells. Direct examination of intracellular manganese levels found that mutant cells have a significant impairment in manganese accumulation. Furthermore, YAC128Q mice, a HD model, showed decreased total striatal manganese levels following manganese exposure relative to wild-type mice. Thus, this disease-toxicant interaction screen has revealed that expression of mutant Huntingtin results in heightened sensitivity to cadmium neurotoxicity and a selective impairment of manganese accumulation.
There is substantial evidence that abnormal concentrations of oxidised tryptophan metabolites, produced via the kynurenine pathway, contribute to progressive neurodegeneration in Huntington's disease. We have now examined the blood levels of these metabolites in patients at different stages of Huntington's disease, assessed both in terms of clinical disease severity and numbers of CAG repeats. Close relatives of the patients were included in the study as well as unrelated healthy controls. Levels of lipid peroxidation products, the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin (IL)-23 and the soluble human leucocyte antigen-G (sHLA-G) were also measured. There were lower levels of tryptophan and a higher kynurenine : tryptophan ratio, indicating activation of indoleamine-2,3-dioxygenase, in the most severely affected group of patients, with increased levels of IL-23 and sHLA-G. Marked correlations were noted between IL-23 and the patient severity group, anthranilic acid levels and the number of CAG repeats, and between anthranilic acid and IL-23, supporting our previous evidence of a relationship between anthranilic acid and inflammatory status. Tryptophan was negatively correlated with symptom severity and number of CAG repeats, and positively correlated with sHLA-G. The results support the proposal that tryptophan metabolism along the kynurenine pathway in Huntington's disease is related to the degree of genetic abnormality, to clinical disease severity and to aspects of immunopathogenesis.
Neurodegenerative diseases, generally characterized by a progressive deterioration in the structure and function of the brain, represent one of the world's major unsolved health problems. Therefore, it is urgent to discover therapeutic targets for the design of effective strategies for the treatment of these diseases. Recent findings demonstrated that the induction of the hypoxia signaling pathway with the concomitant stabilization and transcriptional activation of the transcription factor hypoxia-inducible factor 1 (HIF-1) could mediate neuroprotective events. It has been shown that HIF-1 triggers the expression of genes involved in oxygen transport, glycolytic metabolism, angiogenesis, cell survival, apoptosis, and others processes that can interfere with cell survival. Here, we discuss the current knowledge pertaining to the regulation of HIF signaling pathway. The potential neuroprotective role of HIF-1 induction in cerebral ischemic stroke and Alzheimer's, Parkinson's, and Huntington's diseases will be also discussed. The elucidation of the mechanisms involved in HIF-1-mediated neuroprotection could be important for the development of effective therapies to mitigate or prevent neurodegenerative diseases.
In this study, we investigated whether disruption of Na(+) and Ca(2+) homeostasis via activation of Na(+)-K(+)-Cl(-) cotransporter isoform 1 (NKCC1) and reversal of Na(+)/Ca(2+) exchange (NCX(rev)) affects protein aggregation and degradation following oxygen-glucose deprivation (OGD). Cultured cortical neurons were subjected to 2 h OGD and 1-24 h reoxygenation (REOX). Redistribution of ubiquitin and formation of ubiquitin-conjugated protein aggregates occurred in neurons as early as 2 h REOX. The protein aggregation progressed further by 8 h REOX. There was no significant recovery at 24 h REOX. Moreover, the proteasome activity in neurons was inhibited by 80-90% during 2-8 h REOX and recovered partially at 24 h REOX. Interestingly, pharmacological inhibition or genetic ablation of NKCC1 activity significantly decreased accumulation of ubiquitin-conjugated protein aggregates and improved proteasome activity. A similar protective effect was obtained by blocking NCX(rev) activity. Inhibition of NKCC1 activity also preserved intracellular ATP and Na(+) homeostasis during 0-24 h REOX. In a positive control study, disruption of endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+) with thapsigargin triggered redistribution of free ubiquitin and protein aggregation. We conclude that overstimulation of NKCC1 and NCX(rev) following OGD/REOX partially contributes to protein aggregation and proteasome dysfunction as a result of ionic dysregulation.
The quantification of excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission and the associated energy metabolism is crucial for a proper understanding of brain function. Although the detection of glutamatergic neurotransmission in vivo by (13)C NMR spectroscopy is now relatively routine, the detection of GABAergic neurotransmission in vivo has remained elusive because of the low GABA concentration and spectral overlap. Using (1)H-[(13)C] NMR spectroscopy at high magnetic field in combination with robust spectral modeling and the use of different substrates, [U-(13)C(6)]-glucose and [2-(13)C]-acetate, it is shown that GABAergic, as well as glutamatergic neurotransmitter fluxes can be detected non-invasively in rat brain in vivo.


Dopamine transporter (DAT) imaging is a sensitive method to detect presynaptic dopamine neuronal dysfunction, which is a hallmark of neurodegenerative parkinsonism. DAT imaging can therefore assist the differentiation between conditions with and without presynaptic dopaminergic deficit. Diagnosis of Parkinson disease or tremor disorders can be achieved with high degrees of accuracy in cases with full expression of classical clinical features; however, diagnosis can be difficult, since there is a substantial clinical overlap especially in monosymptomatic tremor (dystonic tremor, essential tremor, Parkinson tremor). The use of DAT-SPECT can prove or excludes with high sensitivity nigrostriatal dysfunction in those cases and facilitates early and accurate diagnosis. Furthermore, a normal DAT-SPECT is helpful in supporting a diagnosis of drug-induced-, psychogenic- and vascular parkinsonism by excluding underlying true nigrostriatal dysfunction. This review addresses the value of DAT-SPECT and its impact on diagnostic accuracy in movement disorders presenting with tremor and/or parkinsonism.

Chordomas constitute about 1% of intracranial tumors. They are generally extradural destroying the bone. Intradural chordomas are very rare. We present one such case of a clival intradural chordoma who presented with a left trigeminal nerve sensory neuropathy. The lesion was totally excised uneventfully via a retromastoid suboccipital approach. There was no recurrence of the lesion at 1-year follow-up. Characteristics of intradural chordoma and its close differential ecchordosis physaliphora are reviewed in this article.
Well-characterized and preserved human brain tissue that is prepared and stored in brain banks is an essential resource for research in neurological diseases. This study examined the quality of human brain postmortem tissue from multiple laboratories within the BrainNet Europe brain bank network to identify all possible confounding variables and determine how they may affect RNA quality. Antemortem and postmortem information was retrospectively collected for a large cohort of samples. Total RNA was isolated from anatomically defined brain regions using a standardized procedure; RNA quality was assessed using an Agilent 2100 Bioanalyzer. No significant difference in RNA quality was observed in 6 different brain regions. RNA quality deteriorated with increasing numbers of antemortem events such as hospitalization, coma, respiratory illness, and the use of artificial ventilation; accumulation of such events was associated with elevated hypoxia-inducible factor 1 alpha mRNA expression. Brain pH was found to be a good indicator of RNA quality. There was no correlation of postmortem delay with cerebrospinal fluid pH or RNA quality overall, but some individual RNAs decreased in quality with antemortem events and with postmortem delay. RNA quality did not affect total RNA yield. Determining the factors that are best predictors of RNA quality can help brain banks with selection criteria for storing high-quality brain tissue for research.
Aging is the most important single risk factor for developing Alzheimer disease. We measured amyloid-beta peptide (Abeta) levels in rat cerebral cortex and hippocampus during normal aging of Brown-Norway/Fischer rats. Amyloid-beta accumulation was associated with expression of the Abeta influx transporter, the receptor for advanced glycation end-products (RAGEs) at the blood-brain barrier. Rats at selected ages from 3 to 36 months were analyzed by 1) immunohistochemistry for amyloid deposition and quantitative microvessel surface area RAGE expression, 2) ELISA for cortical Abeta40 and Abeta42 concentrations, and 3) Western blotting of microvessel proteins for RAGE expression. Immunohistochemistry showed increasing accumulation of brain Abeta with aging. By ELISA analysis, both Abeta40 and Abeta42 concentrations in cortical homogenates rose sharply from 9 to 12 months. The Abeta42 continued to rise up to age 30 months, whereas Abeta40 stabilized after 12 months. The expression of RAGE initially decreased between 3 and 12 months but then increased between 12 and 34 months by immunohistochemistry. On immunoblotting, RAGE decreased up to 9 months and then progressively increased up to 36 months. These data indicate an association between amyloid and microvessel RAGE during aging. An increase in capillary RAGE expression seems to play a role in the later Abeta accumulation but not in the initial increase.
Correlations between neural activity in primary motor cortex (M1) and arm kinematics have recently been shown to be temporally extensive and spatially complex. These results provide a sophisticated account of M1 processing and suggest that M1 neurons encode high-level movement trajectories, termed &quot;pathlets.&quot; However, interpreting pathlets is difficult because the mapping between M1 activity and arm kinematics is indirect: M1 activity can generate movement only via spinal circuitry and the substantial complexities of the musculoskeletal system. We hypothesized that filter-like complexities of the musculoskeletal system are sufficient to generate temporally extensive and spatially complex correlations between motor commands and arm kinematics. To test this hypothesis, we extended the computational and experimental method proposed for extracting pathlets from M1 activity to extract pathlets from muscle activity. Unlike M1 activity, it is clear that muscle activity does not encode arm kinematics. Accordingly, any spatiotemporal correlations in muscle pathlets can be attributed to musculoskeletal complexities rather than explicit higher-order representations. Our results demonstrate that extracting muscle pathlets is a robust and repeatable process. Pathlets extracted from the same muscle but different subjects or from the same muscle on different days were remarkably similar and roughly appropriate for that muscle's mechanical action. Critically, muscle pathlets included extensive spatiotemporal complexity, including kinematic features before and after the present muscle activity, similar to that reported for M1 neurons. These results suggest the possibility that M1 pathlets at least partly reflect the filter-like complexities of the periphery rather than high-level representations.
Deafferentation such as the amputation of a body part causes cortical reorganization in the primary motor cortex (M1). We investigated whether this reorganization is reversible after reconstruction of the lost body part. We tested two patients who had long-standing thumb amputations followed by thumb reconstruction with toe-to-thumb transfer 9 to 10 mo later and one patient who underwent thumb replantation immediately following traumatic amputation. Using transcranial magnetic stimulation, we measured the motor evoked potential (MEP) threshold, latency, short-interval intracortical inhibition (SICI), and intracortical facilitation (ICF) at different time points in the course of recovery in abductor pollicis brevis muscle. For the two patients who underwent late toe-to-thumb transfer, the rest motor threshold was lower on the injured side than that on the intact side before surgery and it increased with time after reconstruction, whereas the active motor threshold remained unchanged. The rest and active MEP latencies were similar on the injured side before and &lt; or =15 wk after surgery and followed by restoration of expected latency differences. SICI was reduced before surgery and progressively normalized with the time after surgery. ICF did not change with time. These physiological measures correlated with the recovery of motor and sensory functions. All the measurements on the intact side of the toe-to-thumb transfer patients and in the patient with thumb replantation immediately following traumatic amputation remained stable over time. We conclude that chronic reorganization occurring in the M1 after amputation can be reversed by reconstruction of the lost body part.
Recent studies suggest that reactive oxygen species (ROS) are functional messenger molecules in central sensitization, an underlying mechanism of persistent pain. Because spinal cord long-term potentiation (LTP) is the electrophysiological basis of central sensitization, this study investigates the effects of the increased or decreased spinal ROS levels on spinal cord LTP. Spinal cord LTP is induced by either brief, high-frequency stimulation (HFS) of a dorsal root at C-fiber intensity or superfusion of a ROS donor, tert-butyl hydroperoxide (t-BOOH), onto rat spinal cord slice preparations. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) evoked by dorsal root stimulations with either Abeta- or C-fiber intensity are recorded from the superficial dorsal horn. HFS significantly increases the slope of both Abeta- and C-fiber evoked fEPSPs, thus suggesting LTP development. The induction, not the maintenance, of HFS-induced LTP is blocked by a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (D-AP5). Both the induction and maintenance of LTP of Abeta-fiber-evoked fEPSPs are inhibited by a ROS scavenger, either N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone or 4-hydroxy-2,2,6,6-tetramethylpiperidine-N-oxyl. A ROS donor, t-BOOH-induced LTP is inhibited by N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone but not by D-AP5. Furthermore, HFS-induced LTP and t-BOOH-induced LTP occlude each other. The data suggest that elevated ROS is a downstream event of NMDA receptor activation and an essential step for potentiation of synaptic excitability in the spinal dorsal horn.
The septohippocampal system has been implicated in the cognitive deficits associated with ethanol consumption, but the cellular basis of ethanol action awaits full elucidation. In the medial septum/diagonal band of Broca (MS/DB), a muscarinic tone, reflective of firing activity of resident cholinergic neurons, regulates that of their noncholinergic, putatively GABAergic, counterparts. Here we tested the hypothesis that ethanol alters this muscarinic tone. The spontaneous firing activity of cholinergic and noncholinergic MS/DB neurons were monitored in acute MS/DB slices from C57Bl/6 mice. Exposing the entire slice to ethanol increased firing in both cholinergic and noncholinergic neurons. However, applying ethanol focally to individual MS/DB neurons increased firing only in cholinergic neurons. The differential outcome suggested different mechanisms of ethanol action on cholinergic and noncholinergic neurons. Indeed, with bath-perfused ethanol, the muscarinic antagonist methyl scopolamine prevented the increase in firing in noncholinergic, but not cholinergic, MS/DB neurons. Thus, the effect on noncholinergic neuronal firing was secondary to ethanol's direct action of acutely increasing muscarinic tone. We propose that the acute ethanol-induced elevation of muscarinic tone in the MS/DB contributes to the altered net flow of neuronal activity in the septohippocampal system that underlies compromised cognitive function.
A central theme of systems neuroscience is to characterize the tuning of neural responses to sensory stimuli or the production of movement. Statistically, we often want to estimate the parameters of the tuning curve, such as preferred direction, as well as the associated degree of uncertainty, characterized by error bars. Here we present a new sampling-based, Bayesian method that allows the estimation of tuning-curve parameters, the estimation of error bars, and hypothesis testing. This method also provides a useful way of visualizing which tuning curves are compatible with the recorded data. We demonstrate the utility of this approach using recordings of orientation and direction tuning in primary visual cortex, direction of motion tuning in primary motor cortex, and simulated data.
Na(+)-activated K(+) (K(Na)) channels can be activated by Na(+) influx via ionotropic receptors and play a role in shaping synaptic transmission. In expression systems, K(Na) channels are modulated by G protein-coupled receptors, but such a modulation has not been shown for the native channels. In this study, we examined whether K(Na) channels coupled to AMPA receptors are modulated by metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) in lamprey spinal cord neurons. Activation of mGluR1 strongly inhibited the AMPA-induced K(Na) current. However, when intracellular Ca(2+) was chelated with 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA), the K(Na) current was enhanced by mGluR1. Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) mimicked the inhibitory effect of mGluR1 on the K(Na) current. Blockade of PKC prevented the mGluR1-induced inhibition of the K(Na) current, but did not affect the enhancement of the current seen in BAPTA. Together these results suggest that mGluR1 can differentially modulate AMPA-induced K(Na) current in a Ca(2+)- and PKC-dependent manner.
The sense of limb position is crucial for movement control and environmental interactions. Our understanding of this fundamental proprioceptive process, however, is limited. For example, little is known about the accuracy of arm proprioception: Does it vary with changes in arm configuration, since some peripheral receptors are engaged only when joints move toward extreme angles? Are these variations consistent across different tasks? Does proprioceptive ability change depending on what we try to localize (e.g., fingertip position vs. elbow angle)? We used a robot exoskeleton to study proprioception in 14 arm configurations across three tasks, asking healthy subjects to 1) match a pointer to elbow angles after passive movements, 2) match a pointer to fingertip positions after passive movements, and 3) actively match their elbow angle to a pointer. Across all three tasks, subjects overestimated more extreme joint positions; this may be due to peripheral sensory signals biasing estimates as a safety mechanism to prevent injury. We also found that elbow angle estimates were more precise when used to judge fingertip position versus directly reported, suggesting that the brain has better access to limb endpoint position than joint angles. Finally, precision of elbow angle estimates improved in active versus passive movements, corroborating work showing that efference copies of motor commands and alpha-gamma motor neuron coactivation contribute to proprioceptive estimates. In sum, we have uncovered fundamental aspects of normal proprioceptive processing, demonstrating not only predictable biases that are dependent on joint configuration and independent of task but also improved precision when integrating information across joints.
Perceptual learning involves long-lasting improvements in the ability to perceive simple sensory stimuli. Some forms of perceptual learning are thought to involve an increasingly selective readout of sensory neurons that are most sensitive to the trained stimulus. Here we report novel changes in the relationship between the threshold and slope of the psychometric function during learning that are consistent with such changes in readout and can provide insights into the underlying neural mechanisms. In monkeys trained on a direction-discrimination task, perceptual improvements corresponded to lower psychometric thresholds and slightly shallower slopes. However, this relationship between threshold and slope was much weaker in comparable, ideal-observer &quot;neurometric&quot; functions of neurons in the middle temporal (MT) area, which represent sensory information used to perform the task and whose response properties did not change with training. We propose a linear/nonlinear pooling scheme to account for these results. According to this scheme, MT responses are pooled via linear weights that change with training to more selectively read out responses from the most sensitive neurons, thereby reducing predicted thresholds. An additional nonlinear (power-law) transformation does not change with training and causes the predicted psychometric function to become shallower as uninformative neurons are eliminated from the pooled signal. We show that this scheme is consistent with the measured changes in psychometric threshold and slope throughout training. The results suggest that some forms of perceptual learning involve improvements in a process akin to selective attention that pools the most informative neural signals to guide behavior.
Current anatomical models of the cortico-basal ganglia (BG) network predict reciprocal discharge patterns between the external and internal segments of the globus pallidus (GPe and GPi, respectively), as well as cortical driving of BG activity. However, physiological studies revealing similarity in the transient responses of GPe and GPi neurons cast doubts on these predictions. Here, we studied the discharge properties of GPe, GPi, and primary motor cortex neurons of two monkeys in two distinct states: when eyes are open versus when they are closed. Both pallidal populations exhibited decreased discharge rates in the &quot;eye closed&quot; state accompanied by elevated values of the coefficient of variation (CV) of their interspike interval (ISI) distributions. The pallidal modulations in discharge patterns were partially attributable to larger fractions of longer ISIs in the &quot;eye closed&quot; state. In addition, the pallidal discharge modulations were gradual, starting prior to closing of the eyes. Cortical neurons, as opposed to pallidal neurons, increased their discharge rates steeply on closure of the eyes. Surprisingly, the cortical rate modulations occurred after pallidal modulations. However, as in the pallidum, the CV values of cortical ISI distributions increased in the &quot;eye closed&quot; state, indicating a more bursty discharge pattern in that state. Thus changes in GPe and GPi discharge properties were positively correlated, suggesting that the subthalamic nucleus and/or the striatum constitute the main common driving force for both pallidal segments. Furthermore, the early, unexpected changes in the pallidum are better explained by a subcortical rather than a cortical loop through the BG.
When both visual and proprioceptive information are available about the position of a part of the body, the brain weights and combines these sources to form a single estimate, often modeled by minimum variance integration. These weights are known to vary with different circumstances, but the type of information causing the brain to change weights (reweight) is unknown. Here we studied reweighting in the context of estimating the position of a hand for the purpose of reaching it with the other hand. Subjects reached to visual (V), proprioceptive (P), or combined (VP) targets in a virtual reality setup. We calculated weights for vision and proprioception by comparing endpoints on VP reaches with endpoints on P and V reaches. Endpoint visual feedback was manipulated to control completely for the error history seen by subjects. In different experiments, we manipulated target salience, conscious effort, or statistics of the visual error history to see if these cues could cause reweighting. Most subjects could reweight strongly by conscious effort. Changes in target salience reliably caused reweighting, but seen error history alone did not. We also found that experimental weights can be predicted by minimizing the variance of visual and proprioceptive estimates, supporting the idea that minimum variance integration is an important principle of sensorimotor processing.
Impaired awareness may be associated with increased neuropsychiatric symptoms in moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease, but relatively little is known about the association in early Alzheimer's disease. The aim of this study was to investigate if impaired awareness was associated with a higher frequency of neuropsychiatric symptoms in early Alzheimer's disease. In a Danish multicenter study, 321 patients with MMSE score &gt; or =20 were evaluated. Patients with poor insight had significantly more neuropsychiatric symptoms than patients with full insight. When patients had increasing neuropsychiatric symptoms, caregivers reported higher levels of distress.
Behavioral manifestations mark the onset of disease expression in children with mucopolysaccharidosis type III (MPSIII, Sanfilippo syndrome), a genetic disorder resulting from interruption of the lysosomal degradation of heparan sulfate. In the mouse model of MPSIII type B (MPSIIIB), cortical neuron pathology and dysfunction occur several months before neuronal loss and are primarily cell autonomous. The gene coding for GAP43, a neurite growth potentiator, is overexpressed in the MPSIIIB mouse cortex, and neurite dystrophy was reported in other types of lysosomal storage diseases. We therefore examined the development of the neuritic trees in pure populations of MPSIIIB mouse embryo cortical neurons grown for up to 12 days in primary culture. Dynamic observation of living neurons and quantification of neurite growth parameters indicated more frequent neurite elongation and branching and less frequent neurite retraction, resulting in a relative overgrowth of MPSIIIB neuron neuritic trees, involving both dendrites and axons, compared with normal controls. Neurite overgrowth was concomitant with more than twofold increased expression of GAP43 mRNAs and proteins. Correction of the genetic defect leads to expression of the missing lysosomal enzyme, normal GAP43 mRNA expression, and reduced neurite outgrowth. These results indicate that heparan sulfate oligosaccharide storage modifies GAP43 expression in MPSIIIB cortical neurons with potential consequences for neurite development and neuronal functions that may be relevant to clinical manifestations.




Much like our colleagues studying neuroprotection for acute stroke, we in the spinal cord injury (SCI) community have witnessed the preclinical emergence of numerous promising neuroprotective and neuro-regenerative treatments that have then disappointingly failed to demonstrate convincing efficacy in clinical trials. In contrast to the stroke field, the SCI community lacks guidelines to steer the preclinical development of therapies and maximize their chance of success prior to translation into expensive and laborious clinical trials. We conducted a survey of the SCI research community to garner perspectives on the question of what preclinical evidence was required before translating an experimental treatment into clinical trials. The opinions of the 324 respondents about what constitutes necessary preclinical evidence before moving to human SCI trials revealed strong support for the demonstration of efficacy in large-animal models, cervical injury models, and for independent replication of promising results. Marked differences exist between the sentiments of the respondents and the translational experience of our field. A framework for guiding the preclinical development of novel therapies prior to human translation would be helpful for ensuring clinical success. Greater dialogue on this issue is necessary to improve our chances of successfully bringing effective treatments to patients with this devastating injury.


Malnutrition is common in patients with end-stage liver failure and hepatic encephalopathy, and is considered a significant prognostic factor affecting quality of life, outcome, and survival. The liver plays a crucial role in the regulation of nutrition by trafficking the metabolism of nutrients, their distribution and appropriate use by the body. Nutritional consequences with the potential to cause nervous system dysfunction occur in liver failure, and many factors contribute to malnutrition in hepatic failure. Among them are inadequate dietary intake, malabsorption, increased protein losses, hypermetabolism, insulin resistance, gastrointestinal bleeding, ascites, inflammation/infection, and hyponatremia. Patients at risk of malnutrition are relatively difficult to identify since liver disease may interfere with biomarkers of malnutrition. The supplementation of the diet with amino acids, antioxidants, vitamins as well as probiotics in addition to meeting energy and protein requirements may improve nutritional status, liver function, and hepatic encephalopathy in patients with end-stage liver failure.
Standard treatments for nonsmall cell lung cancer (NSCLC), such as surgery, chemotherapy, and radiotherapy, often lead to disappointing results. Unfortunately, also the various immunotherapeutic approaches so far tested have not produced satisfactory results to be widely applied in the clinical practice. However, the recent development of new immunomodulatory agents may open promising therapeutic options. This paper focuses on PF3512676, lenalidomide, and NGR-TNF, that is, drugs belonging to three different classes of immunomodulatory agents, that are also capable to affect tumor blood vessels with different mechanisms, and discusses the potential role of such agents in NSCLC treatment strategy.

The functional significance of changes in nuclear structure and organization in transformed cells remains one of the most enigmatic questions in cancer biology. In this review, we discuss relationships between nuclear organization and transcription in terms of the three-dimensional arrangement of genes in the interphase cancer nucleus and the regulatory functions of nuclear matrix proteins. We also analyse the role of nuclear topology in the generation of gene fusions. We speculate that this type of multi-layered analysis will one day provide a framework for a more comprehensive understanding of the genetic origins of cancer and the identification of new therapeutic targets.
Surgery for skull base lesions has advanced considerably in the past few years. The improvement in surgical results could be attributed to the availability of refined imaging modalities, modern technological advances and multidisciplinary team approach. In this report, we present our personal experience in the surgical management of 45 children with a variety of skull base lesions treated over 10 years. This article includes a retrospective analysis of the surgical approaches used and their results with a review of the literature.
Tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) have been reported to interact with the opioid system, but their pharmacological activity at opioid receptors has not yet been elucidated. In the present study, we investigated the actions of amoxapine, amitriptyline, nortriptyline, desipramine, and imipramine at distinct cloned and native opioid receptors. In Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing delta-opioid receptors (CHO/DOR), TCAs displaced [3H]naltrindole binding and stimulated guanosine 5'-O-(3-[(35)S]thio)triphosphate ([(35)S]GTPgammaS) binding at micromolar concentrations with amoxapine displaying the highest potency and efficacy. Amoxapine and amitriptyline inhibited cyclic AMP formation and induced the phosphorylation of signaling molecules along the extracellular signal-regulated kinase 1/2 (ERK1/2) and phosphatidylinositol-3 kinase pathways. Amoxapine also activated delta-opioid receptors in rat dorsal striatum and nucleus accumbens and human frontal cortex. In CHO cells expressing kappa-opioid receptors (CHO/KOR), TCAs, but not amoxapine, exhibited higher receptor affinity and more potent stimulation of [(35)S]GTPgammaS binding than in CHO/DOR and effectively inhibited cyclic AMP accumulation. Amitriptyline regulated ERK1/2 phosphorylation and activity in CHO/KOR and C6 glioma cells endogenously expressing kappa-opioid receptors, and this effect was attenuated by the kappa-opioid antagonist nor-binaltorphimine. In rat nucleus accumbens, amitriptyline slightly inhibited adenylyl cyclase activity and counteracted the inhibitory effect of the full kappa agonist trans-(-)-3,4dichloro-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl)cyclohexyl]benzeneacetamide (U50,488). At the cloned mu-opioid receptor, TCAs showed low affinity and no significant agonist activity. These results show that TCAs differentially regulate opioid receptors with a preferential agonist activity on either delta or kappa subtypes and suggest that this property may contribute to their therapeutic and/or side effects.
The preclinical characterization of WS-50030 [7-{4-[3-(1H-inden-3-yl)propyl]piperazin-1-yl}-1,3-benzoxazol-2(3H)-one] is described. In vitro binding and functional studies revealed highest affinity to the D(2) receptor (D(2L) K(i), 4.0 nM) and serotonin transporter (K(i), 7.1 nM), potent D(2) partial agonist activity (EC(50), 0.38 nM; E(max), 30%), and complete block of the serotonin transporter (IC(50), 56.4 nM). Consistent with this in vitro profile, WS-50030 (10 mg/kg/day, 21 days) significantly increased extracellular 5-HT in the rat medial prefrontal cortex, short-term WS-50030 treatment blocked apomorphine-induced climbing (ID(50), 0.51 mg/kg) in a dose range that produced minimal catalepsy in mice and induced low levels of contralateral rotation in rats with unilateral substantia nigra 6-hydroxydopamine lesions (10 mg/kg i.p.), a behavioral profile similar to that of the D(2) partial agonist aripiprazole. In a rat model predictive of antipsychotic-like activity, WS-50030 and aripiprazole reduced conditioned avoidance responding by 42 and 55% at 10 mg/kg, respectively. Despite aripiprazole's reported lack of effect on serotonin transporters, long-term treatment with aripiprazole or WS-50030 reversed olfactory bulbectomy-induced hyperactivity at doses that did not reduce activity in sham-operated rats, indicating antidepressant-like activity for both compounds. Despite possessing serotonin reuptake inhibitory activity in addition to D(2) receptor partial agonism, WS-50030 displays activity in preclinical models predictive of antipsychotic- and antidepressant efficacy similar to aripiprazole, suggesting potential efficacy of WS-50030 versus positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia, comorbid mood symptoms, bipolar disorder, major depressive disorder, and treatment-resistant depression. Furthermore, WS-50030 provides a tool to further explore how combining these mechanisms might differentiate from other antipsychotics or antidepressants.
Adenosine-induced modulation of neuromuscular transmission in young (3-4-week-old) rats was evaluated. Inhibition of adenosine kinase with iodotubercidin (ITU; 10 microM), which is known to induce adenosine release, enhanced the amplitude of evoked end-plate potentials (EPPs) recorded from innervated diaphragm muscle fibers. This facilitatory effect was transformed into an inhibitory one upon blockade of adenosine A(2A) receptors with 4-(2-[7-amino-2-(2-furly)[1,2,4]triazolo[2,3-a][1,3,5]triazin5ylamino] ethyl) phenol (ZM 241385) (50 nM); further blockade of adenosine A(1) receptors with the selective antagonist 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (DPCPX; 10 nM) abolished that inhibition. Adenosine or 2-chloroadenosine (CADO), at submicromolar concentrations, increased the amplitude and the quantal content of EPPs, whereas at low micromolar concentrations they decreased EPP amplitude. Blockade of A(1) receptors with DPCPX (10 nM) prevented both excitatory and inhibitory effects, whereas blockade of A(2A) receptors with ZM241385 (50 nM) prevented only the excitatory effects. DPCPX and ZM241385 also prevented the excitatory effect of the selective A(2A) receptor agonist 2-[p-(2-carboxyethyl) phenethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamido adenosine hydrochloride (CGS 21680; 10 nM). CADO (30 nM) also increased neuromuscular transmission in adult (12-16-week-old) rats. It is suggested that at the motor nerve endings, low extracellular concentrations of adenosine activate both A(2A) and A(1) receptors, but activation of A(2A) receptors predominates over A(1) receptors; the activity of A(2A) receptors might, however, require coactivation of A(1) receptors. This facilitatory action of low concentrations of extracellular adenosine upon acetylcholine release may be particularly relevant at developing neuromuscular junctions, where subtle changes in synaptic levels of acetylcholine might influence synaptic stabilization.
The GABA(A) receptor alpha2/alpha3 subtype-selective compound 7-(1,1-dimethylethyl)-6-(2-ethyl-2H-1,2,4-triazol-3-ylmethoxy)-3-(2-fluorophenyl)-1,2,4-triazolo[4,3-b]pyridazine (TPA023; also known as MK-0777) is a triazolopyridazine that has similar, subnanomolar affinity for the benzodiazepine binding site of alpha1-, alpha2-, alpha3-, and alpha5-containing GABA(A) receptors and has partial agonist efficacy at the alpha2 and alpha3 but not the alpha1 or alpha5 subtypes. The purpose of the present study was to define the relationship between plasma TPA023 concentrations and benzodiazepine binding site occupancy across species measured using various methods. Thus, occupancy was measured using either in vivo [(3)H]flumazenil binding or [(11)C]flumazenil small-animal positron emission tomography (microPET) in rats, [(123)I]iomazenil gamma-scintigraphy in rhesus monkeys, and [(11)C]flumazenil PET in baboons and humans. For each study, plasma-occupancy curves were derived, and the plasma concentration of TPA023 required to produce 50% occupancy (EC(50)) was calculated. The EC(50) values for rats, rhesus monkeys, and baboons were all similar and ranged from 19 to 30 ng/ml, although in humans, the EC(50) was slightly lower at 9 ng/ml. In humans, a single 2-mg dose of TPA023 produced in the region of 50 to 60% occupancy in the absence of overt sedative-like effects. Considering that nonselective full agonists are associated with sedation at occupancies of less than 30%, these data emphasize the relatively nonsedating nature of TPA023.
Several missense mutations in the protein kinase C (PKC) gene have been found to cause spinocerebellar ataxia type 14 (SCA14), an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disease. We previously demonstrated that the mutant PKC found in SCA14 is susceptible to aggregation that induces apoptotic cell death. Congo red is widely used as a histological dye for amyloid detection. Recent evidence has revealed that Congo red has the property to inhibit amyloid oligomers and fibril formation of misfolded proteins. In the present study, we examine whether Congo red inhibits aggregate formation and cytotoxicity of mutant PKC. Congo red likely inhibits aggregate formation of mutant PKC  green fluorescent protein (GFP) without affecting its expression level in SH-SY5Y cells. Congo red counteracts the insolubilization of recombinant mutant PKC, suggesting that the dye inhibits aggregation of mutant PKC by a direct mechanism. Congo red also inhibits aggregation and oligomerization of mutant PKC-GFP in primary cultured cerebellar Purkinje cells. Moreover, the dye reverses the improper development of dendrites and inhibits apoptotic cell death in Purkinje cells that express mutant PKC-GFP. These results indicate that amyloid-inhibiting compounds like Congo red may be novel therapeutics for SCA14.
The ability to perceive sweet compounds is important for animals to detect an external carbohydrate source of calories and has a critical role in the nutritional status of animals. In mice, a subset of sweet-sensitive taste cells possesses leptin receptors. Increase of plasma leptin with increasing internal energy storage in the adipose tissue suppresses sweet taste responses via this receptor. The data from recent studies indicate that leptin may also act as a modulator of sweet taste sensation in humans with a diurnal variation in sweet sensitivity. The plasma leptin level and sweet taste sensitivity are proposed to link with post-ingestive plasma glucose level. This leptin modulation of sweet taste sensitivity may influence an individual's preference, ingestive behavior, and absorption of nutrients, thereby playing important roles in regulation of energy homeostasis.


In order to maintain stable functionality in the face of continually changing input, neurones in the CNS must dynamically modulate their electrical characteristics. It has been hypothesized that in order to retain stable network function, neurones possess homeostatic mechanisms which integrate activity levels and alter network and cellular properties in such a way as to counter long-term perturbations. Here we describe a simple model system where we investigate the effects of sustained neuronal depolarization, lasting up to several days, by exposing cultures of primary hippocampal pyramidal neurones to elevated concentrations (10-30 mm) of KCl. Following exposure to KCl, neurones exhibit lower input resistances and resting potentials, and require more current to be injected to evoke action potentials. This results in a rightward shift in the frequency-input current (FI) curve which is explained by a simple linear model of the subthreshold I-V relationship. No changes are observed in action potential profiles, nor in the membrane potential at which action potentials are evoked. Furthermore, following depolarization, an increase in subthreshold potassium conductance is observed which is accounted for within a biophysical model of the subthreshold I-V characteristics of neuronal membranes. The FI curve shift was blocked by the presence of the L-type Ca(2+) channel blocker nifedipine, whilst antagonism of NMDA receptors did not interfere with the effect. Finally, changes in the intrinsic properties of neurones are reversible following removal of the depolarizing stimulus. We suggest that this experimental system provides a convenient model of homeostatic regulation of intrinsic excitability, and permits the study of temporal characteristics of homeostasis and its dependence on stimulus magnitude.
Sensory neurone subtypes (&lt; or = 25 microm apparent diameter) express a variety of Na(+) channels, where expression is linked to action potential duration, and associated with differential IB4-lectin binding. We hypothesized that sensitivity to ATX-II might also discriminate neurones and report that 1 microm has negligible or small effects on action potentials in IB4 +ve, but dramatically increased action potential duration in IB4 ve, neurones. The toxin did not act on tetrodotoxin-resistant (TTX-r) Na(V)1.8 currents; discrimination was based on tetrodotoxin-sensitive (TTX-s) Na(+) channel expression. We also explored the effects of varying the holding potential on current threshold, and the effect of repetitive activation on action currents in IB4 +ve and ve neurones. IB4 +ve neurones became more excitable with depolarization over the range 100 to 20 mV, but IB4 ve neurones exhibited peak excitability near 55 mV, and were inexcitable at 20 mV. Eliciting action potentials at 2 Hz, we found that peak inward action current in IB4 +ve neurones was reduced, whereas changes in the current amplitude were negligible in most IB4 ve neurones. Our findings are consistent with relatively toxin-insensitive channels including Na(V)1.7 being expressed in IB4 +ve neurones, whereas toxin sensitivity indicates that IB4 ve neurones may express Na(V)1.1 or Na(V)1.2, or both. The retention of excitability at low membrane potentials, and the responses to repetitive stimulation are explained by the known preferential expression of Na(V)1.8 in IB4 +ve neurones, and the reduction in action current in IB4 +ve neurones with repetitive stimulation supports a novel hypothesis explaining the slowing of conduction velocity in C-fibres by the build-up of Na(+) channel inactivation.
Activity-dependent, bidirectional control of synaptic efficacy is thought to contribute to many forms of experience-dependent plasticity, including learning and memory. Although most excitatory synapses contain both AMPA and N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (AMPARs and NMDARs), most studies have focused on the plasticity of synaptic AMPARs, and on the pivotal role of NMDA receptors for its induction. Here we review evidence that synaptic NMDARs themselves are subject to long-term activity-dependent changes by mechanisms that may differ from that of synaptic AMPARs. The bidirectional modulation of NMDAR-mediated synaptic responses is likely to have important functional implications for NMDAR-dependent forms of synaptic plasticity.
Glycine receptors are, in several ways, the member of the nicotinic superfamily that is best-suited for single-channel recording. That means that they are ideal for testing ideas about how activation proceeds in a ligand-gated ion channel from the binding of the agonist to the opening of the channel. This review describes the quantitative characterization by single-channel analysis of a novel activation mechanism for the glycine receptor. The favourable properties of the glycine receptor allowed the first detection of a conformation change that follows the binding of the agonist but precedes the opening of the channel. We used the term 'flipping' to describe this pre-opening conformational change. The 'flipped' state has a binding affinity higher than the resting state, but lower than the open state. This increased affinity presumably reflects a structural change near the agonist binding site, possibly the 'capping' of the C-loop. The significance of the 'flip' activation mechanism goes beyond understanding the behaviour and the structure-function relation of glycine channels, as this mechanism can be applied also to other members of the superfamily, such as the muscle nicotinic receptor. The 'flip' mechanism has thrown light on the question of why partial agonists are not efficacious at keeping the channel open, a question that is fundamental to rational drug design. In both muscle nicotinic and glycine receptors, partial agonists are as good as full agonists at opening the channel once flipping has occurred, but are not as effective as full agonists in eliciting this early conformational change.

We study cortical network dynamics for a spatially embedded network model. It represents, in terms of spatial scale, a large piece of cortex allowing for long-range connections, resulting in a rather sparse connectivity. The spatial embedding also permits us to include distance-dependent conduction delays. We use two different types of conductance-based I&amp;F neurons as excitatory and inhibitory units, as well as specific connection probabilities. In order to remain computationally tractable, we reduce neuron density, modelling part of the missing internal input via external poissonian spike trains. Compared to previous studies, we observe significant changes in the dynamical phase space: Altered activity patterns require another regularity measures than the coefficient of variation. Hence, we compare three different regularity measure on the basis of artificial inter-spike-interval distributions. We identify two types of mixed states, where different phases coexist in certain regions of the phase space. More notably, our boundary between high and low activity states depends predominantly on the relation between excitatory and inhibitory synaptic strength instead of the input rate.
Despite the long and fruitful history of neuroscience, a global, multi-level description of cardinal brain functions is still far from reach. Using analytical or numerical approaches, Computational Neuroscience aims at the emergence of such common principles by using concepts from Dynamical Systems and Information Theory. The aim of this Special Issue of the Journal of Physiology (Paris) is to reflect the latest advances in this field which has been presented during the NeuroComp08 conference that took place in October 2008 in Marseille (France). By highlighting a selection of works presented at the conference, we wish to illustrate the intrinsic diversity of this field of research but also the need of an unification effort that is becoming more and more necessary to understand the brain in its full complexity, from multiple levels of description to a multi-level understanding.
In the present study, we have examined whether spinal hemisection injury induces changes in the electrophysiological properties of thalamic ventral posteriorlateral (VPL) neurons in rats. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were subjected to unilateral spinal cord injury by transverse hemisection at the T13 spinal segment. Four weeks after the T13 spinal hemisection, the injured rats displayed robust allodynic behaviors on both sides of hindpaws compared to sham controls (P &lt; 0.05). Extracellular recordings taken 4 weeks after the hemisection revealed that wide dynamic range (WDR) neurons had significantly increased spontaneous and brush-, pressure-, and pinch-evoked activities, respectively, on both sides of the thalamic VPL regions (P &lt; 0.05). In contrast, low threshold (LT) neurons showed only an increase in the brush-evoked activity compared to sham controls (P &lt; 0.05). However, afterdischarge activity in both types of neurons showed no changes. In addition, both sides of the thalamic VPL regions showed higher incidences of WDR neurons. In conclusion, our data demonstrate that spinal unilateral injury induces bilaterally increased evoked activity in thalamic VPL neurons.




Reversible protein phosphorylation forms the basis of cell signaling networks. Aberrations in protein phosphorylation have been linked to human diseases including cancer. Phosphoproteomics has recently emerged as an approach that focuses on analysis of protein phosphorylation on a global scale. We have recently developed a new methodology, termed in-gel IEF LC-MS/MS, and we have adapted this methodology for phosphoproteome analysis. Here, we report on the application of in-gel IEF LC-MS/MS to the mapping of the phosphoproteome in the LNCaP human prostate cancer cell line. The analytical methodology used in the study included separation of the LNCaP proteins by in-gel isoelectric focusing (IEF), digestion of the proteins with trypsin, enrichment of the digests for phosphopeptides with Immobilized Metal Ion Affinity Chromatography (IMAC), analysis of the enriched digests by LC-MS/MS, and identification of the phosphorylated peptides/proteins through searches of a protein sequence database. With this analytical platform, we have characterized over 600 different phosphorylation sites in 296 phosphoproteins. This panel of the LNCaP phosphoproteins is 3-fold larger than the panel obtained in our previous work, which attests to the power of the chosen analytical methodology. The characterized phosphoproteins are functionally diverse and include a number of proteins relevant to cancer.
Investigating, predicting, diagnosing, and treating HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorder (HAND) has been hindered by the lack of disease-related molecular markers. In this study, plasma from rhesus monkeys (n = 6), before and after infection with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV), was profiled to obtain differential fingerprints in protein expression during SIV-induced central nervous system (CNS) disease. A quantitative proteomic analysis was performed by means of isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantification (iTRAQ) labeling, using multidimensional liquid chromatography tandem mass spectrometry (LC-MS/MS) run on a linear ion trap mass spectrometer in an integrated mode comprising pulsed-Q-dissociation (PQD) and CID. Among a panel of proteins showing differential expression following SIV infection, we identified afamin, a member of the albumin superfamily, to be significantly down regulated after infection. Validation by Western blot confirmed this observation and, given its potential implication in neuroprotection by transport of alpha-tocopherol (alphaTocH), provides new avenues into further understanding HIV induced CNS disease. iTRAQ-based LC-MS/MS provides a valuable platform for plasma protein profiling and has important implications in identifying molecular markers relevant for the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative diseases. Using such an approach, we show its successful application in identifying differential fingerprints in SIV/HIV induced CNS disease.
Meningiomas are among the most frequent tumors of the brain and spinal cord accounting for 15-20% of all central nervous system tumors and frequently associated with neurofibromatosis type 2. In this study, we aimed to unravel molecular meningioma tumorigenesis and discover novel protein biomarkers for diagnostic and/or prognostic purposes and performed in-depth proteomic profiling of meningioma cells compared to human primary arachnoidal cells. We isolated proteins from meningioma cell line SF4433 and human primary arachnoidal cells and analyzed the protein profiles by Gel-nanoLC-MS/MS in conjunction with protein identification and quantification by shotgun nanoLC tandem mass spectrometry and spectral counting. Differential analysis of meningiomas revealed changes in the expression levels of 281 proteins (P &lt; 0.01) associated with various biological functions such as DNA replication, recombination, cell cycle, and apoptosis. Among several interesting proteins, we focused on a subset of the highly significantly up-regulated proteins, the minichromosome maintenance (MCM) family. We performed subsequent validation studies by qRT-PCR in human meningioma tissue samples (WHO grade I, 14 samples; WHO grade II, 7 samples; and WHO grade III, 7 samples) compared to arachnoidal tissue controls (from fresh autopsies; 3 samples) and found that MCMs are highly and significantly up-regulated in human meningioma tumor samples compared to arachnoidal tissue controls. We found a significant increase in MCM2 (8 fold), MCM3 (5 fold), MCM4 (4 fold), MCM5 (4 fold), MCM6 (3 fold), and MCM7 (5 fold) expressions in meningiomas. This study suggests that MCM family proteins are up-regulated in meningiomas and can be used as diagnostic markers.
Functional imaging in humans and anatomical data in monkeys have implicated the insula as a multimodal sensory integrative brain region. The topography of insular connections is organized by its cytoarchitectonic regions. Previous attempts to measure the insula have utilized either indirect or automated methods. This study was designed to develop a reliable method for obtaining volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) measurements of the human insular cortex, and to validate that method by examining the anatomy of insular cortex in adults with Williams syndrome (WS) and healthy age-matched controls. Statistical reliability was obtained among three raters for this method, supporting its reproducibility not only across raters, but within different software packages. The procedure described here utilizes native-space morphometry as well as a method for dividing the insula into connectivity-based sub-regions estimated from cytoarchitectonics. Reliability was calculated in both ANALYZE (N=3) and BrainImageJava (N=10) where brain scans were measured once in each hemisphere by each rater. This highly reliable method revealed total, anterior, and posterior insular volume reduction bilaterally (all p's&lt;.002) in WS, after accounting for reduced total brain volumes in these participants. Although speculative, the reduced insular volumes in WS may represent a neural risk for the development of hyperaffiliative social behavior with increased specific phobias, and implicate the insula as a critical limbic integrative region. Native-space quantification of the insula may be valuable in the study of neurodevelopmental or neuropsychiatric disorders related to anxiety and social behavior.
Individuals with Major Depressive Disorder (MDD) vary regarding the rate, magnitude and stability of symptom changes during antidepressant treatment. Growth mixture modeling (GMM) can be used to identify patterns of change in symptom severity over time. Quantitative electroencephalographic (QEEG) cordance within the first week of treatment has been associated with endpoint clinical outcomes but has not been examined in relation to patterns of symptom change. Ninety-four adults with MDD were randomized to eight weeks of double-blinded treatment with fluoxetine 20mg or venlafaxine 150mg (n=49) or placebo (n=45). An exploratory random effect GMM was applied to Hamilton Depression Rating Scale (Ham-D(17)) scores over 11 timepoints. Linear mixed models examined 48-h, and 1-week changes in QEEG midline-and-right-frontal (MRF) cordance for subjects in the GMM trajectory classes. Among medication subjects an estimated 62% of subjects were classified as responders, 21% as non-responders, and 17% as symptomatically volatile-i.e., showing a course of alternating improvement and worsening. MRF cordance showed a significant class-by-time interaction (F((2,41))=6.82, p=.003); as hypothesized, the responders showed a significantly greater 1-week decrease in cordance as compared to non-responders (mean difference=-.76, Std. Error=.34, df=73, p=.03) but not volatile subjects. Subjects with a volatile course of symptom change may merit special clinical consideration and, from a research perspective, may confound the interpretation of typical binary endpoint outcomes. Statistical methods such as GMM are needed to identify clinically relevant symptom response trajectories.
Individuals exposed to psychological stressors may experience a long-term resetting of behavioral and neuroendocrine aspects of their &quot;stress response&quot; so that they either hyper or hypo-respond to subsequent stressors. These effects of psychological or traumatic stressors may be mimicked in rats using the resident-intruder model of social defeat. The social defeat model has been characterized to model aspects of the physiology and behavior associated with anxiety and depression. The objective of this study was to determine if behaviors elicited following repeated social defeat can also reflect aspects of ethologically relevant stresses associated with existing post traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) models. Socially defeated rats displayed weight loss and an enhanced and prolonged response to acoustic startle which was displayed for up to 10days following repeated social defeat. These data indicate that the severe stress of social defeat can produce physiologic and behavioral outcomes which may reflect aspects of traumatic psychosocial stress.

Mice with functional genetic ablation of the Tacr1 (substance P-preferring receptor) gene (NK1R-/-) are hyperactive. Here, we investigated whether this is mimicked by NK1R antagonism and whether dopaminergic transmission is disrupted in brain regions that govern motor performance. The locomotor activity of NK1R-/- and wild-type mice was compared after treatment with an NK1R antagonist and/or psychostimulant (d-amphetamine or methylphenidate). The inactivation of NK1R (by gene mutation or receptor antagonism) induced hyperactivity in mice, which was prevented by both psychostimulants. Using in vivo microdialysis, we then compared the regulation of extracellular dopamine in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and striatum in the two genotypes. A lack of functional NK1R reduced (&gt;50%) spontaneous dopamine efflux in the prefrontal cortex and abolished the striatal dopamine response to d-amphetamine. These behavioural and neurochemical abnormalities in NK1R-/- mice, together with their atypical response to psychostimulants, echo attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in humans. These findings prompted genetic studies on the TACR1 gene (the human equivalent of NK1R) in ADHD patients in a case-control study of 450 ADHD patients and 600 screened supernormal controls. Four single-nucleotide polymorphisms (rs3771829, rs3771833, rs3771856, and rs1701137) at the TACR1 gene, previously known to be associated with bipolar disorder or alcoholism, were strongly associated with ADHD. In conclusion, our proposal that NK1R-/- mice offer a mouse model of ADHD was borne out by our human studies, which suggest that DNA sequence changes in and around the TACR1 gene increase susceptibility to this disorder.
This article presents a proposal for a new diagnostic concept of adjustment disorder with disturbed sexual functioning. This concept would allow one to confer a diagnosis on sexual dysfunctions in response to an identifiable stressor within 1 or 3 months. The disturbance would have to be clinically significant as evidenced by either distress in excess of what one would expect from the exposure, or by significant impairment in social, occupational or interpersonal functioning. The disturbance would not meet the criteria for another axis I disorder and would not be merely an exacerbation of a pre-existing axis I disorder. Finally, the disturbance should not persist for more than an additional 6 months once the stressor or its consequences have terminated.

Adult neurogenesis occurs only in discrete regions of adult central nervous system: the subventricular zone and the subgranular zone. These areas are populated by adult neural stem cells (aNSC) that are regulated by a number of molecules and signaling pathways, which control their cell fate choices, survival and proliferation rates. For a long time, it was believed that the immune system did not exert any control on neural proliferative niches. However, it has been observed that many pathological and inflammatory conditions significantly affect NSC niches. Even more, increasing evidence indicates that chemokines and cytokines play an important role in regulating proliferation, cell fate choices, migration and survival of NSCs under physiological conditions. Hence, the immune system is emerging is an important regulator of neurogenic niches in the adult brain, which may have clinical relevance in several brain diseases.


The medical curriculum at King's College London School of Medicine is a 5 year course; an extended program (6 years) and a graduate entry program (4 years) are also available. The first 2 years of the curriculum comprise phases 1 and 2. The curriculum consists of core material that is common to all students and student-selected components (students undertake three such components in the first 2 years). Phase 1 lasts 12 weeks and students learn the principles of tissue and organ structure and function. They are also introduced to the practice of medicine (concepts of health, communication, ethics, inter-professional education and medicine in the community). Phase 2 consists of 36 weekly clinical scenarios that place basic medical science in a clinical context. Phase 2 covers cardiovascular, respiratory, gastrointestinal, renal and musculoskeletal systems; nutrition; endocrinology; head and neck anatomy; neuroscience; genetics; and infections. Teaching continues in pri! mary care and in the hospitals and includes basic and advanced life support. Learning experiences include lectures, tutorials, practical classes, dissection and prosection, communication skills, e-learning, student-led sessions and primary care and hospital visits. Assessment consists of in-course assessment (e.g., presentations, tests and essays) and end-of-year examinations which consist of written papers and an objective structured clinical examination at the end of year 2. The main strengths of the program include the scenario format of learning and the practice of medicine early on. The difficulties arise mainly from the large numbers of students (420 per year).
Cerebral injury, such as stroke, cause functional deficits; however some functions can recover with postlesion rehabilitative training. Several recent studies using rodents and monkeys have reported the effects of postlesion training on functional recovery after brain injury. We present herein an overview of recent animal experimental studies on the effects of postlesion motor training on brain plasticity and motor recovery. Our study in the macaque monkey reported the effects of hand motor training on motor recovery after lesioning of the primary motor cortex (M1). In monkeys that had undergone intensive daily training after the lesion, manual dexterity recovered to previous levels. Relatively independent digit movements, including those of precision grip, were restored in the trained monkeys. While hand movements recovered to some extent in the monkeys without postlesion training, these monkeys frequently used alternative grips to grasp a small object instead o f the precision grip. These findings suggest that recovery after M1 lesions includes both training-dependent and training-independent processes, and that recovery of precision grip requires intensive postlesion training. Recent results of both brain imaging and gene expression analyses suggest that functional and structural changes may occur in uninjured motor areas during recovery of hand function after M1 lesions. In particular, our preliminary results suggest that structural changes in ventral premotor cortex neurons may participate in functional compensation of precision grip.


The influence of orthographic knowledge has been consistently observed in dissimilarity speech recognition and metaphonological tasks. The present study provides data suggesting that such influence also pervades other cognitive domains phonological related to language abilities, such as verbal working memory. Using serial similarity effect recall of auditory seven-word lists, we observed that inter-item orthographic dissimilarity assists verbal working memory by reducing or even avoiding verbal serial recall the detrimental effect of phonological similarity. However, this orthographic modulation of the phonological similarity effect only occurred at positions four to six of the word list. Performance at position seven benefited from a recency effect that may be assumed to result from a more surface-level (acoustic-phonetic) representation, while better performance at positions one to three is attributable to primacy effects, and can be accounted for in terms of consolidation through recapitulation. The beneficial influence of orthographic knowledge may, therefore, only be apparent when the item stored in short-term memory takes the form of an abstract but unconsolidated phonological representation.
Direct central nervous system (CNS) analgesic delivery is a useful option when more traditional means of dealing with chronic pain fail. Solutions containing local anesthetic have been effective in certain disease states, particularly in patients suffering from intractable head and neck pain. This review discusses historical aspects of CNS drug delivery and the role of intrathecal bupivacaine-containing solutions in refractory head and neck pain patients.
The prefrontal cortex is a common target brain structure in psychiatry and neuroscience due to its role in working memory and cognitive control. Large differences in magnetic susceptibility between the air-filled sinuses and the tissue/bone in the frontal part of the human head cause a strong and highly localized magnetic field focus in the prefrontal cortex. As a result, image distortion and signal dropout are observed in MR imaging. A set of external electrical coils is presented that provides localized and high-amplitude shim fields in the prefrontal cortex, with minimum impact on the rest of the brain when combined with regular zero- to second-order spherical harmonics shimming. The experimental realization of the new shim method strongly minimized or even eliminated signal dropout in gradient-echo images acquired at settings typically used in functional magnetic resonance at 4 T.
The formation of senile plaques followed by deposition of amyloid  peptides (A) are the earliest pathological changes of Alzheimer's disease (AD); thus, detection of the plaques remains the most important early diagnostic indicator of AD. Amyloid imaging is a noninvasive technique for visualizing senile plaques in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's using positron emission tomography (PET) or magnetic resonance (MR) imaging. Several types of probes have been developed for PET, but few ligands have been developed specifically for MR imaging detection of amyloid plaques. This review presents recent advances in amyloid imaging using MR imaging and includes our studies.
Scalene myofascial pain syndrome is a regional pain syndrome wherein pain originates over the neck area and radiates down to the arm. This condition may present as primary or secondary to underlying cervical pathology. Although scalene myofascial pain syndrome is a well known medical entity, it is often misdiagnosed as being some other neck pain associated with radiculopathy, such as cervical disc prolapse, cervical spinal stenosis and thoracic outlet syndrome. Because scalene myofascial pain syndrome mimics cervical radiculopathy, this condition often leads to mismanagement, which can, in turn, result in persistent pain and suffering. In the worst-case scenarios, patients may be subjected to unjustifiable surgical intervention. Because the clinical findings in scalene myofascial pain syndrome are &quot;pathognomonic&quot;, clinicians should be aware of ways to recognize this disorder and be able to differentiate it from other conditions that present with neck pain and rediculopathy. We present two cases of unilateral scalene myofascial pain syndrome that significantly impaired the patients' functioning and quality of life. This case report serves to create awareness about the existence of the syndrome and to highlight the potential morbidity due to clinical misdiagnosis.



Neurofibromatosis (NF) is one of the most common inherited single-gene disorders in humans, and is expressed as two distinct types: Type I (von Recklinghausen disease) and Type II, which occurs much less frequently. When it was first reported in the obstetric literature in 1906 by Brickner, neurofibromatosis was called &quot;fibroma moluscum contagiosum.&quot; This article presents a case of a 20-year-old woman with NF Type I who became pregnant. The clinical challenges of NF and pregnancy are explored through the collaborative relationships between the patient and two clinical nurse specialists from obstetric and neuroscience nursing. The case study provides valuable information for nurses who want to provide evidence-based care.
Elevated reactive oxygen species (ROS) levels have been observed in mammals during aging, implying an important role of ROS in the aging process. Most bird species are known to live longer and to contain lower ROS levels than mammals of the same body weight. The influence of ROS on the aging process of birds has been investigated using pigeon embryonic fibroblasts (PEF) and chicken embryonic fibroblasts (CEF). ROS levels in young avian cells were much lower than in human cells. When cultivated till replicative senescence, PEF proliferated about one-third longer compared to CEF. However, both senescent avian cell populations showed no increased ROS levels or accumulation of ROS-induced damage on the mtDNA or protein level. The investigation for quality control (QC) mechanisms revealed that the autophagosomal/lysosomal pathway was not downregulated in old avian cells and stable overexpression of the autophagy protein ATG5 improved mitochondrial fitness, enhanced the resistance against oxidative stress and prolonged the life span of CEF. Oxidative stress-mediated apoptosis induced a dose-dependent cell proliferation in CEF as well as in PEF. Taken together, our data indicate that autophagy and compensatory proliferation act as QC mechanisms, while ROS did not influence the aging process in avian cells.
In this paper we hypothesize a novel mechanism by which brain injury occurs after intracerebral hemorrhage. We propose the following mechanism: (1) heme that is derived from extravasated erythrocytes is degraded into bilirubin and bilirubin oxidation products (BOXes). (2) Bilirubin and BOXes activate microglia and astrocytes, which are cells with immune functions in the brain. This activation leads to release of cytokines and activation of leukocyte adhesion molecules on the luminal surface of cerebral endothelial cells. (3) Leukocytes then traffic into the brain. (4) Leukocytes, activated glial cells and cytokines contribute to injury processes. We present preliminary data in support of our hypothesis that BOXes activate glia.
Schizophrenia is described in phenomenological theory as an illness with various degrees of 'self disintegration' and/or 'disembodiment' experiences. Cognitive neuroscience and neurology had identified specific brain structures, all in the right cerebral hemisphere, that are crucial for the generation of a normal 'sense of self' and self-corporeal-awareness. Behavioral and neuroanatomical evidence also suggest various deficits in the right hemisphere of schizophrenics. A hypothesis is put forth here for a strong linkage and correlation between the specific brain constructs involved in self/corporeal-awareness and the schizophrenic symptoms manifesting the disintegration of the 'self'.
This paper aims to discuss and test the hypothesis raised by Fusar-Poli [Fusar-Poli P. Can neuroimaging prove that schizophrenia is a brain disease? A radical hypothesis. Medical Hypotheses in press, corrected proof] that &quot;on the basis of the available imaging literature there is no consistent evidence to reject the radical and provocative hypothesis that schizophrenia is not a brain disease&quot;. To achieve this goal, all meta-analyses on 'fMRI and schizophrenia' published during the current decade and indexed in Pubmed were summarized, as much as some other useful information, e.g., meta-analyses on genetic risk factors. Our main conclusion is that the literature fully supports the hypothesis that schizophrenia is a syndrome (not a disease) associated with brain abnormalities, despite the fact that there is no singular and reductionist pathway from the nosographic entity (schizophrenia) to its causes. This irreducibility is due to the fact that the syndrome has more than one dimension (e.g., cognitive, psychotic and negative) and each of them is related to abnormalities in specific neuronal networks. A psychiatric diagnosis is a statistical procedure; these dimensions are not identically represented in each diagnosticated case and this explains the existence of more than one pattern of brain abnormalities related to schizophrenia. For example, chronification is associated with negativism while the first psychotic episode is not; in that sense, the same person living with schizophrenia may reveal different symptoms and fMRI patterns along the course of his life, and this is precisely what defines schizophrenia since the time when it was called Dementia Praecox (first by pick then by Kraepelin). It is notable that 100% of the collected meta-analyses on 'fMRI and schizophrenia' reveal positive findings. Moreover, all meta-analyses that found positive associations between schizophrenia and genetic risk factors have to do with genes (SNPs) especially activated in neuronal tissue of the central nervous system (CNS), suggesting that, to the extent these polymorphisms are related to schizophrenia's etiology, they are also related to abnormal brain activity.
The use of multivariate pattern recognition for the analysis of neural representations encoded in fMRI data has become a significant research topic, with wide applications in neuroscience and psychology. A popular approach is to learn a mapping from the data to the observed behavior. However, identifying the instantaneous cognitive state without reference to external conditions is a relatively unexplored problem and could provide important insights into mental processes. In this paper, we present preliminary but promising results from the application of an unsupervised learning technique to identify distinct brain states. The temporal ordering of the states were seen to be synchronized with the experimental conditions, while the spatial distribution of activity in a state conformed with the expected functional recruitment.
Recently, inference of functional connectivity between brain regions using resting state fMRI (rsfMRI) data has attracted significant interests in the neuroscience community. This paper proposes a novel fiber-centered approach to study the functional connectivity between brain regions using high spatial resolution diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and rsfMRI data. We measure the functional coherence of a fiber as the time series' correlation of two gray matter voxels that this fiber connects. The functional connectivity strength between two brain regions is defined as the average functional coherence of fibers connecting them. Our results demonstrate that: 1) The functional coherence of fibers is correlated with the brain regions they connect; 2) The functional connectivity between brain regions is correlated with structural connectivity. And these two patterns are consistent across subjects. These results may provide new insights into the brain's structural and functional architecture.



Proteolytic and cataplerotic sources of hepatic glutamine were determined by (2)H NMR analysis of urinary phenylacetylglutamine (PAGN) (2)H-enrichments in eight healthy subjects after (2)H(2)O and phenylbutyric acid ingestion. Body water enrichment was 0.49+/-0.03%. PAGN was enriched to lower levels with significant differences between the various glutamine positions. PAGN position 2 enrichment=0.33+/-0.02%; 3R=0.27+/-0.02%; 3S=0.27+/-0.02% and position 4=0.17+/-0.01%. Position 3R,S enrichments are conditional with the net conversion of citrate to glutamate and are therefore markers of cataplerosis. From the ratio of positions 3R,S to body water enrichment, 55+/-3% of hepatic glutamine was derived from cataplerosis and 45+/-3% from proteolysis. In conclusion, enrichment of PAGN 3R,S hydrogens relative to that of body water reflects the contribution of cataplerotic and proteolytic sources to hepatic glutamine.
For more than a decade, the zebrafish has proven to be an excellent model organism to investigate the mechanisms of neurogenesis during development. The often cited advantages, namely external development, genetic, and optical accessibility, have permitted direct examination and experimental manipulations of neurogenesis during development. Recent studies have begun to investigate adult neurogenesis, taking advantage of its widespread occurrence in the mature zebrafish brain to investigate the mechanisms underlying neural stem cell maintenance and recruitment. Here we provide a comprehensive overview of the tools and techniques available to study neurogenesis in zebrafish both during development and in adulthood. As useful resources, we provide tables of available molecular markers, transgenic, and mutant lines. We further provide optimized protocols for studying neurogenesis in the adult zebrafish brain, including in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry, in vivo lipofection and electroporation methods to deliver expression constructs, administration of bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU), and finally slice cultures. These currently available tools have put zebrafish on par with other model organisms used to investigate neurogenesis.
How neuronal connections are established during development is one of the most fascinating questions in the field of neurobiology. The zebrafish retinotectal system offers distinct advantages for studying axon guidance in an in vivo context. Its accessibility and the larva's transparency not only allow its direct visualization, but also facilitate experimental manipulations to address the mechanisms of its development. Here we describe methods for labeling and visualizing retinal axons in vivo, including transient expression of DNA constructs, injection of lipophilic dyes, and time-lapse imaging. We describe in detail the available transgenic lines for marking retinal ganglion cells (RGCs); a protocol for very precise lipophilic dye labeling; and a protocol for single cell electroporation of RGCs. We then describe several approaches for perturbing the retinotectal system, including morpholino or DNA injection; localized heat shock to induce misexpression of genes; a comprehensive list of known retinotectal mutants; and a detailed protocol for RGC transplants to test cell autonomy. These methods not only provide new ways for examining how retinal axons are guided by their environment, but also can be used to study other axonal tracts in the living embryo.
In this chapter, we describe the practical aspects of measuring [Ca(2+)] transients that are generated in a particular cytoplasmic domain, or within a specific organelle or its periorganellar environment, using bioluminescent, genetically encoded and targeted Ca(2+) reporters, especially those based on apoaequorin. We also list examples of the organisms, tissues, and cells that have been transfected with apoaequorin or an apoaequorin-BRET complex, as well as of the organelles and subcellular domains that have been specifically targeted with these bioluminescent Ca(2+) reporters. In addition, we summarize the various techniques used to load the apoaequorin cofactor, coelenterazine, and its analogs into cells, tissues, and intact organisms, and we describe recent advances in the detection and imaging technologies that are currently being used to measure and visualize the luminescence generated by the aequorin-Ca(2+) reaction within these various cytoplasmic domains and subcellular compartments.
Neuronal microtubules recently emerged as temporal and spatial regulators of dendritic spines, the major sites of excitatory synaptic input. By imaging microtubules in cultured mature primary hippocampal neurons using fluorescently tagged tubulin and microtubule plus-end binding (EB) protein EB3, dynamic microtubules were found to regularly depart from the dendritic shaft and enter dendritic spines. Evidence indicates that microtubule invasions into spines regulate spine actin dynamics and induce transient morphological changes, such as the formation of spine head protrusion and spine growth. Because alterations in spine morphology play an important role in synaptic plasticity and have been linked to learning and memory formation, it is possible that dynamic microtubules are engaged in adaptive processes in the adult brain. This chapter provides detailed methods for live imaging of dynamic microtubules in mature hippocampal neurons in culture. We describe protocols for culturing and transfecting mature hippocampal neurons and visualizing microtubules and microtubule plus-EB proteins by total internal reflection fluorescence microscopy and spinning disk confocal microscopy.
The precise regulation of microtubules and their dynamics is critical for cell cycle progression, cell signaling, intracellular transport, cell polarization, and organismal development. For example, mitosis, cell migration, and axonal outgrowth all involve rapid and dramatic changes in microtubule organization and dynamics. Microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) such as MAP2 and tau (Bunker et al., 2004; Dhamodharan and Wadsworth, 1995) and microtubule-interacting proteins such as stathmin, the kinesin MCAK, and EB1 (Cassimeris, 1999; Moore and Wordeman, 2004; Ringhoff and Cassimeris, 2009; Rusan et al., 2001) as well as numerous clinically approved or experimental anti-mitotic drugs including the taxanes, vinca alkaloids, and colchicine-like compounds modulate microtubule dynamic in cells (Jordan, 2002; Jordan and Kamath, 2007). In this chapter, we describe methods to analyze the dynamic instability of microtubules in living cells by microscopy of microinjected or expressed fluorescent tubulin, time-lapse microscopy, and analysis of time-dependent microtubule length changes.
Many naturally occurring compounds and their synthetic analogs bind to soluble tubulin or to tubulin in microtubules. These compounds are often important drugs or drug candidates. They can potently alter both the dynamics and the polymer mass of microtubules. The binding affinity of a drug for soluble tubulin heterodimers is a common and relatively readily determined biochemical characteristic of a tubulin-targeted drug. However, it is only one important aspect of the drug-tubulin interaction. In solution and in cells, soluble tubulin is in equilibrium with polymerized microtubules. It is as important to determine drug binding to microtubules as it is to determine binding to soluble tubulin, since drug binding to microtubules frequently alters their function. The affinity of a compound for microtubules often differs vastly from its affinity for soluble tubulin. Here, we present detailed instructions for assessing binding stoichiometry and affinity to assembled unstabilized microtubules using radiolabeled drug. In addition, using examples from binding results with several important drugs including vinca alkaloids, colchicine, eribulin, and taxanes, we discuss aspects of the interactions with microtubules that may alter the experimental design of the drug-binding experiments.
Microtubules are major constituents of the cytoskeleton which display dynamic properties. They exhibit dynamic instability which is defined as the stochastic switching between growing and shortening at microtubule ends. Dynamic instability plays an important role in diverse cellular functions including cell migration and mitosis. Many successful antimitotic drugs and microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) are known to modulate microtubule dynamics, and it is important to analyze the in vitro dynamic instability of microtubules to study the mechanism of action of microtubule-targeted therapeutics and MAPs. In this chapter, we describe a method to analyze the in vitro dynamic instability of microtubules at steady state using video-enhanced differential contrast (VE-DIC) microscopy in detail. In this method, microtubules are assembled to steady state at 30 degrees C with MAP-free tubulin in a slide chamber in the presence of GTP, using sea urchin axonemes as nucleating seeds. Images of microtubules are enhanced and recorded in real time by a video camera and an image processor connected to a DIC microscope which is maintained at 30 degrees C. We use two software programs to track and analyze the growing and shortening of plus or minus ends of microtubules in the real-time images recorded using VE-DIC. In this chapter, we describe the instructions to use the tracking software Real Time Measurement II (RTM II) program. The instructions to use the analysis software Microtubule Life History Analysis Procedures (MT-LHAP) in Igor Pro software have been described in detail in an appendix (Oroudjev, 2010) following this chapter.

Despite increasing use of cell-based assays in biomedical research and drug discovery, one challenge is the adequate supply of high-quality cells expressing the target of interest. To this end, stable cell lines expressing the target are often established, maintained, and expanded in large-scale cell culture. These steps require significant investment of time and resources. Moreover, variability occurs regularly in cell yield, viability, expression, and target activities. In particular, stable expression of many targets, such as ion channels, causes toxicity, cell line degeneration, and loss of functional activity. To circumvent these problems, we utilize large-scale transient transfection (LSTT) to generate a large quantity of cells, which are cryopreserved and readily available for use in cell-based functional assays. Here we describe the application of LSTT cells to ion channel and G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) assays in a drug discovery setting. This approach can also be applied to many other assay formats and target classes.
