It has been suggested that alterations of serotonin transport may be implicated in the pathogenesis of the neuropsychiatric symptoms encountered in acute liver failure. In order to address this issue, microdialysate concentrations of serotonin, its precursor L-tryptophan and metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) as well as brain regional distribution of serotonin transporter ([3H]-citalopram) sites were measured in rats with acute liver failure resulting from hepatic devascularization. A significant loss of [3H]-citalopram sites was observed in dorsal Raphe nucleus, in frontal and frontoparietal cortices as well as in substantia nigra of rats with severe encephalopathy resulting from acute liver failure. In frontal cortex, this loss of transporter binding sites was accompanied by significant increases of L-tryptophan, serotonin and 5-HIAA concentrations in extracellular fluid. Pharmacological manipulation of the brain serotonin system could afford a novel therapeutic approach to the prevention of the neuropsychiatric symptoms characteristic of acute liver failure in humans.
In the present study, the effects of beta-amyloid (25-35) (Abeta (25-35)) upon calcium signalling by the human platelet has been investigated. When assays were conducted using HEPES buffers, Abeta (25-35), but not the inactive peptide Abeta (35-25), produced a robust increase in intracellular calcium that remained after removal of extracellular calcium but was abolished by the phospholipase C inhibitor U-73122. There was no significant difference between the calcium response to Abeta (25-35) in platelets from patients with Alzheimer's disease and from age-matched controls. In contrast to the robust effects on calcium mobilisation in HEPES buffers, very little calcium response to Abeta (25-35) was seen when Krebs (pH 7.8) buffer was used.
Beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptide deposition in the brains of Alzheimer's disease patients results in reactive astrogliosis which may enhance neuronal cell death. Abeta has also been reported to impair important supportive astrocyte functions, such as glutamate uptake in vitro. We studied the effect of amyloid beta-peptide (Abeta) on 3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction, cellular ATP content, lactate release, and proliferation using neonatal rat astrocyte cultures. Abeta(1-42) decreased MTT reduction potently in the absence of cell death, but did not affect cellular ATP levels or lactate release. Moreover, the cells displayed increased proliferation after incubation with Abeta(1-42), confirming that the decreased MTT reduction was not deleterious to cell viability. Abeta(1-42) enhanced transfer of MTT dye to the cell surface leading to cessation of MTT reduction and cell death. Bafilomycin A1, but not brefeldin A, prevented the enhanced trafficking of MTT, suggesting that lysosomes, but not Golgi apparatus, are involved. Our results show that the viability of astrocytes themselves is not diminished by beta-amyloid peptide. However, Abeta alters vesicular trafficking in astrocytes, which may disturb the supportive function of astrocytes in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease.
Adenosine exerts two parallel modulatory roles in the CNS, acting as a homeostatic modulator and also as a neuromodulator at the synaptic level. We will present evidence to suggest that these two different modulatory roles are fulfilled by extracellular adenosine originated from different metabolic sources, and involve receptors with different sub-cellular localisation. It is widely accepted that adenosine is an inhibitory modulator in the CNS, a notion that stems from the preponderant role of inhibitory adenosine A(1) receptors in defining the homeostatic modulatory role of adenosine. However, we will review recent data that suggests that the synaptically localised neuromodulatory role of adenosine depend on a balanced activation of inhibitory A(1) receptors and mostly facilitatory A(2A) receptors. This balanced activation of A(1) and A(2A) adenosine receptors depends not only on the transient levels of extracellular adenosine, but also on the direct interaction between A(1) and A(2A) receptors, which control each other's action.
Using sodium (NaN3)-induced anoxia plus aglycaemia as a model of chemically-induced ischemia, we have characterized the endogenous release of excitatory and inhibitory amino acids from superfused hippocampal slices. Chemical ischemia produced an azide (1-30 mM) dose-dependent increase in the efflux of glutamate, aspartate and GABA. These increases were attenuated to varying degrees by removal of Ca2+, or the addition of the voltage dependent Na+-channel blocker tetrodotoxin (TTX), the selective Ca2+ channel blockers conotoxin MVIIA, MVIIC, and nifedipine, the NMDA antagonist MK801, the AMPA antagonist GYKI-52466. Similarly, addition of the GLT-1 glutamate transport inhibitor dihydrokainate (DHK) and the anti-estrogen/anion channel blocker tamoxifen also attenuated the efflux of glutamate and GABA. It would therefore appear that the increases in amino acid efflux induced by chemical ischemia originates from both the neuronal pool, via conventional exocytotic release, and glial sources via reversal of the GLT-1 transporter and anion channel regulated cell swelling.
The effect of N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ) on 5-HT1A receptors was studied in Sprague Dawley rats. A single dose of EEDQ (4 mg/kg body wt., i.p.) significantly inactivated 5-HT1A receptors, as measured by [3H]8-hydroxy-2-[di-n-propylamino]-tetralin ([3H]8-OH-DPAT), in cortex (64%, p &lt; 0.0001) and hippocampus (48%, p &lt; 0.0001). A significant (p &lt; 0.01) increase in the affinity of 5-HT1A receptors for radioligand was observed in both regions. A dose dependent protection of cortical 5-HT1A receptors from EEDQ inactivation with pre-treatment of different doses of 8-OH-DPAT (4-20 mg/kg) was observed, along with recovery of affinity of [3H]8-OH-DPAT for 5-HT1A receptors in both regions. Although, a dose of 4 mg/kg of 8-OH-DPAT failed to attenuate the effect of EEDQ on hippocampal 5-HT1A receptors, a significant protection of these receptors was observed with 10 and 20 mg/kg of 8-OH-DPAT. Displacement studies revealed that EEDQ has more affinity for cortical (Ki = 101.3 +/- 11.8 nM) than hippocampal (Ki = 133.5 +/- 25.8 nM) 5-HT1A receptors. A time dependent natural recovery of 5-HT1A receptors from inactivation by a single dose of EEDQ (4 mg/kg) was observed more in cortex compared to hippocampus over a period from 1 day to 14 days. The results of this study suggest that 8-OH-DPAT inhibited EEDQ inactivation of cortical and hippocampal 5-HT1A receptors in a concentration dependent manner. The synthesis and turnover of 5-HT1A receptors differ in cortex and hippocampus, as evident by earlier recovery in the cortex.
Basal prolactin (PRL) levels in Siberian hamsters are modulated by ambient photoperiod via the nocturnal melatonin signal. Recent evidence from our laboratory has demonstrated that norepinephrine (NE), a putative neurochemical regulator of PRL secretion shows photoperiod-dependent fluctuations in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) that are independent of the pineal melatonin signal. NE content in the PVN is elevated under a short-day photoperiod with a time course that follows the short-day-induced decline in PRL. NE could thus modulate the release of a prolactin-releasing factor that subsequently drives PRL synthesis and release rates. In order to determine whether NE release in the PVN correlates with basal PRL levels, this study evaluated the relationship between extracellular NE levels in the PVN and basal PRL under long- and short-day photoperiod conditions. In addition, the profile of NE during the proestrous surge of PRL was investigated. Female Siberian hamsters were housed either in long-day or short-day photoperiods for 8 weeks. After 6 weeks of photoperiod exposure, the animals were implanted with a stainless steel guide cannula aimed at the PVN. Two weeks later, the animals were fitted with a jugular cannula for serial blood sampling and implanted with an indwelling microdialysis probe. Dialysis samples were collected every 20 min for 5 h (12.00-17.00 h) from short-day-exposed animals and from long-day-exposed animals classified as being either in diestrus or proestrus. Blood samples were collected every hour and analyzed for PRL levels by radioimmunoassay. NE and methoxy-4-hydrophenylglycol (MHPG) levels were significantly higher in short-day-exposed animals, correlating with the suppressed basal secretion of PRL. Both long-day groups had lower NE and MHPG levels, and higher PRL, than the short-day group. However, long-day animals showed a significant decline in NE in proestrus just prior to the onset of the afternoon surge of PRL. These data suggest that NE released within the PVN participates in the regulation of photoperiod effects upon PRL secretion, as well as that of the afternoon surge of PRL on proestrus.
Neuroanatomical tracing techniques, and retrograde labelling in particular, are widely used tools for the analysis of neuronal pathways in the central and peripheral nervous system. Over the last 10 years, these techniques have been used extensively to identify enteric neuronal pathways. In combination with multiple-labelling immunohistochemistry, quantitative data about the projections and neurochemical profile of many functional classes of cells have been acquired. These data have revealed a high degree of organization of the neuronal plexuses, even though the different classes of nerve cell bodies appear to be randomly assorted in ganglia. Each class of neurone has a predictable target, length and polarity of axonal projection, a particular combination of neurochemicals in its cell body and distinctive morphological characteristics. The combination of retrograde labelling with targeted intracellular recording has made it possible to target small populations of cells that would rarely be sampled during random impalements. These neuroanatomical techniques have also been applied successfully to human tissue and are gradually unravelling the complexity of the human enteric nervous system.
Fluctuations in motor disability and dyskinesias are the major problem in the long-term treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD). Many authors and ourselves have shown that by giving patients a continuous infusion of levodopa it is possible to control motor fluctuations. Levodopa can be administered continuously only by intravenous, intragastric or intrajejunal delivery. Continuous dopaminergic stimulation can be achieved more easily by infusing dopamine agonists subcutaneously. Apomorphine is a potent water-soluble dopamine receptor agonist that has been shown to successfully control motor fluctuation when subcutaneously infused in complicated parkinsonian patients. We report the clinical data of 30 PD patients having at least five years of treatment with subcutaneous continuous apomorphine infusion.
Several lines of evidence support the presence of DNA damage in somatic cells of Parkinson's disease (PD) patients due to the formation of free radical species. In order to detect spontaneous chromosome and primary or oxidative DNA damage, we performed the human lymphocyte micronucleus assay (HLMNA) and comet assay in 19 PD patients and 16 healthy controls. Compared with controls, PD patients showed a significant increase in: (I) spontaneous micronucleus (MN) frequency (p&lt;0.001); (2) single strand break (SSB) levels (p&lt;0.001); and (3) oxidized purine base levels (p&lt;0.05). The chromosome damage and the increased levels of oxidized purine bases observed in our patients support the hypothesis of oxidative stress as a relevant factor in the pathogenesis of PD.
The present study investigated behavioural modifications and familiar relations in a group of 15 parkinsonian patients treated with bilateral deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus. In 70% of the patients, during the first months after surgery we observed a euphoric mood owing to motor signs amelioration, but a series of problems (fear to come back to the pre-operative condition, sense of failure, slowness in changing the old habits) arose when it was necessary to adjust the parameters of stimulation and the pharmacological therapy to obtain a stable clinical picture. The caregivers showed an aggressive behaviour as reaction to the persistent psychological dependence of the patients. This distressed condition could be the cause of the onset of incomprehensions within the couple.
Tau and beta-amyloid (1-42) (Abeta42) are two independent markers for the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In the present study, biochemical markers were validated as tools for differential diagnosis between AD and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Tau, Abeta42 and phospho-tau (181P) were measured in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from controls (n=40) and from patients with AD (n=80) or DLB (n=43) using the HT7-AT270 assay (prototype version). In comparison with AD, in DLB no differences were found for Abeta42 and lower phospho-tau. ROC analysis was used to compare the discriminatory power of total tau with that of phospho-tau. The area under the curve (AUC) amounted to 0.782 +/- 0.048 (mean +/- SE) for tau and to 0.839 +/- 0.042 for phospho-tau (p = 0.039) for differentiation of AD from DLB. The present results indicate that CSF phospho-tau may be a good marker for differentiation between AD and DLB.
Proton MR spectroscopy (1H-MRS) has been previously performed in Parkinson's disease (PD) and parkinsonian syndromes to evaluate in vivo concentrations of basal ganglia and cerebral cortex metabolites such as N-acetylaspartate (NAA), choline (Cho), and creatine (Cr). However, this technique has never been used to evaluate motor cortex in untreated PD patients. In this study, single-voxel 1H-MRS of basal ganglia and motor cortex was carried out in 10 de novo patients with PD and 10 age-matched healthy controls. A significant reduction in the NAA/Cr ratio was observed in the motor cortex of PD patients compared with controls (p)&lt;(0.01). Basal ganglia spectra did not allow any evaluation due to the presence of artefacts related to inorganic paramagnetic substances. The motor cortex reduction of the NAA/Cr ratio in de novo PD patients may reflect an altered neuronal functioning due to a loss of thalamocortical excitatory inputs and may represent an in vivo marker for the diagnosis of PD.
Deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus has been proved to be an effective treatment for advanced Parkinson's disease when therapeutical strategies have failed. A correct selection of candidates for surgery is fundamental to obtain a good clinical effect. In this study we present our protocol of patient selection. In addition we report the data relative to the different causes of exclusion and the clinical efficacy of the electrical stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus at 3 months and 1 year follow-up.
A marked decrease in the activity of mitochondrial complex II (succinate dehydrogenase, SD) has been found in the brains of Huntington's disease (HD) patients. Here we have examined the possibility that SD inhibitors might produce their toxic action by increasing corticostriatal glutamatergic transmission. We report that SD inhibitors produce a durable augmentation of NMDA-mediated corticostriatal excitation (DANCE) in striatal spiny neurons, but not in striatal cholinergic interneurons. DANCE involves increased intracellular calcium, activation of MAP kinase ERK and is critically dependent upon endogenous dopamine (DA) acting via D2-like receptors. This pathological form of corticostriatal synaptic plasticity might play a key role in the regional and cell-type specific neuronal death observed in HD.
Neuroimaging studies of the striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) are useful in the assessment of the dopaminergic system in Parkinson's disease (PD). We used positron emisson tomography (PET) and the tracer [11C]FE-CIT to measure DAT binding in the caudate nucleus and putamen of 31 patients with PD, 5 with essential tremor and 8 healthy control subjects. Of the patients with PD, 17 were drug naive, while the others were either on levodopa or dopamine agonist monotherapy. DAT binding was significantly reduced in the caudate nucleus and to a greater extent in the putamen of PD patients compared to both healthy controls and essential tremor individuals. No overlap was observed between putamen values in PD and normals. No differences were found between controls and essential tremor subjects. These data confirm that measurements of DAT binding can provide an accurate and highly sensitive measure of degeneration in the dopamine system in PD.
Cognitive abnormalities have been reported in a large percentage of patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Often cognitive changes are sub-clinical and involve frontal lobe function. In other occasions they develop into full dementia. Functional neuroimaging may help characterize these abnormalities. We have studied brain perfusion with SPECT and the tracer ECD in 44 PD patients, 22 presenting with normal cognitive function and 22 with clinical and neuropsychological signs of dementia. Compared with 21 healthy controls, demented PD patients showed significant perfusion decrements in all cortical areas, particularly temporal and parietal regions; in the non-demented cohort reductions were limited to the frontal lobe area. These results suggest that brain perfusion abnormalities are present in PD patients. It is speculated that different pathological mechanisms underlie perfusion differences.
We describe a patient who has been complaining of brief jerk-like, rhythmic, involuntary movements involving the second digit of the left hand for the last three months. These involuntary jerks produced an adduction movement of the second digit and were unaffected by peripheral sensory stimuli. In addition, the patient experienced loss of dexterity in the left hand. On examination the patient showed hypotrophy of the first dorsal interosseous (FDI) muscle of the left hand and a dissociated sensory loss involving the C8-T1 dermatomes. Magnetic resonance imaging of the brain and spinal cord revealed a tonsilar hemiation characteristic of the Chiari I malformation associated with a syrinx extending from C4 to D5 that did not communicate with the fourth ventricle. The electrophysiological evaluation indicated the presence of a focal myoclonus of spinal origin that is likely to be caused by the syrinx.
We examined the frame of reference of auditory responses in the inferior colliculus in monkeys fixating visual stimuli at different locations. Eye position modulated the level of auditory responses in 33% of the neurons we encountered, but it did not appear to shift their spatial tuning. The effect of eye position on auditory responses was substantial-comparable in magnitude to that of sound location. The eye position signal appeared to interact with the auditory responses in at least a partly multiplicative fashion. We conclude that the representation of sound location in primate IC is distributed and that the frame of reference is intermediate between head- and eye-centered coordinates. The information contained in these neurons appears to be sufficient for later neural stages to calculate the positions of sounds with respect to the eyes.
Formation of glutamatergic synapses entails development of &quot;silent&quot; immature contacts into mature functional synapses. To determine how this transformation occurs, we investigated the development of neurotransmission at single synapses in vitro. Maturation of presynaptic function, assayed with endocytotic markers, followed accumulation of synapsin I. During this period, synaptic transmission was primarily mediated by activation of NMDA receptors, suggesting that most synapses were functionally silent. However, local glutamate application to silent synapses indicated that these synapses contained functional AMPA receptors, suggesting a possible presynaptic locus for silent transmission. Interference with presynaptic vesicle fusion by exposure to tetanus toxin reverted functional to silent transmission, implicating SNARE-mediated fusion as a determinant of the ratio of NMDA:AMPA receptor activation. This work reveals that functional maturation of synaptic transmission involves transformation of presynaptic silent secretion into mature synaptic transmitter release.
Circadian oscillations of clock gene products are thought to provide time-of-day signals that drive overt rhythms. In Drosophila, RNA and protein levels of the period and timeless genes oscillate and the proteins autoregulate their transcription. To test the relevance of these oscillations, we expressed period and timeless under control of constitutively active promoters. Constitutive expression of either RNA supported protein cycling and behavioral rhythms in the respective null mutant, although constitutive timeless was less effective than constitutive period. Constitutive expression of both genes restored behavioral rhythms that showed deficits in photic resetting and drove cyclic expression of the clock-controlled RNA, vrille. Overexpression of either period or timeless, but especially timeless, attenuated behavioral rhythmicity and protein cycling in lateral neurons. We propose that the two proteins must cycle to drive rhythmic expression of downstream genes.



African trypanosomiasis, sleeping sickness in humans, is caused by the systemic infection of the host by the extracellular parasite, the African trypanosome. The pathogenetic mechanisms of the severe symptoms of central nervous system involvement are still not well understood. The present study examined the routes of haematogenous spread of Trypanosoma brucei brucei (Tbb) to the brain, in particular on the question whether parasites can cross the blood-brain barrier, as well as their effect on tight junction proteins. Rats were infected with Tbb and at various times post-infection, the location of the parasite in the central nervous system was examined in relation to the brain vascular endothelium, visualized with an anti-glucose transporter-1 antibody. The tight junction-specific proteins occludin and zonula occludens 1, and the possible activation of the endothelial cell adhesion molecules ICAM-1 and VCAM-1 were also studied. At 12 and 22 days post-infection, the large majority of parasites were confined within blood vessels. At this stage, however, some parasites were also clearly observed in the brain parenchyma. This was accompanied by an upregulation of ICAM-1/VCAM-1. At later stages, 42, 45 and 55 days post-infection, parasites could still be detected within or in association with blood vessels. In addition, the parasite was now frequently found in the brain parenchyma and the extravasation of parasites was more prominent in the white matter than the cerebral cortex. A marked penetration of parasites was seen in the septal nuclei. In spite of this, occludin and zonula occludens 1 staining of the vessels was preserved. The results indicate that the Tbb parasite is able to cross the blood-brain barrier in vivo, without a generalized loss of tight junction proteins.
Exposure of young adult C57BL/6 mice to cuprizone in the diet initiated profound and synchronous demyelination of the corpus callosum, which was virtually complete by 4 weeks of exposure. Interestingly, even in the face of a continued exposure to cuprizone, there was spontaneous remyelination 2 weeks later. This remyelination preferentially involved smaller calibre axons. There was a suggestion of yet another cycle of demyelination (at 10 weeks) and remyelination (at 12 weeks), but by 16 weeks of exposure, the regenerative capacity was exhausted and the animals were near death. The relapsing-remitting pattern suggests this may be a useful model for certain human demyelinating disorders. In contrast to the above chronic model, the corpus callosum from mice exposed to cuprizone for only 6 weeks continued to remyelinate, with 67% of the axons being myelinated or remyelinated at 10 weeks. Interestingly, a significant reduction in the mean value for axonal diameter was observed during acute demyelination. Upon remyelination, however, the axonal calibre distribution returned to near-normal. In contrast, when mice were maintained on a cuprizone diet for 16 weeks, the mean value for axonal diameter was reduced to 60% of normal. These results provide further evidence that the interactions between oligodendrocytes and axons alter axonal calibre.
It is now more than 7 years since the genetic mutation causing Huntington's disease (HD) was first identified. Unstable CAG expansion in the IT15 gene, responsible for disease, is translated into an abnormally long polyglutamine (polyQ) tract near the N-terminus of the huntingtin protein. The presence of expanded polyQ in the mutant protein leads to its abnormal proteolytic cleavage with liberation of toxic N-terminal fragments that tend to aggregate, probably first in the cytoplasm. Subsequent nuclear translocation of the cleaved mutant huntingtin is associated with formation of intranuclear protein aggregates and neurotoxicity, probably involving apoptotic cascades. These processes, which can be experimentally modelled in cultured neuronal and non-neuronal cells, seem to underlie neurodegeneration in HD, and also other polyQ disorders, such as dentatorubro-pallidoluysian degeneration, spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy and the spinocerebellar ataxias. They do not, however, explain why within the corpus striatum and cerebral cortex certain nerve cells are susceptible to disease and others are not. In the human HD brain, vulnerable pyramidal neurones within the deeper layers of the cerebral cortex frequently contain large intranuclear inclusions composed of N-terminal fragments of huntingtin. Such inclusions are, however, rare within neurones of the striatum, even in the medium spiny neurones preferentially lost from this region. While inclusions per se do not seem to be neurotoxic, they may provide a surrogate marker of molecular pathology. Recent studies indicate that the nuclear accumulation of mutant huntingtin interferes with transcriptional events. Of particular importance may be the effect on the genes encoding neurotransmitter receptor proteins, especially those involved with glutamatergic neurotransmission. Such changes may trigger or facilitate a low-grade, chronic excitotoxicity of the glutamatergic cortical projection neurones on their target cells in the striatum, already partly compromised by the toxic effects of the HD mutation. This combination of insults, for anatomical reasons experienced predominantly by striatal projection neurones, would eventually cause their selective demise.
Lithium's therapeutic mechanism of action is unknown. In lithium-treated normal rats, increased striatal concentrations of neurokinin A (NKA)-like immunoreactivity (LI), substance P (SP-LI) and neuropeptide Y (NPY-LI) have been reported. To investigate whether these effects might be of therapeutic relevance, Flinders Sensitive Line rats (FSL), an animal model of depression, and control Flinders Resistant Line (FRL) rats were during a 6-week period fed chow to which either lithium or vehicle was admixed. Following sacrifice, the peptides were extracted from dissected brain regions and measured by radioimmunoassay. NKA-LI and SP-LI were markedly decreased in striatum and increased in frontal cortex in FSL compared to control FRL animals. Lithium treatment abolished these differences. Basal concentrations of NPY-LI were decreased in hippocampus of FSL rats, but unaffected by lithium. The present study suggests that changed tachykinins and NPY may underlie the characterized depressive-like phenotype of the FSL rats. It is hypothesized that altering tachykinin peptidergic neurotransmission in striatum and frontal cortex constitutes a mechanism of action of lithium and that such a mechanism might be of therapeutic relevance.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) is an emerging methodology for studying regional brain function in vivo at relatively high spatial and temporal resolution. Because MRI methods are comparatively inexpensive and entirely noninvasive, fMRI has rapidly become one of the most popular approaches for brain mapping in cognitive and systems neuroscience. There has also been great interest in using fMRI to assist in clinical diagnosis and management, with promising demonstrations of feasibility in a number of applications. Both resting and task-specific regional brain activity can be measured, primarily utilizing alterations in regional cerebral blood flow (CBF) as a surrogate marker for neural function. This article reviews the biophysical and physiological bases of fMRI and its applications to the clinical neurosciences, with particular attention to potential challenges of fMRI under pathophysiological conditions. Carefully controlled prospective evaluation of clinical fMRI in its various potential applications will be required for fMRI to be validated as a clinically useful tool. Because the technology for fMRI is widely available, its impact could be substantial.
The design of database models and schemas for storing, cross-referencing, and retrieving neuroscience information faces issues that are similar but more complex than most of the other biomedical disciplines, such as genomics and proteonomics. Specifically, the visualization and manipulation of very large and diverse image data, such as digital brain atlases and functional magnetic resonance images, play a unique role in neuroscience while much of the associated information is textually recorded. Nongraphical information can include the annotation of large brain structures ranging from anatomical regions to intracellular structures, the description of cellular functional properties, and their various interrelationships, such as fiber connections. It is necessary that the heterogeneous and distributed types of data be cross-referenced to each other so that this diverse information can be efficiently retrieved, shared, and exchanged among the different neuroscientific disciplines. Continued advances in computers and Internet technologies appear to indicate that increasingly large data sets will be maintained on local or regional file servers and that informational interoperability will be achieved using a networked information system infrastructure. The authors and others have proposed and implemented models of semantically organized information systems that utilize centrally stored and highly structured archival information to index, cross-reference, and retrieve diverse, Web-based data sets.
The role of tar yield in the subjective and discriminative stimulus effects of cigarette smoking was examined. Current smokers (n=18) smoked two non-nicotine cigarettes with FTC yields of 0.06 mg nicotine and 12.4 mg (low tar) or 17.9 mg tar (high tar). Physiological measures and visual analog scales were completed over a 30-min period. Dosing order was determined randomly and counterbalanced. After sampling both cigarettes, volunteers smoked a third, test cigarette. Half of the volunteers received the low-tar cigarette and half the high-tar cigarette. Volunteers identified the test cigarette (i.e., A or B) at 5, 30, 60, 300, and 900 s after the first puff. Eight of the eighteen participants correctly identified the test cigarette on 4/5 of trials. No significant changes in visual analog scale scores were found among the non-discriminators. However, among discriminators, the low-tar cigarette produced significant positive effects including good drug effects and stimulation relative to the high-tar cigarette. Relative to the low-tar cigarette, the high-tar cigarette produced negative effects including harshness, heaviness, and intensity of flavor. Average tar yield of these participants' usual cigarettes was 9.75 mg, lower than that of the low-tar cigarette used here, possibly accounting for their greater liking of the low-tar cigarette. No changes in blood pressure or heart rate were observed and both cigarettes produced similar carbon monoxide increases, indicating similar depth of inhalation when smoking each. Results suggest cigarette tar yields may play a role in cigarette smoking preferences. Further research is needed to verify whether preferences are maintained after associations with nicotine delivery are extinguished.
Thirteen cases of distal posterior inferior cerebellar artery (PICA) aneurysms are reported here. All the aneurysms were found after a subarachnoid hemorrhage. Dissecting aneurysm, incidentally found unruptured aneurysms, and aneurysms associated with arteriovenous malformation have been eliminated from this study. Characteristics for this type of lesion are a high rate of recurrent hemorrhage and rapid death due to direct compression of the brain stem, which clearly indicates the necessity of early surgery. Attention should be paid to the fact that angiography cannot always reveal aneurysms, especially when they are located in the peripheral PICA. One should also pay attention to multiple lesions and rapid growing acute subdural hematoma as initial findings for ruptured distal PICA aneurysm. Prognostic factors for these lesions are, vasospasm, especially when the aneurysm is located proximally in the PICA, and direct compression of the brain stem due to intraventricular hemorrhage when the aneurysm is located distally. It has been suggested that the pathogenesis of this lesion could be hemodynamic stress or embryogenesis. The shape and anomalous arterial structures of the 14 aneurysms presented here tend to agree with this suggestion. Our results suggest that the pathogenesis is hemodynamic stress that had developed due to embryological and/or arteriosclerotic factors.

[Carbonyl-(11)C]WAY-100635 ([(11)C]WAY) is an established radioligand for the study of brain serotonin(1A) (5-HT(1A)) receptors in living animals and humans with positron emission tomography (PET). There is a recognised need to develop halogenated ligands for 5-HT(1A) receptors, either for labelling with longer-lived fluorine-18 for more widespread application with PET or with iodine-123 for application with single photon emission tomography (SPET). Here we used autoradiography and PET to assess two new halogenated analogues of WAY, namely 6BPWAY and 6FPWAY [N-(2-(1-(4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-piperazinyl)ethyl))-N-(2-(6-bromo-/fluoro-pyridinyl))cyclohexanecarboxamide] as prospective radioligands, initially using carbon-11 as the radiolabel. Labelling of 6BPWAY and 6FPWAY with carbon-11 was accomplished by acylation of the corresponding secondary amine precursors with [carbonyl-(11)C]cyclohexanecarbonyl chloride. After incubation of human brain crysections with [(11)C]6BPWAY or [(11)C]6FPWAY, the highest accumulation of radioactivity was observed in cortical areas and the hippocampal formation. Both radioligands had high nonspecific binding. There was a rapid accumulation of radioactivity in the monkey brain after intravenous injection of [(11)C]6BPWAY and [(11)C]6FPWAY. High accumulation of radioactivity was observed in the frontal and temporal cortex and the raphe nuclei, areas known to contain a high density of 5-HT(1A) receptors. The ratios of radioactivity in receptor-rich temporal cortex to that in receptor-poor cerebellum at peak equilibrium were 1.9 (at 10 min) and 3.0 at (at 20 min) for [(11)C]6BPWAY and [(11)C]6FPWAY, respectively. In pretreatment experiments with high doses of unlabelled WAY, the level of radioactivity in the frontal and temporal cortex and the raphe nuclei was reduced to the same level as in the cerebellum. Radioactive metabolites of [(11)C]6FPWAY appeared at a rate similar to those for [(11)C]WAY, with 17% of the radioactivity in plasma represented by unchanged radioligand after 40 min. Radioactive metabolites of [(11)C]6BPWAY appeared much more slowly. At 40 min after injection 45% of the radioactivity in plasma still represented unchanged radioligand. The results indicate that 6-pyridinyl radiohalogented analogues of WAY are new leads to radioligands for PET or SPET.
Severe diffuse brain injury in children has a devastating influence on their physical and psychological development. This retrospective study was undertaken to analyse the factors that influence outcome in children with such injuries. The short-term outcomes (Glasgow outcome score) of 74 children (age &lt; or =15 years) with severe diffuse brain injury and no focal operable mass lesions on CT scan, admitted between 1992 and 1998 at the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences were analysed. The prognostic factors analysed were age, gender, time after injury to admission, nature of injury, highest post-resuscitation Glasgow coma score (GCS), pupillary reaction, horizontal oculocephalic reflex and CT scan findings. The following factors were found to be independent predictors of poor outcome: GCS 3-5 (p &lt; 0.003), absent verbal response (p &lt; 0.001), motor response score of 1-3 (p &lt; 0.001), absent pupillary reaction (p &lt; 0.001), absent oculocephalic reflex (p &lt; 0.001) and presence of traumatic subarachnoid haemorrhage on CT scan (p &lt; 0.002). These independent variables were then subjected to a stepwise logistic regression analysis, and the most important variables for predicting outcome were oculocephalic reflex and GCS, which together correctly predicted unfavourable outcome with a sensitivity of 79% and a specificity of 65%. An early CT scan or a single CT scan did not have any prognostic significance.
Chronic, limbic epilepsy was induced in male rats by a single systemic injection of lithium and pilocarpine. In two separate experiments, each 6 mo. in duration, the proportion of the population that displayed an overt motor seizure (head nodding, rearing, and forelimb clonus) within 10 min. each day after delivery of food pellets (despite food provided ad libitum) was recorded. Cumulative records for the numbers of rats in each population that displayed overt seizure for the first time during the observation period were plotted as a function of time. The occurrence of the saturated (approaching 100%) asymptote at about five months was interpreted to indicate that brief (10 min.) sampling over the 144 successive days that would compose a single 24-hr. period could serve as an estimate of the average probability of an overt seizure during an average 24-hr. period. If this assumption is correct, then these rats would have displayed about one overt seizure per day.
A logical extrapolation from the principle that structure dictates function is that transient or anomalous experiences are consequences of simultaneous stimulations of proximal brain regions not typically co-activated. In this paper the occasional shifts in gustatory threshold during the menstrual cycle, the craving for unusual tastes experienced by some during pregnancies, and, the reports by postmenopausal women of the &quot;burning mouth syndrome&quot; are hypothesized to be artifacts of the proximity of gustatory and uterine representations within the female insula. Transient (menstrual) or tonic (pregnancy) stimulation within the uterus might shift the locus of neuronal activity within the insula to include adjacent gustatory neurons and consequently alter taste experiences. Specific tests of this hypothesis are suggested.
Peripheral administration of the 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)(2C/1B) agonist 1-(m-chlorophenyl)piperazine (m-CPP) produces abnormal orofacial movements in rats. We have previously shown that this behavior is mediated by 5-HT(2C) receptors in the subthalamic nucleus [Neuroscience 72 (1996) 117]. The present studies examined this effect after serotonin depletion to determine whether removal of endogenous serotonin affected this behavioral response and/or subthalamic 5-HT(2C) receptors. Rats received an intraventricular infusion of the neurotoxin 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (5,7-DHT, 100 mg/10 ml) or vehicle after desipramine pretreatment (25 mg/kg ip). The efficacy of serotonin depletion was confirmed by a decrease in serotonin uptake sites measured by autoradiography. Oral dyskinesia induced by peripheral administration of m-CPP (1.0 mg/kg ip) was markedly increased in lesioned rats compared to sham-operated controls 4 and 8 but not 12 days after the lesion. A subset of lesioned rats that displayed transient seizures after m-CPP injection did not prevent the measurement of oral dyskinesia during the observation period. No differences in 5-HT(2C) receptor levels were found with ligand-binding autoradiography in the subthalamic nucleus, or in other brain regions that express this receptor, in rats sacrificed 5 days following 5,7-DHT lesions. The data indicate that lesion of serotonergic neurons in adult rats induces a transient increase in motor responses mediated by subthalamic 5-HT(2C) receptors. These data suggest that functional alterations in serotonergic transmission in the subthalamic nucleus may be involved in the pathophysiology of hyperkinetic movement disorders.
In the elevated plus-maze test of anxiety, nicotine (0.1 mg/kg sc; 30 min after injection) had a significant anxiogenic effect, shown by specific decreases in the percentage of time spent on the open arms and in the percentage of open-arm entries. Tolerance developed to this anxiogenic effect after 7 days of nicotine treatment (0.1 mg/kg/day). Five minutes after an acute injection, nicotine (0.1 mg/kg) was ineffective, but after 7 days of treatment a significant anxiolytic effect, shown by specific increases in the percentage of time spent on the open arms and in the percentage of open-arm entries, emerged. After 14 days of nicotine treatment, tolerance developed to this anxiolytic effect. There was a complete dissociation between the effects of nicotine on the measures of anxiety, and on the locomotor activity as measured by closed-arm entries. No changes in closed-arm entries were found after acute administration of nicotine, but rats tested 30 min after their 7th injection made significantly fewer, and those tested 5 min after their 14th injection made significantly more, entries than their respective controls. Rats that were tested after 24 h withdrawal from six daily nicotine injections showed a significant anxiogenic effect. A low dose of nicotine (5 ng) injected into the dorsal hippocampus was without effect in vehicle pretreated rats, but it was able to reverse the anxiogenic effect found after 24 h of withdrawal from 6 days of nicotine treatment.
Previous studies showed that repeated estrogen treatment reduces the ability of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist, 8-hydroxy-2(di-n-propylamino) tetralin (8-OH-DPAT), to inhibit lordosis behavior of female rats. The present study evaluated the effects of repeated estrogen treatment on lordosis behavior and 5-HT(1A) receptor binding and coupling to G protein in the hypothalamus-preoptic area using the agonist ligand [3H]-8-OH-DPAT, which binds selectively to G-protein-coupled 5-HT(1A) receptors. Rats were injected twice with 25 or 50 microg of estradiol benzoate (EB) 7 days apart followed by 500 microg of progesterone (P) 48 h after the second EB injection. Controls received a single injection of 25 or 50 microg EB followed 48 h later by 500 microg of P. Four hours after P, 0.15 mg/kg 8-OH-DPAT was injected, and lordosis behavior examined for 30 min. Rats treated twice with EB showed significantly less 8-OH-DPAT inhibition of lordosis behavior than rats receiving a single EB injection. For receptor binding, rats received EB without P treatment. None of the estrogen treatments reduced [3H]-8-OH-DPAT binding density or affinity in the hypothalamus-preoptic area or hippocampus. These studies suggest that estrogen modulates 5-HT(1A) agonist potency without a measurable change in 5-HT(1A) receptor density or coupling to G protein.
The effect of nitric oxide (NO) on norepinephrine-induced vascular contraction was evaluated using segments of rat aorta and human internal thoracic artery (ITA) and the NO donor, SNAP. NO levels were measured directly using an amperometric probe. Concentrations of NO greater than 2 nM were required to reduce vascular contraction induced by 100 nM norepinephrine (NE). Exposure of the aortic rings to SNAP prior to, or after NE addition, resulted in a similar attenuation of NE-induced contraction. In contrast, increased relaxation of ITA segments in response to SNAP was observed relative to that of rat aorta and significant development of contractile tone following NE addition was not observed. Evaluation of cytoskeletal actin demonstrated marked loss of F-actin content in smooth muscle cells following NO exposure, suggesting that NO may have direct and indirect effects on contractile tone. These data taken together suggest that vascular responsiveness to contractile agents may be significantly attenuated by prior or subsequent exposure to NO, and mechanisms in addition to vascular relaxation are likely to contribute to this effect.

A recent neurophysical model of propagation of electrical waves in the cortex is extended to include a physiologically motivated subcortical feedback loop via the thalamus. The electroencephalographic spectrum when the system is driven by white noise is then calculated analytically in terms of physiological parameters, including the effects of filtering of signals by the cerebrospinal fluid, skull, and scalp. The spectral power at low frequencies is found to vary as f(-1) when awake and f(-3) when asleep, with a breakpoint to a steeper power-law tail at frequencies above about 20 Hz in both cases; the f(-1) range concurs with recent magnetoencephalographic observations of such a regime. Parameter sensitivities are explored, enabling a model with fewer free parameters to be proposed, and showing that spectra predicted for physiologically reasonable parameter values strongly resemble those observed in the laboratory. Alpha and beta peaks seen near 10 Hz and twice that frequency, respectively, in the relaxed wakeful state are generated via subcortical feedback in this model, thereby leading to predictions of their frequencies in terms of physiological parameters, and of correlations in their occurrence. Subcortical feedback is also predicted to be responsible for production of anticorrelated peaks in deep sleep states that correspond to the occurrence of theta rhythm at around half the alpha frequency and sleep spindles at 3/2 times the alpha frequency. An additional positively correlated waking peak near three times the alpha frequency is also predicted and tentatively observed, as are two new types of sleep spindle near 5/2 and 7/2 times the alpha frequency, and anticorrelated with alpha. These results provide a theoretical basis for the conventional division of EEG spectra into frequency bands, but imply that the exact bounds of these bands depend on the individual. Three types of potential instability are found: one at zero frequency, another in the theta band at around half the alpha frequency, and a third at the alpha frequency itself.
Disruption of circadian rhythm can impair long-term passive avoidance memory of rats and mice. The present study investigated whether disruption of circadian rhythm can also impair social memory of male rats. Social memory was assessed using the social discrimination test, in which a short-term olfactory memory is formed by social interaction with a juvenile rat during a learning trial. After an intertrial interval, a retrieval trial is performed, in which social memory is expressed as a decreased attention paid to the same juvenile as compared to a new juvenile. First, the social memory at four different time points across the light-dark cycle was measured with an intertrial interval of 10 or 25 min. There was no significant circadian variation of social memory across the light-dark cycle. Subsequently, the effect of a -6 or 12-h phase shift on social memory was studied. These phase shifts were previously found to impair long-term passive avoidance memory. However, no effect of either phase shift was observed in the social discrimination test. It is concluded that the disruption of circadian rhythm had no effect on the social memory of rats. Differences between short-term social memory and long-term passive avoidance memory are discussed in relation to their apparent differential susceptibility to the effects of circadian rhythm disruption.
Action learning encourages individuals to use reflective processes such as group support and self-directed learning. A staff development programme for nurses in a neurology unit adopted this approach. Action learning groups were used by staff nurses for six months and were evaluated through interviews and questionnaires. Nurses had positive experiences as they developed their practice through the support of others.
Cellular genes that are mutated in neurodegenerative diseases code for proteins that are expressed throughout neural development. Genetic analysis suggests that these genes are essential for a broad range of normal neurodevelopmental processes. The proteins they code for interact with numerous other cellular proteins that are components of signaling pathways involved in patterning of the neural tube and in regional specification of neuronal subtypes. Further, pathogenetic mutations of these genes can cause progressive, sublethal alterations in the cellular homeostasis of evolving regional neuronal subpopulations, culminating in late-onset cell death. Therefore, as a consequence of the disease mutations, targeted cell populations may retain molecular traces of abnormal interactions with disease-associated proteins by exhibiting changes in a spectrum of normal cellular functions and enhanced vulnerability to a host of environmental stressors. These observations suggest that the normal functions of these disease-associated proteins are to ensure the fidelity and integration of developmental events associated with the progressive elaboration of neuronal subtypes as well as the maintenance of mature neuronal populations during adult life. The ability to identify alterations within vulnerable neuronal precursors present in pre-symptomatic individuals prior to the onset of irrevocable cellular injury may help foster the development of effective therapeutic interventions using evolving pharmacologic, gene and stem cell technologies.
1. Several reports have shown that serotonin (5-HT)2A receptor density and its function are altered after physiological or pharmacological stress. To examine whether an acute administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS), a bacterial endotoxin, affected 5-HT2A receptor function, wet dog shakes of male Wistar rats were observed after a subcutaneous injection of DOI, a 5-HT2A receptor agonist following LPS treatment. Body weight change and locomotor activity were also observed. 2. DOI (1 mg/kg)-induced WDS significantly decreased after 400 or 1000 microg/kg LPS treatment compared with that of control rats 1 and 3 hr after injection, and WDS completely recovered 8 hr after LPS treatment. Treatment with 10 mg/kg indomethacin (IND) or 1 mg/kg naltrexone (NLTX) canceled the effect of 400 microg/kg LPS on DOI-induced WDS. 3. Body weight decrease was significantly greater in LPS-treated rats compared with control rats 3, 5 and 8 hr after treatment. Treatment with IND (10 mg/kg) significantly recovered the reduction in body weight induced by 400 microg/kg LPS. Treatment with NLTX (1 mg/kg) also prevented the LPS effect on body weight decrease. 4. Eight hr after treatment with LPS (400 microg/kg), the rats showed significant attenuation of locomotor activity. IND (10 mg/kg) treatment abolished the inhibitory effect of LPS on locomotor activity, and NLTX (1 mg/kg) also improved the decrease in locomotion 8 hr after LPS treatment. 5. Plasma tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha concentration dramatically increased 1 hr after the injection of 400 microg/kg LPS, and returned almost to the basal level 3 hr later. Next, rats were injected with 50 microg/kg TNF-alpha intraperitoneally, and body weight change and DOI-induced WDS was determined 3 hr after TNF-alpha injection. Body weight loss was significantly greater in rats treated with TNF-alpha. On the other hand, DOI-induced WDS was not altered when rats were treated with TNF-alpha. 6. These results suggest that acute treatment with LPS inhibited 5-HT2A receptor-mediated behavior via cyclooxygenase and opioid receptor activation, but that the inhibition of the WDS by LPS appears to be independent of TNF-alpha production.




Subcortical motor nuclei show differential expression of FosB immediate early gene products and specifically deltaFosB after short (8, 19, or 21 days) chronic exposure to typical and atypical neuroleptics represented by haloperidol and clozapine, respectively. We quantitatively examined whether there are light microscopic regional variations in area density of FosB or the truncated deltaFosB in several motor-related nuclei of adult rats receiving vehicle or long chronic (6 months) administration of either depot haloperidol or clozapine in their drinking water. In control animals the dorsomedial and ventromedial caudate-putamen nucleus (CPN) had a significantly higher density of FosB-immunoreactive cells than the dorsolateral and ventrolateral regions. The nucleus accumbens (NAc) core also serving motor functions had a higher basal expression than the limbic shell region in control animals. The mediolateral gradient in area density of FosB-labeled cells was maintained in animals receiving either haloperidol or clozapine. In animals receiving haloperidol, but not clozapine, however, there was a regionally selective increase in the area density of only FosB-immunoreactive neurons in the dorsolateral and ventrolateral CPN and in both the core and shell of the NAc. Only the animals receiving chronic haloperidol showed vacuous chewing movements, the animal equivalent of tardive dyskinesia in humans. Our results suggest that, whereas the medial striatal neurons are activated under basal conditions, long chronic haloperidol induced FosB expression more exclusively in the lateral CPN and NAc core, implicating these regions specifically in the motor side effects of this drug.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized neuropathologically by degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway. With natural aging there is loss of dopaminergic cells in the substantia nigra and, consequently, loss of dopamine transporters in the striatum. It has been suggested that PD is caused by an accelerated rate of cell death. Conceptually, symptoms in idiopathic PD become apparent after a critical level of cell loss, the &quot;symptom threshold.&quot; It has been suggested that this symptom threshold is independent of age. In this study, [123I]FP-CIT SPECT was used to assess the effect of aging on the density of striatal dopamine transporters in vivo in controls (n = 36) and early, drug-naive, patients with PD (n = 32). We found a significant age-associated decline of [123I]FP-CIT binding to striatal dopamine transporters in controls, but not in parkinsonian patients. This finding might give further support for the existence of an age-independent threshold in PD. In a subgroup of patients with hemi-PD, we found a significant loss of dopamine transporters bilaterally in the caudate nucleus and putamen. This loss was more pronounced in the putamen than in the caudate nucleus and the contralateral binding was significantly lower than the ipsilateral binding. By using age-corrected data, we estimated that in our particular patient group motor signs started when the loss of [123I]FP-CIT binding ratios in the putamen was 46-64%.
Prominin is the first identified member of a novel family of polytopic membrane proteins conserved throughout the animal kingdom. It has an unusual membrane topology, containing five transmembrane domains and two large glycosylated extracellular loops. In mammals, prominin is expressed in various embryonic and adult epithelial cells, as well as in nonepithelial cells, such as hematopoietic stem cells. At the subcellular level, prominin is selectively localized in microvilli and other plasma membrane protrusions, irrespective of cell type. At the molecular level, prominin specifically interacts with membrane cholesterol and is a marker of a novel type of cholesterol-based lipid 'raft'. A frameshift mutation in the human prominin gene, which results in a truncated protein that is no longer transported to the cell surface, is associated with retinal degeneration. Given that prominin is concentrated in the plasma membrane evaginations at the base of the outer segment of rod photoreceptor cells, which are essential precursor structures in the biogenesis of photoreceptive disks, it is proposed that prominin has a role in the generation of plasma membrane protrusions, their lipid composition and organization and their membrane-to-membrane interactions.
Despite being one of the most prevalent psychiatric conditions, SCHIZOPHRENIA is still poorly understood, with no clear objective biological marker. The advent of neuroimaging has enabled in vivo investigations to complement older techniques, and has revealed important insights. fMRI provides a means to assess the neurobiological theory that schizophrenia is caused by abnormal fronto-temporal lobe connections. In studies of language abnormalities, fMRI can explicitly assess the hypothesis that the normal lateralization of language is reversed in schizophrenia. Longitudinal fMRI studies, and studies examining the effects of medication, suggest that the technique has further potential to advance our understanding of this complex disorder.
Is language linked to mental representations of space? There are several reasons to think that language and space might be separated in our cognitive systems, but they nevertheless interact in important ways. These interactions are evident in language viewed as a means of communication and in language considered a form of representation. In communication, spatial factors may be explicit in language itself, such as the spatial-gestural system of American Sign Language. Even the act of conversing with others is a spatial behavior because we orient to the locations of other participants. Language and spatial representations probably converge at an abstract level of concepts and simple spatial schemas.
Pathfinding by developing axons towards their proper targets is an essential step in establishing appropriate neuronal connections. Recent work involving cell culture assays and molecular biology strategies, including knockout animals, strongly indicates that a complex network of guidance signals regulates the formation of hippocampal connections during development. Outgrowing axons are routed towards the hippocampal formation by specific expression of long-range cues, which include secreted class 3 semaphorins, netrin 1 and Slit proteins. Local membrane- or substrate-anchored molecules, such as ligands of the ephrin A subclass, provide layer-specific positional information. Understanding the molecular mechanisms that underlie axonal guidance during hippocampal development might be of importance in making therapeutic use of sprouting fibers, which are produced following the loss of afferents in CNS lesion.
Notions of what constitutes a neurotransmitter have changed markedly with the advent in the past decade of synaptic molecules, which satisfy key neurotransmitter criteria but differ radically from classical transmitters. Thus, NO and carbon monoxide are neither stored in synaptic vesicles nor released by exocytosis. These gases do not act via traditional receptors on postsynaptic membranes. In addition, zinc, stored together with glutamate in synaptic vesicles, appears to act as an 'antagonist' co-transmitter at the NMDA receptor, and although localized exclusively to glia, D-serine fulfills most neurotransmitter criteria as an endogenous ligand for the 'glycine' site of NMDA receptors.
Pharmacogenomics, the utilization of genetic information to predict outcome of drug treatment (therapeutic and side-effects), holds great promise for clinical medicine. The pharmacotherapy of psychiatric disorders exhibits wide variability in therapeutic response with little scientific guidance for treatment on a patient-by-patient basis. The emerging field of pharmacogenomics holds great potential for refining and optimizing psychopharmacology. Key components for future development of the pharmacogenomics of psychiatric disorders include understanding the mechanism of drug action, identification of candidate genes and their variants, and well-conducted clinical trials. In this article, data from recent studies are examined with particular emphasis on methodological requirements and direction for future research.
To test whether temporal transient cues could improve colour-constancy estimates, surface-colour matches were made across two Mondrian patterns illuminated by different daylights: the patterns were presented either in the same position in an alternating sequence or, as a control, simultaneously side-by-side. The degree of colour constancy was significantly higher with sequential stimulus presentation than with simultaneous presentation, in the best condition reaching 0.87 on a scale of 0 to 1 for matches averaged over 20 observers. The variance between observers was also markedly reduced with sequential stimulus presentation. The visual system appears to have mechanisms not requiring adaptation that can provide almost unbiased information about surface colour under changing illuminants.


The postnatal development of the subcommissural organ (SCO) glycoprotein secretion in form of Reissner's fiber and the putative control of the serotonin innervation upon the SCO activity were examined by immunohistochemistry in the semi-desert rodent, Meriones shawi. Abundant SCO secretory material and numerous serotoninergic fibers reaching the SCO were observed in newborns meriones. An increase of both secretory material and serotonin fibres density inside the SCO was observed during postnatal period and into adulthood. Neurotoxic destruction with 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine of the SCO serotonin input in the adult or the inhibition of serotonin synthesis by para-chlorophenylalanine at different postnatal ages, resulted in a decrease of the intensity of SCO Reissner's fiber immunolabelling suggesting a reduction in the SCO secretory material. This result might reflect either an inhibition of the synthesis or a stimulation of release of secretory material. These data suggest that serotonin innervation could be precociously involved in the regulation of the merione SCO secretion.
The spinal nucleus of the bulbocavernosus (SNB) is a sexually dimorphic pool of motoneurons that innervates the perineal musculature. In the Mongolian gerbil, the SNB lies dorsolateral to the central canal within the lumbosacral spinal cord. Previously, no information was available on the normal development of the sexual dimorphism of this structure in the Mongolian gerbil, although evidence exists for a peripubertal development of the SNB in the gerbil. At each age from postnatal day 1 (PND1) through PND15 and at PND25, male and female gerbils were aldehyde perfused. Spinal cords were gelatin-embedded, cryoprotected, frozen and sectioned coronally through the lumbosacral transition zone and stained for Nissl substance with thionin. Examination by light microscopy revealed that the number of visible male and female SNB motoneurons significantly increased from PND1 through PND25. The size of the motoneurons also significantly increased in both sexes, however, until PND15 male gerbil SNB showed two significantly different sized populations of motoneurons. These data suggest the development of the SNB in the Mongolian gerbil is delayed, compared to the rat, and may continue well beyond the perinatal time period.
Morphine and morphine-6-glucuronide, a morphine metabolite, have been identified and quantified in Modiolus deminissus pedal ganglia at a level of 2.41 and 0.95 ng/ganglia, respectively. These opiate alkaloids are normally found at low concentrations in invertebrate and vertebrate tissues, including neural. Given this problem, we also describe a new opiate extraction protocol as well as a high-performance liquid chromatography purification procedure that can separate and quantify morphine and its derivatives at sub-nanogram concentrations. Furthermore, both morphine and morphine-6-glucuronide were identified in this mollusk's pedal ganglia by mass spectrometry analysis.
Genetic and biological data have suggested a role for the neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the neuropathophysiology of schizophrenia. Studies in human postmortem brain demonstrate dose-dependent increases in nicotinic receptor binding in normal smokers. We found this upregulation to be reduced in schizophrenic smokers, many of whom had taken typical neuroleptics during their lifetime. The present study examined the hypothesis that typical antipsychotic drug treatment might modulate nicotinic receptor upregulation in a rat model. Nicotine, administered alone or in combination with haloperidol, increased both high and low affinity neuronal nicotinic receptors in a region specific manner. Haloperidol had no generalized effect on basal levels of nicotinic receptor binding or nicotine induced upregulation of nicotinic receptors. However, haloperidol attenuated high affinity nicotinic receptor upregulation in thalamus and low affinity receptor upregulation in hippocampus. These results suggest that haloperidol is not likely to affect nicotinic receptor regulation by smoking in most brain regions.
Potassium channels are amongst the most heterogeneous class of ion channels known and are responsible for mediating a diverse range of biological functions. The most recently described family of K+ channels, the 'two pore-domain family', contain four membrane spanning domains and two pore-forming domains, suggesting that two channel subunits associate to form a functional K+ pore. Several sub-families of the two pore domain potassium channel family have been described, including the weakly inward rectifying K+ channel (TWIK), the acid-sensitive K+ channel (TASK), the TWIK-related K+ channel (TREK) and the TWIK-related arachidonic acid stimulated K+ channel (TRAAK). However, comparison of the mRNA expression of these channels has been difficult due to the differences in methods used and the species studied. In the present study, we used a single technique, TaqMan semi-quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), to investigate the mRNA distribution of all currently known two pore potassium channels in human central nervous system (CNS) and peripheral tissues. TWIK-1 and the TWIK-1-like channel KCNK7 were predominantly expressed in the CNS, in contrast to TWIK-2 which was preferentially expressed in peripheral tissues such as pancreas, stomach, spleen and uterus. TASK-1 was expressed in the CNS and some peripheral tissues, whereas TASK-2 was exclusively expressed in the periphery except for mRNA expression observed in dorsal root ganglion and spinal cord. In addition, mRNA expression of the recently identified TASK-3, was almost completely exclusive to cerebellum with little or no mRNA detected in any other tissues. TREK-1 and TRAAK mRNA expression was predominantly CNS specific in contrast to the closely related TREK-2, which was expressed in both CNS and peripheral tissues. Studying the mRNA expression profiles of known two pore domain K+ channels will aid in the understanding of the biological roles of these channels. Furthermore, identification of common areas of expression may help identify which channels, if any, associate to form heteromeric K+ channel complexes.
GABA(B) receptors act to inhibit neurotransmitter release from presynaptic terminals, and mediate the late inhibitory postsynaptic potential. Studies of GABA(B) receptor function in rodent models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) suggest that GABA(B) receptor expression and/or function may be perturbed. GABA(B(1)) mRNA levels were investigated in 10 hippocampal resection samples obtained at surgery from intractable hippocampal sclerosis (HS) associated TLE patients and five neurologically normal post-mortem (PM) control samples. In situ hybridisation with a 35S-dATP-labelled oligonucleotide was carried out to measure mRNA levels, along with three-dimensional cell counting, for assessment of neuronal density in hippocampal subregions. GABA(B(1)) mRNA was significantly up-regulated in the subiculum of HS samples as compared with PM controls. When adjusted for the characteristic neuronal density changes observed in HS, GABA(B(1)) mRNA was significantly up-regulated in CA1, hilus and dentate gyrus granule cell layer of HS samples as compared with PM controls. The possibility of increased GABA(B(1)) expression suggests that changes in GABA(B) receptor mechanisms may be involved in the pathogenesis of human HS-associated TLE.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) is a lipid transport molecule, which has been linked to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. Recently we have demonstrated that the oxidative insults in hippocampus from AD patients were dependent on the apoE genotype. Interestingly, apoE protein concentration in hippocampus follows a genotype-dependent gradient with the lowest level occurring in varepsilon4 allele carrier. We raised the possibility that, in the hippocampus, the apoE level affects the oxidant/antioxidant balance. Here, we have examined in the apoE-deficient mouse the oxidant/antioxidant status in hippocampus and in frontal cortex from APOE-KO and wild-type mice at 3 and 13 months. We provided evidence that, in the hippocampus, the absence of apoE has a clear impact on the oxidant/antioxidant status. Endogenous level of thiobarbituric acid-reactive substances (TBARS) was found to be markedly elevated whereas level of alpha-tocopherol was decreased in APOE-deficient mice at 3 and 13 months. Superoxide dismutase activities were also lower in APOE-deficient mice at 13 months. Taken together, these data indicate that the steady state level of apoE may influence, to a certain extent, the balance between oxidants and antioxidants in hippocampus.
The opioid system has important roles in controlling pain, reward and addiction, and is implicated in numerous other processes within and outside the nervous system, such as mood states, immune responses, and prenatal developmental processes. The effects of the opioid system are mediated by at least three ligands, enkephalin, endorphin, and dynorphin, which act through the opioid receptors mu, delta, and kappa. In order to dissect the roles of individual components of the opioid system, mutant mice lacking single ligands or receptors are instrumental. We report here on the generation and initial characterization of a mutant mouse strain lacking pre-prodynorphin. Dynorphin 'knockout' mice are viable, healthy, and fertile and show no overt behavioral differences to wildtype littermates. Dynorphin knockout mice constitute a valuable tool for many research areas, among them research into pain, substance abuse, and epilepsy.
Hypothermia may afford histological neuroprotection induced by ischemia by preventing aberrant Ca2+ influx through NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartic acid) or Ca2+-permeable AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid) receptors. Expression of hippocampal GluR1A, GluR2B, GluR3C and NMDAR1 (NR1) subunits was investigated by in situ hybridization at 1 and 7 days after 10-min transient global ischemia in the presence and absence of intraischemic or postischemic brain hypothermia (30 degrees C). At 1 day, normothermic ischemia markedly suppressed the expression of GluR1A, GluR2B, and GluR3C receptor mRNAs to a similar degree in the vulnerable CA1. Less vulnerable CA3a-c subregions were also acutely downregulated. NR1 mRNA expression was reduced in CA1 but to a lesser extent than AMPA mRNAs. At 7 days after normothermic ischemia, a time of marked CA1 cell loss, all three AMPA transcripts were nearly absent in CA1 while a percentage (33.9+/-7.2%) of NR1 mRNA remained. Intraischemic hypothermia fully blocked the damage and non-selective mRNA downregulations at 1 and 7 days. By contrast, postischemic hypothermia postponed neurodegeneration but only partially rescued the expression of AMPA and NR1 mRNAs at 7 days and not at 1 day after the insult. Therefore, hippocampal AMPA receptor mRNAs decline at a relatively similar rate after normothermic global ischemia and cellular neuroprotection by intraischemic hypothermia occurred independently of altered subunit composition of AMPA receptors. Since decreases persist within resistant neurons under the postischemic condition, AMPA receptor-mediated Ca2+ currents probably do not contribute to selective vulnerability.
We previously defined a cholesterol recognition/interaction amino acid consensus (CRAC; ATVLNYYVWRDNS) in the carboxyl terminus of the peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor (PBR), an outer mitochondrial membrane protein involved in the regulation of cholesterol transport into the mitochondria, the rate-determining step in steroid biosynthesis. We examined (i) the PBR-cholesterol interaction by UV crosslinking of the C17 side-chain containing progestin, promegestone, and (ii) the role of the CRAC domain of PBR in Leydig cell steroidogenesis by using a transducible peptide composed of the TAT domain of HIV and the CRAC domain of PBR. [(3)H]Promegestone photoincorporated into recombinant PBR, and this labeling was displaced by cholesterol. [(3)H]Promegestone also photoincorporated into the TAT-CRAC peptide. [(3)H]Promegestone crosslinking to TAT-CRAC could be displaced by cholesterol and promegestone, with IC50 values of 1 and 200 microM, respectively. TAT-CRAC efficiently transduced into MA-10 Leydig cells and inhibited the hCG- and cAMP-stimulated steroid production in a dose-dependent manner. TAT-CRAC did not affect the hCG-induced cAMP synthesis and the 22R-hydroxycholesterol-supported steroidogenesis. Mutated TAT-CRAC lost its ability to bind [(3)H]promegestone and to inhibit the hCG-stimulated steroidogenesis. These results show that TAT-CRAC binds cholesterol and competes for cholesterol interaction with endogenous PBR, suggesting that the cytosolic carboxyl-terminal domain of PBR is responsible for taking up and bringing steroidogenic cholesterol into the mitochondria.
The neurotransmitters dopamine (DA) and glutamate in the striatum play key roles in movement and cognition, and they are implicated in disorders of the basal ganglia such as Parkinson's disease. Excitatory synapses in striatum undergo a form of developmental plasticity characterized by a decrease in glutamate release probability. Here we demonstrate that this form of synaptic plasticity is DA and DA D2 receptor dependent. Analysis of spontaneous synaptic responses indicates that a presynaptic mechanism involving inhibition of neurotransmitter release underlies the developmental plasticity. We suggest that a major role of DA in the striatum is to initiate mechanisms that regulate the efficacy of excitatory striatal synapses, producing a decrease in glutamate release.
Recent advances in understanding the composition of the human and mouse genomes have paved the way to a more detailed understanding of the influence of genes on behavior, particularly learning and memory. One problem with many learning paradigms is the great length of training time required to generate a stable baseline. Our goal for the current studies was to develop a method of rapidly assessing learning and to use it to compare various strains of mice. The acquisition of a simple nose-poke was determined in operant chambers with two nose-poke holes illuminated: a single nose poke in one hole resulted in the presentation of 0.01 ml evaporated milk; responses in the other hole did not result in dipper presentation. All mice of the B6JxImJ F1, C57BL/6J, 129X1/SvJ and C3H/HeJ mice emitted 50 or more correct operant responses, whereas fewer than 50% of 129X1/SvJ and 75-90% of mice of Balb/cByJ, DBA/2J and the outbred CD-1 mice emitted 50 or more correct operant responses. On average, C57BL/6J emitted 50 operative responses in less than 30 min, whereas DBA/2J mice required nearly 1 h to complete 50 operative responses. Other strains performed at intermediate levels. There was no apparent relationship between operant activity and locomotor activity that may have influenced response acquisition. These findings are consistent with those reported using other learning paradigms and provide a rapid method of learning assessment.
To understand the mechanisms leading to the progressive loss of intrinsic neuronal growth properties during central nervous system development, we have investigated the evolution of the response to injury and regenerative potential of immature Purkinje cells, axotomized at different postnatal ages from postnatal day (P)3 to P12. In adult rodents, these neurons are characterised by a weak cell body response to axotomy, which is associated with a remarkable resistance to injury and a poor regenerative capability. During the first postnatal week, Purkinje cells are strongly sensitive to injury and massively degenerate within a few days. Immature Purkinje cells react to neurite transection by a strong upregulation of c-Jun, accompanied by a moderate, but consistent, expression of the growth-associated protein (GAP)-43. In contrast, nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide monophosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase reactivity, which can be activated by adult Purkinje neurons, is not modified in their juvenile counterparts. The severed Purkinje axons show a vigorous regenerative sprouting both into the lesioned cerebellar environment and into embryonic neocortical tissue transplanted into the injury site. The typical adult features of the response to injury progressively develop during the second postnatal week, when the injured neurons acquire resistance, cell body changes become milder, the regenerative potential declines, and the severed axons undergo characteristic morphological modifications, including torpedoes and the hypertrophy of recurrent collateral branches. This complete reversal of the features and the outcome of the Purkinje cell reaction to axotomy likely results from the profound changes that occur in the maturing Purkinje cells and/or in their microenvironment during this phase of cerebellar development.
Messenger RNA (mRNA) targeting to specific subcellular domains has been studied extensively in many cell types, and there is increasing evidence suggesting that mRNA sorting also occurs in astrocytes. As a step toward developing strategies to evaluate the signals that govern mRNA sorting in astrocytes, the authors studied the subcellular distribution of several representative mRNAs, poly(A) RNA and ribosomal RNA, in process-bearing (type-2) astroglial cells in culture. Nonradioactive in situ hybridization analysis revealed a gradual increase in the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) mRNA as type-2 astrocytes differentiated in culture. In mature cells, labeling was present in both cell bodies and processes. GFAP mRNA labeling was granular in nature and was particularly concentrated at branch points and at the tips of the processes. Unlike GFAP mRNA, vimentin, beta-tubulin, and beta- and gamma-actin mRNAs were mainly confined to the cell bodies, with only occasional labeling seen in the processes. Nonradioactive and radioactive in situ hybridization analysis of poly(A) and ribosomal RNA, respectively, revealed labeling in cell bodies and processes of immature and differentiated astrocytes. Treatment with nocodazole, a microtubule depolymerizing agent, resulted in a substantial reduction of GFAP mRNA labeling in the processes, whereas treatment with cytochalasin D, a microfilament-disrupting agent, did not alter GFAP mRNA distribution. The results indicate that cultured type-2 astrocytes have the capacity to sort mRNAs to different subcellular domains and that the localization of GFAP mRNA to astrocyte processes requires intact microtubules.

Expression of inducible transcription factors (ITFs) c-Fos and FosB was investigated during acquisition of alcohol drinking in C57BL/6J mice. A slight but statistically significant increase in c-Fos expression was found in the Edinger-Westphal nucleus (EW) of animals consuming 2% ethanol/10% sucrose for the first time. Stronger expression of c-Fos in EW was found in animals repeatedly consuming ethanol-containing solutions. These findings underscore the potential importance of EW in alcohol-related behaviors.
Extracellular glutamate levels were measured by microdialysis in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) of anaesthetised rats in response to a short, experimenter-provoked mechanical movement of the animal head. Movement caused significant, nerve impulse-independent elevations of glutamate levels (maximum increase, 300+/-30% of baseline). This study reveals a possible artifact in the measurement of extracellular glutamate concentrations by microdialysis and suggests that, in awake animals, treatments associated with stimulation of motor activity can cause non-specific efflux of glutamate in the PFC.
Hepatoblastoma, a rare pediatric liver tumour, is a poorly understood disease. While expression studies for some members of the Insulin-like growth factor axis have been studied in hepatoblastoma, a systematic analysis of the IGF-axis has not been carried out. We have examined a series of hepatoblastomas with matched normal liver tissue for gene expression differences with emphasis on members of the insulin-like growth factor binding proteins. The expression profiles obtained reveal that the expression of these genes are altered in these tumors. The results indicate that the IGF-axis is seriously disturbed in the tumors.
Tau in Alzheimer neurofibrillary tangles has been shown to be hyperphosphorylated and CDK5, GSK3, MAP kinase and SAP kinases are the candidate kinases for the phosphorylation of tau. Recently, it was reported that the conversion of p35, the activator of CDK5, to p25 was upregulated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains, and that p35 is cleaved to yield p25 by calpain. Here we show that p35 is rapidly cleaved to p25 in rat and human brains within a short postmortem delay and that the conversion of p35 to p25 is partially dependent on calpain activity. Immunoblot analysis of brains prepared from patients with AD or age-matched control individuals with a short postmortem delay revealed no specific increase in the levels of p25 in AD brains, whereas the levels of active form of calpain were increased in AD brains compared to the those in controls. These observations suggest that the conversion of p35 to p25 is a postmortem degradation event and may not be upregulated in AD brains.
N-Methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor activation of extracellular-signal regulated kinase (ERK) was examined in primary cortical cultures. Tetrodotoxin, NMDA receptor antagonists, or reduced extracellular calcium (0.1 mm) greatly decreased basal levels of phospho-ERK2, indicating that activity-dependent activation of NMDA receptors maintained a high level of basal ERK2 activation. This activity-dependent activation of phospho-ERK2 was blocked by pertussis toxin and inhibition of calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II and phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase but not by inhibition of protein kinase C or cAMP-dependent protein kinase. Addition of a calcium ionophore or 100 microm NMDA decreased phospho-ERK2 in the presence of 1 mm extracellular calcium but enhanced phospho-ERK2 in 0.1 mm extracellular calcium. The reduction in basal phospho-ERK2 by 100 microm NMDA was also reflected as a decrease in phospho-cAMP response element-binding protein. Inhibition of tyrosine phosphatases and serine/threonine phosphatases protein phosphatase 1 (PP1), PP2A, and PP2B did not prevent the inhibitory effect of NMDA. In the presence of tetrodotoxin, NMDA produced a bell-shaped dose-response curve with stimulation of phospho-ERK2 at 10, 25, and 50 microm NMDA and reduced stimulation at 100 microm NMDA. NMDA (50 microm) stimulation of phospho-ERK2 was completely blocked by pertussis toxin and inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and was partially blocked by a calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II inhibitor. These results suggests that NMDA receptors can bidirectionally control ERK signaling.
The retinal receptor rhodopsin undergoes a conformational change upon light excitation to form metarhodopsin II (Meta II), which allows interaction and activation of its cognate G protein, transducin (G(t)). A C-terminal 11-amino acid peptide from transducin, G(talpha)-(340-350), has been shown to both bind and stabilize the Meta II conformation, mimicking heterotrimeric G(t). Using a combinatorial library we identified analogs of G(talpha)-(340-350) that bound light-activated rhodopsin with high affinity (Martin, E. L., Rens-Domiano, S., Schatz, P. J., and Hamm, H. E. (1996) J. Biol. Chem. 271, 361-366). We have made peptides with key substitutions either on the background of the native G(talpha)-(340-350) sequence or on the high affinity sequences and used the stabilization of Meta II as a tool to determine which amino acids are critical in G protein-rhodopsin interaction. Removal of the positive charge at the N termini by acylation or delocalization of the charge by K to R substitution enhances the affinity of the G(talpha)-(340-350) peptides for Meta II, whereas a decrease was observed following C-terminal amidation. Cys-347, a residue conserved in pertussis toxin-sensitive G proteins, was shown to interact with a hydrophobic site in Meta II. These studies provide further insight into the mechanism of interaction between the G(talpha) C terminus and light-activated rhodopsin.
Abnormal aggregates of tau and neurofilaments are pathologies of Alzheimer's disease. Some of these aggregates are insoluble in chaotropic salts and ionic detergents but the mechanisms that lead to this are not clear. One suggestion is that it is due to crosslinking by tissue transglutaminase. Both tau and neurofilaments can be crosslinked by transglutaminase in vitro and one isoform of tau is now known to be a cellular transglutaminase substrate. However there is no evidence to demonstrate that neurofilaments are cellular substrates for transglutaminase and it is not clear whether other isoforms of tau are equally susceptible to transglutaminase crosslinking. Here, we demonstrate that three different tau isoforms and neurofilament light, middle and heavy chain proteins are all cellular substrates for transglutaminase.

Bidirectional signaling between neocortex and limbic cortex has been hypothesized to contribute to the retrieval of long-term memory. We tested this hypothesis by comparing the time courses of perceptual and memory-retrieval signals in two neighboring areas in temporal cortex, area TE (TE) and perirhinal cortex (PRh), while monkeys were performing a visual pair-association task. Perceptual signal reached TE before PRh, confirming its forward propagation. In contrast, memory-retrieval signal appeared earlier in PRh, and TE neurons were then gradually recruited to represent the sought target. A reasonable interpretation of this finding is that the rich backward fiber projections from PRh to TE may underlie the activation of TE neurons that represent a visual object retrieved from long-term memory.

When rats learn a motor skill, synaptic potentials in the motor cortex are enhanced. A new study has revealed that this learning-induced enhancement limits further synaptic potentiation, but not synaptic depression. These findings support the view that activity-dependent synaptic plasticity is the brain's memory mechanism.
Decreased glutamate uptake and a loss of the astrocytic glutamate transporter EAAT2 (GLT-1) have been shown in spinal cord and motor cortex of patients with ALS. Because platelets express the three major glutamate transporter subtypes, including GLT-1, and possess a high-affinity glutamate uptake, the authors investigated glutamate uptake in platelets from patients with ALS and controls. A 43% reduction of high-affinity glutamate uptake rate (p &lt; 0.0001) was observed in patients with ALS compared with normal controls and chronic neurologic disorder patients, suggesting a systemic impairment of glutamate uptake in ALS.

We report on a seven-year-old Japanese boy with Pearson syndrome, which is characterized by refractory sideroblastic anemia with vacuolization of marrow precursors and dysfunction of the exocrine pancreas, and caused by mitochondrial (mt) DNA deletions and duplications. Although analysis with Southern hybridization on his bone marrow cells at age one year or on the muscle at age five years did not detect any duplications of mtDNA, an analysis after death at age seven years detected them in the kidney, heart, and even in the bone marrow. Using long PCR to specifically amplify duplicated mtDNA, we found duplications in all biopsy and postmortem samples, indicating that duplications had been present in the patient since his early life, and that the number of duplications increased with age. The results indicate some dynamism in the mtDNA duplication and that the dynamism may imply clinical importance.
Previous studies have reported that the mRNAs encoding the cloned mu-opioid receptor (MOR1) and the cloned delta-opioid receptor (DOR1) are expressed in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG) of rats. In the present study, we determined the sizes of DRG neurons expressing DOR1 and MOR1 mRNAs and examined whether or not DRG neurons were likely to be the source of the DOR1 and MOR1 immunoreactivity previously observed in the spinal dorsal horn. DRG neurons were labeled in five male Sprague-Dawley rats by applying Fluoro-Gold (FG) topically to the dorsal root entry zone. Five-micrometer cryostat sections were cut, and in situ hybridization was performed using full-length cRNA probes labeled with 35S-UTP. The distribution of sizes of DRG neuronal profiles (1372 neuronal profiles were evaluated) ranged from 98 to 2081 microm(2) and was similar to those found in previous reports. Of 583 retrogradely labeled neuronal profiles in DRGs, 246 (40 +/- 14%, mean +/- SD, n = 5) expressed MOR1 mRNA. Of 789 DRG cell profiles from sections that were hybridized for DOR1 mRNA, 687 (85 +/- 18%, mean +/- SD, n = 5) were labeled for DOR1. The proportion of DRG cell profiles expressing DOR1 mRNA was significantly higher than that expressing MOR1 mRNA (P &lt; 0.0001, chi-square test). No significant differences were observed between small (less than or = 700 microm(2)) and large (&gt; 700 microm(2)) FG-labeled neurons in the proportions labeled for either MOR1 mRNA (202/497 vs. 44/86, P &gt; 0.2, chi-square test) or DOR1 mRNA (555/651 vs. 132/138, P &gt; 0.3, chi-square test). Most FG-labeled neurons that expressed either MOR1 mRNA or DOR1 mRNA (82.1 and 80.8%, respectively) were smaller than 700 microm(2). In addition to cells expressing a single opioid receptor, individual DRG neurons were observed that expressed both MOR1 and DOR1. In a sample of 25 DRG neurons expressing MOR1-mRNA, 23 also expressed DOR1 mRNA. Within the spinal cord itself, DOR1 and MOR1 mRNAs had different patterns of expression. Both were expressed in the dorsal horn, but of the two, only MOR1 message was expressed in the superficial dorsal horn. We conclude that both small and large DRG neurons express DOR1 and MOR1 mRNAs, but most cells expressing these mRNAs are small. In addition, some DRG neurons express both MOR1 and DOR1 mRNAs. Finally, both DOR1 and MOR1 in the spinal dorsal horn originate, at least in part, from DRG neurons.
The supramammillary (SUM)-hippocampal pathway plays a central role in the regulation of theta rhythm frequency. We followed its prenatal development in eight Cynomolgus monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) from embryonic day E88 to postnatal day 12 (term 165 days) and in eight human fetuses from 17.5 to 40 gestational weeks, relying on neurochemical criteria established in the adult (Nitsch and Leranth [1993] Neuroscience 55:797-812). We found that 1) SUM afferents reached the dentate juxtagranular and CA2 pyramidal cell layers at midgestation in human fetuses, earlier than in monkeys (two-thirds of gestation [E109]). They co-expressed calretinin, substance P, and acetylcholinesterase but not gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) or glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD); 2) the presumed parent neurons in the monkey SUM expressed calretinin or both calretinin and substance P; 3) most of them were surrounded by GAD-containing terminals that might correspond to the septo-SUM feedback pathway (Leranth et al. [1999] Neuroscience 88:701); and 4) in addition, a large band of calretinin-labeled terminals that did not co-express substance P, GAD, or acetylcholinesterase was present in the deepest one-third of the dentate molecular layer in both the Cynomolgus monkey and human fetuses. It persisted in the adult monkey but not in adult human hippocampus; it remains questionable whether it originates in the SUM. In conclusion, the early ingrowth of the excitatory SUM-hippocampal system in human and non-human primates may contribute to the prenatal activity-dependent development of the hippocampal formation. The possibility and the functional importance of an in utero generation of hippocampal theta-like activity should also be considered.
The perception of the spatial location of an auditory stimulus can be captured by a spatially disparate visual stimulus, a phenomenon known as the ventriloquism effect. This study investigated the temporal and spatial dependency of this illusion. In the temporal domain, only disparities of 50-100 ms were perceived as simultaneous, and disparities where the visual stimulus occurred before the auditory stimulus were more effective in creating the illusion. In the spatial domain, the illusion was elicited most strongly at spatial disparities below spatial discrimination thresholds. There was also a significant interaction between temporal and spatial disparities. These results indicate that both temporal and spatial parameters are critical in the perception of real world objects in extrapersonal space.
Presenilin-2 (PS2; AD4), a regulator of intercellular signaling during CNS development and cell fate determination, appears to be involved in pathogenic processing of beta-amyloid precursor protein (betaAPP) into potentially neurotoxic beta-amyloid (Abeta) peptides. The PS2 gene promoter contains multiple DNA binding sites for the relatively rare hypoxia-inducible transcription factor HIF-1, suggesting that PS2 expression may be a sensitive indicator of decreased oxygen availability. We have used a cycled hypoxia/hyperoxia (10-50% O2) protocol followed by normoxia (20% O2) as a retinal model of retinopathy of prematurity to induce neovascularization (NV) in rat pups. Retinal cell nuclear extracts from pups undergoing hypoxia exhibited a dramatic increase in HIF-1-DNA binding, followed by a delayed (2-7 day) elevation of PS2 RNA message and protein. PS2 gene activation during hypoxia may direct cellular fate towards pathoangiogenesis and intercellular PS2-mediated signaling dysfunction.
We tested the hypothesis that the decrease in spinal levels of SP and CGRP after peripheral nerve injury is related to neuropathic pain. We compared two groups of rats, both of which were subjected to unilateral transection of the inferior and superior caudal trunks between the S1 and S2 spinal nerves. One group exhibited well-developed neuropathic signs after the nerve injury, whereas the other group showed poorly developed signs despite the same nerve injury. The decrease in immunoreactivity of CGRP and SP in the S1 dorsal horn (injured segment) was not significantly different between the two groups. These results suggest that the decrease in spinal levels of CGRP and SP after peripheral nerve injury is not related to neuropathic pain.
The aim of this study was to evaluate whether galanin could affect central alpha2-adrenoceptors in telencephalic and diencephalic regions in the rat using quantitative receptor autoradiography with the alpha2 agonist radioligand [3H]p-aminoclonidine. Galanin 1 nM significantly and substantially increased the Kd value of the [3H]p-aminoclonidine binding sites in the medial hypothalamus and amygdala by 86% (p &lt; 0.01) and 73% (p &lt; 0.05) respectively. The Bmax value was only significantly increased with 3 nM galanin in the amygdala and the medial hypothalamus (both p &lt; 0.05). The antagonist M35 counteracted the increase of the Kd values of the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist binding sites produced by galanin 1 nM in the amygdala and the medial hypothalamus (both p &lt; 0.001). These findings suggest the existence of an antagonistic galanin/alpha2 adrenoceptor interaction in the medial hypothalamus and amygdala that may be of relevance for alpha2-adrenoceptor-regulated neuroendocrine functions and food intake.
A transcriptional regulation of bFGF expression via both gluco- and mineralocorticoid receptors is known to exist. In the present study the glial nuclear fraction of bFGF transcripts was studied in sham-operated (SHAM), adrenalectomized (ADX), and corticosterone-treated ADX rats in subregions of the dorsal hippocampal formation. A substantial increase was observed in the population of bFGF RNA-expressing glial cells after acute corticosterone treatment (10 mg/kg, s.c.) in subregions of the CA1 area and the dentate gyrus but no changes were observed after adrenalectomy. The levels of glial nuclear bFGF transcripts were similar in all the experimental groups. These data suggest that in a subpopulation of hippocampal glial cells corticosterone regulates bFGF gene expression transcriptionally in an on/off manner.
Nitric oxide is implicated in peripheral nociceptive processing. This study determined the effects of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, L-NAME, on neural discharge from articular C-fibre afferents innervating normal and arthritic ankle joints in anaesthetized rats. Intra-arterial injection of L-NAME (10-20 mg kg(-1)) increased neural discharge in normal and arthritic ankle joints, whereas D-NAME (30 mg kg(-1)) had no effect. The excitation induced by L-NAME (20 mg kg(-1)) was reduced by co-injecting the nitric oxide precursor, L-arginine (50 mg kg(-1)). L-NAME (20 mg kg(-1)) also enhanced responsiveness to bradykinin (10 microg) but only in arthritic rats, whereas L-arginine (50 mg kg(-1)) reduced the excitation by bradykinin (30 microg) in both groups. These results provide evidence that nitric oxide modulates articular C-fibre activity and reduces responsiveness to bradykinin.

Fridtjof Nansen (1861-1930) started his four-year research carrier in neurobiology at the Museum in Bergen in 1882. His PhD thesis from 1886 describes the structure of the nervous system in selected groups of invertebrates and in Amphioxus and the hagfish. For his time, he was a firm antireticularist and is still recognised as a forerunner of the emerging neurone doctrine of contiguity and no continuity between neurons in neural pathways.
Aspects of the anatomy and physiology of the cone pathway are known to vary according to the phase of the natural light cycle. Using a prolonged flash stimulus ( approximately 200 ms), we have examined the human electroretinogram (ERG) over a 24 h period. We report that whilst the a-wave of the photopic ERG does not alter, there are profound effects upon the implicit times of both the b-wave and d-wave components. Both components are significantly slower in the night-time period and systematically become faster (15-22% reduction in implicit time), reaching a peak at around midday. The daily variation in the temporal properties of the ERG is abolished by constant light, but is retained during constant darkness. The data suggest that the changes in the temporal properties of the cone pathway affect both cone-ON and cone-OFF pathways. This suggests that the diurnal effect is presynaptic to the second order neurones, and most likely resides in the cone synapse.
A proportion of differentiated SH-SY5Y cells undergo cell death in response to withdrawal of serum. This death manifests the hallmark features of apoptosis including changes in nuclear morphology, processing and activation of caspase 3 and cleavage of the caspase 3 substrates acetyl-Asp-Glu-Val-Asp-aminomethylcoumarin and poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase. These findings represent the first demonstration of serum withdrawal induced apoptosis in SH-SY5Y cells. The reduction in viability induced by serum deprivation and assessed using an inhibitor of mitochondrial respiration can be partially inhibited by FK506, but FK506 does not prevent caspase 3 processing or cleavage of caspase 3 substrates. FK506 is also able to promote the viability of a small proportion of embryonic mouse sensory neurons following nerve growth factor-withdrawal induced apoptosis. FK506 did not promote viability in either cell type in the absence of serum- or nerve growth factor-withdrawal. These observations are consistent with a survival-promoting effect of FK506 in cultured neurons.
A bilateral projection from the vestibular efferent neurons, located dorsal to the genu of the facial nerve, to the cerebellar flocculus and ventral paraflocculus was demonstrated. Efferent neurons were double-labeled by the unilateral injections of separate retrograde tracers into the labyrinth and into the floccular and ventral parafloccular lobules. Efferent neurons were found with double retrograde tracer labeling both ipsilateral and contralateral to the sites of injection. No double labeling was found when using a fluorescent tracer with non-fluorescent tracers such as horseradish peroxidase (HRP) or biotinylated dextran amine (BDA), but large percentages of efferent neurons were found to be double labeled when using two fluorescent substances including: fluorogold, microruby dextran amine, or rhodamine labeled latex beads. These data suggest a potential role for vestibular efferent neurons in modulating the dynamics of the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) during normal and adaptive conditions.
We examined the effects of FK506 and its non-immunosuppressive derivative, GPI1046, on H(2)O(2)-induced oxidative cell damage in NG 108-15 cells. Our results suggest that the protective properties of GPI1046 are equipotent with those of FK506 and may be mediated by increased intracellular concentrations of glutathione (GSH). Thus, non-immunosuppressive immunophilin ligands such as GPI1046 might be potentially for neurodegenerative diseases, particularly since they do not have serious side effects such as immune deficiency.
beta Amyloid (Abeta) treatment induced free radical production and increased glucose uptake, apoptosis and cell death in PC12 nerve cells. Addition of the standardized extract of Ginkgo biloba leaves, EGb 761 together with the Abeta protein prevented, in a dose-dependent manner, the Abeta-induced free radical production, increased glucose uptake, apoptosis and cell death. However, pretreatment of the cells with EGb 761 did not rescue the cells from the Abeta-induced toxicity although it prevented the Abeta-induced reactive oxygen species generation. Moreover, the terpene and flavonoid-free EGb 761 extract, HE 208, although inhibited the Abeta-induced increased glucose uptake, it failed to protect the cells from apoptosis and cytotoxicity induced by Abeta. In conclusion, these results indicate that the terpenoid and flavonoid constituents of EGb 761, acting probably in combination with components present in HE 208, are responsible for rescuing the neuronal cells from Abeta-induced apoptosis and cell death; their mechanism of action being distinct of their antioxidant properties. Because pre- and post-treatment with EGb 761 did not protect the cells from Abeta-induced neurotoxicity, we examined whether EGb 761 interacts directly with Abeta. Indeed, in vitro reconstitution studies demonstrated that EGb 761 inhibits, in a dose-dependent manner, the formation of beta-amyloid-derived diffusible neurotoxic soluble ligands (ADDLs), suggested to be involved in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
The present study demonstrates sites of expression for Fos protein in the brainstem and lumbosacral spinal cord of rats subjected to mustard oil irritation of the colon. The protective effect of baclofen, a selective GABA(B) receptor agonist, on the induced Fos protein increases was determined. Mustard oil injected into the lumen of the colon produces an acute site-specific inflammation. Immunocytochemical localization of Fos protein in neuronal nuclei was evident after 1 h, was greatest at 2 h and was still evident but declining at 8 h. In the spinal cord the majority of Fos labeled neurons were localized in the superficial laminae of lumbar (L6) cord with more found in the sacral (S1) cord. Some labeled neurons were also found in the deeper spinal laminae, intermediolateral nucleus and around lamina X. Brainstem sites expressing Fos included the nucleus of the solitary tract in the medulla, parabrachial, locus coeruleus, pontine and caudal dorsal raphe nuclei and periaqueductal gray. Weak Fos protein labeling existed in a few cells in vehicle control animals. Systemic administration of the GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen (10 mg/kg, i.p.), significantly reduced Fos expression in the spinal cord after mustard oil treatment but significantly increased the relative number of nuclei labeled in the nucleus of the solitary tract. Baclofen also significantly decreases dorsal horn CGRP immunoreactivity relative to the increased levels seen after inflammation of the colon. The SP content increases observed after inflammation of the colon were not altered by baclofen. These data suggest that: (1) neurons in regions important for nociceptive transmission, descending inhibitory control and autonomic control are activated by noxious stimulation of the colon, and (2) baclofen specifically reduces Fos expression in the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord induced by nociceptive afferent input.
The present experiments investigated the effects of pubertal maturation and photoperiod on the size of brain regions that mediate mating behavior in the male Syrian hamster. We hypothesized that the low levels of reproductive behavior exhibited by prepubertal and photoinhibited males would be correlated with morphological changes in the neural circuit that mediates mating behavior. We found that the Nissl-stained cross-sectional area of the posterodorsal subdivision of the medial amygdala was significantly smaller in prepubertal and photoinhibited males compared to photostimulated adult males. These differences appear to be caused by a decrease in somal size of individual cells in the ventral aspect of this nucleus. We also found that prepubertal males have a larger anterior subdivision of the medial amygdala (MeA) compared to adults. This difference in the MeA does not appear to be caused by alteration in somal size since somal size did not differ significantly between juveniles and adults. It is concluded that the neural circuit that mediates male mating behavior in this species is capable of significant morphological plasticity during both pubertal development and in adulthood. Furthermore, these alterations may reflect underlying mechanisms of the deficits in sexual behavior exhibited by prepubertal and photoinhibited males.
This study provides an analysis of the chemoarchitecture of the posterior hypothalamic area (PHA) and a retrograde transport analysis of inputs to the PHA in the rat. The chemoarchitectural analysis reveals that the majority of PHA neurons contain glutamate. Hypocretin, melanin concentrating hormone, tyrosine hydroxylase, neuropeptide Y and gamma-aminobutyric acid are also found in subsets of PHA neurons, and fibers immunoreactive for these substances as well as for serotonin, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and met-enkephalin are observed in the area and aid in the delineation of its borders. The retrograde tracing study demonstrates that the PHA receives input from multiple, diverse neuron populations. Descending projections to the PHA arise from the limbic forebrain (cingulate cortex and lateral septum) and both the medial and lateral hypothalamus. Subcortical visual nuclei, including the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus and intergeniculate leaflet, pretectal area, and superior colliculus, and the subthalamus (zona incerta, fields of Forel) also project to the PHA. Ascending projections to the PHA arise from brainstem cholinergic nuclei, the reticular formation, midbrain raphe nuclei, periaqueductal gray and parabrachial nucleus. Retrograde transport studies using the psuedorabies virus (PRV) demonstrate that the PHA receives input indirectly from the hippocampus, amygdala and suprachiasmatic nucleus through circuits including nuclei in the limbic forebrain and hypothalamus. These data suggest that the PHA is important in the neural control of behavioral state, modulating aspects of hippocampal, autonomic and cortical function as they relate to the elaboration of adaptive behavior.
An increase in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-total-tau, and recently also in CSF-phospho-tau, has been found in Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanisms for these changes are not known. We examined longitudinal CSF samples from nine patients with acute stroke. As compared with baseline levels (day 0-1), CSF-total-tau showed an increase at day 2-3 (179%; P=0.018), day 7-9 (257%; P=0.003), and after 3 weeks (425%; P=0.002) and returned to normal levels after 3-5 months (140%; NS). In contrast, there was no significant change in CSF-phospho-tau. These findings suggest that total tau and phospho-tau in CSF reflect different pathogenic processes in the brain; total-tau the degree of neuronal damage and phospho-tau the phosphorylation state of tau and thus possibly the formation of neurofibrillary tangles.

Fragile-X syndrome is a common form of mental retardation resulting from the inability to produce the fragile-X mental retardation protein. Qualitative examination of human brain autopsy material has shown that fragile-X patients exhibit abnormal dendritic spine lengths and shapes on parieto-occipital neocortical pyramidal cells. Similar quantitative results have been obtained in fragile-X knockout mice, that have been engineered to lack the fragile-X mental retardation protein. Dendritic spines on layer V pyramidal cells of human temporal and visual cortices stained using the Golgi-Kopsch method were investigated. Quantitative analysis of dendritic spine length, morphology, and number was carried out on patients with fragile-X syndrome and normal age-matched controls. Fragile-X patients exhibited significantly more long dendritic spines and fewer short dendritic spines than did control subjects in both temporal and visual cortical areas. Similarly, fragile-X patients exhibited significantly more dendritic spines with an immature morphology and fewer with a more mature type morphology in both cortical areas. In addition, fragile-X patients had a higher density of dendritic spines than did controls on distal segments of apical and basilar dendrites in both cortical areas. Long dendritic spines with immature morphologies and elevated spine numbers are characteristic of early development or a lack of sensory experience. The fact that these characteristics are found in fragile-X patients throughout multiple cortical areas may suggest a global failure of normal dendritic spine maturation and or pruning during development that persists throughout adulthood.
Efficient screening of ligands interacting with G-protein-coupled receptors is central for modern drug development. Here, we describe an optimized reporter vector primarily intended for use in reporter cell lines expressing such receptors. The construct consists of a synthetic enhancer containing 9x TRE (12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate-responsive elements) fused to a minimal CMV (cytomegalovirus) promoter. Activation of the promoter construct leads to the expression of a chimeric reporter protein based on the genes for enhanced green fluorescent protein and Photinus luciferase. The chimeric protein allows for both clonal selection by fluorescence, which facilitates the selection of optimal reporter cell lines and high-throughput screening by luminescens. In designing the vector, increasing numbers of TRE motifs were tested in front of two different minimal promoters. The reporter gene was more strongly inducible with increasing numbers of TRE motifs. The constructs were tested in two cell lines, CHO and HeLa. The latter regulated reporter gene activity stronger in response to PMA (phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate) stimulation and were used to construct HF1 reporter cell lines. Model experiments were carried out on these reporter cells transfected with the human BLTR, human CCR5, or the rat alpha(1b) receptor. After maximal agonist stimulation reporter gene activity was increased 200-, 15-, and 50-fold, respectively.
The effect of two arginine-specific cysteine proteinases (gingipains R) from Porphyromonas gingivalis, an aetiological factor of adult periodontitis, on the activation of human factor IX was investigated in the presence of ethylene glycol, an activity enhancer of activated factor IX (factor IXa), with the use of a fluorogenic oligopeptide substrate. Each gingipain R rapidly activated factor IX but the 95 kDa proteinase complex (HRgpA) that contains both haemagglutinin/adhesion and catalytic domains was 2.4-fold more efficient than the single-chain 50 kDa gingipain R (RgpB), which has only a catalytic domain. SDS/PAGE and N-terminal sequence analysis of factor IX digestion fragments indicated that, like all endogenous activators, gingipains R also produce factor IXabeta via an IXa intermediate. Significantly, phospholipids augmented the activation of factor IX by HRgpA but not by RgpB in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. In the presence of both cofactors the kinetic efficiency of HRgpA to activate factor IX (k(cat)/K(m)=1.9x10(6) M(-1).s(-1)) was 8.5-fold higher than that of RgpB (k(cat)/K(m)=2.3x10(5) M(-1).s(-1)) and double that of the factor VIIa-tissue factor complex, but 8-fold lower than that for factor XIa. A comparison of the relative activation rates of factor IX, factor X and prothrombin directly in plasma by HRgpA suggests a significant contribution for factor IX conversion in blood coagulation induced by gingipains R. Taken together, gingipains R are the first-reported activators of factor IX of bacterial origin. By this effect they could be involved in the production of thrombin as well as the subsequent generation of prostaglandins and interleukin 1, all of which have been found to be associated with the development and progression of periodontitis.
Transient alterations in polyamine (PA) metabolism, termed the polyamine stress response (PSR), constitute a common cellular response to stressful stimuli. In contrast to the adult brain and liver, the PSR in the adrenal gland and thymus is characterized by a reduction in PA metabolism. The brain PSR undergoes an early postnatal period of non-responsiveness. The aim of the present study was twofold: i) to determine whether the PSR in the liver, thymus, and adrenal gland is developmentally regulated as that in the brain and ii) to establish whether neuronal and hormonal signals can activate the PSR independently. Ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) activity and tissue PA concentrations served as markers of the PSR. Changes were measured in male Wistar rats during postnatal development and at 2 weeks after adrenalectomy in adults. Unlike the brain, the direction of the PSR in peripheral organs did not undergo developmental changes. After adrenalectomy, the PSR was not activated in the thymus and liver by acute (2-hr) restraint stress, but a characteristic PSR was induced in the hippocampus. However, dexamethasone injection (3 mg/kg) did induce a characteristic PSR in all organs of adrenalectomized rats. The results justify the following conclusions: i) Unlike peripheral organs, the PSR in the brain is developmentally regulated; ii) The developmental switch to a mature PSR in the brain corresponds in time to the cessation of the &quot;stress hypo-responsive period&quot; in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenocortical (HPA) axis; iii) In the periphery, the PSR appears to be dependent principally on stress-induced activation of the HPA axis and on increased circulating glucocorticoid concentrations rather than on neuronal activation; iv) In the brain, however, the PSR can be induced independently by glucocorticoids or by direct activation of the neuronal circuitry; and v) up-regulation of the PSR, as in the brain and liver, is constructive and may be implicated in cell survival, while its down-regulation, as in the adrenal and thymus, may be implicated in cell death.


The &quot;staircase&quot; test has become established for measurement of side-specific deficits in coordinated paw reaching in rats, and has been shown to reveal impairments on the contralateral side following unilateral lesions in a wide range of motor structures of the brain. As mice become more widely used in behavioural neuroscience, we have scaled down the staircase reaching test for application to this latter species. We here validate the test in C57BL/6J mice by (a) establishing the optimal dimensions of the apparatus, (b) comparing the effects of test parameters including sex, test duration, levels of deprivation and alternative reward pellets, and (c) demonstrating contralateral deficits after aspirative lesions of the motor cortex. Differences between mice and rats in normal performance of the task are noted. The staircase test provides a simple objective test of skilled motor function that allows measurement of lateralised effects without unduly constraining the animal, and which may prove as useful for mice as has previously been demonstrated in rats.
The dorsal columns of the spinal cord are a major source of haptic (sense of active touch) and proprioceptive input to the brainstem and sensory-motor cortex. Following injury in primates, there are impairments in two-point discrimination, direction of movement across the skin, and frequency of vibration, and qualitative control of the digits, but simple spatial discriminations recover. In the rat there are qualitative deficits in paw control in skilled reaching, but no sensory deficits have been reported. Because recent investigations of sensory control suggest that sensory functions may be related to specific actions, the present study investigated whether the dorsal columns contribute to hapsis during food grasping in the rat. Adult female Long-Evans rats were trained to reach with a single forepaw for a piece of uncooked pasta or for equivalent sized but tactually different nonfood items. One group was given lesions of the dorsal column ipsilateral to their preferred paw, while the second group served as a control. Postlesion, both groups were tested for skilled reaching success and force application as well as adhesive dot removal and forepaw placing. Performance levels on these tests were normal. Nevertheless, the rats with dorsal column lesions were unable to discriminate a food item from a tactually distinctive nonfood item as part of the reaching act, suggesting that the dorsal columns are important for on-line tactile discriminations, or &quot;haptic actions,&quot; which contribute to the normal performance of grasping actions.
Physiological studies have demonstrated that long-term potentiation (LTP) induction in N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor containing dentate granule cells following lateral perforant path stimulation is opioid dependent, involving mu-opioid receptors (MORs) on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-ergic neurons. To determine the cellular relationships of MORs to postsynaptic NMDA receptor-containing dendrites, immunoreactivity (-I) against MOR and the NMDA receptor subunit 1 (NMDAR1) was examined in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus using electron microscopy. MOR-I was predominantly in axons and axon terminals. NMDAR1-I was almost exclusively in spiny dendrites, but was also in a few terminals. Using immunogold particles to localize precisely NMDAR1, one-third of the NMDAR1-I was detected on the dendritic plasmalemma; in dendritic spines plasmalemmal immunogold particles were near synaptic densities. Many MOR-labeled axons and terminals contacted NMDAR1-labeled dendrites. MOR-labeled terminals formed symmetric (inhibitory-type) synapses on NMDAR1-labeled dendritic shafts or nonsynaptically contacted NMDAR1-labeled shafts and spines. MOR-labeled axons often abutted NMDAR1-containing dendritic spines which received asymmetric (excitatory-type) synapses from unlabeled terminals. Occasionally, MOR-labeled terminals and dendrites were apposed to NMDAR1-containing terminals. These results provide anatomical evidence that endogenous enkephalins or exogenous opioid agonists could inhibit GABAergic terminals that modulate granule cell dendrites, thus boosting depolarizing events in granule cells and facilitating the activation of NMDA receptors located on their dendrites.
Accessory planta retractor (APR) motoneurons of the hawk moth, Manduca sexta, undergo a segment-specific pattern of programmed cell death (PCD) 24 to 48 h after pupal ecdysis (PE). Cell culture experiments show that the PCD of APRs in abdominal segment 6 [APR(6)s] is a cell-autonomous response to the steroid hormone 20-hydroxyecdysone (20E) and involves mitochondrial demise and cell shrinkage. Twenty-four hours before PE, at stage W3-noon, APR(6)s require further 20E exposure and protein synthesis (as tested with cycloheximide) to undergo PCD, and death can be blocked by a broad-spectrum caspase inhibitor. By PE, death is 20E- and protein synthesis-independent and the caspase inhibitor blocks cell shrinkage but not loss of mitochondrial function. Thus, the commitment to mitochondrial demise precedes the commitment to execution events. The phenotype of necrotic cell death induced by a mitochondrial electron transfer inhibitor differs unambiguously from 20E-induced PCD. By inducing PCD pharmacologically, the readiness of APR(6)s to execute PCD was found to increase during the final larval instar. These data suggest that the 20E-induced PCD of APR(6)s includes a premitochondrial phase which includes 20E-induced synthetic events and apical caspase activity, a mitochondrial phase which culminates in loss of mitochondrial function, and a postmitochondrial phase during which effector caspases are activated and APR(6) is destroyed.
The basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor Neurogenin2 (NGN2) is expressed in distinct populations of neural progenitor cells within the developing central and peripheral nervous systems. Transgenic mice containing ngn2/lacZ reporter constructs were used to study the regulation of ngn2 in the developing spinal cord. ngn2/lacZ transgenic embryos containing sequence found 5' or 3' to the ngn2 coding region express lacZ in domains that reflect the spatial and temporal expression profile of endogenous ngn2. A 4.4-kb fragment 5' of ngn2 was sufficient to drive lacZ expression in the ventral neural tube, whereas a 1.0-kb fragment located 3' of ngn2 directed expression to both dorsal and ventral domains. Persistent -gal activity revealed that the NGN2 progenitor cells in the dorsal domain give rise to a subset of interneurons that send their axons to the floor plate, and the NGN2 progenitors in the ventral domain give rise to a subset of motor neurons. We identified a discrete element that is required for the activity of the ngn2 enhancer specifically in the ventral neural tube. Thus, separable regulatory elements that direct ngn2 expression to distinct neural progenitor populations have been defined.
Target skin cells induce the neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in nave embryonic dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in vitro, but the molecular basis of that induction is not known. Recombinant activin or bone morphogenetic proteins (BMPs) dramatically increase the number of sensory neurons with CGRP and substance P in vitro (X. Ai et al., 1999, Mol. Cell. Neurosci. 14, 506-518). These experiments were designed to test if activin or BMPs accounted for the CGRP-inductive activity by skin cells. To identify factors from skin that induce CGRP, we developed a bioassay in which embryonic DRG neurons isolated before peripheral target contact in vivo are challenged in vitro with specific factors. Conditioned medium from an embryonic rat skin cell line induced neuronal CGRP expression, and induction was blocked by follistatin, implicating transforming growth factor family members. Immunoblot analysis revealed that the skin cell line medium contained several activin and bone morphogenetic protein moieties. Antibody specific to activin neutralized most of the CGRP-inductive activity in skin conditioned medium. These data indicate that the CGRP-inductive action of skin cells involves activin and establish activin as a candidate regulator of this sensory neuropeptide phenotype during development.
The glycoprotein 90K was originally described as a tumor-secreted antigen and subsequently found to have immunostimulatory activity as well as other possible functions. This protein interacts with an endogenous lectin, galectin-3, and may play a role in tumor metastasis through this interaction. Because 90K is heavily glycosylated, it may also interact with other members of the galectin family, which would contribute to the multifunctionality of 90K. To test this possibility, we studied the recognition of 90K by galectin-1, which, like galectin-3, has been associated with neoplastic transformation. In a solid-phase binding assay, human recombinant galectin-1 bound immobilized human recombinant 90K in a fashion that was inhibitable by lactose. Galectins 1 and 3 appeared to bind to separate sites on 90K because they did not affect the binding of each other. The dissociation constant of galectin-1 to 90K was on the order of 10(-7) M. Galectin-1 also induced aggregation of a human melanoma cell line, A375, in a carbohydrate-dependent manner, and this appeared to be mediated, at least in part, by 90K expressed on A375 cells, since it was inhibitable by a specific anti-90K monoclonal antibody. We conclude that 90K interacts with both galectin-1 and galectin-3 and both interactions contribute to the formation of multicell aggregates. Because both of these galectins as well as 90K are often over-expressed in neoplasm, these interactions may occur in the setting of various carcinomas and contribute to their progression and metastasis.
The nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR) of the accessory optic system (AOS) and the pretectal nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (LM) are involved in the analysis of optic flow and the generation of the optokinetic response. Previous studies have shown that the nBOR projects bilaterally to the medial column (mc) of the inferior olive (IO) and the LM projects to the ipsilateral mc. In the present study the retrograde tracer cholera toxin subunit B was injected into either the caudal or rostral mc. From all injections, retrogradely labeled cells were seen in the ipsilateral pretectum along the border of the medial and lateral subnuclei of the LM. Cells were also seen in bilaterally in the nBOR. On the contralateral side, a discrete group of cells was labeled in the rostral margin of the nBOR. These cells were localized in the dorsal portion of the nBOR proper and some were found in the adjacent nBOR dorsalis. On the ipsilateral side, a diffuse group of cells was seen in the caudal nBOR. Most of these cells were in the nBOR dorsalis and outside the nBOR complex in the area ventralis of Tsai and the reticular formation. From the injections into the caudal mc, a greater proportion of labeled cells was found in the LM, whereas a greater proportion of cells was found in the nBOR from the injections into the rostral mc. This differential projection from LM and nBOR to the caudal and rostral mc is consistent with the optic flow preferences of neurons in the mc, and a similar pattern of connectivity has been found in mammalian species.
Kalirin is a multifunctional protein identified by its interaction with peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase, an enzyme essential for neuropeptide biosynthesis. Several forms of Kalirin exist, all containing spectrin-like repeats, a Dbl homology (DH) domain, and an adjacent pleckstrin homology (PH) domain; several different COOH-termini provide additional DH/PH domains and a putative protein kinase. Kalirin binds Rac1 and affects cytoskeletal organization, neuropeptide secretion, and iNOS activity. By in situ hybridization, the highest levels of Kalirin mRNA were found in the cerebral cortex, hippocampal formation, and Purkinje cells, with high levels also in thalamus, caudate putamen, septal nucleus, nucleus accumbens, amygdala, and anterior olfactory nucleus. Low levels of Kalirin mRNA were detected in the paraventricular, supraoptic, and reticular thalamic nuclei and in the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus. Brain areas with high levels of Kalirin mRNA showed strong Kalirin-like immunoreactivity. Pyramidal neurons with strongly staining soma and long dendrites were observed primarily in layer 5 of the cerebral cortex. In the hippocampus, a uniform distribution of neurons with fine dendritic staining was observed in the pyramidal cell layer, in the granule cell layer, and in the hilar cells of the dentate gyrus as well as in isolated interneurons. Cerebellar Purkinje neurons exhibited intense staining in the soma and in extensive dendritic arbors extending to the surface of the molecular layer. During embryonic development, Trio, the Drosophila orthologue of Kalirin, plays an essential role in axon guidance; localization of Kalirin to the somatodendritic region of adult neurons provides the basis for future studies of regulation and function.
Estrogen may mediate some of its effects on hippocampal function through the alpha isoform of the estrogen receptor (ERalpha). By light microscopy, ERalpha-immunoreactivity (-I) is found in the nuclei of scattered inhibitory gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic interneurons. However, several lines of evidence indicate that estrogen also may exert some of its effects through rapid nongenomic mechanisms, possibly by binding to plasma membranes. Thus, to determine whether ERalpha is found in extranuclear sites in the hippocampal formation (HF), four different antibodies to ERalpha were localized by immunoelectron microscopy in proestrous rats. Ultrastructural analysis revealed that in addition to interneuronal nuclei, ERalpha-I was affiliated with the cytoplasmic plasmalemma of select interneurons and with endosomes of a subset of principal (pyramidal and granule) cells. Moreover, ERalpha labeling was found in profiles dispersed throughout the HF, but slightly more numerous in CA1 stratum radiatum. Approximately 50% of the ERalpha-labeled profiles were unmyelinated axons and axon terminals that contained numerous small, synaptic vesicles. ERalpha-labeled terminals formed both asymmetric and symmetric synapses on dendritic shafts and spines, suggesting that ERalphas arise from sources in addition to inhibitory interneurons. About 25% of the ERalpha-I was found in dendritic spines, many originating from principal cells. Within spines, ERalpha-I often was associated with spine apparati and/or polyribosomes, suggesting that estrogen might act locally through the ERalpha to influence calcium availability, protein translation, or synaptic growth. The remaining 25% of ERalpha-labeled profiles were astrocytes, often located near the spines of principal cells. Collectively, these results suggest that ERalpha may serve as both a genomic and nongenomic transducer of estrogen action in the HF.
The beautifully orchestrated regulation of cell shape and volume are central themes in cell biology and physiology. Though it is less well recognized, cell surface area regulation also constitutes a distinct task for cells. Maintaining an appropriate surface area is no automatic side effect of volume regulation or shape change. The issue of surface area regulation (SAR) would be moot if all cells resembled mammalian erythrocytes in being constrained to change shape and volume using existing surface membrane. But these enucleate cells are anomalies, possessing no endomembrane. Most cells use endomembrane to continually rework their plasma membrane, even while maintaining a given size or shape. This membrane traffic is intensively studied, generally with the emphasis on targeting and turnover of proteins and delivery of vesicle contents. But surface area (SA) homeostasis, including the controlled increase or decrease of SA, is another of the outcomes of trafficking. Our principal aims, then, are to highlight SAR as a discrete cellular task and to survey evidence for the idea that membrane tension is central to the task. Cells cannot directly &quot;measure&quot; their volume or SA, yet must regulate both. We posit that a homeostatic relationship exists between plasma membrane tension and plasma membrane area, which implies that cells detect and respond to deviations around a membrane tension set point. Maintenance of membrane strength during membrane turnover, a seldom-addressed aspect of SA dynamics, we examine in the context of SAR. SAR occurs in both animal and plant cells. The review shows the latter to be a continuing source of groundbreaking work on tension-sensitive SAR, but is principally slanted to animal cells.
Although post-mortem studies have shown that lesions of multiple sclerosis (MS) can be detected in the basal ganglia, conventional T2-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) imaging is poorly sensitive for detecting such abnormalities. This study was performed to investigate whether magnetization transfer (MT) and diffusion tensor MR imaging are able to detect in vivo basal ganglia changes in patients with MS. After image coregistration, MT ratio (MTR) and mean diffusivity (&amp;Dmacr;) maps were obtained and MTR and &amp;Dmacr; values of the putamen, head of the caudatus and thalamus measured from 31 patients with clinically definite MS and 14 age- and sex-matched healthy volunteers using region of interest analysis. Although we found slightly decreased MTR and increased &amp;Dmacr; in the basal ganglia from patients compared to controls, suggesting increased extra-cellular water and reduced amount of 'barriers' restricting water molecular motion in the basal ganglia of patients with MS, none of the differences was statistically significant. These data suggest that the more sophisticated MR probes of tissue disruption and cellular integrity are no more sensitive than current conventional imaging for detecting basal ganglia abnormalities in patients with MS.
Hyperintense abnormalities on T2-weighted magnetic resonance (MR) scans of the brain from patients with migraine are a relatively frequent finding and may represent a diagnostic challenge. We studied the cervical cord of patients with migraine using T2-weighted and magnetization transfer (MT) scans to assess whether the study of macro- and microscopic tissue damage in the cervical cord of these patients may have some diagnostic utility. T2-weighted and MT scans of the cervical cord and dual-echo scans of the brain were acquired from 16 patients with migraine and 17 sex- and age-matched healthy volunteers. Cervical cord MT ratio (MTR) histograms were obtained from all subjects and the relative peak height, the peak position, and the average MTR measured. Five migraine patients (31%) had hyperintense lesions in the brain. Neither healthy controls nor patients with migraine had any abnormalities on cervical cord MR scans. There was no difference for any of the cord MTR histogram-derived metrics between patients with migraine and healthy controls. No MTR histogram-derived measures from migraine patients were 2 standard deviations below the mean values from controls. Patients with migraine do not have MR or MT abnormalities in the cervical cord. MR scanning of the cervical cord in patients with migraine and hyperintense brain lesions of unknown etiology may be a useful investigation to facilitate the diagnostic workout.
The effects of increasing neural activity on sprouting remain unclear and controversial. In a rat model of partial denervation of skeletal muscles, we investigated the effect of neuromuscular activity on sprouting. Rat hindlimb muscles were partially denervated by avulsion of either L4 or L5 spinal root. Immediately after partial denervation, the rats were divided into three groups: (1) normal caged activity, (2) running exercise on wheels, 8 hr daily, and (3) functional electrical stimulation (FES) of sciatic nerves, 20 Hz for 8 hr daily. At 1 month, muscle unit (MU) enlargement was quantitated electrophysiologically and histochemically. MU twitch force was increased by four- to fivefold by partial denervation in extensively denervated tibialis anterior (TA) and medial gastrocnemius (MG) and by approximately twofold in moderately denervated plantaris (PL) and soleus (SOL). For the extensively denervated TA and MG muscles, MU enlargement, measured electrophysiologically, declined significantly after an average of 1757 +/- 310 m/d running exercise and daily FES for 1 month. The detrimental effects on MU enlargement were much less but significant in the moderately denervated PL and did not reach statistical significance in the moderately denervated SOL muscle. Histochemical evaluation of sprouting showed a reduction in the number of sprouts in the extensively denervated TA muscle, but not the moderately denervated PL and SOL muscles, by increased neuromuscular activity. Thus, increased neuromuscular activity is detrimental primarily in muscles that are extensively denervated, and the MUs are smaller than under conditions in which the muscles experience normal physiological levels of activation.
Null mutations affecting members of the transforming growth factor-beta and neurotrophin families result in overlapping patterns of neuronal cell death. This is particularly striking in the cranial sensory nodose-petrosal ganglion complex (NPG), in which loss of either glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), neurotrophin-3 (NT-3), or neurotrophin-4 (NT-4) results in a 30-50% reduction in neuronal survival. It is unknown, however, whether GDNF and any single neurotrophin support survival of the same cells, and if so, whether they are required simultaneously or sequentially during development. To approach these issues we defined survival requirements of nodose and petrosal neurons for GDNF in vitro and in bdnf, gdnf, and bdnf/gdnf null mutant mice, as well as the distribution of GDNF in NPG target tissues. Our analyses focused on the total population of ganglion cells as well as the subset of NPG neurons that are dopaminergic. Neuron losses in bdnf/gdnf double mutants are not additive of the losses in single bdnf or gdnf null mutants, indicating that many cells, including dopaminergic neurons, require both GDNF and BDNF for survival in vivo. Moreover, both factors are required during the same period of development, between embryonic day (E) 15.5 and E17.5. In addition, GDNF, like BDNF is expressed in target tissues at the time of initial target innervation and coincident with GDNF dependence of the innervating neurons. Together, these findings demonstrate that both GDNF and BDNF can act as target-derived trophic factors and are required simultaneously for survival of some primary sensory neurons.
In fish, amphibians, and birds, the loss of hair cells can evoke S-phase entry in supporting cells and the production of new cells that differentiate as replacement hair cells and supporting cells. Recent investigations have shown that supporting cells from mammalian vestibular epithelia will proliferate in limited numbers after hair cells have been killed. Exogenous growth factors such as glial growth factor 2 enhance this proliferation most potently when tested on vestibular epithelia from neonates. In this study, the intracellular signaling pathways that underlie the S-phase entry were surveyed by culturing epithelia in the presence of pharmacological inhibitors and activators. The results demonstrate that phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase is a key element in the signaling cascades that lead to the proliferation of cells in mammalian balance epithelia in vitro. Protein kinase C, mammalian target of rapamycin, mitogen-activated protein kinase, and calcium were also identified as elements in the signaling pathways that trigger supporting cell proliferation.
Recovery of urinary tract function after spinal cord injury (SCI) is important in its own right and may also serve as a model for studying mechanisms of functional recovery after injury in the CNS. Normal micturition requires coordinated activation of smooth muscle of the bladder (detrusor) and striated muscle of the external urethral sphincter (EUS) that is controlled by spinal and supraspinal circuitry. We used a clinically relevant rat model of thoracic spinal cord contusion injury to examine the effect of varying the degree of residual supraspinal connections on chronic detrusor-EUS coordination. Urodynamic evaluation at 8 weeks after SCI showed that detrusor contractions of the bladder recovered similarly in groups of rats injured with a 10 gm weight dropped 12.5, 25, or 50 mm onto the spinal cord. In contrast, the degree of coordinated activation of the EUS varied with the severity of initial injury and the degree of preservation of white matter at the injury site. The 12.5 mm SCI resulted in the sparing of 20% of the white matter at the injury site and complete recovery of detrusor-EUS coordination. In more severely injured rats, the chronic recovery of detrusor-EUS coordination was very incomplete and correlated to decreased innervation of lower motoneurons by descending control pathways and their increased levels of mRNA for glutamate receptor subunits NR2A and GluR2. These results show that the extent of recovery of detrusor-EUS coordination depends on injury severity and the degree of residual connections with brainstem control centers.
Brn3a/Brn-3.0 is a POU-domain transcription factor expressed in primary sensory neurons of the cranial and dorsal root ganglia and in specific neurons in the caudal CNS. Mice lacking Brn3a undergo extensive sensory neural death late in gestation and die at birth. To further examine Brn3a expression and the abnormalities that accompany its absence, we constructed a transgene containing 11 kb of Brn3a upstream regulatory sequence linked to a LacZ reporter. Here we show that these regulatory sequences direct transgene expression specifically to Brn3a peripheral sensory neurons of the cranial and dorsal root ganglia. Furthermore, expression of the 11 kb/LacZ reporter in the sensory neurons of the mesencephalic trigeminal, but not other Brn3a midbrain neurons, demonstrates that cell-specific transgene expression is targeted to a functional class of neurons rather than to an anatomical region. We then interbred the 11 kb/LacZ reporter strain with mice carrying a null mutant allele of Brn3a to generate 11 kb/LacZ, Brn3a knock-out mice. beta-Galactosidase expression in these mice reveals significant axonal growth defects, including excessive and premature branching of the major divisions of the trigeminal nerve and a failure to correctly innervate whisker follicles, all of which precede sensory neural death in these mice. These defects in Brn3a(-/-) mice resemble strongly those seen in mice lacking the mediators of sensory pathfinding semaphorin 3A and neuropilin-1. Here we show, however, that sensory neurons are able to express neuropilin-1 in the absence of Brn3a.
After their final mitosis, cerebellar granule cells remain in the external granular layer (EGL) for 20-48 hr before initiating their radial migration across the molecular layer (ML), but the significance of this latent period is not well understood. In the present study, we used a confocal microscope to examine morphogenetic changes and behavior of postmitotic granule cells restricted to the EGL in slice preparations of the postnatal mouse cerebellum. We found that, coincident with the extension of two uneven horizontal processes oriented parallel to the longitudinal axis of the folium, postmitotic granule cells start to migrate tangentially in the direction of the larger process. Interestingly, their morphology and the speed of cell movement change systematically with their position within the EGL. The rate of tangential cell movement is fastest (approximately 14.8 micrometer/hr) in the middle of the EGL, when cells have two short horizontal processes. As granule cells elongate their somata and extend longer horizontal processes at the bottom of the EGL, they move at a reduced rate (approximately 12.6 micrometer/hr). At the interface of the EGL and ML where cells migrate tangentially at the slowest rate (approximately 4.1 micrometer/hr), their somata round and then begin to extend couples of the descending processes into the ML. After the stationary period, granule cells abruptly extend a single vertical process and initiate the transition from tangential to radial migration, reshaping their rounded somata into a vertically elongated spindle. These observations suggest that tangential migration of granule cells within the EGL may provide the developmental mechanisms for their appropriate allocation across parasagittal compartments of the expanding cerebellar cortex.
NMDA receptor activity is modulated by various compounds, including sulfhydryl redox agents and Zn(2+). In addition to a slow and persistent component of redox modulation common to all NMDA receptors, NR1/NR2A receptors uniquely have a rapid and reversible component that has been variously attributed to redox or Zn(2+) effects. Here we show that this rapid modulatory effect can be described by two time constants with relatively fast ( approximately 6 sec) and intermediate (60 sec) half lives, and it is likely to be attributable to both redox agents and Zn(2+). Using site-directed mutagenesis, we identified three pairs of cysteine residues that underlie the various kinetic components of redox modulation of NMDA-evoked currents in Xenopus oocytes expressing NR1/NR2A receptors: (1) Cys 87 and Cys 320 in NR2A underlie the fast component, (2) Cys 79 and Cys 308 in NR1 underlie the intermediate component, and (3) Cys 744 and Cys 798 in NR1 underlie the persistent component. Mutation of these redox-sensitive cysteine residues also affects high-affinity, voltage-independent Zn(2+) inhibition that is specific to NR1/NR2A receptors. Exposure to methanethiosulfonate agents that modify cysteine residues did not block the Zn(2+) inhibition. Thus, these cysteine residues do not appear to coordinate Zn(2+) directly. Instead, the redox status of these cysteine residues may modulate the sensitivity of the receptor to Zn(2+).
Axonal transection of adult sympathetic and sensory neurons leads to a decrease in their content of target-derived nerve growth factor (NGF) and to dramatic changes in the expression of several neuropeptides and enzymes involved in transmitter biosynthesis. For example, axotomy of sympathetic neurons in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) dramatically increases levels of galanin, vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP), and substance P and their respective mRNAs and decreases mRNA levels for neuropeptide Y (NPY) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Axotomy of sensory neurons in lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) increases protein and mRNA levels for galanin and VIP and decreases levels for substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). To assess whether reduction in the availability of endogenous NGF might play an important role in triggering these changes, we injected nonoperated animals with an antiserum against NGF (alphaNGF). alphaNGF increased levels of peptide and mRNA for galanin and VIP in neurons in both the SCG and DRG. NPY protein and mRNA were decreased in the SCG, but levels of TH protein and mRNA remained unchanged. In sensory neurons the levels of SP and CGRP protein decreased after alphaNGF treatment. These data suggest that the reduction in levels of NGF in sympathetic and sensory neurons after axotomy is partly responsible for the subsequent changes in neuropeptide expression. Thus, the peptide phenotype of these axotomized neurons is regulated both by the induction of an &quot;injury factor,&quot; leukemia inhibitory factor, as shown previously, and by the reduction in a target-derived growth factor.
We describe a surgical procedure for chronically implanting a Doppler ultrasonic probe around the tail artery of the rat to measure phasic flow velocity in the tail artery of the unrestrained conscious rat. The phasic tail flow signal is highly correlated with the simultaneously recorded superior mesenteric flow signal (range 0.70-0.89 in seven rats) during vasoconstriction induced by exposure to formaldehyde vapour. In response to two quick alerting taps on the cage, tail flow velocity fell from 20+/-2 to 7+/-1 cm/s (P&lt;0.01) and mesenteric flow fell from 30+/-5 to 25+/-4 cm/s (P&lt;0.05), with the fall in tail flow being significantly greater than the fall in mesenteric flow (P&lt;0.05, n=7 rats). In anesthetized rats, the phasic tail flow signal was highly correlated with phasic arterial pressure (range 0.71-0.83 in seven rats). The ability to reliably measure phasic arterial tail flow in the conscious unrestrained rat should facilitate experimental studies of brain pathways regulating flow to this principally cutaneous vascular bed in different physiological situations.

Neuronal apoptosis is involved in several pathological conditions of the brain. Using cDNA arrays, we observed upregulation of ubiquitin-binding protein p62 expression during serum withdrawal-induced apoptosis in Neuro-2a cells. We demonstrate here that the expression levels of p62 mRNA and protein were increased in Neuro-2a cells and cultured rat hippocampal neurons by different types of proapoptotic treatments, including serum deprivation, okadaic acid, etoposide, and trichostatin A. Ubiquitin-binding protein p62 is a widely expressed cytoplasmic protein of unclear function. The ability of p62 to bind noncovalently to ubiquitin and to several signalling proteins suggests that p62 may play a regulatory role connected to the ubiquitin system. Accordingly, we show that proteasomal inhibitors MG-132, lactacystin, and PSI caused a prominent upregulation of p62 mRNA and protein expression, with a concomitant increase in ubiquitinated proteins. To conclude, p62 upregulation appears to be a common event in neuronal apoptosis. Results also suggest that the induction of p62 expression by proteasomal inhibitors may be a response to elevated levels of ubiquitinated proteins, possibly constituting a protective mechanism.
The effects of two drugs with anxiolytic actions, diazepam (0.1, 0.3 and 1 mg/kg) and nicotine (0.1 and 0.5 mg/kg) were examined on the time spent in social interaction by pairs of male gerbils. In a test arena lit by high light, diazepam (0.1 mg/kg) increased social interaction, without changing locomotor activity. Diazepam (0.3 and 1 mg/kg) produced a dose-related increase in locomotor activity, which reached significance at the higher dose. Nicotine produced a dose-related increase in social interaction, which reached significance at 0.5 mg/kg, but was without effect on locomotor activity. The specific increases in social interaction observed with diazepam and nicotine are similar to those seen in the well-validated social interaction test of anxiety in rats and suggest that social interaction in gerbils may also be used to screen for anxiolytic action of novel compounds.
The reorganisation of primary somatosensory cortex that occurs after lesioning the corresponding cortex of the contralateral hemisphere in rat has been termed, 'transhemispheric cortical reorganisation'. Cholinergic and noradrenergic innervations are hypothesized to be involved in cortical plasticity. The present study investigated the change in responses of somatosensory neurones in the hindpaw representation area to muscarinic cholinoceptor and beta-adrenoceptor receptor stimulation, by iontophoretic application of acetylcholine, noradrenaline, propranolol and atropine, during the process of transhemispheric cortical reorganization at 3-4 days and at 20-21 days after lesioning the corresponding area in the contralateral hemisphere. Most neurones in control rats showed excitatory atropine-sensitive responses to acetylcholine, and inhibitory propranolol-sensitive responses to noradrenaline. A marked reduction in neurones exhibiting muscarinic responses (from 69% to 22%) and beta-noradrenoceptor-mediated responses (from 62% to 24%) were seen in rats 3-4 days post lesion. The proportion of neurones responding had recovered by 3 weeks but the direction of the responses had changed with muscarinic response becoming predominantly inhibitory and beta-noradrenoceptor responses predominantly excitatory. It is concluded that transhemispheric cortical reorganization involves both receptor types and that the reciprocal changes at different stages after injury maintain cortical plasticity.

The effect of GAB-D-Trp(2-Me)-D-Trp(2-Me)-LysNH(2) (EP 80661), GAB-D-Trp(2-Me)-D-Trp(2-Me)-D-Trp(2-Me)-LysNH(2) (EP 60761), GAB-D-Trp(2-Me)-LysNH(2) (EP 91071) and GAB-D-Trp(2-Me)-D-beta Nal-Phe-LysNH(2) (EP 50885), four hexarelin peptide analogues that induce penile erection when injected into the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus of male rats, on the concentration of NO(2)(-) and NO(3)(-) in the paraventricular dialysate was studied in male rats. EP peptides (1 microg) induced penile erection and increased the concentration of NO(2)(-) and NO(3)(-) in the paraventricular dialysate. In contrast, hexarelin (1 microg) was ineffective on either penile erection or paraventricular NO(2)(-) and NO(3)(-). EP peptide-induced penile erection was prevented by the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor N(G)-nitro-l-arginine methylester given into the paraventricular nucleus (20 microg), which also reduced the concomitant increase of NO(2)(-) and NO(3)(-) concentration in the paraventricular dialysate. In contrast, the oxytocin receptor antagonist [d(CH(2))(5)Tyr(Me)(2)-Orn(8)]vasotocin (1 microg) given into the paraventricular nucleus, was ineffective on penile erection and on the NO(2)(-) and NO(3)(-) increase induced by EP peptides, despite its ability to prevent the sexual response induced by the above peptides when given into the lateral ventricles. The present results show that EP peptides induce penile erection by activating nitric oxide synthase in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, possibly in the cell bodies of oxytocinergic neurons that control penile erection.
(RS)-2-Amino-3-(5-tert-butyl-3-hydroxy-4-isothiazolyl)propionic acid (thio-ATPA), a 3-isothiazolol analogue of (RS)-2-amino-3-(5-tert-butyl-3-hydroxy-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (ATPA), has previously been shown to be a relatively weak AMPA receptor agonist at native (S)-glutamic acid ((S)-Glu) receptors (EC(50)=14 microM), comparable in potency with ATPA (EC(50)=34 microM). Recent findings, that (S)-ATPA is a potent (EC(50)=0.48 microM) and selective agonist at homomerically expressed ionotropic GluR5, prompted us to resolve thio-ATPA using chiral chromatography and pharmacologically characterize the two enantiomers at native as well as cloned ionotropic glutamate receptors. The enantiomers, (S)- and (R)-thio-ATPA, were obtained in high enantiomeric excess, and their absolute stereochemistry established by an X-ray crystallographic analysis. Electrophysiologically, the two enantiomers were evaluated in the rat cortical wedge preparation, and the S-enantiomer was found to be an AMPA receptor agonist (EC(50)=8.7 microM) twice as potent as the racemate, whereas the R-enantiomer was devoid of activity. In accordance with this, (S)-thio-ATPA proved to be an agonist at homomerically expressed recombinant AMPA receptors (GluR1o, GluR3o, and GluR4o) with EC(50) values of 5, 32 and 20 microM, respectively, producing maximal steady state currents of 78--168% of those maximally evoked by kainic acid, and 120-1600% of those maximally evoked by (S)-ATPA. At homomerically expressed GluR5, (S)-thio-ATPA was found to be a potent agonist (EC(50)=0.10 microM), thus being approximately five times more potent than (S)-ATPA. (R)-Thio-ATPA induced saturating currents with an estimated EC(50) value of 10 microM, most likely due to a contamination with (S)-thio-ATPA. At heteromerically expressed GluR6+KA2 receptors, (S)-thio-ATPA showed relatively weak agonistic properties (EC(50)=4.9 microM). Thus, (S)-thio-ATPA has been shown to be a very potent agonist at GluR5, and may be a valuable tool for the investigation of desensitization properties of AMPA receptors.
Binding of the novel adenosine A(2A) receptor-selective antagonist radioligand [2-(3)H]-4-(2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl)(1,2,4)triazolo(2,3-a)(1,3,5,)triazin-5-yl amino]ethyl)phenol ([(3)H]ZM241385) was examined using particulate preparations and frozen sections of rat brain. In membranes from the rat striatum, binding was saturable, reversible and temperature-dependent. Analysis of saturation isotherms indicated that [(3)H]ZM241385 bound with high affinity (K(d) of 0.84 nM), high density (1680 fmol mg protein(-1)) and with a high proportion of specific binding (93% at 1 nM radioligand). Examination of competition profiles indicated that [(3)H]ZM241385 bound to sites with an A(2A) adenosine receptor-like rank order. The presence of guanosine 5'-(3-thio)-triphosphate failed to alter either [(3)H]ZM241385 binding or agonist competition for [(3)H]ZM241385 binding. Autoradiographic analysis of [(3)H]ZM241385 binding to frozen sections of rat brain indicated specific binding to the rat striatum of similar affinity (K(d) of 0.43 nM) and susceptibility to adenosine receptor ligands. At 2 nM [(3)H]ZM241385, specific binding comprised 95+/-1% total binding. In the hippocampus and frontal cortex, binding of [(3)H]ZM241385 failed to saturate and was of lower density. Taken together, these results indicate that [(3)H]ZM241385 should prove to be a useful radioligand in the characterisation of adenosine A(2A) receptors.
L1 is a neural cell adhesion molecule critical for neural development. Full-length L1 (L1(FL)) contains an alternatively spliced cytoplasmic sequence, RSLE, which is absent in L1 expressed in nonneuronal cells. The RSLE sequence follows a tyrosine, creating an endocytic motif that allows rapid internalization via clathrin-mediated endocytosis. We hypothesized that L1(FL) would internalize more rapidly than L1 lacking the RSLE sequence (L1(Delta)(RSLE)) and that internalization might regulate L1-mediated adhesion. L1 internalization was measured by immunofluorescence microscopy and by uptake of (125)I-anti-rat-L1 antibody, demonstrating that L1(FL) is internalized 2-3 times faster than L1(Delta)(RSLE). Inhibition of clathrin-mediated endocytosis slowed internalization of L1(FL) but did not affect initial uptake of L1(Delta)(RSLE). To test whether L1 endocytosis regulates L1 adhesion, cell aggregation rates were tested. L1(Delta)(RSLE) cells aggregated two times faster than L1(FL) cells. Inhibition of clathrin-mediated endocytosis increases the aggregation rate of the L1(FL) cells to that of L1(Delta)(RSLE) cells. Our results demonstrate that rapid internalization of L1 dramatically affects L1 adhesion.
The activity of melanocortin receptors (MCR) is regulated by melanocortin peptide agonists and by the endogenous antagonists, Agouti protein and AgRP (Agouti-related protein). To understand how the selectivity for these structurally unrelated agonists and antagonist is achieved, chimeric and mutants MC3R and MC4R were expressed in cell lines and pharmacologically analyzed. A region containing the third extracellular loop, EC3, of MC4R was essential for selective Agouti protein antagonism. In addition, this part of MC4R, when introduced in MC3R, conferred Agouti protein antagonism. Further mutational analysis of this region of MC4R demonstrated that Tyr(268) was required for the selective interaction with Agouti protein, because a profound loss of the ability of Agouti protein to inhibit (125)I-labeled [Nle(4),d-Phe(7)]alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH) binding was observed by the single mutation of Tyr(268) to Ile. This same residue conferred selectivity for the MC4R selective agonist, [d-Tyr(4)]MT-II, whereas it inhibited interaction with the MC3R-selective agonist, [Nle(4)]Lys-gamma(2)-MSH. Conversely, mutation of Ile(265) in MC3 (the corresponding residue of Tyr(268)) to Tyr displayed a gain of affinity for [d-Tyr(4)]MT-II, but not for Agouti protein, and a loss of affinity for [Nle(4)]Lys-gamma(2)-MSH as compared with wild-type MC3R. This single amino acid mutation thus confers the selectivity of MC3R toward a pharmacological profile like that observed for MC4R agonists but not for the antagonist, Agouti protein. Thus, selectivity for structurally unrelated ligands with opposite activities is achieved in a similar manner for MC4R but not for MC3R.
The glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family comprise a subclass of cystine-knot superfamily ligands that interact with a multisubunit receptor complex formed by the c-Ret tyrosine kinase and a cystine-rich glycosyl phosphatidylinositol-anchored binding subunit called GDNF family receptor alpha (GFRalpha). All four GDNF family ligands utilize c-Ret as a common signaling receptor, whereas specificity is conferred by differential binding to four distinct GFRalpha homologues. To understand how the different GFRalphas discriminate ligands, we have constructed a large set of chimeric and truncated receptors and analyzed their ligand binding and signaling capabilities. The major determinant of ligand binding was found in the most conserved region of the molecule, a central domain predicted to contain four conserved alpha helices and two beta strands. Distinct hydrophobic and positively charged residues in this central region were required for binding of GFRalpha1 to GDNF. Interaction of GFRalpha1 and GFRalpha2 with GDNF and neurturin required distinct subsegments within this central domain, which allowed the construction of chimeric receptors that responded equally well to both ligands. C-terminal segments adjacent to the central domain are necessary and have modulatory function in ligand binding. In contrast, the N-terminal domain was dispensable without compromising ligand binding specificity. Ligand-independent interaction with c-Ret also resides in the central domain of GFRalpha1, albeit within a distinct and smaller region than that required for ligand binding. Our results indicate that the central region of this class of receptors constitutes a novel binding domain for cystine-knot superfamily ligands.
In brainstem slices of guinea pigs perfused with artificial cerebro-spinal fluid (ACSF), the discharge of all the spontaneously active neurons of the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) is regular. It has been reported that prolonged exposure to a low Ca(2+) medium could induce these neurons to fire bursts of spikes. In this study, we performed a systematic exploration of the spontaneous activity of the guinea pig MVN neurons by extracellular recordings in slices perfused either with a low Ca(2+)-high Mg(2+) medium, or with ACSF added with omega-agatoxin-IVA and with omega-conotoxin-GVIA. The percentage of recorded neurons which fired bursts, was 67% in low Ca(2+)-high Mg(2+) medium and 34% under the action of Ca(2+) channel blockers. These results show that the sensitivity of the firing properties to divalent cations is not shared by all of the MVN neurons and that the regularity of firing of a class of MVN neurons depends on the Ca(2+) channels they express in their membranes.
We report positron emission tomographic measurements of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in a male patient with war and torture related post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) during symptom provocation. The subject was exposed to war related sounds before and after treatment with a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI; Fluoxetine; Fontex((R))). Therapy reduced PTSD symptoms, provoked anxiety and heart rate. Before treatment trauma reminders resulted in decreased rCBF in the insula, prefrontal, and inferior frontal cortices. Increased activity was evident in the cerebellum, precuneus and supplementary motor cortex. This was normalized after SSRI administration. Prefrontal and cingulate rCBF correlated with heart rate. Hence, the anxiolytic effect of SSRI for PTSD could be mediated by prefrontal and paralimbic cortices. Data suggest that SSRI treatment normalize provocation induced rCBF alterations in areas involved in memory, emotion, attention and motor-control.

In studies of the neural mechanisms giving rise to behaviour, changes in the neural and behavioural responses produced by a given stimulus have been widely reported. This 'gain control' can boost the responses to sensory inputs that are particularly relevant, select among reflexes for execution by motoneurons or emphasize specific movement targets. Gain control is also an integral part of the smooth-pursuit eye movement system. One signature of gain control is that a brief perturbation of a stationary target during fixation causes tiny eye movements, whereas the same perturbation of a moving target during the active state of accurate pursuit causes large responses. Here we show that electrical stimulation of the smooth-pursuit eye movement region in the arcuate sulcus of the frontal lobe ('the frontal pursuit area', FPA) mimics the active state of pursuit. Such stimulation enhances the response to a brief perturbation of target motion, regardless of the direction of motion. We postulate that the FPA sets the gain of pursuit, thereby participating in target selection for pursuit.
Recent evidence has demonstrated that, in animals with laterally placed eyes, functional cerebral asymmetry is revealed by preferential use of either the left or right eye in a range of behaviors (birds: [1, 2, 3]; fish: [4, 5]; reptiles: [6, 7]). These findings pose a theoretical problem. It seems that there would be disadvantages in having a substantial degree of asymmetry in the use of the two eyes; a deficit on one side would leave the organism vulnerable to attack on that side or unable to exploit resources appearing on one side. We here report a possible solution to the problem. We have found that domestic chicks show selective use of the lateral visual field of the left eye and of the right hemifield in the binocular, frontal visual field when they peck at strangers but not at cagemates. Thus, during social recognition, there seems to be opposite and complementary left-right specialization for the lateral and frontal visual fields of the two eyes. These findings can reconcile the computational advantages associated with asymmetry of the left and right sides of the brain with the ecological demands for an animal to perceive and respond equally well to the left and right sides of its midline.
The expression levels of three synaptic proteins (synaptophysin, synaptotagmin, and growth-associated protein 43 [GAP43]) in AD cases clinically classified by Clinical Dementia Rating (CDR) score were analyzed. Compared with control subjects (CDR = 0), mild (early) AD (CDR = 0.5 to 1) cases had a 25% loss of synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Levels of synaptotagmin and GAP43 were unchanged in mild AD, but cases with CDR of &gt;1 had a progressive decrement in these synaptic proteins. Thus, synaptic injury in frontal cortex is an early event in AD.


The cingulate cortex plays a central role in bridging neocortical and limbic structures involved in allothetic navigation, a form of navigation requiring the use of external cues. Animals can also navigate using idiothetic cues, which are cues generated by self-movement, but there have been no definitive tests of whether cingulate cortex also plays a role in idiothetic navigation. Rats with anterior cingulate (medial frontal) and posterior cingulate cortex (retrosplenial) suction ablations were trained to search for large food pellets on an open table, and the accuracy with which they returned home with the food was measured. In the idiothetic task they searched for food from a novel starting location under infrared light, and with surface olfactory cues displaced. The rats also received two tests of allothetic navigation. They were tested on a matching-to-place task in which they foraged for food from a number of successively presented new locations under normal room light, and they were trained to locate a hidden platform in a swimming pool (Morris place task). The group with posterior cingulate cortex lesions was severely impaired on all of the navigation tasks whereas the group with anterior cingulate cortex lesions displayed no deficit on the idiothetic task and only moderate deficits on the other tasks. The results demonstrate a role for posterior cingulate region in idiothetic navigation.
The rewarding effects of morphine, cocaine, amphetamine and nicotine were evaluated in CB1 receptor knockout mice by means of an intravenous self-administration model. Experiments were carried out on drug-naive animals using a nose-poking response (NPR)-like as operandum. The results of the present study indicate that morphine did not induce intravenous self-administration in mutant CB1 receptor knockout mice, whereas it was significantly self-administered by the corresponding wild type mice. On the contrary, cocaine, amphetamine and nicotine were self-administered to the same extent by both wild type and CB1 receptor knockout mice. These data clearly indicate that the CB1 cannabinoid receptor is essential not only for the expression of cannabinoid reinforcing effects but also for the modulation of morphine rewarding effects. The specificity of such interaction is supported by the finding that contrary to morphine, cocaine, d-amphetamine and nicotine were self-administered by mice at the same extent either in presence or in absence of the CB1 receptor.
Using immunohistochemistry in combination with confocal laser scanning microscopy, we studied the ontogeny of neuropeptide Y-Y1 receptor (Y1-R) expression in the trigeminal system of the rat. The study was limited to the nerve fibers innervating the mystacial pad and the trigeminal ganglia. In the trigeminal ganglia, Y1-R-immunoreactive (IR) neurons were first observed at E16.5. At this same stage some nerve fibers in the trigeminal ganglia also exhibited Y1-R-like immunoreactivity (LI). Strongly Y1-R-IR nerve fibers innervating the follicles of the mystacial vibrissae were first observed at E18. After double labeling, the Y1-R-LI was found to be colocalized with the neuronal marker protein gene product 9.5. At P1 only weak labeling for the Y1-R was found around the vibrissae follicles, whereas the neurons in the trigeminal ganglia were intensely labeled. The same was true for the adult rat, but at this stage no Y1-R labeling at all was observed in nerve fibers around the vibrissal follicles. These results strongly support an axonal localization of the Y1-R at this developmental stage. The transient expression of the Y1-R during prenatal mystacial pad development suggests a role for the Y1-R in the functional development of the vibrissae.

Our previous electrophysiologic studies on nociceptive types of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in culture demonstrated that extremely low fM-nM concentrations of morphine and many other bimodally-acting mu, delta and kappa opioid agonists can elicit direct excitatory opioid receptor-mediated effects, whereas higher (microM) opioid concentrations evoked inhibitory effects. Cotreatment with pM naloxone or naltrexone (NTX) plus fM-nM morphine blocked the excitatory effects and unmasked potent inhibitory effects of these low opioid concentrations. In the present study, hot-water-immersion tail-flick antinociception assays at 52 degrees C on mice showed that extremely low doses of morphine (ca. 0.1 microg/kg) can, in fact, elicit acute hyperalgesic effects, manifested by rapid onset of decreases in tail-flick latency for periods &gt;3 h after drug administration. Cotreatment with ultra-low-dose NTX (ca. 1-100 pg/kg) blocks this opioid-induced hyperalgesia and unmasks potent opioid analgesia. The consonance of our in vitro and in vivo evidence indicates that doses of morphine far below those currently required for clinical treatment of pain may become effective when opioid hyperalgesic effects are blocked by coadministration of appropriately low doses of opioid antagonists. This low-dose-morphine cotreatment procedure should markedly attenuate morphine tolerance, dependence and other aversive side-effects.
We have utilized an organotypic slice culture system to determine factors which directly influence the expression of striatal preprotachykinin (PPT) mRNA. Striatal slices were generated from 3-day-old male rat pups and cultured on Millicell-CM inserts in serum-containing media. Under these conditions, striatal PPT mRNA levels fell significantly (-55.7+/-6.2%) in slices cultured for 2 days in vitro (2DIV) as compared to slices placed in culture for 3 h (0DIV). However, striatal PPT mRNA expression did not decline further in 4DIV cultured slices (-59.6+/-7.1%). When 2DIV slices were exposed to combined high potassium (K(+), 10 mM) and forskolin (10 microM) stimulation for 3 h, PPT mRNA levels were increased within areas of the brain normally associated with tachykinin production. Application of the dopamine (DA) D1 receptor agonist SKF-38393 (10 microM) at 2DIV for 3 h also increased (+162.9+/-28.9%) PPT mRNA expression, but increases were localized within the striatum. SKF-38393-stimulated increases were completely blocked by the D1 antagonist SCH-23390 (10 microM), which alone had no effect on mRNA levels. However, a 3-h incubation with SKF-38393 on 0DIV slice cultures did not affect PPT mRNA expression whereas SCH-23390 decreased PPT message levels (-24.5+/-5.4%). These findings indicate that tachykinin gene expression is inducible within slice culture preparations and that the maintenance of normal striatal PPT mRNA levels depends on DA D1 receptor tone.
The effect of high concentrations of glutamate and glycine on picrotoxin seizure thresholds was investigated by perfusion through microdialysis probes in the hippocampus of freely moving rats. Microperfusion of glutamate at concentrations up to 1 mM, produced no changes in behavior or basal EEG recordings, but microperfusion of 200 microM glutamate was sufficient to lower the picrotoxin seizure threshold down to 50% in 60% of the animals studied and produced an increase of 180+/-23% in seizure duration. Microperfusion of 1 mM glutamate reduced seizure threshold in all animals, and markedly prolonged seizure duration (230+/-30%). Microperfusion of 200 microM or 1 mM glycine lowered picrotoxin seizure thresholds down to 50% in 70% of the animals and lengthened seizure duration up to 176+/-43%. Continuous microperfusion of the antagonist for the glycine binding site in NMDA receptors 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid (100 microM) reversed the effect of both glutamate (1 mM) and glycine (1 mM) and suppressed seizures completely in 90% of the animals. These results indicate that although neurotoxicity is not achieved by perfusing glutamate and glycine at concentrations as high as 1 mM, neuronal excitability is modified by altering extracellular glutamate and glycine concentrations, and they suggest that glutamate-induced neuronal hyperexcitability is induced through mechanisms different from excitotoxicity.
CXC chemokine receptor 4 (CXCR4) is a co-receptor for human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and is believed to be involved in the pathogenesis of AIDS-associated neurologic disorders and brain tumors. The physiological roles of CXCR4 in developmental patterning of the nervous and hematopoietic system; gastrointestinal angiogenesis; and cardiac organogenesis were established by studies in gene-targeted mice. Studies on CXCR4 expression and regulation in neuroepithelial cells are fundamental for understanding its physiopathologic roles in the central nervous system (CNS). We show here that CXCR4 expression by primary mouse astrocytes is suppressed by exposure to tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha). TNF-alpha caused a pronounced down-regulation of CXCR4 mRNA in a dose- and time-dependent manner. TNF-alpha-mediated decrease of CXCR4 mRNA accumulation resulted in decreased CXCR4 protein expression. As a result, the ability of stromal cell-derived factor-1alpha (SDF-1alpha) to induce activation of MAP kinases, Erk1/2 was impaired. The half life of CXCR4 mRNA in the presence and absence of TNF-alpha stimulation was comparable, suggesting that TNF-alpha down-regulated CXCR4 mRNA at the transcriptional level. These results suggest that TNF-alpha could modulate HIV and brain tumor pathogenesis and immune-mediated inflammation in the central nervous system (CNS) by regulation of CXCR4 expression.
The discovery of a core-shell dichotomy within the nucleus accumbens has opened new lines of investigation into the neuronal basis of psychiatric disorders and drug dependence. In the present study, the autoregulation of dopamine synthesis in subdivisions of the rat nucleus accumbens was examined. We measured the accumulation of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) after the inhibition of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase with 3-hydroxylbenzylhydrazine (NSD-1015, 100 mg kg(-1)) as an in vivo index of dopamine synthesis. The effect of the dopamine D(1)/D(2) receptor agonist apomorphine (0, 20, 100, 500 microgram kg(-1)) and the dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor agonist quinpirole (0, 20, 100, 500 microgram kg(-1)) on dopamine synthesis was determined in the dorsolateral core, ventromedial shell, and rostral pole of the nucleus accumbens. DOPA accumulation was also measured in the frontal cortex, olfactory tubercle, and caudate nucleus of the same rats for comparative purposes. The results show that the three sectors of the nucleus accumbens had similar basal levels of DOPA. Both apomorphine and quinpirole produced a decrease in the dopamine synthesis rate in all brain regions examined. In general, the dopamine D(2)/D(3) receptor agonist quinpirole produced a significantly greater decrease in DOPA accumulation than the dopamine D(1)/D(2) receptor agonist apomorphine. Within the nucleus accumbens, we found no core-shell differences in the agonist-induced suppression of dopamine synthesis, but the rostral pole was less sensitive to the highest dose of both dopamine agonists. These results suggest that differences in dopamine function between the core and shell might not involve region-specific differences in the receptor-mediated autoregulation of dopamine neurotransmission. Moreover, the blunted effect of dopamine agonists in the rostral pole illustrates that this region of the accumbens is functionally distinct, possibly due to a lower dopamine receptor reserve when compared to the core and shell.
The perception of odors is well identified as having strong emotional correlates. It is also well known that the acoustic characteristics of the voice differ according to the emotional state. This study compared some acoustic features of the voice of 18 subjects reading the same text in pleasant (lavender) and unpleasant (pyridine) ambient odor conditions. The results revealed that the pitch of the voice was higher in the pleasant than in the unpleasant condition. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis of local and functional convergences of encoding vocal emotion and hedonic perception of odors.
Previous studies have suggested that motor cortex may be involved in complex control of respiration in man. In this study, we estimated the influence of a simple visuomotor reaction time task (VMT) on the inspiratory airflow curve (IFC) by comparing measurements of standard deviation (SD), C(0) complexity and approximate entropy (ApEn) of the IFC at rest and during VMT conditions. It was found that both C(0) complexity and ApEn, but not SD of the IFC were significantly increased during the VMT challenge. The results suggest that visuomotor pathways may modulate respiratory motor pathways, because an increase in ApEn is suggestive of increased coupling or communication between (motor) systems.
This study reinvestigated the functional neuroanatomy of phonological and visual working memory in humans. Articulatory suppression was used to deprive the human subjects of species-specific verbal strategies in order to make the functional magnetic resonance imaging results more comparable to findings in non-human primates. Both phonological and visual working memory processes activated similar prefronto-parietal networks but were found to be differentially distributed along several cortical structures, in particular along the anterior and posterior parts of the intermediate frontal sulcus. These results suggest that a domain-specific topographical organization of neural working memory mechanisms in the primate brain is conserved in evolution. However, the findings also underline the critical dynamic influence that the additional availability of language may have on working memory processes and their functional implementation in the human brain.

Mice engineered to lack GM2/GD2 synthase (GalNAc-T), with resultant deficit of GM2, GD2, and all gangliotetraose gangliosides, were originally described as showing a relatively normal phenotype with only a slight reduction in nerve conduction. However, a subsequent study showed that similar animals suffer axonal degeneration, myelination defects, and impaired motor coordination. We have examined the behavior of cerebellar granule neurons from these neonatal knockouts in culture and have found evidence of impaired capacity for Ca2+ regulation. These cells showed relatively normal behavior when grown in the presence of physiological or moderately elevated K+ but gradually degenerated in the presence of high K+. This degeneration in depolarizing medium was accompanied by progressive elevation of intracellular calcium and onset of apoptosis, phenomena not observed with normal cells. No differences were detected in cells from normal vs. heterozygous mice. These findings suggest that neurons from GalNAc-T knockout mice are lacking a calcium regulatory mechanism that is modulated by one or more of the deleted gangliosides, and they support the hypothesis that maintenance of calcium homeostasis is one function of complex gangliosides during, and perhaps subsequent to, neuronal development.
In the olfactory bulb, synaptic transmission between dendrites plays an important role in the processing of olfactory information. Glutamate released from the dendrites of principal mitral cells excites the dendritic spines of granule cells, which in turn release gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) back onto mitral cell dendrites. Slow N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors on granule dendrites are particularly effective in driving this reciprocal dendrodendritic inhibition (DDI), raising the possibility that calcium influx through NMDA receptors may trigger GABA exocytosis directly. In this study, I show that NMDA receptor activation is not an absolute requirement and that DDI can be evoked solely by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors when granule cell excitability is increased or under conditions that slow AMPA receptor kinetics. In physiological extracellular Mg(2+), DDI elicited by photolysis of caged calcium in mitral dendrites is blocked by cadmium and toxins to N- and P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels. DDI is largely unaffected after granule dendrites have been loaded with the slow calcium chelator EGTA, suggesting a tight coupling between the site of calcium influx and the release machinery governing GABA exocytosis. These results indicate that voltage-gated calcium channels play an essential role in dendritic GABA release during reciprocal feedback inhibition in the olfactory bulb.


Quality management will have an increasing impact on the field of clinical neurosciences. The neuropathological examination of surgical or autopsy samples obtained from the central nervous system (CNS) and related structures, cerebrospinal fluid, peripheral nerve or skeletal muscle serves three major purposes: to identify a structural correlate of the disease, provide a reliable basis for treatment strategies and to investigate underlying pathogenic mechanisms. In order to achieve histopathological diagnosis at a consistent quality, quality management and control have to be implemented at different levels. At the local site, these concern neuropathological services, such as acquisition of tissue specimens, handling and staining procedures as well as diagnostic examination. Training programs offered in slide seminars and diagnostic workshops are important tools to highlight new developments and maintain high standards. National reference centers for brain tumors, neurodegenerative disorders, prion or muscle and nerve diseases assist with a second opinion in difficult cases and support epidemiological as well as clinical therapy trials. An international panel of neuropathologists has established guidelines for the classification of brain tumors, recently updated during a WHO 2000 consensus conference. Finally, the standardized histopathological and cytological diagnosis of CNS disorders plays also an important role in providing quality control for associated fields of the clinical neurosciences, such as neuroradiology, neurology, psychiatry and neurosurgery.

Rimmed vacuole formation, tubulofilamentous nuclear inclusions and muscle fiber atrophy are the characteristic pathological findings in distal myopathy with rimmed vacuoles (DMRV). Necrotic muscle fibers were few in number and did not appear to account for the muscle weakness, but the nuclear changes with myofibrillar degeneration followed by rimmed vacuole formation appeared to be the major reason for the muscle fiber atrophy in DMRV. To determine whether the nuclear change in DMRV was related to apoptosis, we examined 15 muscle biopsy specimens immunohistochemically, and 7 of them ultrastructurally. The characteristic tubulofilamentous nuclear inclusions were found in 4 and the typical fragmented apoptotic nuclei in 3 of the 7 muscle biopsy samples examined by electron microscopy. TUNEL-positive nuclei reflecting apoptotic DNA fragmentation were found in 13 of 15 biopsies ranging from a few to approximately 1.5% of myonuclei. Apoptosis-specific protein was expressed in the sarcoplasm of atrophic fibers in 13 biopsies both with or without rimmed vacuoles. These findings suggest that the apoptotic process plays a crucial role in myofibrillar degeneration followed by autophagocytosis, i.e., rimmed vacuole formation, in DMRV.
In humans, administration of benzodiazepines (BZD) has been shown to have an asymmetrical effect on the medial olivocochlear system. Indeed, a decrease of evoked otoacoustic emission suppression by contralateral acoustic stimulation, which explores the medial olivocochlear efferent system, was observed in the right ear, with no left ear effect. This result suggests a possible left-right auditory pathway BZD receptor asymmetry. Given the anatomical link between auditory centers and the medial olivocochlear system, the existence of a larger volume of cortical connecting fibers in the left hemisphere, and the possible link between BZD receptor density and neuronal density, we tested the hypothesis of an asymmetrical localization of BZD receptors in the auditory system in 10 right-handed subjects using [11C]flumazenil positron emission tomography. Semi-quantitative measurements of flumazenil binding were evaluated in Heschl's gyrus showing a left-right asymmetry in favor of left auditory cortex. This result indicates a higher density of neurons in left auditory cortex. The possible link between neurochemical asymmetry and functional asymmetry, and the perceptual outcome of BZD administration, will be discussed.
Previous studies have shown that neurons in the raphe nuclei respond to acoustic stimuli. The present study investigated connections between the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) and a hindbrain region consisting of the cochlear nucleus (CN) and neighboring structures. A mixture of one or more tracers (cholera toxin B, biotinylated dextran amine (BDA), and 3H-leucine) was injected into the cat DRN. Retrograde-labeling results are presented whereby a new structure, to be called the juxta-acoustico-floccular fascicle (JAFF), is identified. The JAFF is surrounded by the CN, flocculus, lateral cerebellar nucleus, lateral vestibular nucleus, and restiform body. The JAFF is closely associated with the infracerebellar nucleus (ICN). Labeled neurons projecting to the DRN were concentrated in the JAFF, embedded among axons. Less numerous labeled neurons were in the ICN and CN. Anterograde-labeling results are presented showing fibers labeled with BDA or with BDA and 3H-leucine in the CN, cochlear nerve and vestibular nerve, indicating that the DRN projects to these structures. The ascending and descending connections between the DRN and the above hindbrain region may mediate a reflex that may alter the sensitivity of the auditory system in response to biologically salient (e.g. threatening or attractive) stimuli.
It is well known that the large inter-individual susceptibility to noise exposure makes it impossible to predict the degree of hearing loss which will develop after any given intense noise exposure. The acoustic trauma which sometimes occurs affects cochlear mechanisms, the damage being most probably due to deactivation of the active processes of the outer hair cells (OHCs), which receive direct efferent innervation. The present report is of a follow-up study involving young military personnel recovering auditively from impulse noise exposure, and seeks to assess changes in cochlear status by means of otoacoustic emissions (OAEs) and their modulation by the medial olivocochlear (MOC) system. The study investigated the relationship between recovery of cochlear function and variables that could serve as predictors of vulnerability to noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL). Thirty-six subjects with unilateral NHIL above 4 kHz were included. Normal and affected ears were compared with respect to click-evoked and spontaneous OAEs (CEOAEs and SOAEs, respectively) and for contralateral CEOAE suppression. Measurements were obtained: (i) just after the traumatic exposure (D0); (ii) 3 days after this first measurement (D3); and (iii) 30 days after (D30). Significant improvement in the 4, 6 and 8 kHz thresholds was observed for the affected ear, with large inter-subject variability. No significant change was observed in CEOAE amplitude or MOC suppression, whereas incidence of SOAE was found to increase in the affected ear, leading to higher SOAE prevalence on this side I month after the intense noise exposure. There was no significant correlation between NIHL at 4, 6 and 8 kHz and MOC functioning on D0, but significant correlations were obtained between audiometric threshold improvement by D3 and contralateral CEOAE suppression, with better recovery in subjects with greater MOC suppressive action. The MOC system could be an underlying mechanism in post-traumatic auditory threshold recovery.
During the development of the mammalian inner ear, the number of hair cells produced is highly regulated and remains constant throughout life. The mechanism underlying this regulation is beginning to be understood although many aspects still remain obscure. When late embryonic or early postnatal rat organs of Corti were cultured, the production of supernumerary hair cells was observed. This overproduction of sensory cells could be modulated by the addition of several growth factors. In this study, we examined explants of rat organs of Corti that produced supernumerary hair cells. In the supernumerary hair cell region, up to two rows of inner hair cells and five rows of outer hair cells were observed. Morphological evaluation of these specimens revealed that less mature hair cells were located in the most external rows of these sensory cells. When a supernumerary hair cell was produced, a supporting cell (i.e. Deiters' cell) was also produced, strongly suggesting that the conversion of a Deiters' cell into a hair cell was not the mechanism that produced these extra hair cells. Based on these results, we propose that prosensory cells located at the external edge of the organ of Corti retain a capacity to form hair cells and that it is these prosensory cells that differentiate into supernumerary hair cells and Deiters' cells.
Mammalian vestibular maculae are anatomically organized for complex parallel processing of linear acceleration information. Anatomical findings in rat maculae are provided in order to underscore this complexity, which is little understood functionally. This report emphasizes that a synthetic approach is critical to understanding how maculae function and the kind of information they conduct to the brain.

The present study was designed to examine the hypothesis that stimulus-response arrangements with high ideomotor compatibility lead to substantial compatibility effects even in simple response tasks. In Experiment 1, participants executed pre-instructed finger movements in response to compatible and incompatible finger movements. A pronounced reaction time advantage was found for compatible as compared to incompatible trials. Experiment 2 revealed a much smaller compatibility effect for less ideomotor-compatible object movements compared to finger movements. Experiment 3 presented normal stimuli (hand upright) and flipped stimuli (hand upside-down). Two components were found to contribute to the compatibility effect, a dynamic spatial compatibility component (related to movement directions) and an ideomotor component (related to movement types). The implications of these results for theories about stimulus-response compatibility (SRC) as well as for theories about imitation are discussed.
Quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping has allowed dramatic progress toward the detection and chromosome mapping of minor and major gene loci involved in murine responses to alcohol and other drugs of abuse. Here we focus on the identification of QTLs for one particular trait relevant to addiction, drug withdrawal following acute or chronic drug administration. To date, five significant QTLs (p &lt; 5 x 10(-5)) and six suggestive QTLs (p &lt; 0.001) have been mapped to specific murine chromosomes for alcohol and pentobarbital withdrawal, indicating the presence of a relevant gene or genes at each location. Overlapping QTLs for alcohol withdrawal and pentobarbital withdrawal are identified on murine chromosomes 1, 4, and 11, and may detect the influence of common genes. For many QTLs, candidate genes with relevant neurobiological function lie within the mapped region. Notably, several QTLs for alcohol and pentobarbital withdrawal are in proximity to genes that directly or indirectly affect GABAA receptor-mediated transmission, which has been implicated in some of the actions of alcohol and other drugs. These include a cluster of GABAA receptor genes and genes encoding the enzymes steroid 5 alpha-reductase-1 (involved in biosynthesis of the neuroactive steroid allopregnanolone) and glutamic acid decarboxylase-1 (involved in GABA biosynthesis). This paper will discuss data that examines the involvement of GABAergic genes in withdrawal and other drug responses, including genetic variation in gene sequence, expression and function.
Fuzzy-trace theory has evolved in response to counterintuitive data on how memory development influences the development of reasoning. The two traditional perspectives on memory-reasoning relations--the necessity and constructivist hypotheses--stipulate that the accuracy of children's memory for problem information and the accuracy of their reasoning are closely intertwined, albeit for different reasons. However, contrary to necessity, correlational and experimental dissociations have been found between children's memory for problem information that is determinative in solving certain problems and their solutions of those problems. In these same tasks, age changes in memory for problem information appear to be dissociated from age changes in reasoning. Contrary to constructivism, correlational and experimental dissociations also have been found between children's performance on memory tests for actual experience and memory tests for the meaning of experience. As in memory-reasoning studies, age changes in one type of memory performance do not seem to be closely connected to age changes in the other type of performance. Subsequent experiments have led to dual-process accounts in both the memory and reasoning spheres. The account of memory development features four other principles: parallel verbatim-gist storage, dissociated verbatim-gist retrieval, memorial bases of conscious recollection, and identity/similarity processes. The account of the development of reasoning features three principles: gist extraction, fuzzy-to-verbatim continua, and fuzzy-processing preferences. The fuzzy-processing preference is a particularly important notion because it implies that gist-based intuitive reasoning often suffices to deliver &quot;logical&quot; solutions and that such reasoning confers multiple cognitive advantages that enhance accuracy. The explanation of memory-reasoning dissociations in cognitive development then falls out of fuzzy-trace theory's dual-process models of memory and reasoning. More explicitly, in childhood reasoning tasks, it is assumed that both verbatim and gist traces of problem information are stored. Responding accurately to memory tests for presented problem information depends primarily on verbatim memory abilities (preserving traces of that information and accessing them when the appropriate memory probes are administered). However, accurate solutions to reasoning problems depend primarily on gist-memory abilities (extracting the correct gist from problem information, focusing on that gist during reasoning, and accessing reasoning operations that process that gist). Because verbatim and gist memories exhibit considerable dissociation, both during storage and when they are subsequently accessed on memory tests, dissociations of verbatim-based memory performance from gist-based reasoning are predictable. Conversely, associations are predicted in situations in which memory and reasoning are based on the same verbatim traces (Brainerd &amp; Reyna, 1988) and in situations in which memory and reasoning are based on the same gist traces (Reyna &amp; Kiernan, 1994). Fuzzy-trace theory's memory and reasoning principles have been applied in other research domains. Four such domains are developmental cognitive neuroscience studies of false memory, studies of false memory in brain-damaged patients, studies of reasoning errors in judgment and decision making, and studies of retrieval mechanisms in recall. In the first domain, the principles of parallel verbatim-gist storage, dissociated verbatim-gist retrieval, and identity/similarity processes have been used to explain both spontaneous and implanted false reports in children and in the elderly. These explanations have produced some surprising predictions that have been verified: false reports do not merely decline with age during childhood but increase under theoretically specified conditions; reports of events that were not experienced can nevertheless be highly persistent over time; and false reports can be suppressed by retrieving verbatim traces of corresponding true events. In the second domain, the same principles have been invoked to explain why some forms of brain damage lead to elevated levels of false memory and other forms lead to reduced levels of false memory. In the third domain, the principles of gist extraction, fuzzy-to-verbatim continua, and fuzzy-processing preferences have been exploited to formulate a general theory of loci of processing failures in judgment and decision making, cluminating in a developmental account of degrees of rationality that distinguishes more and less advanced reasoning. This theory has in turn been used to formulate local models, such as the inclusion illusions model, that explain the characteristic reasoning errors that are observed on specific judgment and decision-making tasks. Finally, in the fourth domain, a dual-process conception of recall has been derived from the principles of parallel verbatim-gist storage and dissociated verbatim-gist retrieval. In this conception, which has been used to explain cognitive triage effects in recall and robust false recall, targets are recalled either by directly accessing their verbatim traces and reading the retrieved information out of consciousness or by reconstructively processing their gist traces.
While reasons for gross variations in milk composition of the various mammalian species are well established, we will be revealing minor, subtle, yet highly important differences for years to come. One of the distinctive differences of human milk concerns its mucins, MUC1 and MUC-X. These are high molecular mass glycoproteins that occur on the apical surface of the lactating cell and are transferred to the milk fat globule upon its secretion from the cell. Among mammals, it seems that the human has developed the largest, most extended versions of these mucin molecules. Evidence is accumulating that this greater size benefits the human in terms of protection against infections and injurious environmental agents.






Considerable evidence from several laboratories (c.f., Rekling and Feldman, Ramirez et al.) is consistent with the concept that the pBc contains the kernel of the central rhythm generating network for breathing. The work summarized in this manuscript is also generally consistent with this notion. Of particular note is the observation that pre-I neurons and E-Dec neurons maintain a consistent phase relationship with phrenic nerve activity and maintain a similar peak discharge rate despite marked changes in the phrenic nerve rhythm and pattern. Other categories of respiratory neurons failed to maintain this relationship. Hence, the findings are consistent with pBc pre-I and E-Dec neurons having a key role in rhythm generation. A persistent sodium current has been postulated to underlie the rhythm generating mechanism of pacemaker neurons within the pBc. In the present study, a substantial persistent sodium current was documented in many neurons from the pBc and adjacent respiratory regions. This finding is not inconsistent with the postulated role in rhythm generation. However, it does suggest that other neuronal properties must act in concert with the persistent current to define a unique population of pacemaker neurons.













The etiology of PD is complex and may depend on multiple factors, both hereditary and environmental. A proportion of PD disease patients show a deficiency in mitochondrial respiratory chain function, in particular a defect of complex I, within neurons of the substantia nigra. Both mitochondrial mutations and toxic agents (endogenous and exogenous) have been demonstrated to cause a deficiency in complex I function. This is achieved by increasing the degree of, or susceptibility to, oxidative stress, which may contribute to apoptopic cell death. Future research directed toward developing neuroprotective strategies may reduce oxidative stress and stabilize or improve mitochondrial function.



Animal models provide unique opportunities to explore interactions between host and environment. Two models have been established based on Bornavirus infection that provide new insights into mechanisms by which neurotropic agents and/or immune factors may impact developing or mature CNS circuitry to effect complex disturbances in movement and behavior. Distinct losses in DA pathways in the adult infection model, and the associated dramatic movement disorder that accompanies it, make it an intriguing model for tardive dyskinesia and dystonic syndromes. The neuropathologic, physiologic, and neurobehavioral features of BDV infection of neonates indicate that it not only provides a useful model for exploring the mechanisms by which viral and immune factors may damage developing neurocircuitry, but also has significant links to the range of biologic, neurostructural, locomotor, cognitive, and social deficits observed in serious neuropsychiatric illnesses such as autism.

Like most lentiviruses, HIV-1 causes both immune suppression and neurological disease. Neurological disease may occur at any stage of HIV infection but is most apparent with severe immune suppression. Cognitive impairment, reflected strikingly by HIV-associated dementia, has attracted intense interest since the outset of the HIV epidemic, and understanding of its pathogenesis has been spurred on by the emergence of several hypotheses outlining potential pathogenic mechanisms. The release of inflammatory molecules by HIV-infected microglia and macrophages and the concurrent neuronal damage play central roles in the conceptualization of HIV neuropathogenesis. Many inflammatory molecules appear to contribute to the pathogenic cascade and their individual roles remain undefined. At the same time, the abundance of virus in the brain and the type or strain of virus found in the brain may also be important codeterminants of neurological disease, as shown for other neurotropic viruses. Coreceptor use by HIV found in the brain appears to closely mirror what has been reported in systemic macrophages. The impact of HAART on viral genotype and phenotype found in the brain, and its relationship to clinical disease, remain uncertain. Several interesting animal models have been developed, using other lentiviruses, transgenic animals, and HIV-infected SCID mice, that may prove useful in future pathogenesis and therapeutic studies. Despite the progress in the understanding of HIV neuropathogenesis, many questions remain unanswered.

Detecting alcohol use among pregnant women is an important step toward preventing alcohol-related birth defects. A biomarker that could detect alcohol use during pregnancy would aid in earlier identification and intervention for affected infants. The existing potential biomarkers for identifying alcohol use during pregnancy can detect varying degrees of alcohol exposure, or use. However, further research is needed to evaluate these biomarkers.
The study of alcohol's effects on sleep dates back to the late 1930s. Since then, an extensive literature has described alcohol's effects on the sleep of healthy, nonalcoholic people. For example, studies found that in nonalcoholics who occasionally use alcohol, both high and low doses of alcohol initially improve sleep, although high alcohol doses can result in sleep disturbances during the second half of the nocturnal sleep period. Furthermore, people can rapidly develop tolerance to the sedative effects of alcohol. Researchers have investigated the interactive effects of alcohol with other determinants of daytime sleepiness. Such studies indicate that alcohol interacts with sleep deprivation and sleep restriction to exacerbate daytime sleepiness and alcohol-induced performance impairments. Alcohol's effects on other physiological functions during sleep have yet to be documented thoroughly and unequivocally.


Bovine adrenocortical zona fasciculata (AZF) cells express a novel ATP-dependent K(+)-permeable channel (I(AC)). Whole cell and single-channel recordings were used to characterize I(AC) channels with respect to ionic selectivity, conductance, and modulation by nucleotides, inorganic phosphates, and angiotensin II (ANG II). In outside-out patch recordings, the activity of unitary I(AC) channels is enhanced by ATP in the patch pipette. These channels were K(+) selective with no measurable Na(+) or Ca(2+) conductance. In symmetrical K(+) solutions with physiological concentrations of divalent cations (M(2+)), I(AC) channels were outwardly rectifying with outward and inward chord conductances of 94.5 and 27.0 pS, respectively. In the absence of M(2+), conductance was nearly ohmic. Hydrolysis-resistant nucleotides including AMP-PNP and NaUTP were more potent than MgATP as activators of whole cell I(AC) currents. Inorganic polytriphosphate (PPP(i)) dramatically enhanced I(AC) activity. In current-clamp recordings, nucleotides and PPP(i) produced resting potentials in AZF cells that correlated with their effectiveness in activating I(AC). ANG II (10 nM) inhibited whole cell I(AC) currents when patch pipettes contained 5 mM MgATP but was ineffective in the presence of 5 mM NaUTP and 1 mM MgATP. Inhibition by ANG II was not reduced by selective kinase antagonists. These results demonstrate that I(AC) is a distinctive K(+)-selective channel whose activity is increased by nucleotide triphosphates and PPP(i). Furthermore, they suggest a model for I(AC) gating that is controlled through a cycle of ATP binding and hydrolysis.
The aim of this study was to identify the melatonin receptor type(s) (MT(1) or MT(2)) mediating circadian clock resetting by melatonin in the mammalian suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). Quantitative receptor autoradiography with 2-[(125)I]iodomelatonin and in situ hybridization histochemistry, with either (33)P- or digoxigenin-labeled antisense MT(1) and MT(2) melatonin receptor mRNA oligonucleotide probes, revealed specific expression of both melatonin receptor types in the SCN of inbred Long-Evans rats. The melatonin receptor type mediating phase advances of the circadian rhythm of neuronal firing rate in the SCN slice was assessed using competitive melatonin receptor antagonists, the MT(1)/MT(2) nonselective luzindole and the MT(2)-selective 4-phenyl-2-propionamidotetraline (4P-PDOT). Luzindole and 4P-PDOT (1 nM-1 microM) did not affect circadian phase on their own; however, they blocked both the phase advances (approximately 4 h) in the neuronal firing rate induced by melatonin (3 pM) at temporally distinct times of day [i.e., subjective dusk, circadian time (CT) 10; and dawn, CT 23], as well as the associated increases in protein kinase C activity. We conclude that melatonin mediates phase advances of the SCN circadian clock at both dusk and dawn via activation of MT(2) melatonin receptor signaling.
Although the adrenal cortex and medulla are both involved in the maintenance of homeostasis and stress response, the functional importance of intra-adrenal interactions remains unclear. When primary cocultures of frog (Rana pipiens) adrenocortical and chromaffin cells were used, selective chromaffin cell activation dramatically affected both chromaffin and adrenocortical cells. Depolarization with 50 microm veratridine enhanced chromaffin cell neuronal phenotype, contacts with adrenocortical cells, and secretion of norepinephrine, epinephrine, and serotonin. Time-lapse video microscopy recorded the rapid establishment of growth cones on the activated chromaffin cell neurites, neurite branching, and outgrowth toward adrenocortical cells. Simultaneously, adrenocortical cells migrated toward chromaffin cells. Following chromaffin cell activation, adrenocortical cell Fos protein expression and corticosteroid secretion were increased, indicating that chromaffin cell modulation of adrenocortical cells is at the transcriptional level. These results provide evidence that intra-adrenal interactions affect cellular differentiation and modulate steroidogenesis. Furthermore, this suggests that the activity-related plasticity of chromaffin and adrenocortical cells is developmentally and physiologically important.
The present study used activation of the c-Fos oncogene protein within neurons in the dorsal vagal complex (DVC) as a marker of neuronal excitation in response to systemic endotoxin challenge [i.e. , lipopolysaccharide (LPS)]. Specifically, we investigated whether vagal connections with the brain stem are necessary for LPS cytokine- induced activation of DVC neurons. Systemic exposure to LPS elicited a significant activation of c-Fos in neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) and area postrema of all thiobutabarbital-anesthetized rats examined, regardless of the integrity of their vagal nerves. That is, rats with both vagi cervically transected were still able to respond with c-Fos activation of neurons in the DVC. Unilateral cervical vagotomy produced a consistent but small reduction in c-Fos activation in the ipsilateral NST of all animals within this experimental group. Given that afferent input to the NST is exclusively excitatory, it is not surprising that unilateral elimination of all vagal afferents would diminish NST responsiveness (on the vagotomized side). These data lead us to conclude that the NST itself is a primary central nervous system detector of cytokines.
The present study sought to determine whether increases in arterial blood pressure inhibited drinking behavior evoked by ANG II, hyperosmolality, or hypovolemia in rats. Cumulative water intakes in 60- or 90-min tests and latency to the first lick were recorded as indexes of thirst. During intravenous infusions of 100 ng. kg(-1). min(-1) ANG II, attenuation of the induced increases in arterial pressure with the arteriolar vasodilator diazoxide resulted in greater water intakes and shorter latencies to drink. Drinking behavior stimulated by intravenous infusion of hypertonic saline was significantly inhibited by increases in arterial pressure caused by intravenous infusion of phenylephrine or endothelin-1, and this inhibition of drinking was proportional to the induced increase in pressure. Upon termination of the phenylephrine infusion, mean arterial pressure returned to basal values, and drinking was restored. Phenylephrine-induced increases in arterial pressure also inhibited drinking behavior in response to hypovolemia that could not be explained by differences in plasma renin activity, plasma protein concentration, or plasma osmolality. Thus increases in arterial pressure inhibit water drinking behavior in response to each of these three thirst stimuli in rats.
Immune function is better in females than in males of many vertebrate species, and this dimorphism has been attributed to the presence of immunosuppressive androgens in males. We investigated the influence of sex steroid hormones on immune function in male and female Siberian hamsters. Previous studies indicated that immune function was impaired in male and female hamsters housed under short-day photoperiods when androgen and estrogen concentrations were virtually undetectable. In experiment 1, animals were gonadally intact, gonadectomized (gx), or gx with hormone replacement. Females exhibited the expected increase in antibody production over males, independent of hormone treatment condition, whereas male and female gx animals exhibited decreased lymphocyte proliferation to the T cell mitogen, phytohemagglutinin (PHA) compared with intact animals, and this effect was reversed in gx hamsters following testosterone and estradiol treatment, respectively. In experiment 2, testosterone, dihydrotestosterone, and estradiol all enhanced cell-mediated immunity in vitro, suggesting that sex steroid hormones may be enhancing immune function through direct actions on immune cells. In experiment 3, an acute mitogen challenge of lipopolysaccharide significantly suppressed lymphocyte proliferation to PHA in intact males but not females, suggesting that males may be less reactive to a subsequent mitogenic challenge than females. Contrary to evidence in many species such as rats, mice, and humans, these data suggest that sex steroid hormones enhance immunity in both male and female Siberian hamsters.
The adrenal cortex is innervated by afferent fibers that have been implicated in affecting cortical steroidogenesis. Modulation of neurotransmitter release from afferents may represent a regulatory system for the control of adrenal cortical function. The present studies validate an in vitro superfusion technique for adrenal capsules employing the drug capsaicin, which activates a subset of afferent fibers and induces the release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP). Capsaicin-evoked CGRP release from adrenal afferents was blocked by capsazepine, a competitive antagonist for the capsaicin receptor, or by removal of extracellular calcium. Exogenous ACTH prevented capsaicin-evoked CGRP release, elevated basal aldosterone release, and prevented capsaicin-induced reduction in aldosterone release. Immunolabeling for the recently cloned capsaicin vanilloid receptor 1 demonstrated its presence in adrenal nerves. These results show that in vitro superfusion of adrenal capsules can be used to characterize factors that modulate neurotransmitter release from adrenal afferents. Furthermore, the results suggest that activation of adrenal afferents in vivo may attenuate aldosterone steroidogenesis and that high levels of ACTH may prevent this phenomenon.

In this paper, a hypothetical model of agitation therapy for some categories of antisocial and psychopathic patients/offenders is presented. Agitation therapy is mainly meant for very problematic and aggressive individuals who do not (or hardly) respond (in some periods) to any other type of psychotherapy, neurofeedback, and/or psychopharmacotherapy. The author makes an attempt to develop an adequate model of agitation therapy that makes optimal use of learning moments in controlled conflict situations. During agitation therapy the aggressive antisocial or psychopathic individual will be exposed to external agitation of other patients in a controlled manner in order to increase his/her self-knowledge; awareness of his or her intolerable behavior and limitations; sublimation of aggression/anger; the willingness (and insight in the necessity) to change; feelings of responsibility and emotional, social and moral development. Agitation therapy is not intended to be an isolated form of psychotherapy, but it may be rather often successful in combination with other types of psychotherapy, neurofeedback, and/or psychopharmacotherapy.
Using electrogoniometry and electromyography, we measured tibial translation and muscle activation in 12 patients with unilateral anterior cruciate ligament injury and in 12 control subjects. Measurements were made during an active extension exercise with 0-, 4-, and 8-kg weights and during squats on two legs and on one leg where the projection of the center of gravity was placed over, behind, and in front the feet. In the uninjured subjects, tibial translation increased with increasing load except during the squat with the center of gravity behind the feet, which produced the smallest translation. For the active extension exercises, translation was greater during eccentric activity. In the anterior cruciate ligament-injured knees, all squats resulted in similar translation, which was smaller than that during the active extension exercise. The highest muscle activation was seen during squats. Hamstring muscle activity was low. Increased static laxity in the anterior cruciate ligament-deficient knee can be controlled during closed but not during open kinetic chain exercises. Coactivation of the quadriceps and gastrocnemius muscles seems to be important for knee stability, whereas hamstring muscle coactivation was insignificant. To minimize sagittal translation during nonoperative management of anterior cruciate ligament-deficient knees, closed kinetic chain exercises are preferable to open kinetic chain exercises, and importance should be attached to the spontaneous coactivation of the quadriceps and gastrocnemius muscles.
Media coverage of early brain development not only has focused public attention on early childhood but also has contributed to misunderstanding of developmental neuroscience research. This article critically summarizes current research in developmental neuroscience that is pertinent to the central claims of media accounts of early brain development, including (a) scientific understanding of formative early experiences, (b) whether critical periods are typical for brain development, (c) brain development as a lifelong process, (d) biological hazards to early brain growth, and (e) strengths and limits of current technology in developmental brain research. Recommendations are offered for strengthening the constructive contributions of research scientists and their professional organizations to the accurate and timely coverage of scientific issues in the media.
Previously, several studies attempting to analyze olfactory functions using dissociated culture systems of the olfactory bulb (OB) have been reported. Reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses between secondary neurons (mitral/tufted cells) and interneurons (periglomerular/granule cells) are considered to play the most important role in signal processing in the OB. However, it is unclear whether these reciprocal synapses are formed in vitro in the same way as they are in the intact OB. Thus, we synaptologically investigated the nature of cultured OB neurons. These neurons from embryonic rats were classified into four groups based on the size of their somata and their glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) immunoreactivity. At 14 days in vitro, most of the neurons synchronously showed spontaneous intracellular Ca2+ oscillations that were reversibly inhibited by application of D-APV and CNQX. Moreover, the frequency of the oscillations decreased and their amplitude became larger following application of bicuculline. These results suggest functional glutamatergic synaptic coupling and inhibitory GABAergic synaptic modulation. Immunocytochemical staining revealed many dot-like products (puncta) that were immunoreactive to GAD as well as to synaptophysin surrounding the cultured neurons. These results strongly indicate the presence of GABAergic synapses. The existence of synaptic contacts in OB neuron cultures was also confirmed by electron microscopy. Two types of synapses, symmetrical and asymmetrical, were morphologically recognizable. Moreover, we could also identify peculiar synapses resembling the in vivo reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses. The use of these primary culture systems will facilitate the elucidation of mechanisms underlying olfactory functions.
The ENS is responsible for the regulation and control of all gastrointestinal functions. Because of this critical role, and probably as a consequence of its remarkable plasticity, the ENS is often relatively well preserved in conditions where the architecture of the intestine is seriously disrupted, such as in IBD. There are structural and functional changes in the enteric innervation in animal models of experimental intestinal inflammation and in IBD. These include both up and down regulation of transmitter expression and the induction of new genes in enteric neurons. Using Fos expression as a surrogate marker of neuronal activation it is now well established that enteric neurons (and also enteric glia) respond to inflammation. Whether this &quot;activation&quot; is limited to a short-term functional response, such as increased neuronal excitability, or reflects a long-term change in some aspect of the neuronal phenotype (or both) has yet to be firmly established, but it appears that enteric neurons are highly plastic in their response to inflammation.
The guinea-pig small intestine has been very widely used to study the physiology, pharmacology and morphology of the enteric nervous system. It also provides an ideal, simple mammalian preparation for studying how nerve cells are organised into functional circuits underlying simple behaviours. Many different types of nerve cells are present in the enteric nervous system and they show characteristic combinations of morphological features, projections, biophysical properties, neurochemicals, and receptors. To identify the different functional classes is an important prerequisite for systematic analysis of how the enteric nervous system controls normal gut behaviour. Based on combinations of multiple-labelling immunohistochemistry and retrograde tracing, it has been possible to account quantitatively for all of the neurones in the guinea-pig small intestine. This article summarises that account and updates it in the light of recent data. A total of 18 classes of neurones are currently distinguishable, including primary afferent neurones, motor neurones, interneurones, secretomotor and vasomotor neurones. It is now possible to take an individual nerve cell and use a few carefully chosen criteria to assign it to a functional class. This provides a firm anatomical foundation for the systematic analysis of how the enteric nervous system normally functions and how it goes wrong in various clinically important disorders.

The cDNA for RANTES (an acronym for &quot;Regulated upon Activation, Normal T cell Expressed and Secreted&quot;) was initially discovered by subtractive hybridization as a T cell-specific sequence. Consistent with it being a C-C (beta) chemokine, RANTES is a monocyte chemoattractant. In addition, RANTES can chemoattract unstimulated CD4+/CD45RO+ memory T cells and stimulated CD4+ and CD8+ T cells with the naive and memory phenotypes in immunologically active sites. It has been shown that CD8+ cells are dominant sources of RANTES. Here we attempted to determine if CD4+ cells express and secrete RANTES alone, or if other accessory cells (activated monocytes) are needed to activate them. We found that when autologous monocytes are added to CD4+ cells and then stimulated with phytohaemagglutinin (PHA), the quantity of RANTES, in terms of transcription and translation of the protein, is significantly higher than the amount produced by the PHA-activated monocytes alone; isolated CD4+ cells stimulated with PHA do not produce any appreciable quantity of RANTES. When CD4+ cells are primed overnight with monocytes and then stimulated with PHA, they produce more RANTES compared to PHA-stimulated CD4+ cells alone. The influence that monocytes have on CD4+ cells to produce RANTES was confirmed when the physiological activator, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), was used. These data show that CD4+ cells need monocytes to express and secrete appreciable amounts of RANTES.

Somatostatin and other neuropeptides are expressed in tumors originating from neuronal precursors and paraganglia, namely medulloblastoma, central Primitive Neuro-Ectodermal Tumors (cPNETs), neurocytoma, gangliocytoma. olfactory neuroblastoma, paraganglioma. In medulloblastoma, the most common malignant tumor in childhood, there is an extensive expression of somatostatin in addition to somatostatin receptors (SSTR) type 2. Although density of SSTR-2 and intensity of expression of somatostatin genes have no prognostic significance in medulloblastoma. their presence may bring along important information on oncogenesis and relate medulloblastoma to cPNETs. Radio-labeled octreotide scintigraphy may be useful in the follow-up of these patients. allowing differentiation between scar and tumoral tissue. Moreover, on the basis of octreotide-induced inhibition of cell proliferation in medulloblastoma, a trial with octreotide in patients with recurrent or high-risk tumor is warranted. Meningiomas and low-grade astrocytic gliomas, even if not displaying a clear neuroendocrine phenotype, have high levels of SSTR-2. In meningiomas, SSTRs-scintigraphy is not part of the routine pre-operative assessment; moreover, a therapeutic trial with somatostatin-analogues in patients with recurrent or inoperable meningiomas should be carried-out with great caution, because somatostatin and octreotide slightly increase cell proliferation in cultured meningiomatous cells. Low-grade gliomas (WHO grade 2), and a smaller fraction of anaplastic astrocytomas, express SSTR-2, while glioblastomas usually do not. Unfortunately, radiolabeled-octreotide scintigraphy is not useful in the differential diagnosis of gliomas, because the results are altered by the disruption of the blood brain barrier (BBB); in addition, radionuclide-labeled somatostatin analogues are not useful in the therapy of low-grade gliomas, because the intact BBB prevents them from reaching the target SSTR-2. Recently, a pilot study in gliomas, has proposed the use of a radio-labeled somatostostatin analogue with a loco-regional approach in order to overcome the intact BBB.
The development of man-made systems to restore functional vision in the profoundly blind has recently undergone a renaissance that has been fueled by a combination of celebrity and government interest, advances in the field of bioengineering, and successes with existing neuroprosthetic systems. This chapter presents the underlying physiologic principles of artificial vision, discusses three contemporary approaches to restoring functional vision in the blind, and concludes by presenting several relevant questions to vision prostheses. While there has been significant progress in the individual components constituting an artificial vision system, the remaining challenge of integrating these components with each other and the nervous system does not lie strictly in the realm of neuroscience, medicine, or engineering but at the interface of all three. In spite of the apparent complexity of an artificial vision system, it is not unreasonable to be optimistic about its eventual success.
Dendritic spines are morphological specializations that receive synaptic inputs and compartmentalize calcium. In spite of a long history of research, the specific function of spines is still not well understood. Here we review the current status of the relation between morphological changes in spines and synaptic plasticity. Since Cajal and Tanzi proposed that changes in the structure of the brain might occur as a consequence of experience, the search for the morphological correlates of learning has constituted one of the central questions in neuroscience. Although there are scores of studies that encompass this wide field in many species, in this review we focus on experimental work that has analyzed the morphological consequences of hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) in rodents. Over the past two decades many studies have demonstrated changes in the morphology of spines after LTP, such as enlargements of the spine head and shortenings of the spine neck. Biophysically, these changes translate into an increase in the synaptic current injected at the spine, as well as shortening of the time constant for calcium compartmentalization. In addition, recent online studies using time-lapse imaging have reported increased spinogenesis. The currently available data show a strong correlation between synaptic plasticity and morphological changes in spines, although at the same time, there is no evidence that these morphological changes are necessary or sufficient for the induction or maintenance of LTP. Still, they highlight once more how form and function go hand in hand in the central nervous system.
Functional imaging methods permit analysis of neuronal systems in which activity is broadly distributed in time and space. In the olfactory system the dimensions that describe odorant stimuli in &quot;odorant space&quot; are still poorly defined. One way of trying to characterize the attributes of this space is to examine the ways in which its dimensions are encoded by the neurons and circuits making up the system and to compare these responses with physical-chemical attributes of the stimuli and with the output behavior of the animal. For documenting distributed events as they occur, imaging methods are among the few tools available. We are still in the early stages of this analysis; however, a number of recent studies have contributed new information to our understanding of the odorant coding problem. This paper describes imaging results in the context of other data that have contributed to our understanding of how odors are encoded by the peripheral olfactory pathway.
alpha-Latrotoxin, a potent neurotoxin from black widow spider venom, triggers synaptic vesicle exocytosis from presynaptic nerve terminals. alpha-Latrotoxin is a large protein toxin (120 kDa) that contains 22 ankyrin repeats. In stimulating exocytosis, alpha-latrotoxin binds to two distinct families of neuronal cell-surface receptors, neurexins and CLs (Cirl/latrophilins), which probably have a physiological function in synaptic cell adhesion. Binding of alpha-latrotoxin to these receptors does not in itself trigger exocytosis but serves to recruit the toxin to the synapse. Receptor-bound alpha-latrotoxin then inserts into the presynaptic plasma membrane to stimulate exocytosis by two distinct transmitter-specific mechanisms. Exocytosis of classical neurotransmitters (glutamate, GABA, acetylcholine) is induced in a calcium-independent manner by a direct intracellular action of alpha-latrotoxin, while exocytosis of catecholamines requires extracellular calcium. Elucidation of precisely how alpha-latrotoxin works is likely to provide major insight into how synaptic vesicle exocytosis is regulated, and how the release machineries of classical and catecholaminergic neurotransmitters differ.
Learning the relationships between aversive events and the environmental stimuli that predict such events is essential to the survival of organisms throughout the animal kingdom. Pavlovian fear conditioning is an exemplar of this form of learning that is exhibited by both rats and humans. Recent years have seen an incredible surge in interest in the neurobiology of fear conditioning. Neural circuits underlying fear conditioning have been mapped, synaptic plasticity in these circuits has been identified, and biochemical and genetic manipulations are beginning to unravel the molecular machinery responsible for the storage of fear memories. These advances represent an important step in understanding the neural substrates of a rapidly acquired and adaptive form of associative learning and memory in mammals.
A fundamental problem in neuroscience is understanding how a neuron transduces synaptic input into action potentials. The dendrites form the substrate for consolidating thousands of synaptic inputs and are the first stage for signal processing in the neuron. Traditionally, dendrites are viewed as passive structures whose main function is to funnel synaptic input into the soma. However, dendrites contain a wide variety of voltage- and time-dependent ion channels. When activated, the currents through these channels can alter the amplitude and time course of the synaptic input and under certain conditions even evoke all-or-none regenerative potentials. The synaptic input that ultimately reaches the soma is likely to be a highly transformed version of the original signal. Thus, a key step in understanding the relationship between synaptic input and neuronal firing is to elucidate the signal processing that occurs in the dendrites.
The startling discovery by O'Keefe &amp; Dostrovsky (Brain Res. 1971; 34: 171-75) that hippocampal neurons fire selectively in different regions or &quot;place fields&quot; of an environment and the subsequent development of the comprehensive theory by O'Keefe &amp; Nadel (The Hippocampus as a Cognitive Map. Oxford, UK: Clarendon, 1978) that the hippocampus serves as a cognitive map have stimulated a substantial body of literature on the characteristics of hippocampal &quot;place cells&quot; and their relevance for our understanding of the mechanisms by which the brain processes spatial information. This paper reviews the major dimensions of the empirical research on place-cell activity and the development of computational models to explain various characteristics of place fields.
Drinking and eating are critically important motivated behaviors whose expression is usually tightly linked; under conditions of spontaneous intake, disruption of one usually disturbs the other. This characteristic is exemplified by dehydration-induced anorexia in which increasing plasma osmolality leads to a centrally generated reduction in food intake, which is then rapidly reversed as water is again made available. This review discusses, at a systems level, how the brain is organized to generate these behaviors and how dehydration affects the expression of neuropeptides in sets of anatomically defined forebrain circuits that contribute to the integration of motor outputs. These findings are then used to consider how altered neuropeptidergic signaling operates within motor drive networks and how these changes may impact the way neuroendocrine, autonomic, and behavioral motor systems respond to this fundamental homeostatic challenge.
The prefrontal cortex has long been suspected to play an important role in cognitive control, in the ability to orchestrate thought and action in accordance with internal goals. Its neural basis, however, has remained a mystery. Here, we propose that cognitive control stems from the active maintenance of patterns of activity in the prefrontal cortex that represent goals and the means to achieve them. They provide bias signals to other brain structures whose net effect is to guide the flow of activity along neural pathways that establish the proper mappings between inputs, internal states, and outputs needed to perform a given task. We review neurophysiological, neurobiological, neuroimaging, and computational studies that support this theory and discuss its implications as well as further issues to be addressed
Adenosine is a modulator that has a pervasive and generally inhibitory effect on neuronal activity. Tonic activation of adenosine receptors by adenosine that is normally present in the extracellular space in brain tissue leads to inhibitory effects that appear to be mediated by both adenosine A1 and A2A receptors. Relief from this tonic inhibition by receptor antagonists such as caffeine accounts for the excitatory actions of these agents. Characterization of the effects of adenosine receptor agonists and antagonists has led to numerous hypotheses concerning the role of this nucleoside. Previous work has established a role for adenosine in a diverse array of neural phenomena, which include regulation of sleep and the level of arousal, neuroprotection, regulation of seizure susceptibility, locomotor effects, analgesia, mediation of the effects of ethanol, and chronic drug use.
Osteopontin (OPN) is a glycosylated phosphoprotein found in all body fluids and in the proteinaceous matrix of mineralized tissues. It can function both as a cell attachment protein and as a cytokine, delivering signals to cells via a number of receptors including several integrins and CD44. Expression of OPN is enhanced by a variety of toxicants, especially those that activate protein kinase C. In its capacity as a signaling molecule, OPN can modify gene expression and promote the migration of monocytes/macrophages up an OPN gradient. It has both inflammatory and anti-inflammatory actions. Some experiments suggest that it may inhibit apoptosis, possibly contributing to the survival of cells in response to toxicant injury. Elevated OPN expression often correlates with malignancy and has been shown to enhance the tumorigenic and/or metastatic phenotype of the cancer cell. Recent studies have revealed that OPN plays critical roles in bone remodeling and cell-mediated immunity.
Lysophospholipids (LPs), including lysophosphatidic acid and sphingosine 1-phosphate, produce many cellular effects. However, the prolonged absence of any cloned and identified LP receptor has left open the question of how these lipids actually bring about these effects. The cloning and functional identification of the first LP receptor, lp(A1)/vzg-1, has led rapidly to the identification and classification of multiple orphan receptors/expression sequence tags known by many names (e.g. edg, mrec1.3, gpcr26, H218, AGR16, nrg-1) as members of a common cognate G protein-coupled receptor family. We review features of the LP receptor family, including molecular characteristics, genomics, signaling properties, and gene expression. A major question for which only partial answers are available concerns the biological significance of receptor-mediated LP signaling. Recent studies that demonstrate the role of receptor-mediated LP signaling in the nervous system, cardiovascular system, and other organ systems indicate the importance of this signaling in development, function, and pathophysiology and portend an exciting time ahead for this growing field.
Much of our current understanding of how circadian rhythms are generated is based on work done with Drosophila melanogaster. Molecular mechanisms used to assemble an endogenous clock in this organism are now known to underlie circadian rhythms in many other species, including mammals. The genetic amenability of Drosophila has led to the identification of some genes that encode components of the clock (so-called clock genes) and others that either link the clock to the environment or act downstream of it. The clock provides time-of-day cues by regulating levels of specific gene products such that they oscillate with a circadian rhythm. The mechanisms that synchronize these oscillations to light are understood to some extent. However, there are still large gaps in our knowledge, in particular with respect to the mechanisms used by the clock to control overt rhythms. It has, however, become clear that in addition to the brain clock, autonomous or semi-autonomous clocks occur in peripheral tissues where they confer circadian regulation on specific functions.
This review examines recent developments during the past 5 years in the field of judgment and decision making, written in the form of a list of 16 research problems. Many of the problems involve natural extensions of traditional, originally rational, theories of decision making. Others are derived from descriptive algebraic modeling approaches or from recent developments in cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience.


Three soluble receptor-resistant (srr) mutants, srr7, srr11 and srr18, derived from a highly neurotropic mouse hepatitis virus (MHV) JHMV have a single amino acid mutation in the spike (S) protein. We examined using ICR mice whether the amino acids mutated in the mutants were involved in the neurovirulence. Srr7 showed apparently reduced neurovirulence relative to the wild-type (wt) JHMV in terms of the LD50 and survival time, while the others showed slightly reduced virulence. In the brain and spinal cord, the growth of srr7 was more than 2 log10 lower than that of the wt virus. Histopathologically, no significant difference was revealed between wt and srr7-infected mice on day 2 postinoculation (p.i.), with only scant inflammation and a minimum degree of neuropathological changes. The major difference was that apoptotic cells were frequently encountered in the srr7-infected mouse brain, but not in wt-infected mice on day 2 p.i. However, there was no difference between these viruses in the potential to induce apoptosis in cultured cells. The apoptosis in the brain did not appear to result from the direct viral attack, since apoptotic cells were found in the lesion where viral antigens were barely detected. The present study suggests that the amino acids mutated in the S protein of srr mutants, especially the amino acid at position 1114 mutated in srr7, influence the neurovirulence in mice.

For decades, behavioral methods, such as the head-turning or sucking paradigms, have been the primary tools to investigate speech perception and learning of a language in infancy. Recently, however, new methods provided by event-related potentials have emerged. These are called mismatch negativity (MMN) and late discriminative negativity (LDN). MMN, the brain's automatic change-detection response in audition, has been intensively used in adults in both basic and clinical studies for longer than 20 years. LDN, on the other hand, was only recently discovered. There seem to be many differences between these two responses. MMN is developmentally quite stable and can be obtained even from preterm infants. LDN, however, can be obtained most reliably from young children, and its amplitude decreases as a function of age. New data suggest that both of these responses have a special role in language processing, although both of them can also be elicited by nonspeech stimuli.
The well-documented difference in pentobarbital withdrawal severity between DBA/2J and C57BL/6J mice offers the opportunity to study how differences between allelic variants influence pentobarbital withdrawal via their additive and/or dominance effects and to identify modifier loci that also influence the trait via gene-gene interactions (a form of epistasis). Previous work in our laboratory identified seven provisional quantitative trait loci (QTLs) for pentobarbital withdrawal using BXD recombinant inbred strains. To date, only one of these QTLs has been confirmed, Pbw1. We hypothesized that other loci that act epistatically may also influence genetic variance in pentobarbital withdrawal severity. Using Epistat, a program developed to carry out full-genome searches for epistasis, we identified six provisional epistatic interactions (p &lt; .002) between the provisional QTLs and modifier loci elsewhere in the genome. Verification testing of these interactions using 404 B6D2F2 mice provided supporting evidence that a QTL on chromosome 11 contributes to genetic variance in pentobarbital withdrawal, but only in the presence of a modifier allele on distal chromosome 1 (p = .0004). This modifier is in the same genomic vicinity as loci detected for a variety of withdrawal and seizure phenotypes.
The mesotelencephalic dopamine system is genetically variable and affects motor behavior, motivation, and learning. Here we examine the genetic variation of mesencephalic DA neuron number in a quasi-congenic RQI mouse strain and its background partner and in a recombinant inbred strain with different levels of mesencephalic tyrosine hydroxylase activity (TH/MES). We used B6.Cb4i5-alpha6/Vad, C57BL/6By, and CXBI, which are known to express high, intermediate, and low levels of TH/MES, respectively. Unbiased stereological sampling with optical disector counting methods were employed to estimate the number of TH-positive neurons in the A8-A9-A10 cell groups. Morphometric studies on the mesencephalic dopamine cell groups indicated that male mice of the B6.Cb4i5-alpha6/Vad strain were endowed with a significantly lower number of TH-positive cells than CXBI mice. In all strains studied, the right retrorubral field (A8 area) had a higher number of dopamine neurons compared to the left A8 area. The results suggest an inverse relationship between TH/MES and number of dopamine neurons in the A9-A10 cell groups and significant lateral asymmetry in the A8 cell group. A detailed anatomical atlas of the mesencephalic A8-A9-A10 dopaminergic cell groups in the mouse is also presented to facilitate the assignment of TH-positive neurons to specific cell groups.
Neurologists and neuropsychologists are aware that aging men are more at risk than women for brain damage, principally because of the well known male-predominant risk for cardiovascular disease and related cerebrovascular accidents. However, a disproportion in prevalence of brain damage between the sexes in childhood may be less suspected. Furthermore, sex-specific risk for other aetiologies of brain damage may be little known, whether in the pediatric or adult populations. Proposals of a sex difference in cognitive recovery from brain damage have also been controversial. Six hundred and thirty five &quot;consecutive&quot; cases with cortical focal lesions including cases of all ages and both sexes were reviewed. Aetiology of the lesion was determined for each case as was postlesion IQ. Risk was highly male prevalent in all age groups, with a predominance of cardiovascular aetiology explaining much of the adult male prevalence. However, several other aetiological categories were significantly male prevalent in juveniles (mitotic, traumatic, dysplasic) and adults (mitotic, traumatic). There was no sex difference in outcome (i.e., postlesion IQ) of these cortical brain lesions for the cohort as a whole, after statistical removal of the influence of lesion extent, aetiology and presence of epilepsy. Mechanisms potentially responsible for sex differences in prevalence, aetiology of brain damage, and recovery, are reviewed and discussed.
The microtubule-associated protein, tau, is the principal component of paired helical filaments (PHFs) in Alzheimer's disease. PHF-tau is highly phosphorylated and a total of 25 sites of phosphorylation have so far been identified. Many of these sites are serine or threonine residues that are immediately followed in the sequence by proline residues, and hence are candidate phosphorylation sites for proline-directed kinases. In vitro, glycogen synthase kinase-3 (GSK-3), extracellular signal-related kinase-1 and -2, and mitogen-activated protein kinases, p38 kinase and c-jun N-terminal kinase, all phosphorylate many of these sites, although with different efficiencies for particular sites. Phosphorylation studies in transfected cells and neurons show that GSK-3 phosphorylates tau more extensively than do these other proline-directed kinases. Mutations in tau have been shown to affect in vitro phosphorylation of tau by GSK-3. The Arg406--&gt;Trp (R406W) tau mutation also affects tau phosphorylation in cells.
The beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) plays a pivotal role in the early stages of neurodegeneration associated with Alzheimer's disease. An alteration in the processing pattern of the protein results in an increase in the generation of the 40-42-amino-acid beta-amyloid (A beta) peptide, which coalesces to form insoluble, extracellular amyloid deposits. A greater understanding of the factors that influence APP processing may assist in the design of effective therapeutic agents to halt progression of Alzheimer's disease. APP is a sialoglycoprotein with two potential N-linked glycosylation sites, one of which may contain a complex oligosaccharide chain. An alteration in the glycosylation state of APP by the generation of oligomannosyl oligosaccharides results in a decrease in the secretion of the neuroprotective, soluble form of the protein and a parallel increase in the deposition of the cellular protein within the perinuclear region of the cell. Conversely, the attachment of additional terminal sialic acid residues on to the oligosaccharide chain results in an increase in secretion of soluble APP (sAPP alpha). One factor that has been widely reported to alter APP processing is the activation of protein kinase C (PKC). This process has been characterized using synaptosomal preparations, which suggests that the PKC action is occurring at the level of the plasma membrane. Furthermore, when cells are transfected with the sialyltransferase enzyme, there is a direct relationship between the sialylation potential of APP and the fold stimulation of sAPP alpha, after PKC activation. These results suggest that the post-translational modification of APP by glycosylation is a key event in determining the processing of the protein.
Endoplasmic reticulum (ER) appears to be a focal point for alterations that result in neuronal dysfunction and death in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Aberrant proteolytic processing and/or trafficking of the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) in ER may promote neuronal degeneration by increasing the levels of the neurotoxic forms of beta-amyloid (A beta) and by decreasing the levels of the neuroprotective secreted form of APP (sAPP alpha). Some cases of AD are caused by mutations in the genes encoding presenilin 1 (PS1). When expressed in cultured neuronal cells and transgenic mice, PS1 mutations cause abnormalities in ER calcium homoeostasis, enhancing the calcium responses to stimuli that activate IP3- and ryanodine-sensitive ER calcium pools. Two major consequences of this disrupted ER calcium regulation are altered proteolytic processing of APP and increased vulnerability of neurons to apoptosis and excitotoxicity. The impact of PS1 mutations and aberrant APP processing is particularly great in synaptic terminals. Perturbed synaptic calcium homoeostasis promotes activation of apoptotic cascades involving production of Par-4 (prostate apoptosis response-4), mitochondrial dysfunction and caspase activation. A beta 42 (the 42-amino-acid form of A beta) induces membrane lipid peroxidation in synapses and dendrites resulting in impairment of membrane ion-motive ATPases and glucose and glutamate transporters. This disrupts synaptic ion and energy homoeostasis thereby promoting synaptic degeneration. In contrast, sAPP alpha activates signalling pathways that protect synapses against excitotoxicity and apoptosis. In the more common sporadic forms of AD, the initiating causes of the neurodegenerative cascade are less well defined, but probably involve increased levels of oxidative stress and impaired energy metabolism. Such alterations have been shown to disrupt neuronal calcium homoeostasis in experimental models, and may therefore feed into the same neurodegenerative cascade initiated by mutations in presenilins and APP. Perturbed synaptic ER calcium homoeostasis and consequent alterations in APP processing appear to be pivotal events in both sporadic and familial forms of AD.
The finding that APOE (the gene encoding apolipoprotein E) polymorphic variation was associated with an altered risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD) was a significant advance and immediately prompted a search for the mechanisms responsible for this alteration. Some 6 years later, a number of different hypotheses remain that might account for this influence on pathogenesis with no single mechanism being unequivocally accepted. The different approaches to understanding these mechanisms can be broadly categorized as: those suggesting a remote effect, such as different rates of vascular risk factors in those with the different APOE alleles; those proposing altered neuronal vulnerability, perhaps due to apolipoprotein E (ApoE)-isoform-specific differences in local cholesterol transport; and those hypotheses postulating an ApoE interaction with the two key lesions of AD, plaques and tangles. In this chapter we will review the evidence for and against an interaction between ApoE and the neuronal cytoskeleton, in particular with the microtubule-associated protein tau.
Since the identification in 1987 of the gene for Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), research on the molecular pathogenesis of muscular dystrophy has progressed extensively. In particular, discovery of the DMD gene product, dystrophin, led to the identification of dystrophin-associated proteins and, subsequently, the recognition of other types of muscular dystrophy caused by the defects in each of the sarcoglycan genes. On the other hand, effective therapy for DMD has not yet been established. Some of the viral vectors, such as adeno-associated virus vectors or lentiviral vector, have been proven to enable the long-term expression of the exogenous gene without overt host immune reactions. However, dystrophin cDNAs are too large (14kb) to be accommodated in these viral vectors. To solve this problem, we and other research groups succeeded in truncating full-length dystrophin cDNA to small dystrophin cDNA (4 to 5kb), the products of which protect dystrophin-deficient mdx muscle from contraction-induced membrane damage when introduced by viral vectors or as a transgene into mdx mice. The usefulness of these truncated dystrophin cDNAs should be confirmed using other animal models such as dystrophic dogs. To develop successful treatment of DMD, the authors believe that several different approaches should be used, such as cell transfer therapy, drug design to up-regulate utrophin, or a strategy to repair the mutation in vivo.
The autoimmune pathogenesis of myasthenia gravis is relatively well understood. The current options for treatment of this disease are acute and long term immunotherapies, acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and thymectomy. Many factors influence the timing of initiation of immunomodulatory therapy in myasthenia gravis and both disease factors, such as stage and severity, and patient factors, such as age, pregnancy and intercurrent illness, must be considered. Decisions regarding the choice of therapy can be difficult because of the limited number of randomised controlled trials that have been performed in myasthenic patients. In general, acetylcholinesterase inhibitors alone are used only in mild ocular disease, and in the majority of other patients immunomodulatory therapy is begun early. Corticosteroids are the most commonly used initial therapy, followed by azathioprine. In refractory cases, the available options include immunosuppressants such as cyclosporin, mycophenolate mofetil and cyclophosphamide. Plasmapheresis and intravenous immunoglobulin are important in the treatment of acute exacerbations and myasthenic crisis and in the perioperative setting. Despite many years of experience, the role of thymectomy in improving long term outcome in nonthymomatous myasthenia gravis remains controversial.

Neurodegenerative diseases are often considered incurable with no efficient therapies to modify or halt the progress of disease, and ultimately lead to reduced quality of life and to death. Our knowledge of the nervous system in health and disease has, however, increased considerably during the last fifty years and today, neuroscience reveals promising new strategies to deal with disorders of the nervous system. Some of these results have been implemented with success in the treatment of Parkinson's disease, a common neurodegenerative illness affecting approximately 1% of the population aged seventy or more. Parkinson's disease is characterized by a massive loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra, leading to severe functional disturbance of the neuronal circuitry in the basal ganglia. A thorough description of basal ganglia circuitry in health and disease is presented. We describe how the functional disturbances seen in Parkinson's disease may be corrected at specific sites in this circuitry by medical treatment or, in advanced stages of Parkinson's disease, by neurosurgical methods. The latter include lesional surgery, neural transplantation and deep brain stimulation, together with future treatment strategies using direct or indirect implantation of genetically modified cell-lines capable of secreting neurotrophic factors or neurotransmitters. Advantages and disadvantages are briefly mentioned for each strategy and the implications for the future and the possible use of these interventions in other neurodegenerative diseases are discussed, with special emphasis on deep brain stimulation.



Understanding the mechanisms of competitive synaptic plasticity, both anatomical and physiological, is of central importance to developmental neuroscience. Neurotrophic factors (NTFs) are implicated at almost every level of synaptic plasticity, from rapid physiological effects to slower anatomical effects, in addition to being implicated in competitive plasticity. Previously, we have built and analysed a mathematical model of anatomical synaptic plasticity based on competition for neurotrophic support. Here, we extend our work to build a combined, anatomical and physiological model. We find that, in order to understand the mechanisms of competitive physiological plasticity, we must postulate a central role for the change in expression of NTF receptors (NTFRs) on afferent synaptic terminals. Only by supposing that the expression of NTFRs is governed by NTF uptake do we find that physiological plasticity is competitive in character. We perform a fixed point analysis that establishes when afferent segregation is possible as a function of the parameters in the model, and simulate the model numerically to shed further light on its properties. A very clear prediction emerges from our model: that, as the efficacy of a terminal that is destined to be retracted due to competitive interactions reduces to zero, the NTFRs on that terminal should be down-regulated. Furthermore, our model requires that this reduction in synaptic efficacy never occurs significantly before the down-regulation in NTFRs. Such a prediction should be testable, and renders our model capable of being invalidated, in contrast to many other models of synaptic competition, which merely impose rather than seek to illuminate the quintessential feature of developmental synaptic plasticity.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is a vasodilatory peptide, and it is primarily synthesized in dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Plasma CGRP levels increase during pregnancy and with steroid hormones, and nerve growth factor (NGF) stimulates calcitonin/CGRP promoter and CGRP synthesis in DRG. We previously showed that CGRP levels in DRG were stimulated with steroid hormone treatments in vivo but not in vitro. Thus, the stimulation of CGRP by these hormones may be indirect through the upregulation of NGF effects. We hypothesized that the female sex steroid hormones upregulate NGF receptors, trkA and p75(NTR), in DRG. We examined the effects of 17 beta-estradiol (E(2)) and progesterone (P(4)) on NGF receptors in DRG obtained from ovariectomized (ovx) rats. Groups of 4 ovx rats were injected s.c. with 5 microg E(2), 4 mg P(4), or 5 microg E(2) + 4 mg P(4) in 0.2 ml sesame oil or injected with oil only and were killed at 6, 24, and 48 h. In addition, ovx rats were also injected s.c. with varying doses (0.2, 1.0, 5.0, 25 microg) of E(2) (0.5, 1.5, 4, 10 mg) P(4), and (5 microg) E(2) + (0.5, 1.5, 4.0, 10 mg) P(4) in 0.2 ml sesame oil, or vehicle, and killed at 6 (for E(2)) or 24 (for P(4) and E(2) + P(4)) h. Furthermore, groups of ovx rats were also killed at 12 and 24 h; 3 and 7 days; 2, 4, and 6 wk after ovariectomy. The DRGs were collected from all groups and then processed for Western immunoblotting to examine both trkA and p75(NTR) levels. Estradiol increased trkA at 6 h but not p75(NTR). Progesterone caused upregulation of trkA and p75(NTR) at 6 and 24 h. 17 beta-Estradiol + P(4) increased trkA at 6 and 24 h and p75(NTR) at all time points examined. One microgram of E(2) increased trkA but did not affect p75(NTR) levels. Progesterone at 4 and 10 mg upregulated trkA but only 10 mg P(4) increased p75(NTR). Five micrograms of E(2) coinjected with P(4) at 1.5 and 4 mg increased trkA, while p75(NTR) receptor was upregulated when coinjected with P(4) at 1.5 to 10 mg. The ovariectomy caused a decrease in trkA receptors compared to proestrus rats, and these decreases were significant by 6 wk, but surprisingly p75(NTR) increased at 2 wk after ovariectomy. 17 beta-Estradiol increased trkA but not p75(NTR) receptors in DRG, whereas P(4) caused increases in both trkA and p75(NTR) in DRG. In addition, the combination of these steroid hormones had more effect on both receptors than either hormone alone. Thus, we concluded that high levels of female steroid hormones such as those due to pregnancy or hormonal replacement therapy could increase NGF receptor expression in DRG that carry more NGF to elevate the CGRP synthesis in these groups. We suggested that the regulation of NGF receptors by ovarian steroids may underlie steroidal regulation of other factors such as CGRP.

Regulated exocytosis is controlled by internal and external signals. The molecular machinery controlling the sorting from the newly synthesized vesicles from the Golgi apparatus to the plasma membrane play a key role in the regulation of both the number and spatial location of the vesicles. In this context the mammalian acrosome is a unique vesicle since it is the only secretory vesicle attached to the nucleus. In this work we have studied the membrane trafficking between the Golgi apparatus and the acrosome during mammalian spermiogenesis. During bovine spermiogenesis, Golgi antigens (mannosidase II) were detected in the acrosome until the late cap-phase spermatids, but are not found in testicular spermatozoa (maturation-phase spermatids). This suggests that Golgiacrosome flow may be relatively unselective, with Golgi residents retrieved before spermination is complete. Surprisingly, rab7, a protein involved in lysosome/endosome trafficking was also found associated with the acrosomal vesicle during mouse spermiogenesis. Our results suggest that the acrosome biogenesis is associated with membrane flow from both the Golgi apparatus and the endosome/lysosome system in mammalian spermatids.
In order to study how the auditory cortex extracts communication sounds in a realistic acoustic environment, a wireless system is being developed that will transmit acoustic as well as neural signals. The miniature transmitter will be capable of transmitting two acoustic signals with 37.5 KHz bandwidths (75 KHz sample rate) and 56 neural signals with bandwidths of 9.375 KHz (18.75 KHz sample rate). These signals will be time-division multiplexed into one high bandwidth signal with a 1.2 MHz sample rate. This high bandwidth signal will then be frequency modulated onto a 2.4 GHz carrier, which resides in the industrial, scientic, and medical (ISM) band that is designed for low-power short-range wireless applications. On the receiver side, the signal will be demodulated from the 2.4 GHz carrier and then digitized by an analog-to-digital (A/D) converter. The acoustic and neural signals will be digitally demultiplexed from the multiplexed signal into their respective channels. Oversampling (20 MHz) will allow the reconstruction of the multiplexing clock by a digital signal processor (DSP) that will perform frame and bit synchronization. A frame is a subset of the signal that contains all the channels and several channels tied high and low will signal the start of a frame. This technological development will bring two benefits to auditory neuroscience. It will allow simultaneous recording of many neurons that will permit studies of population codes. It will also allow neural functions to be determined in higher auditory areas by correlating neural and acoustic signals without apriori knowledge of the necessary stimuli.
Integrative optical imaging was used to show that long-chain synthetic poly[N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide] (PHPMA) polymers in a range of molecular weights from 7.8 to 1057 kDa were able to diffuse through the extracellular space in rat neocortical slices. Tortuosity (square root of ratio of diffusion coefficient in aqueous medium to that in brain) measured with such polymers averaged 1.57, a value similar to that obtained previously with tetramethylammonium, a small cation. When PHPMA was conjugated with bovine serum albumin (BSA) to make a bulky polymer with molecular weight 176 kDa, the tortuosity rose to 2.27, a value similar to that obtained previously with BSA alone and with 70-kDa dextran. The method of image analysis was justified with diffusion models involving spherical and nonspherical initial distributions of the molecules.








1. Metabotropic gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors (GABA(B)) exist both pre- and postsynaptically throughout the brain, mediating the suppression of neurotransmitter release and late inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Investigation of GABA(B) receptors in rodent models of temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) suggests that expression or function of these receptors may be altered in the disorder. 2. The aim of the present study was to investigate the expression of GABA(B) receptors in samples of hippocampus surgically resected from patients with hippocampal sclerosis (HS) related intractable TLE, and compare this expression with samples of neurologically normal post-mortem (PM) control hippocampal tissue. Appropriate measures of neuronal loss associated with HS were investigated for comparison with receptor binding data. 3. Receptor autoradiography with [(3)H]-GABA in the presence of isoguvacine, and quantitative densitometric analysis were used to investigate GABA(B) receptor expression (B(max)) and affinity (K(D)) in 11 HS samples and eight controls. A three-dimensional cell counting technique was used to assess neuronal density in both groups. 4. GABA(B) receptor density was significantly reduced in CA1, CA2, CA3, hilus and dentate gyrus, and increased in the subiculum, of HS cases as compared with PM controls. Neuronal loss was significant in all regions measured. When adjusted for neuronal loss, CA1 GABA(B) receptor expression appeared significantly upregulated (P:&lt;0.05). 5. In HS/TLE, GABA(B) receptor expression per remaining neurone appears increased in CA1. This finding, and increased [(3)H]-GABA affinity at CA3 and hilar GABA(B) receptors, suggests altered GABA(B) receptor function may occur in human HS/TLE, possibly as a result of synaptic reorganization.
1. Three human adenocarcinoma cell lines, Colony-24 (Col-24), Col-6 and Col-1 have been studied as confluent epithelial layers able to transport ions vectorially in response to basolateral vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and pancreatic polypeptides (PP). 2. Different species PP stimulated responses in Col-24 with Y(4)-like pharmacology. Bovine (b)PP, human (h)PP and porcine (p)PP were equipotent (EC(50) values 3.0--5.0 nM) while rat (r)PP, avian (a)PP and [Leu(31), Pro(34)]PYY (Pro(34)PYY) were significantly less potent. PYY was inactive. The PP pharmacology in Col-1 was comparable with Col-24. However, Col-6 cells were different; pPP had an EC(50) intermediate (22.0 nM) between that of bPP (3.0 nM) and hPP (173.2 nM), with aPP and rPP being at least a further fold less potent. 3. Deamidation of Tyr(36) in bPP (by O-methylation or hydroxylation) or removal of the residue resulted in significant loss of activity in Col-24. 4. GR231118 (1 microM) had no PP-like effects. In Col-24 and Col-1, GR231118 significantly attenuated bPP (30 nM) or hPP (100 nM) responses, but it did not alter bPP responses in Col-6. BIBP3226 and GR231118 both inhibited Y(1)-mediated responses which were only present in Col-6. 5. RT--PCR analysis confirmed the presence of hY(4) receptor mRNA in Col-24 and Col-1 epithelia but a barely visible hY(4) product was observed in Col-6 and we suggest that an atypical Y(4) receptor is expressed in this cell line.
1. Application of ATP and alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha beta meATP) to voltage-clamped guinea-pig pelvic neurons produced three types of inward currents. A fast-desensitizing response was present in 5% (25/660) of neurons, 70% gave slowly-desensitizing currents, and the remainder had biphasic responses. 2. Slowly-desensitizing responses were characterized pharmacologically. The response to alpha beta meATP 100 microM was 46+/-27% (range 0--100%) of that evoked by ATP 100 microM in the same cell. Cross-desensitization indicated the presence of alpha beta meATP-sensitive and -insensitive receptors. 3. The concentration-response curve for alpha beta meATP had an EC(50) of 55 microM, and a Hill coefficient of 0.99, while at the alpha beta meATP-insensitive receptor, ATP had an EC(50) of 73 microM, with a Hill coefficient of 1.78. 4. The response to alpha beta meATP was blocked by pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS), suramin and Cibacron blue. However, the alpha beta meATP-insensitive receptor was inhibited by PPADS, but not by the other two antagonists. 5. 2'- (or 3'-) O-trinitrophenyl-ATP was 10 times more potent in inhibiting responses to alpha beta meATP than to ATP (at the alpha beta meATP-insensitive receptor). 6. Lowering extracellular pH potentiated responses to alpha beta meATP and ATP, while raising pH attenuated them. 7. Co-application of Zn(2+) (3--300 microM) inhibited the responses to alpha beta meATP and ATP, with IC(50) values of 286 and 60 microM, respectively. 8. In conclusion, unlike rat and mouse pelvic ganglion neurons, which only express P2X(2) homomers, at least three distinct P2X receptors are present in guinea-pig pelvic neurons, probably homomeric P2X(2), P2X(3) and heteromeric P2X(2/3) receptors. However, some of the novel pharmacological properties observed suggest that the guinea-pig P2X receptor subtypes may differ from their rat orthologues.
Nerve repair by entubulation has re-emerged recently as a possible means of enhancing the microenvironment at the site of repair by inclusion within the tube of various trophic factors. To this end, a modification of the vein-graft technique has been used by turning it inside out before repair, to expose the adventitial surface to the regenerating axons. A comparative study of standard vein grafting versus the inside-out technique was carried out in two equal-sized groups of inbred Lewis rats. Jugular vein isografts were derived from litter mates. The sciatic nerve was transected and repaired by entubulation using the standard vein graft in one group and the inside-out graft in the other group. Morpho-metric and electrophysiological assessment were carried out 3 months after repair. When the animals were assessed it was found that both the standard-vein-graft group and the inside-out group exhibited a reduction in all of the morphometric and electrophysiological variables when compared to normal nerves. The mean axon diameter, fibre diameter and myelin sheath thickness were, however, found to be greater in the group that underwent the inside-out repair. The superior morphometric results seen in the inside-out group were not matched by improved electrophysiological performance. It is concluded that the use of the inside-out technique confers no functional benefit over standard vein grafting.

A systematic search found 108 meta-analyses of the use of antidepressants in depressive disorders. Defining newer antidepressants as those introduced since the early 1980s, 18 meta-analyses were selected as being informative about their relative efficacy and tolerability in comparative randomised controlled studies (RCTs). Findings with higher confidence include: little difference in efficacy between most new and old antidepressants; superior efficacy of serotonin and noradrenaline re-uptake inhibitors (SNRIs) over selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs); a slower onset of therapeutic action of fluoxetine over other SSRIs; a different side effect profile of SSRIs to TCAs with superior general tolerability of SSRIs over TCAs; poorer tolerability of fluvoxamine than other SSRIs in a within group comparison; no increased the risk of suicidal acts or ideation in fluoxetine compared with TCAs (or placebo) in low-risk patients. Findings with a lower level of confidence include: greater efficacy of TCAs than SSRIs in in-patients; greater efficacy of amitriptyline than SSRIs; better tolerability of moclobemide than TCAs; no demonstrable difference in tolerability between SSRIs and TCAs in the elderly; no better tolerability of fluvoxamine than TCAs; better tolerability of dothiepin (dosulepin) than SSRIs; better tolerability of sertraline and greater frequency of agitation on fluoxetine than other SSRIs in a within group comparison. In general, the meta-analyses were of uneven quality, as were the studies included, which limits the confidence in many of the results. Generalising from mostly short-term randomised controlled studies to clinical practice requires caution.
During courtship and aggression, adult male green anoles (Anolis carolinensis) extend a large red throat fan called a dewlap. Adult females have a very small dewlap; they rarely use it during agonistic encounters and never during courtship. The motoneurons, nerve, muscle fibers, neuromuscular junctions, and cartilage pieces responsible for dewlap extension are all larger in adult males than females, parallel to the behavioral dimorphisms. However, the general developmental pattern of these structures, and when they become sexually dimorphic, was largely unknown. In the present study, we examined the length of the 2nd ceratobranchial cartilages (which unfold the dewlap), muscle fiber size, nerve cross-sectional area, and motoneuron soma size, as well as measures of body size (snout-vent length and body weight) at post-hatching days 1, 30, 60, 75, and 90. All measures other than motoneuron soma size increased over time. However, only cartilage length and muscle fiber size became sexually dimorphic in the first three months after hatching. The cartilage was greater in males than females by d60, and muscle fiber size differentiated by d75. The results indicate that peripheral structures involved in dewlap extension differentiate prior to those in the brain and thus, because males and females in this age range are identical in size, dewlap (cartilage) size could be a relatively specific factor contributing to the sexual differentiation of the rest of the neuromuscular system.
An understanding of the acoustic cues that animals use to categorize their vocalizations has important implications for the way we design neuroethological investigations of auditory function. Compared to other species, we know relatively little about the kinds of acoustic features used by nonhuman primates to recognize and categorize vocalizations. To further our understanding, this study explores the role of temporal features in recognition of conspecific vocalizations by rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). Experiments were designed to extend an earlier set of findings showing that adult rhesus macaques selectively turn with the right ear leading when a conspecific vocalization is played 180 degrees behind them, but turn left or not at all when a non-conspecific signal is played. Two call types were used as stimuli: shrill barks (alarm call) and harmonic arches (food call). We found that for normal calls, rhesus macaques turned to the right - supporting earlier findings - but for time- reversed shrill barks and harmonic arches, subjects oriented to the left. These results suggest that for at least a subset of calls, rhesus macaques use temporal cues to recognize conspecific vocal signals. The asymmetry of the behavioral response, and the corresponding asymmetry in the time-amplitude waveform, may have important implications for studies of temporal coding in the primate auditory system.
In species within the Physalaemus pustulosus species group, male frogs produce a whine-like advertisement call consisting of a frequency sweep typically descending from 1,000 to 400 Hz (depending on the species). One species, Physalaemus pustulosus, the tngara frog, has evolved a second call syllable, the chuck, which males place after their whine. Most energy in the chuck is above 1,500 Hz and peaks at 2,400 Hz. We investigated whether the evolution of this new call component in P. pustulosus coincided with evolution of auditory tuning. We used multiunit electrophysiological recordings of auditory-evoked activity in the midbrain to characterize auditory tuning in Physalaemus pustulosus, four other Physalaemus species within the P. pustulosus clade, and three additional, closely related Physalaemus species as outgroups. All eight species had similar sensitivity profiles, with a broad area of enhanced sensitivity from 100 to 1,100 Hz, which we presume represents amphibian papilla (AP) tuning, and a second, narrower area of enhanced sensitivity centered above 2,100 Hz, which we presume represents basilar papilla (BP) tuning. For all species, the whine stimulates the AP. The P. pustulosus chuck stimulates the BP. The frequency with greatest AP sensitivity differed significantly among species. Although in all cases the AP peak lay within the frequency sweep of the whine, phylogenetically corrected correlations revealed no significant relationships between AP tuning and any spectral feature of the whine. BP tuning was similar among all species, with mean BP best excitatory frequencies (BEFs) around 2,100-2,200 Hz, with the exception of P. pustulatus, with a mean BP BEF of 2,549 Hz. Physalaemus pustulosus, the only investigated species that produces a call component stimulating the BP, had a BP BEF that was not significantly different from any of the species within its clade except P. pustulatus, or from any of the outgroup species. A phylogenetic reconstruction of ancestral BP tuning confirms that the only point of evolutionary change in BP tuning is in the line of descent leading to P. pustulatus, not in the line leading to P. pustulosus despite this being the species using the BP for communication. The results indicate that BP tuning around 2,200 Hz is a conserved trait in the Physalaemus pustulosus species group and that no evolution of BP tuning accompanied the subsequent evolution of the call component (the chuck) that stimulates it. This supports the sensory exploitation idea, which posits that signals evolve to match preexisting features of receiver systems.
The oscine song system has emerged as one of the leading model systems for studying motor learning in vertebrates, combining an easily recorded behavior with a discrete neural substrate. That neural substrate seems to be distinct from other structures in the avian brain and thus is often studied in isolation. However, the song system is unlikely to have evolved ex nihilo, and should share some features with the parts of the avian brain from which it evolved. Identification of its evolutionary precursors should help us apply what we know about the song system to other vertebrate motor systems, and vice versa. Here, I review the homologies between parts of the avian and mammalian telencephala and explain where the song system nuclei reside in this context. The organization of the song system is then compared to other parts of the avian brain and the brains of nonoscine birds. Study of the nonoscine brain has revealed a 'general motor pathway' from caudolateral neostriatum (NCL) to intermediate archistriatum (Ai) that resembles the song system motor pathway in its anatomical organization. No part of this motor pathway projects directly to brainstem vocal or respiratory centers in nonoscines, but it does innervate a wide variety of motor and premotor neuron populations that mediate other behaviors. This general motor pathway may be accompanied by an 'anterior forebrain pathway', suggesting that the song system is simply a specialization of a part of this preexisting circuit. This hypothesis has implications for how accessory structures of the song system (e.g. HVc shelf, LMAN shell) are regarded, can help explain how the forebrain vocal control systems of three avian taxa (parrots, hummingbirds, and songbirds) could have evolved independently yet be so similar in organization, and makes testable predictions concerning the anatomy of the song system and the nonoscine brain.
Attentional deficits are frequently reported by patients suffering from closed head injuries. The majority will develop a group of clinical symptoms known as post-concussion symptoms or syndromes (PCS), which are characterized by a range of subjectively experienced symptoms including headaches, dizziness, fatigue, irritability, slowed thinking, and memory dysfunction. It is posited that attentional deficit is the crucial factor for the apparent failures of memory and higher cognitive functioning, and may contribute largely to difficulty in re-integrating back into the community and resuming independent daily living. It also appears that there are large variations within these patients, in terms of both presented symptoms and neuropsychological performances. However, these variations in terms of attentional deficits have not been systematically differentiated and examined. This article aims to build up a theoretical framework to guide the investigation of the varieties of attentional deficits in patients with PCS. Current theories on attention from cognitive psychology, neuropsychology, cognitive neuroscience and clinical rehabilitation will be reviewed and integrated. It is hoped that a better understanding of the underlying mechanism of such defects will foster and guide the development of intervention.
The left inferior frontal lobe has been traditionally viewed as a &quot;language area,&quot; although its involvement in the discrimination of rapid nonverbal frequency changes has been also shown. Using functional MRI, we studied seven healthy adults during discrimination of relatively slow (200 ms) tonal frequency glides. Compared to a control task, in which subjects indiscriminately responded to white noise bursts, tonal discrimination was associated with bilateral superior and middle temporal and medial frontal activations. Inferior frontal activations were bilateral, but stronger on the left. Contrary to previous studies comparing discrimination of slow frequency changes to rest, our results suggest that such discriminations-when compared to an auditory control task-activate the left inferior frontal gyrus. Our findings are consistent with a participation of Broca's area in nonlinguistic processes besides its known roles in semantic, syntactic, and phonological functions.
To examine brain lateralization of prosody during speech, the sentence production of six right-hemisphere-lesion patients and five left-hemisphere-lesion patients was compared to that of seven normal controls using a question-answer paradigm. The task required the prosodic realization of two different syntactic structures under conditions of wide and narrow focus. Acoustical analyses were carried out on F0 and time structure. These analyses revealed a preserved ability in patients to express differences in syntactic structure via prosody. However, there were deficits in distinguishing narrow focus from wide focus. Whereas both right- and left-hemisphere lesions caused impairments in the realization of F0, time structure was mainly impaired in left-hemisphere patients. Therefore, the present results from language production support functional as well as cue-dependent hypotheses of the lateralization of prosodic processing in the brain.
Myelin of the adult CNS is vulnerable to a variety of metabolic, toxic, and autoimmune insults. That remyelination can ensue, following demyelinating insult, has been well demonstrated. Details of the process of remyelination are, however difficult to ascertain since in most experimental models of demyelination/remyelination the severity, localization of lesion site, or time course of the pathophysiology is variable from animal to animal. In contrast, an experimental model in which massive demyelination can be reproducibly induced in large areas of mouse brain is exposure to the copper chelator, cuprizone, in the diet. We review work from several laboratories over the past 3 decades, with emphasis on our own recent studies, which suggest an overall picture of cellular events involved in demyelination/remyelination. When 8 week old C57BL/6 mice are fed 0.2% cuprizone in the diet, mature olidgodendroglia are specifically insulted (cannot fulfill the metabolic demand of support of vast amounts of myelin) and go through apoptosis. This is closely followed by recruitment of microglia and phagoctytosis of myelin. Studies of myelin gene expression, coordinated with morphological studies, indicate that even in the face of continued metabolic challenge, oligodendroglial progenitor cells proliferate and invade demyelinated areas. If the cuprizone challenge is terminated, an almost complete remyelination takes place in a matter of weeks. Communication between different cell types by soluble factors may be inferred. This material is presented in the context of a model compatible with present data -- and which can be tested more rigorously with the cuprizone model. The reproducibility of the model indicates that it may allow for testing of manipulations (e.g. available knockouts or transgenics on the common genetic background, or pharmacological treatments) which may accelerate or repress the process of demyelination and or remyelination.
The hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis has differential physiological activity in male and female animals (sexual diergism). Central cholinergic systems stimulate this endocrine axis. In the present study we investigated muscarinic and nicotinic cholinergic influences on HPA axis activity in male and female rats by pretreatment with selective cholinergic receptor antagonists followed by stimulation with physostigmine (PHYSO), an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. Hormonal measures were plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP), adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), and corticosterone (CORT). Male rats had significantly greater AVP and ACTH responses to PHYSO alone than did females. Scopolamine (SCOP) enhanced the AVP response to PHYSO to a greater extent in males than in females. In contrast, mecamylamine (MEC) enhanced the AVP response in females but decreased it in males. SCOP potentiated, and MEC inhibited, the stimulatory effect of PHYSO on ACTH in both sexes, but SCOP potentiation was greater in males, and MEC inhibition was greater in females. Absolute CORT increases following PHYSO were greater in females, but percent increases over baseline were greater in males. Similar to their effects on ACTH responses, MEC attenuated, and SCOP enhanced, CORT responses to PHYSO. These results suggest that cholinergic receptor subtypes may influence HPA axis activity differentially in male and female rats.
Recent studies provide evidence that phospholipase A2 (PLA2) may play a role in the development of experimental parkinsonism. In this investigation an attempt was made to determine a possible protective effect of quinacrine (QNC), a PLA2 inhibitor on MPTP as well as 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced neurotoxicity in rodents. For MPTP studies, adult male mice (C57 BL) were treated with MPTP (30 mg/kg, i.p.) daily for 5 days. QNC was injected i.p. in the doses of 0, 10, 30 and 60 mg/kg daily 30 min before MPTP in four different groups. Two other groups of mice received either vehicle (control) or a high dose of QNC (60 mg/kg). Two hours after the last injection of MPTP, striata were collected for the analysis of dopamine (DA), 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), homovanillic acid (HVA) and glutathione (GSH). For the 6-OHDA study, male Wistar rats were infused with 6-OHDA (60 microg) in the right striatum under chloral hydrate anesthesia. The rats in different groups were treated with 0, 5, 15 and 30 mg/kg QNC (i.p.) for 4 days, while first injection was given 30 min before 6-OHDA. On day 5, rats were sacrificed and striata were stored at -80 degrees C. Administration of MPTP or 6-OHDA significantly reduced striatal DA, which was significantly attenuated by QNC. Concomitant treatment with QNC also protected animals against MPTP or 6-OHDA-induced depletion of striatal GSH. Our findings clearly suggest the role of PLA2 in MPTP and 6-OHDA induced neurotoxicity and oxidative stress. However, further studies are warranted to explore the therapeutic potential of PLA2 inhibitors for the treatment of Parkinson's disease.
Previous fMRI results suggest that extrastriate visual areas have a predominant role in perceptual processing while the prefrontal cortex (PFC) has a predominant role in working memory. In contrast, single-unit recording studies in monkeys have demonstrated a relationship between extrastriate visual areas and visual working memory tasks. In this study we tested whether activity in both the PFC and fusiform face area (FFA) changed with increasing demands of an n-back task for gray-scale faces. Since stimulus presentation was identical across conditions, the n-back task allowed us to parametrically vary working memory demands across conditions while holding perceptual and motor demands constant. This study replicated the result of PFC areas of activation that increased directly with load n of the task. The novel finding in all subjects was FFA activation that also increased directly with load n of the task. Since perceptual demands were equivalent across the three task conditions, these findings suggest that activity in both the PFC and the FFA vary with face working memory demands.
The present investigation, with a virtual reality set-up, aimed to study attentional orienting within a three-dimensional visual world. Near and far stimuli were used. Half of the subjects were provided with a virtual representation of their body, whereas half were not. Results showed a different distribution of attentional resources in the two conditions, suggesting a dissociation between attentional systems controlling the proximal and the distal visual space. In particular, attention was focused close to the subject's body when a virtual representation of it was present, whereas attention was focused away from the body when a virtual representation of the body was not present.
This study investigates event related potentials (ERP) elicited by true and false recognition using words from different semantic categories. In Experiment 1, ERPs for true and false recognition were more positive than for correctly rejected NEW words starting around 300 ms after test word presentation (old/new ERP effects). ERP waveforms for true and false recognition revealed equal early (300-500 ms) fronto-medial old/new ERP effects, reflecting similar familiarity processes, but smaller parietal old/new ERP effects (500-700 ms) for false relative to true recognition, suggesting less active recollection. Interestingly, a subsequent performance based group comparison showed equivalent old/new ERP effects for true and false recognition for participants with high rates of false recognition. In contrast, false recognition failed to elicit an old/new ERP effect in a group with low false recognition rates. To examine whether this between group difference was driven by the differential use of information that studied words and semantically related non studied test words (LURE) have in common (conceptual similarity), we manipulated encoding strategy in Experiment 2. When encoding focused on conceptual similarity, comparable ERP-effects for true and false recognition were obtained, suggesting that both forms of recognition were equally based on familiarity and recollection processes. Conversely, when encoding was focused on item specific features, differences in brain activity for true and false recognition were obtained. The ERP data indicate that, in addition to the false recognition rate, strategic processes during encoding, such as processing conceptual features, are an important factor in determining electrophysiological differences between true and false recognition.
ERP responses to initial and repeated presentations of possible and impossible objects were recorded from 61 recording sites in a simple target detection task. In Experiment 1, the non-target objects were line drawings of possible and impossible 3-D geometric figures and the targets were line drawings of familiar everyday objects or combinations of parts of everyday objects. In Experiment 2, the non-target objects were everyday objects and the targets were possible and impossible 3-D geometric figures. In both experiments, at frontal sites, the repeated possible and impossible non-target items elicited less negative ERP waveforms relative to first presentations between 250 and 350-400 ms. At parieto-occipital sites, in both experiments, the repeated possible and impossible non-target items elicited less positive ERP waveforms than did first presentations beginning at about 300 ms. The briefly reduced frontal negativity to repeated items is consistent with familiarity arising from a facilitation of access to conceptual, semantic and visuo-spatial representations during object categorization. The polarity of the parieto-occipital effect was the reverse of what is usually found in stimulus repetition tasks, although it is consistent with earlier work using similar visual stimuli. It is interpreted as reflecting the availability of a newly formed representation (i.e., token) of the object just experienced.
We used event related potentials (ERPs) to examine both the specificity and the timing of slow cortical scalp potentials (SPs) elicited by the retention of object, spatial, and verbal information in working memory (WM). Participants performed a modified delayed matching task in which a task cue presented in the middle of the delay interval indicated what type of information had to be retained for a subsequent comparison with the test stimulus. The first experiment used nameable objects and spatial locations as stimuli. The retrieval mode (visual vs. verbal) was manipulated by presenting either figural information or printed words as test stimuli. Transient ensembles of frontal and parieto-occipital slow waves with different scalp topographies for object and spatial information were evoked as a function of task cues. When words rather than objects were used as test stimuli highly similar, though more pronounced, fronto-parietal slow wave patterns were obtained. The second experiment using unfamiliar objects and non-nameable spatial locations indicated that neither the left frontal negative SP nor the posterior SPs are exclusively related to verbal working memory operations. The results indicate that a parietal negative SP reflects processes of spatial selective attention whereas a parieto-occipital positive SP indexes the retention of visual object information. Left frontal negative SPs are generated by a compound of higher order frontal control processes and vary as a function of information type.


This study describes the noradrenergic modulation of tactile afferent information in the sensorimotor cortex of urethane-anesthetized rats. Synaptic and spike responses to a mechanical stimulation of the hand palm were evaluated by means of current source-density analysis and unit activity recording in all cortical layers. Results showed that activation of the locus coeruleus decreased and shortened afferent synaptic excitation in supragranular, but not in deep layers. On the average, unit responses exhibited facilitated latency, moderately increased amplitude, enhanced postexcitatory inhibition and synchronization of responses across layers. The apparent paradox of this global phasic facilitation correlated with a decrease in input synaptic currents was discussed according to hypotheses which might explain its functional significance.
Bovine immunodeficiency virus (BIV) is a lentivirus that causes disease in cattle. Despite the large cattle industry in western Canada, the presence of BIV has not been examined to date. Genomic DNA, derived from semen and buffy coat samples, was analyzed by nested polymerase chain reaction (PCR) using specific primers for the gag, pol, and env genes of BIV. Despite utilizing a procedure that detected a minimum of 10 proviral copies, BIV sequences were not amplified in any of 317 buffy coat and 50 semen samples that were obtained from an archive that included 27 cattle breeds, collected from different sources in Alberta (1980-1999). In the 367 DNA samples examined, there was no evidence of BIV infection, suggesting that the prevalence of BIV infection was very low.

Treatment of human amniotic epithelial (HAE) cells with anti-Fas monoclonal antibody (CH 11) at 100 ng/ml or 1 microg/ml for 12 or 24 h increased necrotic cell death. Apoptotic cell death induced by this antibody was significantly increased, although far fewer cells underwent apoptosis, as determined by the TUNEL method. This study suggests that Fas antigen is an important mediator in HAE cell death.
Two potential mechanisms by which the intracellular Ca(2 stores might modulate catecholamine release from bovine adrenal chromaffin cells were investigated: (i) that the cytosolic Ca(2+)transient caused by Ca(2+)release from the intracellular stores recruits additional chromaffin granules to a readily releasable pool that results in augmented catecholamine release when this is subsequently evoked, and (ii) that the Ca(2+)influx that follows depletion of intracellular stores (i.e. store-operated Ca(2+)entry) triggers release per se thereby augmenting evoked catecholamine release. When histamine or caffeine were applied in Ca(2+)-free perfusion media, a transient elevation of intracellular free Ca(2+)occurred owing to mobilization of Ca(2+)from the stores. When Ca(2+)was later readmitted to the perfusing fluid there followed a prompt and maintained rise in intracellular Ca(2+)concentrations of magnitude related to the degree of store mobilization. In parallel experiments, increased catecholamine secretion was measured under the conditions when Ca(2+)influx following store-mobilization occurred. Furthermore, the size of the catecholamine release increment correlated with the degree of Ca(2+)influx. Store-operated Ca(2+)entry evoked by mobilization with histamine and/or caffeine did not augment nicotine-evoked secretion per se; that is, it augmented evoked catecholamine release only to the extent that it increased basal catecholamine release. The nicotine-evoked catecholamine release was sensitive to cytosolic BAPTA, which, at the concentration used (50 microM BAPTA-AM), reduced release by approximately 25%. However, the increment in basal catecholamine release which followed Ca(2+)influx triggered by Ca(2+)store mobilization was not reduced by intracellular BAPTA. This finding is inconsistent with the hypothesis that the elevated cytosolic Ca(2+)from store mobilization recruits additional vesicles of catecholamine to the sub-plasmalemmal release sites to augment subsequently evoked secretion. This position is supported by the observation that histamine (10 microM) in Ca(2+)-free medium caused a pronounced elevation of cytosolic free Ca(2+), but this caused no greater catecholamine release when Ca(2+)was re-introduced than did prior exposure to Ca(2+)-free medium alone, which caused no elevation of cytosolic free Ca(2+). It is concluded that intracellular Ca(2+)stores can modulate secretion of catecholamines from bovine chromaffin cells by permitting Ca(2+)influx through a store-operated entry pathway. The results do not support the notion that the Ca(2+)released from intracellular stores plays a significant role in the recruitment of vesicles into the ready-release pool under the experimental conditions reported here.
We are studying the functional roles of neuronal gap junctional coupling during development, using motor neurons and their synapses with muscle fibers as a model system. At neuromuscular synapses, several studies have shown that the relative pattern of activity among motor inputs competing for innervation of the same target muscle fiber determines how patterns of innervation are sculpted during the first weeks after birth. We asked whether gap junctional coupling among motor neurons modulates the relative timing of motor neuron activity in awake, behaving neonatal mice. We found that the activity of motor neurons innervating the same muscle is temporally correlated perinatally, during the same period that gap junction-mediated electrical and dye coupling are present. In vivo blockade of gap junctions abolished temporal correlations in motor neuron activity, without changing overall motor behavior, motor neuron activity patterns or firing frequency. Together with preliminary studies in mice lacking gap junction protein Cx40, our data suggest that developmentally regulated gap junctional coupling among motor and other neurons affects the activity in nascent neural circuits and thus in turn affects synaptic connectivity. Dynamic monitoring of dye coupling can be used to explore this possibility in normal mice and in mice lacking gap junction proteins during embryonic and neonatal development.
Though the cytomechanics of spectrin have been explored only for erythrocytes, it is thought that the spectrin skeleton acts universally to support the otherwise mechanically vulnerable cell surface bilayer. Evidence for this role is beginning to accumulate and is reviewed here. Compared to that for erythrocytes, cells whose simplicity facilitates biophysical approaches, the evidence is indirect. One way that membrane skeleton/bilayer interactions have been probed is via the behavior of mechanosusceptible ion channels - channel whose gating is perturbed by abnormally high bilayer tension. These initially unresponsive channels become progressively more mechanoresponsive as stretch and chemical reagents damage the membrane skeleton. The straightforward implication is that the intact membrane skeleton is mechanoprotective. In non-erythroid cells there is continual trafficking of bilayer to and from the plasma membrane. Some of the traffic involves spectrin-lined vacuolar membrane. Several lines of evidence suggest that when neurons elongate and remodel their neurites, membrane skeleton-based mechanoprotection allows the dynamic vacuoles and the plasma membrane to participate in mechanosensitive surface area expansion and retrieval.
This review covers the observations that erythrocyte spectrin has a E2 ubiquitin conjugating enzymatic activity that allows it to transfer ubiquitin to a target site in the alpha-spectrin repeats 20/21. The position of this ubiquitination site suggests that ubiquitination may regulate alpha beta spectrin heterodimer nucleation, spectrin-4.1-actin ternary complex formation, and adducin stimulated spectrin-actin attachment in the mature erythrocyte. In sickle cells, which contain altered redox status (high GSSG/GSH ratio), ubiquitin attachment to the E2 and target sites in alpha-spectrin is greatly diminished. We propose that this attenuated ubiquitination of spectrin may be due to glutathiolation of the E2 active site cysteine leading to diminished ubiquitin-spectrin adduct and conjugate formation. Furthermore we propose that lack of ubiquitin-spectrin complex formation leads to dysregulation of the membrane skeleton in mature SS erythrocytes and may diminish spectrin turnover in SS erythropoietic cells via the ubiquitin proteasome machinery. In hippocampal neurons, spectrin is the major ubiquitinated protein and a component of the cytoplasmic ubiquitinated inclusions observed in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. The two primary neuronal spectrin isoforms: alpha SpI Sigma*/beta SpI Sigma 2 and alpha SpII Sigma 1/beta SpII Sigma 1 are both ubiquitinated. Future work will resolve whether neuronal spectrins also contain E2-ubiquitin conjugating activity and the molecular basis for formation of ubiquitinated inclusions in neurological disorders.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascades are thought to be important mediators in the transduction of extracellular signals into cellular responses. The p38 kinase, a member of the MAPK superfamily, is activated by a wide variety of extracellular stimuli and has been implicated in neuronal apoptosis induced by glutamate. In this study we have examined the role of p38 kinase in the potassium deprivation model of apoptosis in rat cerebellar granule neurons (CGN). An increase in p38 kinase activity was observed with a 15-minute potassium deprivation when compared to the basal level. We also found that SB203580 and PD169316, specific p38 kinase inhibitors, significantly attenuated apoptosis in potassium-deprived cells in a dose dependent manner. A decrease in caspase-3 mediated DEVD-MCA, substrate hydrolysis and the appearance of the 120 kDa-spectrin breakdown product in cells treated with SB203580 further suggests that the p38 kinase acts upstream of caspase-3 in the apoptosis cascade. The data provides evidence for an essential role of p38 kinase in mediating apoptotic cell death in CGN and the inhibition of p38 kinase mimics the suppression of apoptosis provided by natural survival signals.
Expression of the p75 low-affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) was investigated immunocytochemically at the light and ultrastructural level during the axonal degeneration that follows partial denervation of the rat neural lobe (NL) and following systemic administration of lipopolysaccharide (LPS). A significant increase in the intensity and extent of p75NTR immunoreactivity in the NL of partially denervated animals compared with age-matched, sham-operated controls was observed at 5-10 days postdenervation, with immunoreactivity returning to control values by 35 days. Dual-label confocal comparison of p75NTR localization with that of the C3bi complement receptor, a microglial marker, and S100, an astrocyte-specific Ca2+-binding protein, revealed no colocalization. Immunoelectron-microscopic examination demonstrated that the p75NTR immunoreactivity is present in a subpopulation of cells located within the extensive perivascular space of the NL. No examples of p75NTR-immunoreactive pituicytes or endothelia were observed at the light or ultrastructural level. Dense p75NTR immunoreactivity was frequently observed surrounding endocytotic omega profiles of plasmalemma engulfing extracellular debris as well as lining vacuoles within the cytoplasm of perivascular cells. The association of p75NTR with phagocytosis was confirmed by confocal microscopy, showing the presence of p75NTR in all cells expressing the ED-1 antigen, which is restricted to the lysosomal membrane of phagocytes (Damoiseaux et al. 1994). Likewise, a marked increase in p75NTR and ED-1 immunoreactivity was observed in the NL following systemic administration of LPS. These results suggest a strong correlation between modulation of p75NTR immunoreactivity and conditions that induce high levels of phagocytic activity by perivascular cells in the NL of the rat. Implications for understanding the mechanisms by which phagocytes may support compensatory responses to neuronal injury are discussed.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) mRNAs are expressed in the developing rat tongue and taste organs in specific spatiotemporal patterns. BDNF mRNA is present in the early lingual gustatory papilla epithelium, from which taste buds eventually arise, prior to the arrival of gustatory nerve fibers at the epithelium, whereas NT-3 initially distributes in the mesenchyme. However, a direct test for neural dependence of neurotrophin expression on the presence of innervation in tongue has not been made, nor is it known whether the patterns of neurotrophin expression can be replicated in an in vitro system. Therefore, we used a tongue organ culture model that supports taste papilla formation while eliminating the influence from sensory nerve fibers, to study neurotrophin mRNAs in lingual tissues. Rat tongue cultures were begun at embryonic day 13 or 14 (E13, E14), and BDNF, NT-3, nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-4 (NT-4) mRNAs were studied at 0, 2, 3 and 6 days in culture. BDNF transcripts were localized in the gustatory epithelium of both developing fungiform and circumvallate papillae after 2 or 3 days in culture, and NT-3 transcripts were in the subepithelial mesenchyme. The neurotrophin distributions were comparable to those in vivo at E13-E16. In 6-day tongue cultures, however, BDNF transcripts in anterior tongue were not restricted to fungiform papillae but were more widespread in the lingual epithelium, while the circumvallate trench epithelium exhibited restricted BDNF labeling. The NT-3 expression pattern shifted in 6-day organ cultures in a manner comparable to that in the embryo in vivo, and was expressed in the lingual epithelium as well as mesenchyme. NGF mRNA expression was subepithelial throughout 6 days in cultures. NT-4 mRNA was not detected. The neurotrophin mRNA distributions demonstrate that temporospatial localization of neurotrophins observed during development in vivo is retained in the embryonic tongue organ culture system. Furthermore, initial neurotrophin expression in the developing lingual epithelium, mesenchyme, and/or taste papillae is not dependent on intact sensory innervation. We suggest that patterns of lingual neurotrophin mRNA expression are controlled by the influence of local tissue interactions within the tongue at early developmental stages. However, the eventual loss of restricted BDNF mRNA localization from fungiform papillae in anterior tongue suggests that sensory innervation may be important for restricting the localized expression of neurotrophins at later developmental stages, and for maintaining the unique phenotypes of gustatory papillae.
Transplantation of embryonic porcine neurons may restore neurological function in patients with Parkinson's disease, if immunological rejection could be prevented. This study was performed to investigate the role of natural killer cells (NK cells) and NK1.1+ T cells (NK T cells) in the rejection of neural xenografts. A cell suspension was prepared from the ventral mesencephalon of 26-27-day-old pig embryos, and 2 microl was implanted in the right striata of mutant CD1d1 null (CD1.1-/-) mice, NK1.1-depleted mice, and controls. The CD1.1-/- mice are deficient in NK T cells and the antigen-presenting molecule CD1d1. Graft survival and host responses were determined immunohistochemically using markers for dopamine neurons, CD4-, CD8- cells, microglia, and macrophages. At 2 weeks, the grafts were significantly larger in CD1.1-/- mice, 0.09 +/- 0.02 microl (mean +/- SEM), compared with controls, 0.05 +/- 0.01 microl. There was no significant difference between NK1.1-depleted mice, 0.02 +/- 0.01 microl, and controls. At 5 weeks, two grafts were still present in the CD1-/- mice, whereas only scars remained in the controls and in the NK1.1-depleted mice. Immune reactions were strong at 2 weeks and less pronounced at 5 weeks in all groups. Microglial activation was lower in NK-depleted mice than in the controls at 2 weeks. In contrast to organ xenografting, NK1.1+ cells do not seem to be important mediators of the rejection of discordant cellular neural xenografts. However, our results suggest that the antigen-presenting molecule CD1d1 may be involved in the rejection process.
Delivery of potentially therapeutic drugs to the brain is hindered by the blood-brain barrier (BBB), which restricts the diffusion of drugs from the vasculature to the brain parenchyma. One means of overcoming the BBB is with cellular implants that produce and deliver therapeutic molecules. Polymer encapsulation, or immunoisolation, provides a means of overcoming the BBB to deliver therapeutic molecules directly into the CNS region of interest. Immunoisolation is based on the observation that xenogeneic cells can be protected from host rejection by encapsulating, or surrounding, them within an immunoisolatory, semipermeable membrane. Cells can be enclosed within a selective, semipermeable membrane barrier that admits oxygen and required nutrients and releases bioactive cell secretions, but restricts passage of larger cytotoxic agents from the host immune defense system. The selective membrane eliminates the need for chronic immunosuppression of the host and allows the implanted cells to be obtained from nonhuman sources. In this review, cell immunoisolation for treating CNS diseases is updated from considerations of device configurations, membrane manufacturing and characterization in preclinical models of Alzheimer's and Huntington's disease.
The expression of ATP-gated ion channels (P2X receptors) was investigated in testes of adult rats by immunohistochemistry and Western blotting with antibodies against all seven P2X receptor subtypes. Immunoreactive cells were identified and monitored during germ cell maturation. Results of immunohistochemical and Western blotting experiments showed the expression of P2X(1), P2X(2), P2X(3), P2X(5) and P2X(7) receptors, while P2X(4) and P2X(6) receptors were absent from the testis. Blood vessels displayed immunostaining for P2X(1) and P2X(2) receptors; the P2X(1) receptors were present exclusively in blood vessels. P2X(2), P2X(3) and P2X(5) receptors were found to be expressed differentially in the various germ cell types throughout the different stages of the cycle of the seminiferous epithelium; P2X(2) and P2X(3) receptors were always observed together in the same cell types and at the same stages. Sertoli cells also showed differential staining for P2X(2) and P2X(3) receptors during the cycle of the seminiferous epithelium, whereas P2X(7) receptor expression was present throughout all stages. No immunostaining for P2X receptors was detected on Leydig cells. The possible roles of purinergic signalling in the control of germ cell maturation are discussed. In particular, it is suggested that purinergic signalling may play a role in controlling the maturation of germ cell subsets of different developmental ages that exist alongside each other in the adult testis.
The basis for a higher prevalence of painful temporomandibular disorders (TMD) among women than men is not known. The present study used Fos-like immunoreactivity (Fos-LI) to quantify the pattern and magnitude of neural activation within the trigeminal brainstem complex of male and female rats caused by acute inflammatory injury to the temporomandibular joint (TMJ) region. Also, Fos-LI was assessed in animals given morphine, a preferential mu opioid receptor agonist, or U50,488H, a selective kappa opioid agonist, prior to TMJ injury to determine if opioid modulation of neural activation was similar in males and females. The general pattern of Fos-LI after TMJ injury was similar in males and females. This pattern was characterized by a high density of Fos-positive neurons in the dorsal paratrigeminal nucleus (dPa5), subnucleus interpolaris/caudalis transition region (Vi/Vc-vl), and in the superficial laminae at the subnucleus caudalis/upper cervical spinal cord (Vc/C2) junction ipsilateral to TMJ injury. In contrast to other regions the number of Fos-positive neurons produced at the Vc/C2 junction was proportional to the concentration of mustard oil injected into the TMJ region. In addition, proestrus females produced higher levels of Fos-LI at the Vc/C2 junction than diestrus females or males. Morphine caused a greater dose-related reduction in Fos-LI at the dPa5 and Vc/C2 junction in males than females. By contrast, U50,488H caused a dose-related reduction in Fos-LI only at the Vc/C2 junction of proestrus females. These results support the hypothesis that the Vc/C2 junction region plays a critical role in the integration of pain signals originating from the TMJ region and may underlie sex differences in sensory processing related to TMJ pain.
The goal of this study was to examine and compare the number and size of motoneurons in the cat and squirrel monkey abducens nucleus. We also examined medial rectus muscle motoneuron compartmentalization in the squirrel monkey oculomotor nucleus and compared those cells to abducens nucleus motoneurons. Retrograde labeling of the motoneurons, using cholera toxin conjugate of horseradish peroxidase (CTHRP) injected into cat and monkey lateral or medial rectus muscles, was observed after 24 h. The CTHRP was histochemically localized with tetramethylbenzidine. The slide-mounted sections were analyzed using a computerized imaging system. Cat abducens nucleus motoneurons showed a wide range of cell sizes (26.0-66.0 microm, mean = 37.2 +/- 6.2 microm), four or more dendrites per cell and an average of 1,418 cells within a relatively loosely packed nucleus. Squirrel monkey abducens nucleus motoneurons were significantly smaller than those in the cat with a narrower range of cell sizes (20.0-44.0 microm, mean = 31.7 +/- 3.8 microm), four or more dendrites per cell and an average of 2,473 cells densely packed within the nucleus. Squirrel monkey medial rectus muscle motoneurons were organized into MRa, MRb and MRc subgroups. MRa motoneurons comprise the primary innervation for the medial rectus muscle and were similar in size to abducens nucleus motoneurons while the MRc subgroup cells were significantly smaller in size. Similar relationships among medial rectus motoneurons have been seen in rhesus monkeys. The relationship of these anatomical findings to previous physiological results regarding the generation of extraocular muscle force in the squirrel monkey is discussed.
Spatio-temporal processing of whisker information was analysed in vivo for single neurons in D2 barrel columns of S1 cortex in Tg8 mutant mice, which lack barrels. Findings were compared with normal C3H mice of the same genetic background. The topographical organization of functional columns was similar in Tg8 and normal mice. Response magnitudes (RMs) to D2 principal whisker deflections in D2 columns for Tg8 were similar to normals for layers I-III and layer IV cells but short latency responses (&gt;10 ms post-stimulus) were twice the magnitude of normal mice. The surrounding whiskers D1 and D3 yielded smaller RMs in layer IV of mutants than normal mice whereas RMs in layers I-III were equipotent (P&gt;0.5). Modal latencies were shorter in Tg8 mice in all layers. Latency distributions for whisker D2 responses in both laminae were bimodal in normal mice, peaking at 6-8 and 12 ms post-stimulus, but unimodal in Tg8 mice in both laminae, peaking at 6-8 ms. Hence, despite an absence of barrels, segregation of columns is enhanced in layer IV and sensory processing is faster in layers I-IV compared with normal mice. This contrasts with adenylyl cyclase knockout mice where both an absence of barrels and enhanced surrounding whisker responses have been observed. These findings suggest that factors other than barrels and clustering of thalamo-cortical terminals define receptive field geometry.

Major therapeutic advances in the rehabilitation of subacute stroke are lacking. One promising approach is treatment with amphetamine in combination with physiotherapy so as to promote motor function. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trial, the effect of 10 sessions with 10 mg of amphetamine combined with physiotherapy during a 5-week period was investigated in 39 geriatric patients who had been admitted to a stroke rehabilitation unit. Motor function (Fugl-Meyer motor performance score) and activities of daily living (ADL; Barthel's index) were assessed at baseline and at the end of treatment. All patients improved significantly over the intervention period. Amphetamine-treated patients did not show any increase in motor function or ADL as compared to the control group. Rehabilitation with amphetamine at this dosage and interval, combined with physiotherapy, did not promote motor recovery or functional capacity in patients suffering from stroke.

Prognostic models in stroke may be useful in clinical practice and research. We systematically reviewed the methodology and results of studies that have identified independent predictors of survival, independence in activities of daily living, and getting home in patients with acute stroke. Eligible studies (published in full in English) included at least 100 patients in whom at least 3 predictor variables were assessed within 30 days of stroke onset and who were followed up for at least 30 days. We recorded 25 indicators of the validity and practicality of each model and identified variables that were consistent independent predictors of each outcome. Eighty-three separate prognostic models were found but most had potentially serious deficiencies in internal and statistical validity, many had limited generalisability, and none had been adequately validated. Only 4 studies met 8 simple quality criteria. Over 150 different predictor variables have been analysed but most were assessed in only 1 or 2 models. None of the existing prognostic models have been sufficiently well developed and validated to be useful in either clinical practice or research. Better quality models must be produced to enable, for example, adequate case-mix correction when comparing outcome among different groups of stroke patients.
We aimed to investigate whether and how often changes in blood pressure (BP) were occurring in relation to eating in a large sample of acute stroke patients. BP was measured non-invasively at 5-min intervals from 10 min before the meal, throughout the meal and for 10 min after completion of the meal while the patient was seated. Stroke patients (n = 93) had a higher BP at baseline than both elderly (n = 49) and young controls (n = 20), which was statistically significant. There were no significant differences in the magnitude of change of BP during the meal between the three groups. Compared with the average baseline BP recordings, stroke and elderly control patients, but not young healthy control subjects, had a significant fall in average BP recordings by 3-4 mm Hg. Falls of &gt;/=10 mm Hg in systolic BP immediately after finishing the meal were observed in a similar frequency of stroke (26%) and elderly patients (22%) and in a small number of young controls (10%). These data suggest that acute stroke and elderly patients have similar changes in BP during and immediately after eating. Although reassuring, these results may have greater implications in patients with acute ischaemic stroke, although it is unclear whether changes in BP of this magnitude and duration might influence the fate of the penumbral brain tissue and thus the clinical outcome after stroke.
We evaluated arterial oxygen saturation (SaO(2)) and heart rate in acute stroke patients to determine whether routine positioning affected these physiological parameters. Measurements were recorded at the bedside non-invasively in five different positions assigned in random order each maintained for 10 min. One hundred and twenty-nine patients examined within a median of 72 h, lying on the left side resulted in slightly lower SaO(2) than lying on the right side, which was statistically significant in the patients with a right (n = 66), but not left, hemiparesis. Patients able to sit in a chair (n = 65), who mostly had less severe strokes, had a significantly higher mean SaO(2) and heart rate when sitting in the chair than when placed in any other position. About 10% of patients, especially those with a severe stroke, with right hemiparesis and concomitant chest disease, experienced falls in SaO(2) to 90% or less for &gt;/=2 min in certain positions; the hypoxia was more likely when they were lying on their left side. These results may have implications for current practice and for future patient positioning strategies to improve outcome after stroke.
Patients with stroke may have an increased risk of suicide. We sought to examine the frequency and clinical correlates of suicidal ideas 3 and 15 months after stroke. The study group comprised 286 of 486 consecutive patients aged 55-85 years who at 3 and 15 months after ischemic stroke completed a detailed medical, neurological and radiological stroke evaluation, structured measures of cognition (Mini Mental State Examination), emotion (Beck Depression Inventory, BDI), disability (Rankin scale), and assessment of dependent living. Suicidal ideas were present in 9.8% (n = 28) at 3 months' follow-up and in 14.0% (n = 40) at 15 months' follow-up. The patients with suicidal ideas were more depressed measured by BDI both at 3 (17.0 vs. 7.9, p &lt; 0.001) and 15 months (20.5 vs. 8.5, p &lt; 0.001) after stroke compared to the patients without suicidal ideas. Patients with suicidal ideas had more often a history of a stroke already before the index stroke (35 vs. 18.3%, p = 0.0154), right-sided stroke (60.0 vs. 41.9%, p = 0.0323), they were more disabled according to the Rankin scale (2.4 vs. 1.9; p = 0.0035) and more dependent in living (45.0 vs. 27.2%, p = 0.023) 15 months after stroke. An independent correlate of suicidal ideas 15 months after stroke was history of prior stroke (OR 2.4; 95% CI 1.14-4.97) in logistic regression analysis. The frequency of suicidal ideas increased with the time elapsed from stroke. Recurrent strokes, depressive symptoms, more disabling stroke and right-sided stroke correlated to suicidal ideas at 15 months after stroke. Early identification of these risk factors may lead to effective therapeutic intervention.
We studied factors associated with acute poststroke depression in 100 patients, aged 27-70, 2 weeks after their first clinically significant stroke. Depressive symptoms were relatively common (27% Beck Depression Inventory &gt; or =10), but the prevalence of major depression was only 5.6%. Older patients were most vulnerable to poststroke depression. Patients with left hemisphere lesion had no more depression than other patients, but when the lesion was in the left hemisphere or in the brainstem, stroke severity was associated with depression.
This study investigated the cognitive and cerebral function of adolescents with conduct problems by neuropsychological battery (STIM) and event-related potential (ERP). Eighteen adolescents with conduct disorder, and 18 age-matched normal subjects were included. Such cognitive functions as attention, memory, executive function and problem solving were evaluated using subtests of STIM. ERP was measured using an auditory oddball paradigm. The conduct group showed a significantly lower hit rate on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) than the control group. In addition, the conduct group showed reduced P300 amplitude at Fz and Cz, and prolonged P300 latency at Fz, and there was a significant correlation between P300 amplitude and Stroop test performance. These results indicate that adolescents with conduct problems have impairments of executive function and inhibition, and that these impairments are associated with frontal dysfunction.
This study is a retrospective analysis of intracranial pressure (ICP) and cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) data from 56 children with active hydrocephalus and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) shunt malfunction. The pressures were measured from a separately sited CSF access device placed in the frontal horn of the lateral ventricle. Of the patients, 79% had an elevated ICP (mean 20+/-12 mmHg). A subgroup of patients demonstrated ten different forms of CSF-filled swelling. This group had significantly lower ICP recordings (P=0.000075) with a mean ICP of 8.5 mmHg compared with the remainder (22.9 mmHg). This pressure 'compensation' was because of additional nonphysiological accommodation of CSF volume. Overall the CPP was normal in 35% of cases despite normal ICP occurring in only 11% of cases. The CPPs were not significantly different in those with and without compensation. Measurement of ICP may not always be a reliable indicator of shunt malfunction in shunt-dependent children who present with compensatory CSF-filled spaces.
We have previously described (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-carboxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (ACPA) as a potent agonist at the (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subtype of (S)-glutamic acid (Glu) receptors. We now report the chromatographic resolution of ACPA and (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-carboxy-4-isoxazolyl)propionic acid (demethyl-ACPA) using a Sumichiral OA-5000 column. The configuration of the enantiomers of both compounds have been assigned based on X-ray crystallographic analyses, supported by circular dichroism spectra and elution orders on chiral HPLC columns. Furthermore, the enantiopharmacology of ACPA and demethyl-ACPA was investigated using radioligand binding and cortical wedge electrophysiological assay systems and cloned metabotropic Glu receptors. (S)-ACPA showed high affinity in AMPA binding (IC(50) = 0.025 microM), low affinity in kainic acid binding (IC(50) = 3.6 microM), and potent AMPA receptor agonist activity on cortical neurons (EC(50) = 0.25 microM), whereas (R)-ACPA was essentially inactive. Like (S)-ACPA, (S)-demethyl-ACPA displayed high AMPA receptor affinity (IC(50) = 0.039 microM), but was found to be a relatively weak AMPA receptor agonist (EC(50) = 12 microM). The stereoselectivity observed for demethyl-ACPA was high when based on AMPA receptor affinity (eudismic ratio = 250), but low when based on electrophysiological activity (eudismic ratio = 10). (R)-Demethyl-ACPA also possessed a weak NMDA receptor antagonist activity (IC(50) = 220 microM). Among the enantiomers tested, only (S)-demethyl-ACPA showed activity at metabotropic receptors, being a weak antagonist at the mGlu(2) receptor subtype (K(B) = 148 microM).


1. Despite the emerging framework that central neural pathways controlling the activity of the sympathetic nervous system are capable of producing highly selective responses, the specific neural pathways governing different sympathetic outflows are poorly understood. 2. Anatomical studies suggest that five brain areas, namely the rostral ventrolateral medulla, the rostral ventromedial medulla, the caudal raphe nuclei, the region containing the A5 noradrenergic neurons and the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, provide dominant supraspinal innervation of sympathetic preganglionic neurons. 3. The anatomical parcellation of different functions within and among these cell groups is uncertain. However, recent studies using transynaptic retrograde labelling of neural pathways connected to various sympathetic targets suggest that the circuits controlling these different targets may be partially distinct. Similarly, anatomical studies relying on stimulus-evoked expression of immediate early genes, such as c-fos, suggest that different sympathetic responses may be controlled by distinct, neural circuits. 4. Thus, although many similarities exist in the anatomical circuits innervating different sympathetic targets, possibly supporting the orchestration of global sympathetic responses, differences are also discernible.
The latency of P300 &quot;cognitive&quot; event-related potentials changes if cholinergic activities of the central nervous system are pharmacologically manipulated. We tested the hypothesis that the new cholinesterase inhibitors donepezil (DPZ) and rivastigmine (Riv) may have an effect on the frequently abnormal P300 component in patients with Alzheimer disease (AD), thereby allowing a significant evaluation of cholinesterase inhibitors. We evaluated 60 patients with mild to moderately severe probable AD, in comparison with 60 age-matched control subjects, with P300 recordings and neuropsychologic examinations. Forty patients were randomly assigned in a double-blinded trial to 5-10 mg/d DPZ versus 2,000 IU/d vitamin E, and 20 patients were instead treated in an open trial with 1.5 to 12 mg/d Riv. In patients treated with vitamin E, we observed latency increments (7.4 +/- 3.5 msec) correlated with worsening neuropsychologic test scores. In patients treated with DPZ and Riv, we found significant P300 latency reductions (15.3 +/- 3.2 msec and 22.0 +/- 3.3 msec). Shorter P300 latencies were associated with higher Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale scores and with lower AD Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog) scores (R = 0.72). Correlations between ADAS-cog changes and P300 changes significantly separated patients treated with DPZ and Riv from those treated with vitamin E. Administration of DPZ and Riv reduced the latencies of P300 components proportionately to neuropsychologic test improvements. Combined P300 and neuropsychologic test evaluation significantly separated DPZ-treated patients and Riv-treated patients from vitamin E-treated patients.
Lanepitant is effective in the formalin analgesic model suggesting efficacy in painful neuropathy. This study was designed to evaluate the dose-response effect of lanepitant in patients with daily moderate to severe, bilateral, distal neuropathic pain. After a 1-to 3-week lead-in period, patients were randomly allocated to double-blind, parallel treatment with lanepitant 50 mg daily (n = 27), 100 mg daily (n = 27), 200 mg twice daily (n = 13), or placebo (n = 26) over 8 weeks. Patients reported average daytime pain and average nighttime pain intensity. Plasma concentrations and amount of adjunctive analgesic medication were obtained at all visits after baseline. Patient global evaluation and clinician global impression were obtained at weeks 3 and 8. Safety was assessed by adverse events, vital signs, laboratory analytes, and electrocardiogram. No dosage of lanepitant differed significantly from placebo. Efficacy did not increase with lanepitant dosage, and higher plasma concentrations were no more effective than lower plasma concentrations. The adverse event diarrhea was more frequent for lanepitant-treated patients. Although well tolerated, lanepitant was ineffective in relieving pain of diabetic neuropathy.

We are confident that neurodegenerative diseases will be managed by an array of pharmacologic and cellular therapies. These may involve oral or intravenous preparations, surgical cell deliveries, or infusion through cerebral delivery systems. Achievements in neuroscience over the past three decades have redefined some of the rules for basic and clinical research in neurotransplantation. Restorative neurosurgical procedures will develop from different directions, and it is likely that a combination of approaches will be necessary to maximize patient outcomes.
The conclusions of a symposium held in London in October 1999 and devoted to the optimal management of brain metastatic disease were: 1. Prognostic factors are: size and number of metastases (and the presence of mass effect); the status of the systemic cancer outside the central nervous system; performance/neurological status; the age of the patient; and the type of cancer. 2. Surgical management of the single, superficially located brain metastasis with symptomatic mass effect is recommended in good performance status patients. Many would follow this routinely by whole brain radiotherapy. 3. Whole brain radiotherapy is often not followed by durable control of the disease and carries morbidity; better management plans are required. In poor prognosis patients the delivery of radiotherapy may not always be indicated. 4. The current literature demonstrates that stereotactic radiosurgery can enhance the likelihood of sterilizing individual brain metastases compared with whole brain radiotherapy alone. 5. The results of questionnaire showed that the histological diagnosis and latency to onset made little difference to the opinion of neuroscience clinicians, who generally favoured stereotactic radiation therapy over whole brain radiotherapy (with or without a conventionally delivered boost) for all patients with less than four metastases. The opinions of oncologists differed. For bronchial and breast cancer patients, whole brain radiotherapy, with or without a boost, was favoured by the majority, particularly in oat cell cancer. However, with a long latency to 'isolated' brain metastasis, oncologists favoured focal radiation therapy. There was a strong preference amongst oncology experts to reserve stereotactic radiation therapy for apparently isolated brain metastasis; this opinion applied to bronchus and breast cancer, and also to melanoma. 6. Whole brain radiotherapy followed by positron emission tomography scanning to determine what viable metastatic disease remained (and potentially treatable by stereotactic/focal technology) was favoured by most of delegates who answered this question.
Adenosine (ADO) is an endogenous inhibitory neuromodulator that limits cellular excitability in response to tissue trauma and inflammation. Adenosine kinase (AK; EC 2.7.1.20) is the primary metabolic enzyme regulating intra- and extracellular concentrations of ADO. AK inhibitors have been shown to significantly increase ADO concentrations at sites of tissue injury and to provide effective antinociceptive, antiinflammatory, and anticonvulsant activity in animal models. Structurally novel nucleoside and non-nucleoside AK inhibitors that demonstrate high specificity for the AK enzyme compared with other ADO metabolic enzymes, transporters, and receptors have recently been synthesized. These compounds have also demonstrated improved cellular and tissue penetration compared with earlier tubercidin analogs. These compounds have been shown to exert beneficial effects in animal models of pain, inflammation and epilepsy with reduced cardiovascular side effects compared with direct acting ADO receptor (P1) agonists, thus supporting the hypothesis that AK inhibitors can enhance the actions of ADO in a site- and event-specific fashion.
Rolipram is a selective inhibitor of phosphodiesterases (PDE) IV, especially of the subtype PDE IVB. These phosphodiesterases are responsible for hydrolysis of the cyclic nucleotides cAMP and cGMP, particularly in nerve and immune cells. Consequences of rolipram-induced elevation of intracellular cAMP are increased synthesis and release of norepinephrine, which enhance central noradrenergic transmission, and suppress expression of proinflammatory cytokines and other mediators of inflammation. In humans and animals rolipram produces thereby a variety of biological effects. These effects include attenuation of endogenous depression and inflammation in the central nervous system (CNS), both effects are of potential clinical relevance. There are some discrepancies between in vitro and in vivo effects of rolipram, as well as between results obtained in animal models and clinical studies. The clinical use of rolipram is limited because of its behavioral and other side effects. Newly developed selective PDE IV inhibitors with presumably higher potency and lower toxicity are currently under investigation.
Thrombolysis with alteplase (recombinant tissue plasminogen activator; rtPA) has proven to be beneficial for acute stroke management, despite the narrow window of opportunity for treatment and the increased risk of haemorrhage. Because of the latter, recent studies have attempted to identify compounds that may be given concomitantly with alteplase to reduce the haemorrhage rate Matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) inhibitors have been proposed as potential combination therapy candidates because they prevent MMP-induced production of the cytokine tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNFalpha), as well as membrane and vessel remodelling following ischaemia. Spin trap agents also have been put forward due to their free radical scavenging capabilities. In the rabbit large clot embolism model, alteplase effectively lysed blood clots, whether or not other drugs were used in combination. However, haemorrhage rate also was increased compared with that in control animals. The alteplase-induced haemorrhage rate was reduced significantly by administration of the MMP inhibitor batimastat (BB-94) or the spin trap agent alpha-phenyl-N-t-butylnitrone (PBN). Other rodent studies have also demonstrated that PBN is effective in decreasing the haemorrhage rate following alteplase administration. Overall, preclinical studies indicate that MMP inhibition or free radical scavenging in combination with alteplase may circumvent the high risk of haemorrhaging with alteplase.
This paper addresses the importance of affect regulation (AR) in relation to a broad range of behavioral and emotional health problems that emerge during adolescence. AR is defined as the adaptive modulation of emotional experience to serve a goal or purpose. This conceptualization of AR emphasizes the use of cognitive skills to guide, inhibit, or modify emotion and behavior, including the expression of emotional responses, in learned, strategic ways-skills that ultimately underpin adult levels of social maturity and the ability to show &quot;responsible&quot; behavior across a range of emotional situations. Neurobehavioral systems that subserve these AR skills include areas of the inferior and orbital prefrontal cortex (PFC), with rich interconnections to several limbic structures and other cortical areas, including the dorsolateral PFC. Adolescence represents an important developmental period in the functional maturation of adult AR skills; it is also a critical time in the development of clinical disorders of AR (eg, rates of depression increase dramatically and gender differences in depression emerge). Maturational changes in AR that occur during adolescence-particularly with respect to the role of emotions influencing responsible decision making-are also relevant to understanding key aspects of the developmental pathways of some behavioral health problems, such as alcohol use and nicotine dependence. A strong case is made for developmental research in affective neuroscience aimed at this important maturational period, particularly the kind of transdisciplinary research leading toward mechanistic understanding of the development of adolescent-onset disorders. Improving understanding in these areas could ultimately lead to the development of early interventions in targeted high-risk populations, and has enormous clinical and social policy relevance.
This paper critically examines the literature on face recognition in autism, including a discussion of the neural correlates of this ability. The authors begin by selectively reviewing the behavioral and cognitive neuroscience research on whether faces are represented by a &quot;special&quot; behavioral and neural system-one distinct from object processing. The authors then offer a neuroconstructivist model that attempts to account for the robust finding that certain regions in the inferior temporal cortex are recruited in the service of face recognition. This is followed by a review of the evidence supporting the view that face recognition is atypical in individuals with autism. This face-recognition deficit may indicate a continued risk for the further development of social impairments. The authors conclude by speculating on the role of experience in contributing to this atypical developmental pattern and its implications for normal development of face processing.
Various aspects of personality or dispositional style predict risk for psychiatric disorders among adults. In particular, signs of neuroticism, emotional reactivity, or sensitivity to stress are strong predictors of later mood or anxiety disorders. The current report extends this literature to adolescents. An epidemiologic sample of 776 young people living in upstate New York received psychiatric assessments based on the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Third Edition-Revised, (DSM-III-R) and a self-report assessment of personality style in 1983 and 1985. Psychopathology was again assessed in 1992. The current study first examined demographic correlates of emotional reactivity. The study then considered the predictive relationship between emotionally reactive personality style at one study wave and psychopathology at later waves. In middle but not early adolescence, girls showed higher levels of emotional reactivity than boys. In turn, high levels of emotional reactivity predicted a range of psychiatric disorders at follow-up. The most consistent associations emerged for major depression and fearful spells, a term the authors use to describe a subclinical form of panic attacks. As in adults, midadolescent girls rate themselves as more emotionally reactive than midadolescent boys. Moreover, adolescents who rate themselves as emotionally reactive face a high risk for mood and anxiety disorders. High levels of emotional reactivity may represent a manifestation of underlying neurobiologic risk for mood and anxiety disorders.


The slit-scanning confocal microscope is a new clinical paradigm that allows the living human cornea to be viewed at a magnification of 680 x and a lateral resolution of 1 mum. As such, it allows corneal morphology to be inspected at a cellular level. The corneas of both eyes of 119 subjects who were evenly distributed in age from 10-80 years were examined using a Tomey ConfoScan P4 in-vivo slit-scanning real-time confocal microscope (Erlangen, Germany). Good quality representative images of the various corneal layers were selected for detailed qualitative analysis and are displayed here. A grid of corneal layer versus age was constructed from these images; this tool can be used as a normative confocal microscopy reference against which suspected corneal abnormalities can be assessed.
Delivery of potentially therapeutic drugs to the brain is hindered by the blood-brain barrier (BBB), which restricts the diffusion of drugs from the vasculature to the brain parenchyma. One means of overcoming the BBB is with cellular implants that produce and deliver therapeutic molecules directly into the CNS region of interest. In this paper we describe the current status of one iteration of cell-based therapy that uses xenogeneic cells encased within a selectively permeable polymeric membrane; this is known as immunoisolation. For the purposes of this review, cell immunoisolation for treating CNS diseases is presented in terms of device configurations, membrane manufacturing, characterization in relevant preclinical model systems, and the current status of clinical trials.
SmithKline Beecham is developing the 5-HT6 antagonist, SB-271046, as a potential cognition enhancer. By December 1999, phase I trials had commenced [360354]. This drug was originally being developed primarily for the treatment of shizophrenia [284490], however, cognitive disorders, including but not limited to Alzheimer's disease, have been the main target since 1998 [394309]. SB-271046 is a potent, selective 5-HT6 antagonist with a pKi value of 8.9 [333710]. SB-258585, also known as 4-iodo-N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methylpiperazin-1-yl)phenyl]benzenesulfonamide is an analog of SB-271046 [322488]. Data recently presented at the Society for Neuroscience annual meeting in November 2000 demonstrated that administration of SB-271046 resulted in a signficant increase in glutamate and aspartate levels in the frontal cortex, without affecting noradrenaline, dopamine or 5-HT levels. This was stated to suggest that 5-HT6 antagonists might therefore be useful for treating cognitive dysfunction [390469]. The drug has also been radiolabeled in order to provide an assay for estimating in vivo 5-HT6 receptor occupancy [390470].



Animal models provide unique opportunities to explore interactions between host and environment. Two models have been established based on Borna disease virus infection that provide new insights into mechanisms by which neurotropic agents and/or immune factors may impact developing or mature CNS circuitry to effect complex disturbances in movement and behavior. Note in press: Since this chapter was submitted, several manuscripts have been published that extend findings reported here and support the relevance of BDV infections of neonatal Lewis rats as models for investigating mechanisms of neurodevelopmental damage in autism. Behavioral abnormalities, including disturbed play behavior and chronic emotional overactivity, have been described by Pletnikov et al. (1999); inhibition of responses to novel stimuli were described by Hornig et al. (1999); loss of Purkinje cells following neonatal BDV infection has been demonstrated by Eisenman et al. (1999), Hornig et al. (1999), and Weissenbck et al. (2000); and alterations in cytokine gene expression have been reported by Hornig et al. (1999), Plata-Salaman et al. (1999) and Sauder et al. (1999).

Word fluency performance is known to rely on left frontal cortical regions and has also been shown to be affected by lesions in the white matter, which may be seen as white matter hyperintensities (WMH) on magnetic resonance imaging. However, word fluency may be divided into two independent components, initial and late performance, separated in time [J Clin Exp Neuropsychol 1998;20:137-143]. The purpose of the current study was to investigate the relationship between the two components of FAS fluency performance and WMH. Patients varying in degree of memory impairment participated: Alzheimer's disease, mild cognitive impairment and subjective memory disorder. WMH were rated with the Scheltens scale in the periventricular and deep subcortical areas. Results demonstrated that WMH in this sample of patients may be summarized in two indices according to a principal factor analysis, one anterior factor mainly related to WMH in the frontal lobes and adjacent to ventricles, and a second posterior factor related to parietal and occipital WMH. The initial FAS performance was related to anterior WMH, in particular left frontal or lateral periventricular hyperintensities, whereas the late FAS performance was not related to any index of WMH.
A proportion of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients treated for several months with cholinesterase (ChE) inhibitors have shown some favorable response on cognition, but the characteristics of the responders are still unclear. This study attempts to identify the characteristics of individuals with a positive behavioral response after a double-blind randomized administration of a single oral dose of tacrine (40 mg) and placebo to AD patients. Furthermore, the relationship between single-dose and long-term responders are examined. Twenty-four mildly to very mildly demented AD patients participated in the study. They all fulfilled the diagnosis of probable AD according to NINCDS-ADRDA criteria. Active treatment (tacrine 40 mg) and placebo was administered in random order on 2 consecutive days, and the effects were evaluated within 2 h using neuropsychological tests (assessing visuospatial ability, episodic memory and attention), registration of EEG activity and measurement of red blood cells (RBC) acetylcholinesterase (AChE), ChE activity and concentrations of tacrine and its metabolites in plasma. Results demonstrated significant improvement, tacrine compared to placebo, in measures of attention, but not in episodic memory or visuospatial ability. A single-dose response was therefore defined in terms of improvement in attention. The tacrine plasma concentration (pcTHA) showed a positively skewed distribution (mean +/- SD: 10.5 +/- 11.8, range: 1.0-51.8 ng/ml). There were no significant differences between single-dose responders compared to nonresponders in pcTHA, metabolites of tacrine, inhibition of AChE in RBC, tau levels in CSF, AChE activity in CSF or plasma and demographic variables. However, single-dose responders showed a higher right frontal alpha/theta ratio on EEG and had lower glucose metabolism in the parietal-temporal association cortex at baseline. In addition, the frequency of apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon 4 alleles was higher in responders. Interestingly, the single-dose response was related to the long-term response, although not significantly, which probably was due to lack of power. To conclude, the present study identified single-dose responders in terms of improved attentional performance associated with a relatively higher alpha/theta activity in the right frontal regions of the brain measured on EEG and predominance of APOE epsilon 4 allele.
We examined 57 patients with mild Alzheimer's disease by using three kinds of verbal semantic memory tests (category fluency, confrontation naming and generation of verbal definition) and correlated each score with regional cerebral glucose metabolism determined by (18)F-fluorodeoxyglucose and positron emission tomography. The scores of all three verbal semantic memory tests correlated significantly with regional cerebral glucose metabolism in the left inferior temporal gyrus, even after controlling for the effects of age, sex and educational attainment. In contrast, the scores of the word recall test did not correlate significantly with regional cerebral glucose metaboliosm in the left inferior temporal gyrus, neither before nor after controlling for these confounders. Our results suggested that the left inferior temporal lobe contributes to verbal semantic memory.
Neuropsychological investigation using a comprehensive rating scale is important for the diagnosis and evaluation of dementia patients over time. Requirements for such a scale include accuracy, reliability, sensitivity of the scale over the disease course and simplicity for clinical use by a wide range of healthcare professionals. Ideally, the scale should also be capable of assessing the impact of pharmacological and non-pharmacological treatment regimens on the management of dementia patients. The Gottfries-Brne-Steen (GBS) Scale is a comprehensive global assessment tool for evaluating dementia symptoms and is based on a semi-structured interview and observation of the patient. The scale consists of subscales measuring intellectual (12 items), emotional (3 items) and activities of daily living, primarily items of self-care (6 items); as well as 6 items of behavioral and psychological symptoms of dementia. This review describes the reliability, validity and sensitivity of the most recent version of the GBS scale since its original publication in 1982.
Our current knowledge about the neurobiology of suicide is still limited. Technical limitations and the complexity of the CNS are major obstacles. However, there is evidence for a hereditary disposition to suicide, which appears to be independent of diagnosis. Clinical, postmortem, genetic, and animal studies suggest that serotonin has a central role. The main regions of interest in the CNS have been the dorsal and median raphe nuclei in the midbrain that host the main serotonergic cell bodies and the prefrontal cortex, particularly the ventral PFC, innervated by the serotonergic system. In vivo and postmortem studies indicate serotonergic hypofunction in suicide and serious suicide attempts. This deficiency in turn can lead to a predisposition to impulsive and aggressive behavior, probably due to a breakdown in the inhibitory function of the ventral prefrontal cortex as a result of less serotonin input. In the context of this predisposition and the development of mental illness or other life stressors, the individual is at risk of acting on suicidal thoughts. Such deficient serotonin input into the PFC may arise as a result of genetic, parenting, head injury, and other effects. Identifying psychiatric, social, and environmental predictors of suicide are studied to improve prediction and prevention of suicide. A better understanding of the neurobiology of suicide can help detect at risk populations and help develop better treatment interventions.

Specific cell types such as neurons, astrocytes, and microglial cells can be isolated from a mixed population of human foetal brain cells and cultured for extended periods. The rapid expansion of cell populations occurring during culture has accommodated the large-scale growth and production of various neurotropic viruses. Furthermore, neural cell lines derived from CNS tumours or by the immortalization of primary cells have also been established and used for studies of viral pathogenesis. The potential to generate and expand selected populations of neural-derived cells should provide a new and abundant substrate for the production of viruses in vaccine development.
The neuropsychology of dyslexia has made great strides in the last decade. In particular, a consensus views dyslexia as a developmental disorder with a basis in the brain and in the genes, where the interaction of genetic and environmental factors is taken for granted. However, problems in defining the phenotype continue to bedevil research. The main conceptual problems can be expressed in three main questions: (a) Is dyslexia based on a specific brain abnormality or is it merely part of a continuum of atypical brain development? (b) When can we speak of comorbidity? (c) Why does so much individual variability occur? These questions can be tackled in a common framework that takes into account simultaneously three levels: the biological, the cognitive, and the behavioral.
This review focuses on the postnatal neuroanatomical changes that arise during the first years of human life. Development is characterized by 2 major organizational periods. The first period begins at conception and includes the major histogenetic events such as neurulation, proliferation, migration, and differentiation. It has been proposed that these events may be controlled by genetic and epigenetic events, which give rise to neural structures that are amenable to external influence. The second period is a time of reorganization in the human cortex. These events occur during gestation and continue postnatally, possibly through the 2nd decade of life. This stage is characterized by dendritic and axonal growth, synapse production, neuronal and synaptic pruning, and changes in neurotransmitter sensitivity. Although the initiation of these events is influenced by endogenous signals, further neural maturation is primarily influenced by exogenous signals. To illustrate both the progressive and regressive events during the postnatal period, we use examples from the development of the human cortex.
Previous work has shown that exposure to exogenous testosterone during synapse elimination permanently stabilizes synapses that would normally be lost in the androgen-sensitive levator ani (LA) muscle, indicating that testosterone is a potent stabilizing factor for developing LA synapses. Terminal Schwann cells (TSCs), which cap the neuromuscular junction, have also been implicated in the control of synaptic stability and may play a decisive role in the selective stabilization of synapses during synapse elimination. In this study, we begin to investigate the possible role of TSCs in the effect of testosterone on synapse elimination by determining whether testosterone influences their number. As the number of TSCs generally correlates with the size of endplates, we also measured endplate size. Male rats were castrated or sham gonadectomized at postnatal day (P) 7 and given capsules containing either testosterone or nothing. Three weeks later (P27-28), LA neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) were stained using immune and nonimmune markers. As expected, testosterone treatment during synapse elimination maintained synapses that would ordinarily be eliminated. In addition, we find that the size of LA endplates and the number of TSCs per LA junction were also increased by the testosterone treatment. However, testosterone significantly increased the number of TSCs on both singly and multiply innervated fibers, indicating that the effect of testosterone on the number of TSCs is not specific to its effect on synapse maintenance. Rather the testosterone-induced increase in the number of TSCs appears related to the size of LA NMJs, a relationship that has precedence.
Gap junctions are clusters of intercellular channels that connect the interiors of coupled cells. In the brain, gap junctions function as electrotonic synapses between neurons and as pathways for the exchange of metabolites and second-messenger molecules between glial cells. Astrocytes, the most abundant glial cell type coupled by gap junctions, are intimately involved in the active control of neuronal activity including synaptic transmission and plasticity. Previous studies have suggested that astrocytic-neuronal signaling may involve gap junction-mediated intercellular connections; this issue remains unresolved. In this study, we demonstrate that second-trimester human fetal hippocampal neurons and astrocytes in culture are coupled by gap junctions bidirectionally; we show that human fetal neurons and astrocytes express both the same and different connexin subtypes. The formation of functional homotypic and heterotypic gap junction channels between neurons and astrocytes may add versatility to the signaling between these cell types during human hippocampal ontogeny; disruption of such signaling may contribute to CNS dysfunction during pregnancy.
The proliferation of oligodendrocyte precursors is closely regulated in the developing vertebrate CNS. In previous studies we have demonstrated a cell-type-specific density-dependent feedback mechanism that contributes to the control of oligodendrocyte progenitor cell clonal expansion in vitro. Here we demonstrate a density-dependent reduction in the proliferation of oligodendrocyte precursors. This inhibition of proliferation is correlated with increases in expression levels of the cell cycle inhibitor p27(Kip1), reductions in the expression of cyclin A and changes in the relative phosphorylation levels of Rb. These changes are reversible on replating at low density suggesting that additional signals are required for terminal oligodendrocyte differentiation.
The molecular signals required for initiating myelination and maintenance of the myelin internode are not known. Several growth factor families have been implicated in promoting oligodendrocyte survival or differentiation and may have consequences on formation of myelin. We developed a reliable assay for detecting ensheathment of neurites by oligodendrocytes in spinal cord explants. This system was used to assay the effect of selected growth factors on myelin internode formation. We examined the influence on myelination of the polypeptide growth factors neuregulin (NRG), platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF), leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF), and the thyroid hormone T(3). We found that NRG, PDGF, and T(3) treatments enhanced myelination while LIF treatment inhibited it. We furthermore found that the most potent combination of factors to enhance myelination was NRG and T(3). Our results demonstrate that the role of growth factors on CNS myelination can be reliably studied in a controlled in vitro environment and that the impact of individual or combinations of growth factors on myelination cannot be predicted by their known effects on oligodendrocyte survival, proliferation, or differentiation.
Sympathetic ganglion precursors were used to test the role of non-neuronal cell-derived factors in the establishment of mature neuronal phenotypes. In control conditions, characteristic neuronal populations with and without neuropeptide Y (NPY) expression developed after 1 week, but following removal of non-neuronal cells, virtually all neurons expressed NPY. Thus, ganglionic non-neuronal cells downregulated NPY expression in some but not all neurons in vitro. Conditioned medium from non-neuronal cells restored heterogeneous NPY expression, a finding that suggests the factors are soluble. A non-neuronal cell-derived cytokine, leukemia inhibitory factor, dramatically reduced NPY expression in all neurons, but no concentration tested could recapitulate heterogeneous neuronal NPY expression. Sympathetic precursors that incorporated BrdU early in the culture were more likely to develop NPY expression than neurons that became postmitotic later in vitro. Together, these findings support the notion that the environment in which neurons become postmitotic contributes to neuronal phenotype.
Cerebral hypoxia/ischemia of the newborn has a frequency of 4/1,000 births and remains a major cause of cerebral palsy, epilepsy, and mental retardation. Despite progress in understanding the pathogenesis of hypoxic-ischemic injury, the data are incomplete regarding the mechanisms leading to permanent brain injury. Here we tested the hypothesis that cerebral hypoxia/ischemia damages stem/progenitor cells in the subventricular zone (SVZ), resulting in a permanent depletion of oligodendrocytes. We used a widely accepted rat model and examined animals at recovery intervals ranging from 4 h to 3 weeks. Within hours after the hypoxic-ischemic insult 20% of the total cells were deleted from the SVZ. The residual damaged cells appeared necrotic. During 48 h of recovery deaths accumulated; however, these later deaths were predominantly apoptotic. Many apoptotic SVZ cells stained with a marker for immature oligodendrocytes. At 3 weeks survival, the SVZ was smaller and markedly less cellular, and it contained less than 1/4 the normal complement of neural stem cells. The corresponding subcortical white matter was dysmyelinated, relatively devoid of oligodendrocytes and enriched in astrocytes. We conclude that neural stem cells and oligodendrocyte progenitors in the SVZ are vulnerable to hypoxia/ischemia. Consequently, the developmental production of oligodendrocytes is compromised and regeneration of damaged white matter oligodendrocytes does not occur resulting in failed regeneration of CNS myelin in periventricular loci. The resulting dysgenesis of the brain that occurs subsequent to perinatal hypoxic/ischemic injury may contribute to the cognitive and motor dysfunction that results from asphyxia of the newborn.
Hypoxia-ischemia (HI) is a leading cause of white matter damage, a major contributor to cerebral palsy in premature infants. Preferential white matter damage is believed to result from vulnerability of the immature oligodendrocyte (the pro-OL) to factors elevated during ischemic damage, such as oxygen free radicals and glutamate. In order to determine whether pro-OLs undergo apoptotic death after HI, we analyzed periventricular white matter OLs in P7 rats 4, 12 and 24 h after HI to analyze the time course and mode of cell death. DNA fragmentation was seen at 12 and 24 h of recovery after HI, representing a 17-fold increase over control. In addition, caspase-3 activation was found in NG2+ pro-OLs at 12 h. Electron-microscopic analysis of cell death in the white matter revealed a transition from early necrotic deaths to hybrid cell deaths to classical apoptosis between 4 and 24 h of recovery from HI. The delayed time course of apoptosis in pro-OLs supports the feasibility of interventions to improve clinical outcomes for newborns surviving birth asphyxia.
Hypoxia-ischemia (H/I) damages cells in the immature brain and interferes with subsequent brain development; the extent of the damage has been related to the severity, or duration, of the initial insult. This study examined the effects of both severe and moderate duration of H/I on the evolution of damage through 8 weeks of recovery. Seven-day-old rat pups were subjected to either 75 min or 2 h of 8% oxygen following a unilateral carotid artery ligation. Evaluation of brain damage included morphometric analysis of hemispheric diameter at 2, 4, and 8 weeks of recovery, and hematoxylin and eosin for evaluation of pathology at 8 weeks. Two hours of H/I produced severe infarction in the ipsilateral hemisphere in the majority of the survivors, apparent by 2 weeks of recovery with no change at 4 or 8 weeks. In marked contrast, 75 min of H/I produced no significant damage during the initial 2 weeks of recovery but resulted in progressive cerebral atrophy with delayed infarction such that the extent of damage at 8 weeks was not different from the 2-hour group. Thus, even a mild-moderate ischemic insult to the perinatal brain establishes a vulnerable region which ultimately dies without intervention.
The mesolimbic dopamine (DA) pathway is critical in reward-mediated behavior. Water, sucrose, and drugs of abuse all increase DA in the nucleus accumbens septi (NAcc) in adult animals. Recently our laboratory has shown that cocaine and alcohol increase DA efflux in preadolescent animals. The present study used a natural reinforcer (i.e., water) at postnatal day 25 (PND 25) to determine the sensitivity and responsiveness of this pathway. Repeated pairing of a peppermint odor with water resulted in a behavioral odor preference and an odor-elicited increase in accumbal DA. Results show that this developing pathway is functional and responsive to conditioning using a natural reinforcer and that these behavioral and neurochemical responses can be conditioned to a previously novel environmental stimulus.
For proper function of the retina, the correct proportions of retinal cell types must be generated, they must be organized into cell-specific laminae, and appropriate synaptic connections must be made. To understand the genetic regulation of retinal development, we have analyzed mutations in the mosaic eyes gene that disrupt retinal lamination, the localization of retinal cell divisions to the retinal pigmented epithelial surface and retinal pigmented epithelial development. Although retinal organization is severely disrupted in mosaic eyes mutants, surprisingly, retinal cell differentiation occurs. The positions of dividing cells and neurons in the brain appear normal in mosaic eyes mutants, suggesting that wild-type mosaic eyes function is specifically required for normal retinal development. We demonstrate that mosaic eyes function is required within the retinal pigmented epithelium, rather than in dividing retinal cells. This analysis reveals an interaction between the retinal pigmented epithelium and the retina that is required for retinal patterning. We suggest that wild-type mosaic eyes function is required for the retinal pigmented epithelium to signal properly to the retina.
OBJECTIVE: To demonstrate the existence of the marginal division in human stritum. METHODS: The cytoar-chitecture and distribution of the neurotransmitters in human fetal striatum were studied using Nissl staining and immuno-cytochemistry. RESULTS: In the sections with Nissl staining, a distinct fusiform cell zone was observed between the putamen and the globus pallidus of the human striatum. The long axes of these neurons in this region stretched dorsoventrally in parallel with the border between the putamen and the globus pallidus. Numerous L-ENK-, NT-, SOM-and SP-positive fibers and a few L-ENK-and NT-positive cells were found in the marginal division. CONCLUSION: For the first time we demonstrate that human also have the marginal division in the striatum which is similar to that of the mammals as the rats, cats and monkeys
The field of neuroimaging has made great progress in the mapping of human brain function. In this article, we present a functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study on the hypothalamic regulation of satiety and its relationship with obesity. The fMRI techniques have been proven invaluable for analyzing changes in brain activity that are associated with most sensorimotor and cognitive functions. However, few studies have been successful in the delineation of the interaction between the central nervous system and the endocrine system, due to the lack of suitable mapping methods which can pinpoint the onset of changes in neuronal activity (e.g., those following eating or drug intake). We have recently introduced a new fMRI method known as temporal clustering analysis (TCA) for dynamically tracking the time course of brain activation. Along with simultaneous blood sampling for the circulating hormone levels, the fMRI techniques with TCA may provide an integrated view of the nervous and endocrine systems in vivo, and thus greatly enhance our understanding of the complex interplay between neural events and hormonal signals.


Estrogen receptors (ERs) mediate many sexual dimorphisms in the neuroendocrine system and in behavior. We examined the consequences of the loss of functional estrogen receptor beta (ERbeta) on two sexually differentiated neural responses to estrogen. In wild type (WT) male mice, but not in females, estradiol (E(2)) treatment decreased estrogen receptor alpha immunoreactive (ERalpha-ir) cell numbers in the arcuate nucleus (ARC), the preoptic area (POA), and the ventromedial nucleus (VMN). These sex differences were reversed in ERbeta knockout (ERbetaKO) mice. Castrated ERbetaKOs did not show any change in ERalpha-ir cell number after E(2) treatment. Yet, E(2) decreased ERalpha-ir cell number in ovariectomized ERbetaKOs. Estradiol treatment increased progesterone receptor immunoreactive (PR-ir) cell number in WT female VMN and POA, but no change was noted in brains of WT castrates. In ERbetaKO mice the opposite relationship was found, E(2) treatment increased PR-ir cell number in male, but not in female, brains. Our results show that ERbeta influences several sexually dimorphic neural responses to estrogen. Moreover the data clearly show that ERbeta can modulate neural expression of ERalpha.
We have shown previously that prenatal exposure of rats to 0.5 mg/kg/day of methylmercury (MeHg) produces gender-dependent changes in motor activity in adulthood. In the present study we have investigated whether changes in motor activity could also be found during early ontogeny of the offspring. Pregnant rats were treated with MeHg from day 7 of pregnancy to day 7 of lactation. The habituation to a novel environment (spontaneous activity) and the response to stimulation of the dopaminergic system were studied on postnatal day 14 and 21. Measures of spontaneous activity showed a slight increase in MeHg-prenatal exposed male and female rats at 14 days, but not at 21 days. Following administration of U91356A, a selective dopamine D(2) receptor agonist, a significantly lower dopamine-mediated locomotor activity was observed in the 21 day old MeHg-treated males, but not in females. These results show that prenatal exposure to MeHg alters postjunctional dopaminergic activity during the period of maturation of the dopamine system in the brain. Moreover, the gender-dependent susceptibility previously found in adulthood is already evident at the prepubertal stage.

Growing recognition of the need to assess the impact of epilepsy on psychosocial functioning has led to a number of initiatives to quantify quality of life (QOL) in patients with this condition. To understand the impact of epilepsy and its treatment, physical, social, neuropsychological, and psychological functioning aspects must be considered. It also is apparent from previous research work that measures of QOL should be comprehensive enough to address the question under consideration, but also simple and as brief as possible. A number of QOL measures for assessing the impact of epilepsy and its treatment exist, such as the Washington Psychosocial Seizure Inventory, the Social Effects Scale, the Epilepsy Surgery Inventory, the Quality of Life in Epilepsy (QOLIE) questionnaire, and the Liverpool QOL Battery. These measures have in most cases been shown to be reliable, valid, and sensitive to change, although at the current stage of development, some are better validated than others. It is generally agreed that the best approach is to use a standard generic instrument with disease-specific additions. Selection of a measure already in existence is recommended, as the process of producing a new measure is costly in terms of both resources and time. Some consideration also needs to be given to factors such as the process of administration (e.g., self-completion or administration at interview) or the timing of data collection. Then questions such as the cross-cultural applicability of QOL measures and the real relevance of the changes remain to be answered. It is hoped that, over the next few years, significant progress will be made in addressing these issues.
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) remains a controversial issue in women with epilepsy. The syndrome is characterized by clinical signs of endocrine dysfunction, such as irregular menstruation, hirsutism, and infertility, but its pathogenesis and presentation are heterogeneous. There are few data on the relationship between epilepsy and PCOS. Studies by a Finnish group have raised the issue of an association between valproate (VPA) and PCOS in young women with epilepsy. These studies, however, were retrospective, laid emphasis on polycystic ovary morphology rather than on clinical endocrine dysfunction, and were undertaken in selected populations. Further studies, both in Italy and Germany, failed to replicate the findings of the Finnish group. Future research should ideally be prospective and include baseline data in untreated women. No compelling data lead to a specific contraindication of the use of VPA in young women, and the drug remains a first-line treatment option.
Although some motor manifestations of epilepsy and of paroxysmal dyskinesia may be difficult to differentiate clinically, the current understanding is that the two disorders are clinically distinct. However, there are several recent reports of families in which different individuals had either disorder or both manifestations, with age-related expression. Co-occurrence makes it likely that a common, genetically determined, pathophysiologic abnormality is variably expressed in the cerebral cortex and in basal ganglia. A rather homogeneous syndrome of autosomal dominant infantile convulsions and paroxysmal (dystonic) choreoathetosis (ICCA) was described in six families from France, China and Japan. Linkage analysis in the French and Chinese families allowed the mapping of the disease gene in a 10-cM interval within the pericentromeric region of chromosome 16. An Italian pedigree in which three members in the same generation were affected by rolandic epilepsy, paroxysmal exercise-induced dystonia (PED), and writer's cramp was subsequently reported. Linkage analysis showed a common homozygous haplotype in a critical region spanning 6 cM and entirely included within the ICCA critical region. Clinical analogies and linkage findings suggest that the same gene could be responsible for rolandic epilepsy, PED, writer's cramp (WC), and ICCA, with specific mutations accounting for each of these mendelian disorders. Evidence for a major gene or a cluster of genes for epilepsy and paroxysmal dyskinesia to the pericentromeric region of chromosome 16 is reinforced by the recent linkage of a family with autosomal dominant paroxysmal dyskinesia to a critical region partially overlapping with ICCA and contiguous to the RE-PED-WC regions. Additional autosomal dominant pedigrees are on record, from Australia and Italy, in which epilepsy was variably associated with paroxysmal kinesigenic or exercise-induced dystonia. Ion channel genes are potentially interesting candidates for syndromes featuring both these paroxysmal neurologic disorders. Increased awareness of their possible co-occurrence will certainly increase the number of observations in the next few years.




This review focuses on anoxic seizures induced by self terminating syncopes in the young. Anoxic seizures are nonepileptic events consequent upon abrupt interruption of the energy supply to metabolically active cerebral neurones. Anoxic seizures are the most common paroxysmal events misdiagnosed as epilepsy. Neurally mediated syncopes have numerous appellations, especially in the young. This proliferation of terminology likely results from uncertainty regarding pathophysiology. The most important type of self-limiting syncope from the point of view of diagnostic difficulty has been called neurocardiogenic or vasovagal syncope and reflex anoxic seizure, amongst other names: this review includes a video clip of such a child with prolonged asystole. It also includes a detailed case history emphasising the feelings of a patient with this type of syncope who was misdiagnosed as having epilepsy for many years. The second class of self-terminating syncope discussed and illustrated on video is the so-called breath-holding spell of young children. The third example illustrated is the compulsive Valsalva manoeuvre of individuals with autistic spectrum disorder, in which anoxic seizures - as shown on the video clips - are easily misdiagnosed as epileptic seizures, with unfortunate consequences.
Depression has an overall prevalence of 5-8%. The prevalence of late life depression is estimated among people 65 years of age to be 15%. There is a great under-diagnosis and under-treatment of late life depression with the most serious consequence being premature death. Depression is also an important and independent risk factor for mortality following myocardial infarction, while patients with stroke associated with depression also have a higher death rate. The suicide rate is increased in elderly especially elderly men with depression. The aetiology of depression is more heterogeneous than depression in younger adults. Obviously age-related changes in the brain increase the risk for depression. Patients with neurodegenerative disorders also run a higher risk for being depressed. In Alzheimer's disease the frequency is around 50%. Deficiency of essential nutrients like folic acid and vitamin B12 is an obvious risk factor for both disorders with cognitive impairment and depression. Treatment of depression in the elderly follows the same lines as treatment of depression in younger patients. Many different drugs may be prescribed; however, the risk of adverse events is greater in the elderly. The drugs of choice are the selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors (SSRIs), which have a response rate of around 65%. Of interest is that emotional disturbances like irritability, aggressiveness and anxiety also respond to treatment with SSRIs. A comprehensive treatment of late life depression, which includes social and psychological support, has a response rate of 80-90%.
About 10% of patients with severe acute psychiatric illness exhibit a cluster of motor signs (mutism, negativism, rigidity, posturing, stereotypy, staring, etc.) that are identified as the syndrome of catatonia. Catatonia responds to sedative anticonvulsant treatment (barbiturates, benzodiazepines) and to electroconvulsive therapy. These treatments raise seizure thresholds. The commonality in response indicates that catatonia, malignant catatonia, neuroleptic malignant syndrome, toxic serotonin syndrome, delirious mania, catatonic excitement, benign stupor, and oneirophrenia are best evaluated as diverse manifestations of one syndrome for clinical and neuroscience research purposes.
Diverting the antigen from its normal intracellular location to other compartments in an antibody-mediated way represents a mode of action for intracellular antibodies [Cardinale, A., Lener, M., Messina, S., Cattaneo, A. &amp; Biocca, S. (1998) FEBS Lett., 439, 197-202; Lener, M., Horn, I.R., Cardinale, A., Messina, S., Nielsen, U.B., Rybak, S.M., Hoogenboom, H.R., Cattaneo, A. &amp; Biocca, S. (2000) Eur J Biochem. 267, 1196-205]. In the case of p21Ras, the sequestration of the antigen in aggregated structures in the cytoplasm of transfected cells leads to the inhibition of its biological function. We have further investigated the intracellular fate of the antigen-antibody complex by analyzing the effect of proteasome inhibitors on the formation and the intracellular localization of the aggregates. Overexpression of anti-Ras scFv fragments or inhibition of proteasomes activity leads to the formation of large perinuclear aggresomes formed of ubiquitinated-scFv fragments in which p21Ras is sequestered and degraded in an antibody-mediated way. Disruption of microtubules by nocodazole completely abrogates the accumulation of scFv fragments in a single aggresome and induces the dispersion of these structures in the periphery of the cell. Cotransfection of the GFP-scFv with a myc-tagged ubiquitin and colocalization with specific anti-proteasome antibodies indicate the recruitment of exogenous ubiquitin and proteasomes to the newly formed aggresomes. Taken together these results suggest that the intracellular antigen-antibody complex is naturally addressed to the ubiquitin-proteasome pathway and that the mechanism of ubiquitination does not inhibit the antibody binding properties and the capacity to block the antigen function.
Synaptotagmins represent a family of putative vesicular trafficking proteins. With synaptotagmin 13, we have now identified a novel synaptotagmin, making this one of the largest families of trafficking proteins. Similar to synaptotagmins 3, 4, 6, 7, 9, and 11, synaptotagmin 13 is expressed at highest levels in brain but is also detectable at lower levels in non-neuronal tissues. Synaptotagmin 13 is composed of the canonical domains of synaptotagmins that include an N-terminal transmembrane region and two C-terminal cytoplasmic C2-domains (C2A- and C2B-domain) and a connecting sequence between the transmembrane region and the C2-domains. Different from most other synaptotagmins, however, synaptotagmin 13 does not have an N-terminal sequence preceding the transmembrane region, and features an unusually long connecting sequence that is proline-rich. Furthermore, the C2-domains of synaptotagmin are degenerate and lack almost all of the residues involved in Ca2+ binding, suggesting that synaptotagmin 13 is not a Ca2+-binding protein unlike most other synaptotagmins. Our data demonstrate that synaptotagmins represent a larger and more complex gene family than previously envisioned.
Human autoimmune myasthenia gravis (MG) is associated with the IL-1beta TaqI RFLP allele 2. Individuals positive for this allele have high levels of inducible IL-1beta in their peripheral blood. Here, we have characterized MG induction and the immune response elicited by Torpedo acetylcholine receptor (AChR) immunization in wild-type and IL-1beta deficient (-/-) mice. Compared with wild-type mice, IL-1beta-/- mice were relatively resistant to induction of clinical experimental autoimmune myasthenia gravis (EAMG). Draining lymph node cells from IL-1beta-/- mice showed poor proliferative capacity upon AChR stimulation in vitro. Both Th1 (IFN-gamma, IL-2) and Th2 (IL-4) cytokine responses were reduced and levels of serum anti-AChR antibodies decreased in IL-1beta-/- mice compared to wild-type mice. Taken together, these results reveal a critical role for IL-1beta in the induction of MG in mice, and support a role for IL-1beta in the pathogenesis of MG in man.
The search for new ocular hypotensive agents represents a frontier of current eye research because blindness due to optic neuropathy occurs insidiously in 10% of all patients affected by glaucoma. Cannabinoids have been proposed to lower intraocular pressure by either central or peripheral effects but a specific mechanism for this action has never been elucidated. We recently demonstrated the presence of the central cannabinoid receptor (CB(1)) mRNA and protein in the human ciliary body. In the present study we show that the synthetic CB(1) receptor agonist, WIN 55212--2, applied topically at doses of 25 or 50 microg (n = 8), decreases the intraocular pressure of human glaucoma resistant to conventional therapies within the first 30 min (15 +/- 0.5% and 23 +/- 0.9%, respectively). A maximal reduction of 20 +/- 0.7% and 31 +/- 0.6%, respectively, is reached in the first 60 min. These data confirm that CB(1) receptors have direct involvement in the regulation of human intraocular pressure, and suggest that, among various classes of promising antiglaucoma agents, synthetic CB(1) receptor agonists should deserve further research and clinical development.
The neuronal cyclin-dependent kinase p35/cdk5 comprises a catalytic subunit (cdk5) and an activator subunit (p35). To identify novel p35/cdk5 substrates, we utilized the yeast two-hybrid system to screen for human p35 binding partners. From one such screen, we identified beta-catenin as an interacting protein. Confirmation that p35 binds to beta-catenin was obtained by using glutathione S-transferase (GST)-beta-catenin fusion proteins that interacted with both endogenous and transfected p35, and by showing that beta-catenin was present in p35 immunoprecipitates. p35 and beta-catenin also displayed overlapping subcellular distribution patterns in cells including neurons. Finally, we demonstrated that p35/cdk5 phosphorylates beta-catenin. beta-catenin also binds to presenilin-1 and altered beta-catenin/presenilin-1 interactions may be mechanistic in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Abnormal p35/cdk5 activity has also been suggested to contribute to AD. We therefore investigated how modulation of p35/cdk5 activity influenced beta-catenin/presenilin-1 interactions. Inhibition of p35/cdk5 with roscovitine did not alter the steady state levels of either beta-catenin or presenilin-1 but reduced the amount of presenilin-1 bound to beta-catenin. Thus, p35/cdk5 binds and phosphorylates beta-catenin and regulates its binding to presenilin-1. The findings reported here therefore provide a novel molecular framework to connect p35/cdk5 with beta-catenin and presenilin-1 in AD.
This study was designed to determine whether induction and phosphorylation of the transcription factor c-Jun is associated with lesion-induced death of dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta, and if this cellular response is modulated by glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor. In adult rats, delayed dopaminergic neuron cell death induced by intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine injection led to a marked increase in the number of both c-Jun- and phosphorylated c-Jun-immunoreactive nuclei in the substantia nigra pars compacta. The response was maximal before any significant loss of nigral neurons could be detected (on day 7 post lesion) and was confined to the dopaminergic neurons. Similarly, 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the striatal dopaminergic terminals or excitotoxic lesion of the striatal target neurons in neonatal rats resulted in an increased number of c-Jun- and phosphorylated c-Jun-immunoreactive nigral nuclei that preceded the loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons. By contrast, after an excitotoxic lesion of the striatal target neurons in the adult rat, resulting in atrophy but not cell death of the nigral dopaminergic neurons, no upregulation of either c-Jun or phosphorylated c-Jun was found. A single injection of 10 microg of glial-cell-line-derived-neurotrophic factor given at day 3 after the intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesion reduced the number of c-Jun- and phosphorylated c-Jun-immunoreactive nuclei in the substantia nigra and protected the dopaminergic neurons from the ensuing cell death. We conclude that c-Jun induction and phosphorylation may be involved in the cellular events leading to death of nigral dopaminergic neurons in vivo and that this response can be modulated by glial-cell-line-derived-neurotrophic factor.
1-Azabicyclo[2.2.2]oct-3-yl alpha-hydroxy-alpha-(1-iodo-1-propen-3-yl)-alpha-phenylacetate (IQNP) is a muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) antagonist and the racemic ligand contains eight stereoisomers. In a single-photon emission tomography (SPET) study in monkeys we recently confirmed that [123I]E-(R,R)-IQNP ([123I]E-IQNP) is a radioligand with modest selectivity for the M1 and M4 subtypes, whereas [123I]Z-(R,R)-IQNP ([123I]Z-IQNP) is non-subtype selective. In the present SPET study, E- and Z-IQNP were examined in human subjects. SPET examination was performed on three male subjects after i.v. injection of [123I]E-IQNP and in another three after i.v. injection of [123I]Z-IQNP. The binding potential (BP) for [123I]E-IQNP was calculated using several quantitative approaches with the cerebellum as a reference region. High-performance liquid chromatography was used to measure radioligand metabolism in plasma. Following [123I]E-IQNP, the radioactivity was high in the neocortex and striatum, intermediate in the thalamus and low in the pons and cerebellum, which is consistent with the rank order for the regional density of M1 and M4 subtypes in vitro. For all regions, peak equilibrium was identified within the 48-h data acquisition. The simplified reference tissue approach using SPET data from 0 to 48 h was the most reliable in this limited series of subjects. Following injection of [123I]Z-IQNP, radioactivity was high in the neocortex and striatum, intermediate in the thalamus and pons and low in the cerebellum, which is in agreement with the density of M1, M2 and M4 subtypes as measured in vitro. Quantitative analyses provided indirect support for specific M2 binding of Z-IQNP in the cerebellum. The high selectivity of [123I]E-IQNP for M1 and M4 receptors allowed the use of cerebellum as a reference region devoid of specific binding, and may be advantageous for applied clinical studies of M1 and M4 receptors binding in man. [123I]Z-IQNP has potential for exploration of M2 receptor binding in the cerebellum.

The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the role of adrenergic receptors in the cascade leading to hypoxic-ischaemic brain injury in neonatal rats. The effect of adrenergic agents (prazosin, yohimbine, idazoxan and clonidine) administered before or after hypoxia-ischaemia was evaluated with respect to mortality and brain injury. Rat pups of either 7 or 8 days of age were subjected to unilateral carotid artery ligation combined with hypoxia (6% or 8% O2 in N2). The mortality was higher in hypoxic-ischaemic groups pre-treated with the alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonists prazosin (48%) or yohimbine (53%) than in saline controls (7%). After 2 weeks the severity of the brain injury was evaluated in the surviving rats. Unilateral brain injury, evaluated by brain weight deficit of the injured ipsilateral hemisphere compared with the contralateral hemisphere, was 17.8 +/- 4.9% and 27.1 +/- 4.0% in pre- and post-treated saline groups, respectively. Post-treatment with clonidine, an alpha2-adrenergic agonist, reduced brain injury by 45% (p &lt; 0.05) compared with saline controls. Pre-treatment with the same drug was not effective. Idazoxan had no effect on brain injury in this animal model. The results indicate that activation of central alpha2-adrenergic or imidazole receptors provides neuroprotection during reperfusion after hypoxic-ischaemic brain injury in neonatal rats.
Joint mobilization is a treatment approach commonly used by physical therapists for the management of a variety of painful conditions. However, the clinical effectiveness when compared to placebo and the neurophysiological mechanism of action are not known. The purpose of this study was to establish that application of a manual therapy technique will produce antihyperalgesia in an animal model of joint inflammation and that the antihyperalgesia produced by joint mobilization depends on the time of treatment application. Capsaicin (0.2%, 50 microl) was injected into the lateral aspect of the left ankle joint and mechanical withdrawal threshold assessed before and after capsaicin injection in Sprague-Dawley rats. Joint mobilization of the ipsilateral knee joint was performed 2 h after capsaicin injection for a total of 3 min, 9 min or 15 min under halothane anaesthesia. Control groups included animals that received halothane for the same time as the group that received joint mobilization and those whose limbs were held for the same duration as the mobilization (no halothane). Capsaicin resulted in a decreased mechanical withdrawal threshold by 2 h after injection that was maintained through 4 h. Both 9 and 15 min of mobilization, but not 3 min of mobilization, increased the withdrawal threshold to mechanical stimuli to baseline values when compared with control groups. The antihyperalgesic effect of joint mobilization lasted 30 min. Thus, joint mobilization (9 or 15 min duration) produces a significant reversal of secondary mechanical hyperalgesia induced by intra-articular injection of capsaicin.


Functional magnetic resonance imaging studies on spoken versus written language processing were performed in 20 right-handed normal volunteers on a high-field (3.0-tesla) system. The areas activated in common by both auditory (listening) and visual (reading) language comprehension paradigms were mapped onto the planum temporale (20/20), primary auditory region (2/20), superior temporal sulcus area (2/20) and planum parietale (3/20). The study indicates that the planum temporale represents a common traffic area for cortical processing which needs to access the system of language comprehension. The destruction of this area can result in comprehension deficits in both spoken and written language, i.e. a classical case of Wernicke's aphasia.

Forty patients affected by severe Parkinson's disease (PD) were treated with tolcapone as an adjunctive therapy to L-DOPA, for 3-7 months, until this drug was discontinued because of side-effects (2 diarrhoea, one of them with orthostatic hypotension, 2 increments of liver enzymes) or because of mandatory indications of the European drugs authority. All patients, after 3-6 months of L-DOPA therapy adjustments, received entacapone for 3 months again followed by withdrawal. L-DOPA daily dosage was significantly reduced by tolcapone and entacapone (p = 0.01 and 0.05). &quot;On&quot; time was increased by 15% during tolcapone treatment (p &lt; 0.05), and by 8% during entacapone treatment. &quot;Off&quot; time was decreased by 16% during tolcapone and by 7% during entacapone treatment. Entacapone was withdrawn in the same patient who experienced diarrhoea and orthostatic hypotension during tolcapone because of recurrence of side-effects, in 6 patients because of increment of dyskinesias (with hallucinations) and in 1 patients because of rhythmic, jerking myoclonus.

Young (20-30-year-old) and older (60-76-year-old) adults were tested on two measures of rhythmic performance. The first involved tapping at the subject's own preferred rate, a measure of so-called internal tempo. Over five sessions of testing, tapping rates were consistently and significantly slower on average in the older subjects than the younger ones, but rates were not relatively more variable in older subjects (i.e., coefficients of variation, standard deviation/mean, did not differ between the older and young people). In addition, both old and younger subjects performed on a synchronized-tapping and continuation task of the type used by Wing and Kristofferson (1973, Perception and Psychophysics, 14, 3-12). Target interresponse times were 300, 400, 500, 600, and 700 ms, and in all cases interresponse intervals produced by both the old and young adults matched the target times very closely. Wing and Kristofferson's analytical procedure was used to decompose tapping variance into that attributable to timing processes and that resulting from motor implementation of the timing signal. Both sorts of variance increased with increasing target interresponse time (with timer variance increasing most markedly), but no difference was found in either type of variance in comparisons between the old and younger subjects. If the internal tempo measure directly reflects the speed of internal timing processes, the data suggest that such processes are slower, but not relatively more variable, in older than younger subjects (consistent with some previous evidence and speculation), but that the calibration of performance forced by the synchronization task will make such an age-related difference in &quot;internal clock speed&quot; unobservable on synchronized-tapping tasks.
Age differences in sustained attention were investigated using a high-event rate digit-discrimination task at 6 levels of stimulus degradation (lasting 8.1 min each). Twenty-one young, 21 middle-aged, and 20 old healthy subjects were studied. Overall sensitivity (d') was equivalent in all groups. Although all subjects showed a sensitivity decrement over blocks, there were no age-related differences in sustained attention capacity. All subjects had larger decrements in d' over blocks at higher degradation levels. However, the performance decrement at higher degradation levels was equivalent in all groups, indicating similar decrement rates in sensitivity with increasing demands on effortful processing. These results indicate that overall levels of vigilance and the ability to sustain attention over time are equivalent in all groups under conditions requiring both automatic (low-degradation) and effortful (high-degradation) stimulus processing.
The pre-motor theory suggests that, when attention is oriented to a location, the motor systems that are involved in achieving current behavioural goals are activated. For example, when a task requires accurate reaching, attention to a location activates the motor circuits controlling saccades and manual reaches. These actions involve separate neural systems for the control of eye and hand, but we believe that the selection processes acting on neural population codes within these systems are similar and can affect each other. The attentional effect can be revealed in the subsequent movement. The present study shows that the path the eye takes as it saccades to a target is affected by whether a reach to the target is also produced. This effect is interpreted as the influence of a hand-centred frame used in reaching on the spatial frame of reference required for the saccade.
Previous studies have shown that different pyramidal cell inputs vary in the short-term plasticity expressed when they are subjected to repetition of use. Here, we describe short-term plasticity at synapses that mediate long-range input to neocortical layer 1 and compare it with that which normally occurs in the hippocampal Schaffer collateral pathway, which also involves projection by remote inputs onto apical dendrites. We isolated tangential inputs to layer 1 in neocortical slices, stimulated these with brief 40-Hz trains, and examined postsynaptic responses by recording extracellularly from layer 1 in somatosensory, prefrontal, and visual neocortex, and intracellularly from visually identified pyramidal cell somata in layer 2/3 in somatosensory and prefrontal neocortex. Train response amplitudes were characterized by calculating paired-pulse ratios, fifth-versus-first amplitude ratios (5th/1st ratios), and a center-of-mass index &quot;M&quot;. As expected, the hippocampal train responses facilitated strongly. In contrast, layer-1 responses displayed strong synaptic depression in all regions examined. This depression was reflected in 5th/lst ratios and M scores, but not paired-pulse ratios because it did not consistently begin until the third responses in trains. It persisted unchanged in the presence of partially blocking levels of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX), but was converted to strong facilitation when slices were bathed in low-Ca++ media. Intracellularly, we observed response-train depression very similar to that recorded extracellularly. These findings show that long-range inputs to neocortical layer 1 display short-term plasticity markedly different from that which normally occurs at hippocampal Schaffer collateral synapses, but similar to that which has been described previously for excitatory inputs to pyramidal cells in deeper neocortical layers.
The 2/3 power law, the nonlinear relationship between tangential velocity and radius of curvature of the end-effector trajectory, is thought to be a fundamental constraint of the central nervous system in the formation of rhythmic endpoint trajectories. However, studies on the 2/3 power law have been confined largely to planar drawing patterns of relatively small size. With the hypothesis that this strategy overlooks nonlinear effects that are constitutive in movement generation, the present experiments tested the validity of the power law in elliptical patterns that were not confined to a planar surface and which were performed by the unconstrained 7-degrees of freedom (DOF) arm, with significant variations in pattern size and workspace orientation. Data were recorded from five human subjects where the seven joint angles and the endpoint trajectories were analyzed. Additionally, an anthropomorphic 7-DOF robot arm served as a &quot;control subject&quot; whose endpoint trajectories were generated on the basis of the human joint angle data, modeled as simple harmonic oscillations. Analyses of the endpoint trajectories demonstrate that the power law is systematically violated with increasing pattern size, in both exponent and the goodness of fit. The origins of these violations can be explained analytically based on smooth, rhythmic trajectory formation and the kinematic structure of the human arm. We conclude that, in unconstrained rhythmic movements, the power law seems to be a by-product of a movement system that favors smooth trajectories, and that it is unlikely to serve as a primary movement-generating principle. Our data rather suggest that subjects employed smooth oscillatory pattern generators in joint space to realize the required movement patterns.
In neocortex glutamate activates ionotropic and metabotropic receptors (mGluRs). Whole-cell current-clamp recordings in the in vitro rat auditory cortex at 32 degrees C were used to explore the role that mGluRs have in regulation of AMPA/kainate, NMDA, and GABA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission. Our findings are: (a) The fast EPSP (AMPA/kainate), slow EPSP (NMDA), and IPSPs (GABAA, GABAB), elicited in pyramidal neurons are reduced in the presence of (1S,3R)-ACPD (mGluR agonist) with greatest effect on the slow IPSP&gt;fast IPSP&gt;fast EPSP. The effect is likely the result of ACPD acting at presynaptic mGluRs because the probability of release of glutamate and GABA is reduced in the presence of ACPD, intracellular infusion of a G protein antagonist (GDPPS) did not block the effect of ACPD, nor were iontophoretic kainic acid or NMDA-induced depolarizations reduced by ACPD. (b) The slow EPSP is enhanced following washout of ACPD and enhancement is not due to disinhibition because it is present in the absence of IPSPs, but if IPSPs are present, its magnitude can be influenced. Iontophoretic NMDA responses are enhanced in the presence of ACPD, an effect blocked by GDPbetaS and heparin (intracellular inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor antagonist). Taken together, this evidence suggests that enhancement is a result of group I postsynaptic mGluR activation. (c) In fast-spiking cells ACPD reduces the EPSP (AMPA/kainate and NMDA-mediated). This action is likely presynaptic because it persists when GDPbetaS is in the cells. (d) The rate of spike discharge recorded from fast-spiking cells is accelerated in ACPD but does not change in the presence of GDPbetaS, suggesting a postsynaptic effect. Our data indicate that mGluRs can influence neocortical synaptic transmission in complex ways by acting presynaptically and postsynaptically.
Body, head, and eye movements were measured in five subjects during straight walking and while turning corners. The purpose was to determine how well the head and eyes followed the linear trajectory of the body in space and whether head orientation followed changes in the gravito-inertial acceleration vector (GIA). Head and body movements were measured with a video-based motion analysis system and horizontal, vertical, and torsional eye movements with video-oculography. During straight walking, there was lateral body motion at the stride frequency, which was at half the frequency of stepping. The GIA oscillated about the direction of heading, according to the acceleration and deceleration associated with heel strike and toe flexion, and the body yawed in concert with stepping. Despite the linear and rotatory motions of the head and body, the head pointed along the forward motion of the body during straight walking. The head pitch/roll component appeared to compensate for vertical and horizontal acceleration of the head rather than orienting to the tilt of the GIA or anticipating it. When turning corners, subjects walked on a 50-cm radius over two steps or on a 200-cm radius in five to seven steps. Maximum centripetal accelerations in sharp turns were ca.0.4 g, which tilted the GIA ca.21 degrees with regard to the heading. This was anticipated by a roll tilt of the head of up to 8 degrees. The eyes rolled 1-1.5 degrees and moved down into the direction of linear acceleration during the tilts of the GIA. Yaw head deviations moved smoothly through the turn, anticipating the shift in lateral body trajectory by as much as 25 degrees. The trunk did not anticipate the change in trajectory. Thus, in contrast to straight walking, the tilt axes of the head and the GIA tended to align during turns. Gaze was stable in space during the slow phases and jumped forward in saccades along the trajectory, leading it by larger angles when the angular velocity of turning was greater. The anticipatory roll head movements during turning are likely to be utilized to overcome inertial forces that would destabilize balance during turning. The data show that compensatory eye, head, and body movements stabilize gaze during straight walking, while orienting mechanisms direct the eyes, head, and body to tilts of the GIA in space during turning.
Excitotoxic lesions of the striatum are mediated by the combined activity of N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors and metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs). Intrastriatal injection of the NMDA receptor agonists NMDA or quinolinic acid creates large lesions, but in rats that have been decorticated to remove endogenous glutamatergic input, NMDA and quinolinic acid are no longer toxic. We report that NMDA toxicity can be restored in decorticated animals by coinjection of the group I mGluR agonists t-ACPD, t-ADA, or CHPG. In addition, injections of two group I mGluR antagonists, AIDA and (S)-4C3HPG, can protect against striatal lesions produced by quinolinic acid or NMDA injections in normal rats by blocking activation of group I mGluRs. The group II mGluR agonist APDC fails to protect against quinolinic acid or NMDA toxicity in intact animals or to restore NMDA toxicity in decorticated animals, suggesting that the role of group II receptors in this excitotoxic model is minimal. These observations confirm the important role of group I mGluRs in excitotoxicity and identify these receptors as promising targets for therapeutic intervention in neurodegenerative disease processes.
Neurofibrillary tangles, which contain abnormally hyperphosphorylated forms of tau protein, are one of the neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). This altered phosphorylation state of tau protein may be due to increased kinase activity or/and decreased phosphatase activity. In the present study, we characterized human calcineurin phosphatase activity in postmortem superior frontal cortex and sensorimotor cortex and measured calcineurin phosphatase activity in samples from individuals with moderate to severe AD (n = 7) and age-matched controls (n = 5). Basal phosphatase activity was reduced by 25% (P &lt; 0.05) in AD frontal cortex. Nickel-stimulated calcineurin activity was decreased by 52% (P &lt; 0.05) and 30% (P &lt; 0.05) in P2 and total cell homogenate, respectively, compared to age-matched controls. No differences in phosphatase activities were detected in the sensorimotor cortex. The decrease in nickel-stimulated calcineurin phosphatase activity in frontal lobe correlated with the neurofibrillary tangle pathology (total cell homogenate, r = -0.77, P &lt; 0.05; P2 fraction, r = -0.76, P &lt; 0.02), but not with diffuse or neuritic plaques. Despite the changes in calcineurin phosphatase activity in the superior frontal cortex, calcineurin protein levels determined by immunoblot were similar in control and AD cases. In addition, no changes in calcineurin regulatory proteins (cyclophilin A and FKBP12) levels were observed. These studies suggest that decrease of calcineurin activity may play a role in paired-helical filament formation and/or stabilization, and the decrease of activity was not accompanied by a decrease of calcineurin protein expression.
Migraine is effectively treated by drugs acting via 5-HT(1B/1D) receptors; however, the antinociceptive effects of such agents have not been fully investigated, particularly in models in which sensitization may be present. The aim of these studies was to evaluate the effects of the 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor agonist sumatriptan in specific models of pain states: a mouse model of inflammation-induced thermal hyperalgesia and a rat model of nerve injury-induced thermal hyperalgesia. In female mice, following intraplantar injection of carrageenan 225 min earlier, sumatriptan (300 microg/kg intraperitoneally; i.p.) increased paw withdrawal latency (PWL) from 3.1 +/- 0.4 s in the saline group to 5.6 +/- 0.9 s, measured 240 min postcarrageenan (P &lt; 0.05 ANOVA followed by post hoc Dunnett's test). A similar effect was seen in male mice. Sumatriptan was also effective in male mice when given i.p. and subcutaneously 15 min precarrageenan, with a maximum effect at 30 microg/kg (i.p. latency 7.4 +/- 1.3 s compared to saline group, 2.6 +/- 0.7 s; i.v. latency 5.9 +/- 0.8 s compared to saline group, 2.9 +/- 0.3 s; P &lt; 0.05 ANOVA followed by post hoc Dunnett's test). The number of mice required to give a response that could be reliably attributed to sumatriptan (number needed to treat) was calculated using discriminant analysis and found to be 2.6. The ability of sumatriptan to attenuate the carrageenan-induced reduction in PWL was blocked by the mixed 5-HT(1B/1D) receptor antagonist GR-127935 (3 mg/kg i.p.) but not by the 5-HT(1B) receptor antagonist SB-224289 (10 mg/kg i.p.). Sumatriptan had no effect on thermal hyperalgesia induced by sciatic nerve ligation in the rat at any time point. These data demonstrate that sumatriptan attenuates the hypersensitivity to noxious thermal stimuli induced by intraplantar carrageenan.
Neurological testing tools for measuring and monitoring somatosensory function lack resolution and are often dependent on the clinician testing. In this study we have measured perceptual threshold (PT) to electrical stimulation of the skin and compared it with two-point discriminative ability (TPDA) in 12 control subjects. Tests were made on both sides of the body at American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) key points on seven spinal dermatomes (C3 (neck), C4 (shoulder), C5 (upper arm), C6 (thumb), T8 (abdomen), L3 (knee), L5 (foot)) and in the mandibular (chin) and maxillary (cheek) fields of the trigeminal (V) nerve. Electrical stimulation (0.5 ms pulse width; 3 Hz) was applied via a self-adhesive cathode and an anode strapped to the wrist or ankle. The stimulus intensity was adjusted and PT was recorded as the lowest current at which the subject reported sensation. Sites were tested in random order. Indices for both TPDA and PT differed according to the dermatome tested but there was no correlation between TPDA and PT for any dermatome. There was good correlation between results from equivalent dermatomes on left and right sides for both PT and TPDA. Women frequently had lower mean (+/- S.E.) PTs and better TPDA than men; differences were significant (P &lt; 0.05) for PT on the knee (women, 1.31 +/- 0.15 mA; men, 2.05 +/- 0.26 mA) and the foot (women, 2.90 +/- 0.19 mA; men, 4.13 +/- 0.28 mA) and for TPDA on the thumb (women, 3.8 +/- 0.2 mm; men, 7.8 +/- 1.3 mm) and the knee (women, 17.8 +/- 1.6 mm; men, 27.1 +/- 4.0 mm). Four subjects repeated the experiment on another day and the results correlated well with the first test for PT (r2, 0.62) and TPDA (r2, 0.48). PT differs between dermatomes in a predictable way but does not relate to TPDA. PT is easy to measure and may be a useful assessment tool with which to monitor recovery or deterioration in neuropathies, neurotrauma or after surgery.
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the human motor cortex was used to study facilitation of motor-evoked potentials (MEPs) in the rectus abdominis (RA) muscle, a trunk flexor, during voluntary activation. MEPs could be produced in the relaxed RA muscles of all six normal subjects studied. The MEPs had short latencies (18-22 ms) which are consistent with other studies suggesting a fast corticospinal input to the trunk muscles. Marked facilitation was observed in the MEPs when subjects were asked to produce graded levels of voluntary contractions. The two tasks used to produce voluntary contractions were a forced expiration during a breath-holding task (FEBH) and bilateral trunk flexion (BTF). Maximal voluntary EMG activity during the BTF task produced around 4.2 times more integrated EMG than during the FEBH task. Similarly the MEP amplitude at MVC was 2.3 times greater during BTF than FEBH. The pattern of MEP facilitation with increasing voluntary EMG was not linear and a maximal MEP amplitude was observed at a level of voluntary contraction around 30 % MVC in both tasks. There were some subtle differences in the pattern of facilitation in the two tasks. When TMS was applied to the right cortex only, MEPs were seen in both left and right RA muscles suggesting some ipsilateral corticospinal innervation. The latency of the right (ipsilateral) response was approximately 2 ms longer than the left. Comparison with studies in hand and leg muscles suggests that the facilitation pattern in RA may reflect a substantial degree of corticospinal innervation. Experimental Physiology (2001) 86.1, 131-136.

For over a century the cerebral representation of language functions is a matter of debate. In Neuroscience language is regarded as one of the most lateralized cognitive functions. Thus, while the language which is acquired first in most cases is processed by the left hemisphere some studies in brain damaged but also experimental investigations propose a pivotal role of the right hemisphere in second language processing. By the advent of modern neuroimaging it is now possible to study language lateralization and bilinguality also in healthy subjects. We studied first and second language abilities in a group of bilingual, healthy individuals by means of functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) with a word-fluency paradigm. While we found a predominantly left prefrontal activity during both first and also second language processing an additional right prefrontal activation was registered during the use of second language. Our findings are discussed on the basis of an interaction between language and memory processes.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD), the leading cause of blindness in the developed world, is accompanied by degeneration of the retinal pigment epithelial (RPE) cells. There is an inverse correlation between the melanin content of the eye and the incidence of AMD. Lipofuscin (LF)-accumulation in RPE cells accompanies the process of aging, and may also be related to AMD. This study was designed to evaluate the effect of melanin/melanosomes on the rate of LF formation in cultured rabbit and bovine RPE cells subjected to oxidative stress (40% normobaric O(2)) and daily supplementation with photoreceptor outer segments for 4 weeks. The LF content was measured at 0, 2, and 4 weeks in RPE cells from pigmented and albino rabbits, as well as in pigment-rich and pigment-poor bovine cells. Albino rabbit and pigment-poor bovine cells accumulated significantly higher amounts of LF than pigmented rabbit cells and pigment-rich bovine RPE cells after both 2 and 4 weeks of exposure. Autometallography of melanin-containing cells, without previous exposure to ammonium sulfide, showed a positive outcome, indicating either the occurrence of pre-existing iron-sulphur clusters or an extremely high intrinsic reducing capacity. These results suggest that melanin acts as an efficient antioxidant, perhaps by interacting with transition metals.
A method for eliminating blink artifacts that contaminate electroencephalographic (EEG) records is introduced. The proposed method enables a direct estimation of blink artifacts without the use of the simultaneously recorded electroculargraphic (EOG) signal. The estimation of blink artifacts in the EEG was achieved by modeling in the discrete cosine transform (DCT) domain. The DCT coefficients of the blink artifact were sufficiently represented by a system transfer function with a low model order of 4. Two cases were investigated: one was blink artifact elimination for the background EEG and the other was for the somatosensory evoked potentials. The effectiveness of the proposed method was demonstrated in an experimental study based on actual EEG data of 11 healthy subjects. The simplicity and effectiveness of the proposed method suggest that blink artifact elimination using DCT domain modeling can possibly be applied in various areas of neuroscience for improving EEG quality.







Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an immune-mediated inflammatory disease of the central nervous system (CNS) that might benefit from anti-inflammatory therapies. However, systemic delivery of anti-inflammatory drugs in MS patients has so far been disappointing, mostly due to the limited capacity of these molecules to enter the CNS. We injected into the cisterna magna (i.c.) of Biozzi AB/H mice affected by a relapsing-remitting form of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), the animal model of MS, a non-replicative herpes simplex virus (HSV) type-1-derived vector containing the interleukin (IL)-4 gene (d120:LacZ:IL-4). CNS delivery of the d120:LacZ:IL-4 vector, after EAE onset, induced the in situ production of IL-4 by CNS-resident cells facing the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) spaces and reduced by 47% (P &lt; 0.02) the disease-related deaths. Compared with mice treated with the control d120:lacZ vector, IL-4-treated mice also showed a shorter duration of the first EAE attack, a longer inter-relapse period, and a reduction in the severity and duration of the first relapse. Protection from EAE progression in IL-4-treated mice was associated with activation of microglia in spinal cord areas where mRNA content of the pro-inflammatory chemokines, macrophage chemoattractant protein-1 (MCP-1) and Rantes, was reduced and that of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-4 was increased. Finally, CNS-infiltrating mononuclear cells from IL-4-treated mice produced lower levels of MCP-1 mRNA compared with control mice. Our results, showing that IL-4 gene delivery using HSV-1 vectors induces protection from EAE by in situ modulating the cytokine/chemokine-mediated circuits sustaining effector cell functions, indicate that the intrathecal 'therapeutic' use of nonreplicative HSV-1-derived vectors containing anti-inflammatory molecules might represent an alternative strategy in inflammatory diseases of the CNS.
Ethnicity may form the basis for locus heterogeneity at certain susceptibility loci for complex diseases. Classification of pedigrees into ethnic groups is usually based upon self-report, but this may not be sensitive or specific. We investigated whether it is possible to cluster families from an admixed population using pedigree-specific marker allele frequencies. We used 323 autosomal microsatellite markers from 216 pedigrees who described themselves as either Caucasian or African American. First, we compared the stated ethnicity of pedigrees with clusters using pedigree-specific marker allele frequencies as input for a self-organizing map, a type of neural network. Using data from different chromosomes, nine pedigrees which were self-reported as African American were clustered with the Caucasian pedigrees. Removal of these nine pedigrees from the African American group did not markedly affect linkage results. We then proceeded to determine whether there was further heterogeneity between pedigrees using 1 x 3 nodes. Forty-four pedigrees were clustered in a group intermediate to the African American or Caucasian clusters. This group was composed of 36 and 8 pedigrees that described themselves as African American and Caucasian, respectively. Linkage analysis was performed in this group and results compared with the groups based upon self-reported ethnicity. Linkage to a region on chromosome 3 was observed in this intermediate group, which was more significant than any of the results obtained when pedigrees were grouped using self-reported ethnicity. Use of marker data may assist in clustering pedigrees with similar, ethnic backgrounds and may increase the power for genetic linkage studies.
We apply different family-based association test (FBAT) statistics for age of onset traits to the Genetics Analysis Workshop 12, problem 2 data. To evaluate different FBAT statistics we used the software package FBAT, which allows one to evaluate any test statistic that can be expressed as the sum of products between an arbitrary function of an offspring's genotype with an arbitrary function of the offspring's phenotype even if there are missing parental information. For single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) in gene 1, our age-of-onset FBAT test based on the exponential model is significantly more powerful than the test by Mokliatchouk et al. [Hum Hered 51:46-53, 2000], which is based on the Cox model. We suggest incorporating covariates into FBAT statistics by replacing the trait values by their regression residuals. For the age of onset trait statistics we find that deviance residuals have much more power than &quot;plain&quot; martingale residuals. We discuss why for SNPs in gene 1, the usual affectation status trait, which underlies the transmission disequilibrium test (TDT), has higher power than the age-of-onset trait. We find only weak evidence (p = 0.0002) that marker D06G032 is associated with the affectation status.
The Lyra mutation was first described by Jerry Coyne in 1935. Lyra causes recessive pupal lethality and adult heterozygous Lyra mutants exhibit a dominant loss of the anterior and posterior wing margins. Unlike many mutations that cause loss of wing tissue (e.g., scalloped, Beadex, cut, and apterous-Xasta), Lyra wing discs do not exhibit increased necrotic or apoptotic cell death, nor do they show altered BrdU incorporation. However, during wing disc eversion, loss of the anterior and posterior wing margins is apparent. We have previously shown that senseless, a gene that is necessary and sufficient for peripheral nervous system (PNS) development, is allelic to Lyra. Here we show by several genetic criteria that Lyra alleles are neomorphic alleles of senseless that cause ectopic expression of SENSELESS in the wing pouch. Similarly, overexpression of SENSELESS in the wing disc causes loss of wing margin tissue, thereby mimicking the Lyra phenotype. Lyra mutants display aberrant expression of DELTA, VESTIGIAL, WINGLESS, and CUT. As in Lyra mutants, overexpression of SENSELESS in some areas of the wing pouch also leads to loss of WINGLESS and CUT. In summary, our data indicate that overexpression of SENSELESS causes a severe reduction in NOTCH signaling that in turn may lead to decreased transcription of several key genes required for wing development, leading to a failure in cell proliferation and loss of wing margin tissue.

We have generated transgenic mice in which astrocytes are labeled by the enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP) under the control of the human glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) promoter. In all regions of the CNS, such as cortex, cerebellum, striatum, corpus callosum, hippocampus, retina, and spinal cord, EGFP-positive cells with morphological properties of astrocytes could be readily visualized by direct fluorescence microscopy in living brain slices or whole mounts. Also in the PNS, nonmyelinating Schwann cells from the sciatic nerve could be identified by their bright green fluorescence. Highest EGFP expression was found in the cerebellum. Already in acutely prepared whole brain, the cerebellum appeared green-yellowish under normal daylight. Colabeling with GFAP antibodies revealed an overlap with EGFP in the majority of cells. Some brain areas, however, such as retina or hypothalamus, showed only low levels of EGFP expression, although the astrocytes were rich in GFAP. In contrast, some areas that were poor in immunoreactive GFAP were conspicuous for their EGFP expression. Applying the patch clamp technique in brain slices, EGFP-positive cells exhibited two types of membrane properties, a passive membrane conductance as described for astrocytes and voltage-gated channels as described for glial precursor cells. Electron microscopical investigation of ultrastructural properties revealed EGFP-positive cells enwrapping synapses by their fine membrane processes. EGFP-positive cells were negative for oligodendrocyte (MAG) and neuronal markers (NeuN). As response to injury, i.e., by cortical stab wounds, enhanced levels of EGFP expression delineated the lesion site and could thus be used as a live marker for pathology.


An important feature of auditory scene analysis is the perceptual organization of sequential sound components, or 'auditory stream segregation'. Auditory stream segregation can be demonstrated by presenting a sequence of high and low frequency tones in an alternating pattern, ABAB. When the tone presentation rate (PR) is slow or the frequency separation (DeltaF) between the tones is small (&lt;10%), a connected alternating sequence ABAB is perceived. When the PR is fast or the DeltaF is large, however, the alternating sequence perceptually splits into two parallel auditory streams, one composed of interrupted 'A' tones, and the other of interrupted 'B' tones. The neurophysiological basis of this perceptual phenomenon is unknown. Neural correlates of auditory stream segregation were examined in A1 of the awake monkey using neuronal ensemble techniques (multiunit activity and current source density). Responses evoked by alternating frequency sequences of tones, ABAB, were studied as a function of PR (5, 10, 20 and 40 Hz). 'A' tones corresponded to the best frequency (BF) of the cortical site, while 'B' tones were situated away from the BF by an amount DeltaF. At slow PRs, 'A' and 'B' tones evoked responses that generated an overall pattern of activity at the stimulus PR. In contrast, at fast PRs, 'B' tone responses were differentially suppressed, resulting in a pattern of activity consisting predominantly of 'A' tone responses at half the PR. The magnitude of 'B' tone response suppression increased with DeltaF. Differential suppression of BF and non-BF tone responses at high PRs can be explained by physiological principles of forward masking. The effect of DeltaF is explained by the hypothesis that responses to tones distant from the BF are more susceptible to suppression by BF tones than responses to tones near the BF. These results parallel human psychoacoustics of auditory stream segregation and suggest a cortical basis for the perceptual phenomenon.
Although the tectorial membrane has a key role in the function of the organ of Corti, its structural relationship within the cochlear partition is still not fully characterised. Being an acellular structure, the tectorial membrane is not readily stained with dyes and is thus difficult to visualise. We present here detailed observations of the unfixed tectorial membrane in an in vitro preparation of the guinea pig cochlea using confocal microscopy. By perfusing the fluid compartments within the cochlear partition with fluorochrome-conjugated dextran solutions, the tectorial membrane stood out against the bright background. The tectorial membrane was seen as a relatively loose structure as indicated by the dextran molecules being able to diffuse within its entire volume. There were, however, regions showing much less staining, demonstrating a heterogeneous organisation of the membrane. Especially Hensen's stripe and regions facing the outer hair cell bundles appeared more condensed. Whereas no connections between Hensen's stripe and the inner hair cell bundles could be observed, there was clearly a contact zone between the stripe and the reticular lamina inside of the inner hair cell.
The medial septum/vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca (MSDB) provides a major input to the hippocampus and is important for spatial memory. Both cholinergic and GABAergic MSDB neurons project to the hippocampus, and nonselective lesions of the MSDB or transections of the septohippocampal pathway impair spatial memory. However, selective lesions of cholinergic MSDB neurons using 192-IgG saporin (SAP) do not impair or only mildly impair spatial memory. Previously, intraseptal kainic acid was found to reduce levels of glutamic acid decarboxylase, a marker of GABAergic neurons, but not to alter the levels of choline acetyltransferase, a marker of cholinergic neurons. The present study further characterized the effects of kainic acid on GABAergic MSDB neurons and examined the effects of intraseptal kainic acid on spatial memory. Saline, kainic acid, SAP, or the combination of kainic acid and SAP was administered into the MSDB of rats. Spatial memory was assessed in an eight-arm radial maze and a water maze. Kainic acid destroyed GABAergic septohippocampal neurons, but spared cholinergic neurons. SAP eliminated MSDB cholinergic neurons, sparing noncholinergic neurons. Coadministration of kainic acid and SAP destroyed GABAergic and cholinergic MSDB neurons. Acquisition of the radial maze task and performance on this task with 4-h delays were unimpaired by intraseptal kainic acid or SAP, but were impaired by coadministration of kainic acid and SAP. Acquisition of the water maze task was unaffected by intraseptal kainic acid, delayed slightly by SAP, and impaired severely by coadministration of kainic acid and SAP. These results provide evidence that kainic acid at appropriate concentrations effectively destroys GABAergic septohippocampal neurons, while sparing cholinergic MSDB neurons. Furthermore, lesions of the GABAergic septohippocampal neurons do not impair spatial memory. While lesions of cholinergic MSDB neurons may mildly impair spatial memory, the combined lesion of GABAergic and cholinergic septohippocampal neurons resulted in a memory impairment that was greater than that observed after a selective lesion to either population. Thus, damage of GABAergic or cholinergic MSDB neurons, which together comprise the majority of the septohippocampal pathway, cannot totally account for the spatial memory impairment that is observed after nonselective lesions of the MSDB.
The influence of noradrenergic input to the hippocampus was assessed by recording hippocampal place cells and by modulating the noradrenergic tone with a selective agonist and antagonist of the alpha2-autoreceptors. The rats received intraperitoneal injection of 5 microg/kg of dexmedetomidine (DEX), an alpha2-agonist, 0.2 mg/kg of atipamezole (ATI), an alpha2-antagonist, or saline. Hippocampal place cells were recorded in a familiar rectangular environment and in three types of new environments (rectangle, square, and cylinder). Recordings in the familiar environment were conducted in two phases, either before (early phase) or after (late phase) the exposure to new environments. In the familiar environment, DEX significantly increased the mean firing rate of hippocampal interneurons, while ATI increased the mean firing rate of pyramidal cells. Only ATI in the early phase of the experiment impaired spatial selectivity. Both drugs induced field rotations in the early phase of the study, but in the late phase DEX decreased, while ATI increased field stability in the familiar environment. The drug effects in the new environment were dependent on degree of novelty. No difference between treatments was observed in the new rectangle, but in the square and cylinder, ATI increased the mean firing rate, number of fields, and field area compared to other treatments. Stability of the original firing fields in the familiar rectangle was dependent on type of interfering environment and drug treatment. Exposure to another rectangle had the smallest impact, and exposure to a square the largest impact, on the original field pattern. ATI impaired stability of the original field after exposure to a rectangular and cylinder, while the impairing effect of DEX was only observed after exposure to a cylinder. In conclusion, increased noradrenergic tone increases the firing rate of hippocampal place cells, especially when the experimental situation and environment are new, but this increase is spatially nonselective. Furthermore, manipulation of the noradrenergic tone in either direction leads to instability of firing fields.
We demonstrated previously that a novel negative feed back mechanism for the regulation of penile erection, which is triggered by ascending sensory inputs initiated by tumescence of the penis, exists in the hippocampal formation (HF). This study further elucidated the role of the locus coeruleus (LC), which is the largest aggregate of norepinephrine-containing neurons in the brain and provides the major noradrenergic innervation to the HF, in this process. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats that were anesthetized and maintained with chloral hydrate were used. The intracavernous pressure (ICP) recorded from the corpus cavernosum of the penis was used as the experimental index for penile erection. Electrical activation of the LC elicited a significant reduction in baseline ICP. Similar observations were obtained on microinjection bilaterally into the hippocampal CA1 or CA3 subfield or dentate gyrus of equimolar doses (5 nmol) of norepinephrine (alpha1-, alpha2-agonist), phenylephrine (alpha1-agonist), or BHT 933 (alpha2-agonist). Bilateral electrolytic lesions of the LC discernibly enhanced the magnitude and/or duration of the elevation in ICP induced by intracavernous administration of papaverine (400 microgram). A potentiation of the papaverine-evoked ICP increase was also observed following pretreatment with bilateral hippocampal application of equimolar doses (250 pmol) of either prazosin (alpha1-, alpha2B-, alpha2C-antagonist), naftopidil (alpha1A/D-antagonist), yohimbine (alpha2-antagonst), or rauwolscine (alpha2B-, alpha2C-antagonist). None of these antagonists, however, affected baseline ICP. These results suggest that noradrenergic innervation of the HF that originates from the LC may play an active role in negative feedback regulation of penile erection, engaging at least alpha1A/D-, alpha2B-, and alpha2C-adrenoceptors in the HF.
A virtual reality environment was used to test memory performance for simulated &quot;real-world&quot; spatial and episodic information in a 22-year-old male, Jon, who has selective bilateral hippocampal pathology caused by perinatal anoxia. He was allowed to explore a large-scale virtual reality town and was then tested on his memory for spatial layout and for episodes experienced. Topographical memory was tested by assessing his ability to navigate, recognize previously visited locations, and draw maps of the town. Episodic memory was assessed by testing the retrieval of simulated events which consisted of collecting objects from characters while following a route through the virtual town. Memory for the identity of objects, as well as for where they were collected, from whom, and in what order, was also tested. While the first task tapped simple recognition memory, the latter three tested memory for context. Jon was impaired on all topographical tasks and on his recall of the context-dependent questions. However, his recognition of objects from the virtual town, and of &quot;topographical&quot; scenes (as evaluated by standard neuropsychological tests), was not impaired. These findings are consistent with the view that the hippocampus is involved in navigation, recall of long term allocentric spatial information and context-dependent episodic memory, but not visual pattern matching.
Seizures in adult rats result in long-term deficits in learning and memory, as well as an enhanced susceptibility to further seizures. In contrast, fewer lasting changes have been found following seizures in rats younger than 20 days old. This age-dependency could be due to differing amounts of hippocampal neuronal damage produced by seizures at different ages. To determine if there is an early developmental resistance to seizure-induced hippocampal damage, we compared the effects of kainic acid (KA)-induced status epilepticus and amygdala kindling on hippocampal dentate gyrus anatomy and electrophysiology, in immature (16 day old) and adult rats. In adult rats, KA status epilepticus resulted in numerous silver-stained degenerating dentate hilar neurons, pyramidal cells in fields CA1 and CA3, and marked numerical reductions in CA3c pyramidal neuron counts (-57%) in separate rats. Two weeks following the last kindled seizure, some, but significantly less, CA3c pyramidal cell loss was observed (-26%). Both KA status epilepticus and kindling in duced mossy-fiber sprouting, as evidenced by ectopic Timm staining in supragranular layers of the dentate gyrus. In hippocampal slices from adult rats, paired-pulse stimulation of perforant path axons revealed a persistent enhancement of dentate granule-cell inhibition following KA status epilepticus or kindling. While seizures induced by KA or kindling in 16-day-old rats were typically more severe than in adults, the immature hippocampus exhibited markedly less KA-induced cell loss (-22%), no kindling-induced loss, no detectable synaptic rearrangement, and no change in dentate inhibition. These results demonstrate that, in immature rats, neither severe KA-induced seizures nor repeated kindled seizures produce the kind of hippocampal damage and changes associated with even less severe seizures in adults. The lesser magnitude of seizure-induced hippocampal alterations in immature rats may explain their greater resistance to long-term effects of seizures on neuronal function, as well as future seizure susceptibility. Conversely, hippocampal neuron loss and altered synaptic physiology in adults may contribute to increased sensitivity to epileptogenic stimuli, spontaneous seizures, and behavioral deficits.
Recent postmortem studies have suggested that changes in the regulation of kainate-sensitive glutamate receptors (kainate receptors) in the hippocampus may play a role in schizophrenia. To explore this possibility further, the distribution of immunoreactivity (IR) for the GluR5,6,7 subunits of the KR was assessed in a cohort consisting of 15 normal controls, 15 schizophrenics, and 9 manic depressives matched for age and postmortem interval (PMI). Cross sections of hippocampus showed abundant GluR5,6,7-IR on apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons in the stratum radiatum and stratum moleculare. In normal controls, both the numerical and length density of IR dendrites were much higher in sector CA2 than in sectors CA3 or CA1. When data for the individual groups were separately examined, the schizophrenics showed a 30-35% reduction in the density of GluR5,6,7-IR dendrites found in both stratum radiatum and stratum moleculare of sectors CA3 and CA2, as well as proximal and middle portions of CA1. In CA2, the magnitude of this decrease in schizophrenia was 2.5 times larger than that seen in any of the other sectors. For the manic depressive group, no significant differences were observed in any sectors or laminae examined. The potential confounding effects of either age, PMI, or neuroleptic exposure do not explain the reduced density of IR dendrites detected in the schizophrenic group. Taken together, the preferential reduction of GluR5,6,7-IR observed on apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons is consistent with a functional downregulation of the kainate receptor in the hippocampus of schizophrenic brain.
The mossy fiber pathway has long been considered to provide the major source of excitatory input to pyramidal cells of hippocampal area CA3. In this review we describe anatomical and physiological properties of this pathway that challenge this view. We argue that the mossy fiber pathway does not provide the main input to CA3 pyramidal cells, and that the short-term plasticity and amplitude variance of mossy fiber synapses may be more important features than their long-term plasticity or absolute input strength.
The present study describes the cytoarchitectonical and chemoarchitectonical organization of the entorhinal cortex of the mouse (C57BL/6J strain). The entorhinal cortex is medially bordered by the parasubiculum, and laterally by the perirhinal cortex; rostrally and medially it is bordered by the piriform cortex, whereas caudally and dorsally it is bordered by the postrhinal cortex. The entorhinal cortex is divided into two main areas, i.e., the lateral entorhinal area (LEA) and the medial entorhinal area (MEA). Both entorhinal areas are further divided into subfields, i.e., LEA is divided into DLE (dorsolateral entorhinal field), DIE (dorsal intermediate entorhinal field), and VIE (ventral intermediate entorhinal field), whereas MEA is divided into CE (caudal entorhinal field) and ME (medial entorhinal field). Cytoarchitectonically, the main difference between LEA and MEA is displayed by layer II neurons: while these are in a dense layer in LEA, they are more dispersed in MEA. Further, in LEA there is a relatively cell-free zone between layers II and III; this zone is not present in MEA. Histochemically, in acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-stained material, MEA is characterized by darker-stained bands in the superficial layer (i.e., layer I) and in the lamina dissecans, in contrast to LEA, which is more evenly stained for AChE. Further, both the border with the perirhinal cortex and the border with the parasubiculum are characterized by dark-stained bands of AChE. The border between the entorhinal cortex and perirhinal cortex is also easily distinguished in parvalbumin-stained material; while the entorhinal cortex is darkly stained, the perirhinal cortex is lightly stained. In contrast, in sections stained for calretinin, the entorhinal cortex is more lightly stained than the parasubiculum, which has a darkly stained superficial layer, and a densely stained group of neurons in layer III.
The rat hippocampus contains place cells whose firing is location-specific. Although many properties of place cells have been uncovered, little is known about their actual contribution to the animal's spatial performance. In this study, we addressed this issue by recording place cells while rats solved a continuous spatial alternation task in which they had to alternate between the two arms of a Y-maze to get a food reward in the third (goal) arm. By manipulating the information available to the animals, we induced the cells to establish their fields in locations that were out of register relative to their standard position, thus making them inconsistent with the learned spatial task. When this happened, the rats' performance in the alternation task was markedly decreased. In addition, the nature of the behavioral errors during inconsistent field placements also changed dramatically in a way that was highly indicative of the rats' spatial disorientation. These results suggest that there is a functional relationship between the spatial firing patterns of place cells and the spatial behavior of the rat, thus strengthening the idea that these cells are part of a navigational system.
The topology of the connections between the entorhinal cortex (EC), area CA1, and the subiculum is characterized by selective and restricted origin and termination along the transverse or proximodistal axis of CA1 and the subiculum. In the present study, we analyzed whether neurons in CA1 and the subiculum that receive EC projections are interconnected and give rise to return projections to EC, such that they terminate deep in the area of origin of the EC-to-CA1/subiculum projections. Both for the lateral and medial subdivision of EC, the projections to CA1/subiculum, as well as the projections from CA1 to the subiculum and back to EC, are rather divergent. Interestingly, we only rarely observed evidence for the presence of &quot;reentry loops,&quot; i.e., cells in layer III of EC giving rise to projections to interconnected neurons in CA1 and the subiculum, while the targeted CA1 neurons also projected back to the deep layers of the area of origin of the pathway in EC. We conclude that although fibers originating from a restricted part of EC distribute extensively in a divergent way along the longitudinal axis of CA1 and the subiculum, only restricted portions of the latter two areas, receiving inputs from the same entorhinal area, are interconnected. Moreover, only a small percentage of the CA1 neurons that project to the correspondingly innervated subicular neurons give rise to projections that return to the deep layers of the originating part of EC. The present findings are taken to indicate that the EC-hippocampal circuitry functionally comprises many parallel-organized specific &quot;reentry loops.&quot;
It has been proposed that a critical step in long-term potentiation (LTP) expression is the activation of presynaptic protein kinase C (PKC) after activation of postsynaptic NMDA receptors. A prediction from this &quot;synaptic dialogue&quot; hypothesis (Routtenberg, Trends Neurosci 1999;22:255-256) is that the well-known blockade of LTP by NMDA receptor antagonists would be rescued by direct activation of PKC. To test this prediction we recorded extracellular EPSPs in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus (DG) in the intact, anesthetized mouse after stimulation of the perforant path. Three experimental series were performed in which tetanization was applied after continuous infusion of 1) vehicle, 2) NMDA receptor antagonist dl-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) (2.5+/-1.0 nmol), or 3) both APV and then PKC activator 4-beta-phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu, 9.0+/-1.0 pmol). LTP was reliably induced in the first series (124+/-5%, N = 6; 2.5 h after the tetanus), suppressed by APV in the second series (95+/-18%, N = 4), and restored in the third series (121+/-13%, N = 5). Decreased paired-pulse facilitation, an index of presynaptic involvement in LTP expression, was observed after tetanization in the first and third series, but not in the second series. Blockade of LTP by NMDA receptor antagonists that can be overridden by presynaptic activation of PKC is thus consistent with the proposed hypothesis. As LTP is rescued after NMDA receptor blockade in transgenic mice overexpressing growth-associated presynaptic protein GAP-43, we suppose that this protein is one of the presynaptic targets of PKC activation.
Behavioral data indicate that three of the areas which form the parahippocampal region in the rat, i.e., the entorhinal, perirhinal, and postrhinal cortices, have different, although related functions that also differ from those of the hippocampal formation. These functional differences might be related to differences in connectivity, on the one hand with parts of the association cortex, and on the other with the hippocampal formation. In a previous study, we showed the existence of both a direct and an indirect projection from the perirhinal cortex to areas CA1 and subiculum of the hippocampus. Here we present the result of a second study, demonstrating a similarly organized projection from the postrhinal cortex to the subiculum, comprising both a direct and an indirect route. Electrical stimulation of the postrhinal cortex in vivo evoked field potentials throughout the subiculum and the dentate gyrus. Current source density analysis in both the subiculum and dentate gyrus revealed the presence of sink-source pairs, indicative of a synaptic termination. Based on comparison with the sink-source pairs found after stimulation of the medial entorhinal cortex, we conclude that the connection between the postrhinal cortex and the dentate gyrus most likely is formed by a polysynaptic pathway mediated via the medial entorhinal cortex, while the pathway from the postrhinal cortex to the subiculum is likely monosynaptic. In order to substantiate these findings, we carried out several tracer experiments. Anterograde tracer injections in the postrhinal cortex resulted in labeled fibers in limited parts of the subiculum, but no anatomical evidence for a projection of the postrhinal cortex to the dentate gyrus was found. Additional retrograde tracer injections in the subiculum also showed evidence for a direct postrhinal-to-subiculum projection with a strong topological organization. Based on these combined anatomical and electrophysiological data, we conclude that the postrhinal cortex indeed can reach the subiculum via both a direct and an indirect pathway.
It is widely believed that new memories are stored in the medial temporal lobe structures in the short term, but then are reorganized over time as the neocortex gradually comes to support stable long-term storage. On this view, the medial temporal lobe structures play a time-limited role in information storage. This putative process of reorganization, known as consolidation, is supported by some clinical findings in humans and by some data from nonhuman animals. Here we review prospective studies of retrograde memory in nonhuman animals, with particular emphasis on experimental design. In considering the evidence for a time-limited role for the medial temporal lobe in information storage, we note that there are alternative interpretations for at least some of the findings typically cited in support of the consolidation process. In addition, we suggest that some studies arguing against the consolidation view should probably be given more weight than they have so far received. Finally, we observe that different structures in the medial temporal lobe are unlikely to operate together as a single functional unit mediating a single consolidation process. Although evidence for a time-limited role for medial temporal lobe structures in memory is at present equivocal, future studies that consider some of the alternative accounts we and others have identified will provide a clearer picture of the mechanisms underlying information storage and retrieval in the brain.
Studies on the premature brain started in France in the Baudelocque clinic in Paris. It was the opportunity for a new clinical and epistemological paradigm: the pluridisciplinary model. The need to save and prevent premature babies led the founder of this research, Alexander Minkowski, to gather together, in the same laboratory, biochemistry, anatomo-pathology, electrophysiology and developmental science. The models of the premature brain helped establish a scale of biological maturation, the degrees of neurobiological development, and the electric intensity of mental states.

We examined the neural circuitry underlying the explicit learning of motor sequences in normal subjects and patients with early stage Parkinson's disease (PD) using 15O-water (H2 15O) positron emission tomography (PET) and network analysis. All subjects were scanned while learning motor sequences in a task emphasizing explicit learning, and during a kinematically controlled motor execution reference task. Because different brain networks are thought to subserve target acquisition and retrieval during motor sequence learning, we used separate behavioral indices to quantify these aspects of learning during the PET experiments. In the normal cohort, network analysis of the PET data revealed a significant covariance pattern associated with acquisition performance. This topography was characterized by activations in the left dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (PFdl), rostral supplementary motor area (preSMA), anterior cingulate cortex, and in the left caudate/putamen. A second independent covariance pattern was associated with retrieval performance. This topography was characterized by bilateral activations in the premotor cortex (PMC), and in the right precuneus and posterior parietal cortex. The normal learning-related topographies failed to predict acquisition performance in PD patients and predicted retrieval performance less accurately in the controls. A separate network analysis was performed to identify discrete learning-related topographies in the PD cohort. In PD patients, acquisition performance was associated with a covariance pattern characterized by activations in the left PFdl, ventral prefrontal, and rostral premotor regions, but not in the striatum. Retrieval performance in PD patients was associated with a covariance pattern characterized by activations in the right PFdl, and bilaterally in the PMC, posterior parietal cortex, and precuneus. These results suggest that in early stage PD sequence learning networks are associated with additional cortical activation compensating for abnormalities in basal ganglia function.
No Abstract
This annual meeting covered all aspects of the field of neuroscience. Stroke is one of the leading causes of morbidity, and this report will focus on the vast number of presentations on stroke and ischemia-reperfusion injury presented at the meeting.
Although this meeting included thousands of presentations spanning the full diversity of neuroscience at the millennium, this report focuses on pharmacological developments of relevance to neurodegenerative diseases.
In the early 1990s, genetic mapping of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) locus and the markers linking it to FAD were recent discoveries. Since then, Alzheimer's disease (AD) research has progressed from the identification of FAD-linked mutation to the generation of transgenic animals that express these mutant genes. Transgenic animals can represent models of aberrant beta-amyloid (Abeta) production either through the expression of mutant APP genes or mutant presenilin (PS)-1 genes, or both. Currently, this plethora of well-characterized animal models is being applied to test candidate therapeutic agents and strategies to reverse or prevent amyloid deposition into plaques. Treatments included specific inhibitors of the enzymes that produce Abeta, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory therapies (NSAIDs), Abeta-chelating agents and dietary supplements.
In the last half decade, fast methods of magnetic resonance imaging have led to the possibility, for the first time, of non-invasive dynamic brain imaging. This has led to an explosion of work in the Neurosciences. From a signal processing viewpoint the problems are those of nonlinear spatio-temporal system identification. In this paper, we develop new methods of identification using novel spatial regularization. We also develop a new model comparison technique and use that to compare our method with existing techniques on some experimental data.
Hyper-IgM (HIM) syndrome is a rare immunodeficiency characterized by low or absent IgG, IgA, and IgE with normal or elevated levels of IgM. This disorder can be acquired or familial with either X-linked or autosomal patterns of inheritance. The X-linked form of the disease is a consequence of mutations in the CD40 ligand (CD40L) gene that encodes a protein expressed primarily on activated CD4+ T cells. The cognate interaction between CD40L on T cells and CD40 on antigen-stimulated B cells, macrophage, and dendritic cells is critical for the development of a comprehensive immune response. The non-X-linked form of HIM syndrome is heterogeneous and appears in some cases to be a consequence of mutations in the AlD gene which encodes a B cell specific protein required for class switch recombination, somatic mutation, and germinal center formation. However, mutations in other unidentified genes are clearly the basis of the disease in a subset of patients. In this article, we review the essential features of the X-linked and non-X-linked forms of HIM syndrome and discuss the critical role the CD40:CD40L receptor-ligand pair plays in the pathogenesis of these immune deficiencies.

Presentations of Anorexia Nervosa in India are usually atypical and anorexia is more commonly a symptom rather than a syndrome. This report highlights a case of anorexia following medical termination of pregnancy and laproscopic sterilisation, its association with conflicts regarding childbirth and motherhood in a 34 year old woman and the impact of anorexia on child rearing.
Raven's Standard Progressive Matrices (SPM) has been suggested to assist in the detection of malingering, and a putatively validated formula method for defining genuine and fake performances is available In the present study, 47 normal individuals were asked to fake cognitive impairment on the SPM; a day later, their genuine performances were obtained. As expected, the genuine performances were significantly superior to the faked performances: however, the formula method failed to distinguish between the two. The present study used logistic regression analysis to model genuine and faked performances; the method resulted in a 74.5% accurate classification. It is concluded that, while the SPM may be useful in certain cases, it cannot reliably detect malingering.
Occurrence of delirium is known to be related to, among other things, organic brain disorder, somatic disease and old age. It has been hypothesized that delirium is also associated with stress. Disturbances of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) system have been found in delirious patients in various studies. The aim of the present study was to determine the activity in the HPA axis in demented patients to ascertain whether the stress regulating system was more disturbed in patients with delirium than in those without delirium. Demented inpatients with no acute medical illness were included in the study. Basal cortisol levels in serum were measured and dexamethasone suppression test (DST) was performed. The most important finding of the study was a strong relationship between delirium and DST pathology irrespective of age and severity of dementia. It is suggested that certain demented individuals have an impaired HPA system and a low delirium threshold and respond to stress with delirium.
The aim of the present study was to determine whether obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) patients whose symptoms recur after drug discontinuation respond again when the same drug at the same daily dosage is reinstituted. Eighty-one patients who were responders to a previous 6-month, open-label, noncomparative, acute treatment phase with fixed doses of selective reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) and who relapsed within 6 months of drug discontinuation had the drug to which they responded in the acute phase reinstated at the same daily dose. The reinstitution trial lasted 24 weeks with monthly evaluations (Yale-Brown Obsessive-Compulsive Scale and Clinical Global Improvement). Data obtained in the reinstitution phase were analysed using Pearson's chi-squared test or Fisher's exact test when appropriate. The cumulative percentages of patients who responded in the second trial were compared to those of patients who responded in the acute treatment phase (for each treatment and for all SRIs together) across all evaluation times. When considering all patients together, a lower percentage of responders resulted when SRIs were reinstated: the difference in the cumulative percentage of responders appeared at month 4 and increased at months 5 and 6 (Pearson chi-squared, P = 0.028, P = 0.009 and P &lt; 0.001, respectively). When considering the patients separately according to the SRI used, no differences in the percentages of responders were found at any time. Our results indicate that patients whose symptoms recur after drug discontinuation respond again when the same drug used previously (at the same dosage used in the acute phase) is reinstated, but at a lower degree with respect to the acute treatment. Findings from our study, together with literature data indicating high relapse rates when discontinuing the treatment after the acute phase, support the idea of continuing the treatment in OCD over the long term.
Studies have shown that autonomous mode behavior is one cause of aircraft fatalities due to pilot error. In such cases, the pilot is in a high state of psychological and physiological arousal and tends to focus on one problem, while ignoring more critical information. This study examined the effect of training in physiological self-recognition and regulation, as a means of improving crew cockpit performance. Seventeen pilots were assigned to the treatment and control groups matched for accumulated flight hours. The treatment group contained 4 pilots from HC-130 Hercules aircraft and 4 HH-65 Dolphin helicopter pilots; the control group contained 3 pilots of HC-130s and 6 helicopter pilots. During an initial flight, physiological data were recorded on each crewmember and an instructor pilot rated individual crew performance. Eight crewmembers were then taught to regulate their own physiological response levels using Autogenic-Feedback Training Exercise (AFTE). The remaining participants received no training. During a second flight, treatment participants showed significant improvement in performance (rated by the same instructor pilot as in pretests) while controls did not improve. The results indicate that AFTE management of high states of physiological arousal may improve pilot performance during emergency flying conditions.
It has been proposed that oxidative stress develops in tumors, with important consequences for growth and progression. To investigate this hypothesis, we measured low m.w. thiols, disulfides, protein-mixed disulfides and a pool of major anti-oxidant enzymes in renal-cortex as well as renal-cell carcinoma (RCC) specimens at stages I-II and III. Our data showed (i) a significant increase in the levels of total intracellular glutathione at both tumor stages (levels were 2.6-2.8 fold higher than those in the normal renal cortex), (ii) a marked lowering of the GSH/GSSG ratio in stage I-II accompanied by a significant decrease of many GSH-dependent enzymes (i.e., GPX, GST, GGT, GR) and (iii) unchanged GSH/GSSG ratio and GSH-dependent enzyme activity in stage III with respect to normal renal cortex. These results indicate that relevant variations exist in the glutathione antioxidant system in the different stages of RCC and support the hypothesis that oxidative stress plays an important role in RCC growth and progression.
We used a modified version of the visual DCS (mDCS) test to study patterns of learning, free recall, and recognition capacity in patients with temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE) (N = 24) and controls (N = 38). The patients were under consideration for epilepsy surgery. The mDCS differentiated left from right TLE patients in all aspects of visuospatial learning and delayed recall. The mDCS revealed lower performance for TLE patients as compared with controls. The present results indicate that the mDCS may be a preoperative tool to differentiate left from right TLE.
Broad band spectral measurements were calculated on EEG recordings of 40 healthy male university students during emotional tasks using the emotion induction technique. Emotional stimuli were sentences with positive valence (joy of love), with negative valence (frustration) and neutral situation. Broad band measurements showed that delta and beta bands reflected better the differences by emotional state. Hemispheric differences associated to emotional states were obtained only for mean frequency data. Higher delta frequencies at left frontopolar, right frontal, parietal and temporal and higher beta frequencies at left frontotemporal and temporal were related to love. Meanwhile higher delta frequencies especially at left frontopolar and temporal regions and lower beta frequencies at midline frontal (Fz) and central (Cz) leads were associated to frustration. These findings suggest that narrow band measurements may reflect more efficiently EEG changes during emotional tasks.
Exposure to ozone results in an increased production of free radicals which causes oxidative stress. The purpose of this study was to determine the effects of ozone exposure on motor behavior and its correlation with the cytology of the striatum and prefrontal cortex. Twenty-four male Wistar rats were exposed to 1 p.p.m. (parts per million) ozone for 4 hrs in a closed chamber. Control group was exposed to flowing air. Twenty-four hours after ozone exposure, the motor behavior was measured. After that, the animals were perfused and the brains were placed in Golgi stain. The analysis consisted in counting the dendritic spines in 5 secondary and 5 tertiary dendrites of each of the 20 medium size spiny neurons of striatum and 20 pyramidal neurons of prefrontal cortex analyzed. Our results showed alterations in motor behavior and a significant reduction of dendritic spines, and provided evidence that the deterioration in motor behavior is probably due to the reduction in spine density in the neurons of striatum and prefrontal cortex.
This experiment was designed to discern the proportion of false, inferential and verbatim memories that would be included in the reconstruction, one week later, of a 5 min narrative containing ambiguous but emotional content about a little boy. After 48 subjects were administered Spiegel's Hypnosis Induction Profile, they listened to the narrative, were exposed to one of four applications of transcerebral weak, complex magnetic fields for 30 min and then given either an accurate or inaccurate short summary of the story. One week later the group who received the erroneous summary reported more false memories about the original story than did the reference group; this treatment accommodated about 40% of the variance in numbers of false memories. Only an indicator of electrical lability within the temporal lobes (but not hypnotizability) was strongly associated with the numbers of inferential memories but not the numbers of false memories. The group that received transcerebral stimulation over the right hemisphere by a complex magnetic field and the erroneous summary reported three times the numbers of false memories compared to the other groups. Whereas verbatim memories showed a strong primacy effect inferential memories exhibited a strong recency effect (eta(2) =.66).
Chronic limbic epilepsy was induced in male albino rats by a single systemic injection of lithium (3 mEq/kg) and pilocarpine (30 mg/kg). During the subsequent months the numbers of spontaneous, paroxysmal stereotyped episodes (analogous to Racine stages 4 and 5) were monitored. The numbers of these &quot;overt seizures&quot; increased within 10 min of the daily presentation of a food stimulus even though food was available ad libitum. The majority of the paroxysmal, stereotyped behaviours occurred within 1 min of the stimulus presentation; they were attenuated by oral prednisolone. Three rats displayed evidence of &quot;conditioned seizures&quot; to specific stimuli. The results suggest that the display of these behaviours can be synchronized and learned in contexts that are associated with the release of CRF (corticotrophin releasing factor) and may involve the disinhibited activity within the central amygdaloid nucleus of these rats. Implications for the occurrence of psychogenic seizures in patients with complex partial (limbic) epilepsy are discussed.
The int-6 gene, originally identified as a common integration site for the mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) in mouse mammary tumors, encodes the p48 component of the eukaryotic translation initiation factor-3 (eIF3-p48). Int-6/eIF3-p48 is expressed in all adult tissues which have been tested and early in embryonic development. Int-6/eIF3-p48 has been highly conserved throughout evolution and the deduced amino acid sequence of the human gene product is identical to the mouse protein. Viral insertions at the Int-6/eIF3-p48 locus in mouse mammary tumors result in production of chimeric Int-6/eIF3-p48/MMTV products that may act as dominant negative oncoproteins. Int-6/eIF3-p48 has also been identified as a human protein that binds to the human T-cell leukemia virus type I Tax oncoprotein. The role of Int-6/eIF3-p48 in human carcinogenesis is unknown at the present time. In this study we have examined Int-6/eIF3-p48 gene status and expression in two of the most common forms of cancer in humans, breast and lung tumors. Sixty-two breast carcinomas and 78 non-small cell lung carcinomas (NSCLC) were investigated. LOH at the Int-6/eIF3-p48 locus was observed in 5 (21%) of 24 informative breast tumors and 10 (29%) of 34 informative lung tumors. A reduced expression of Int-6/eIF3-p48 was seen in 23 (37%) of breast cancer samples and 24 (31%) of NSCLC samples. An association between Int-6/eIF3-p48 expression and LOH at the Int-6/eIF3-p48 locus was observed. Int-6/eIF3-p48 expression was not related to commonly used pathological parameters in breast cancer patients, while in NSCLC patients int-6/eIF3-p48 expression was mainly seen in adenocarcinomas (P&lt;0.0001). In conclusion, our data show for the first time a decreased expression of Int-6/eIF3-p48 in a consistent portion of human breast and lung carcinomas, frequently associated with LOH at the Int-6/eIF3-p48 locus. Additional studies on larger series of tumor specimens with long-term follow-up are needed to determine whether Int-6/eIF3-p48 expression may represent a new prognostic or predictive marker.

Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a well-established model of human multiple sclerosis that is commonly used to evaluate the possible effectiveness of new treatments in this disease. Extracorporeal photochemotherapy (ECP) is an immunomodulating procedure currently used in several non-neurological diseases that, like multiple sclerosis, are likely to be due to T-cell-mediated autoimmunity. In this study we examined the effect of ECP using the EAE paradigm in the Lewis rat. In our model, ECP induced a significant modulation in peripheral blood T-cell distribution, changes which are typical of EAE. Remarkably, this effect was closely correlated with the clinical and pathological results, which showed reduced severity of the disease in the ECP-treated EAE animals vs. the EAE alone rats. We conclude that ECP induces modifications in the immunological events that occur during the course of EAE in rats, thus giving support to the hypothesis that it could be used in the treatment of multiple sclerosis.
The functional anatomy of sympathetic preganglionic neurons is described at molecular, cellular, and system levels. Preganglionic sympathetic neurons located in the intermediolateral column of the spinal cord connect the central nervous system with peripheral sympathetic ganglia and chromaffin cells inside and outside the adrenal gland. Current knowledge is reviewed of the development of these neurons, which share their origin with progenitor cells, giving rise to somatic motoneurons in the ventral horn. Their connectivities, transmitters involved, and growth factor receptors are described. Finally, we review the distribution and functions of trophic molecules that may have relevance for development and maintenance of preganglionic sympathetic neurons.
Recent literature has emphasized the unique role that the neurosteroid subclass of steroids, which includes dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate (DHEAS), play in the developing and adult central nervous system (CNS). Both DHEA and DHEAS are found in abundance in the CNS (Majewska, 1995), and both can be synthesized and metabolized in the brain of many species (Baulieu, 1981, 1998; Corpchot et al., 1981, 1983; Zwain and Yen, 1999). DHEA and DHEAS have been implicated as potential signaling molecules for neocortical organization during neuronal development, suggesting that they have trophic factor-like activity (neurotrophic or neurotropic) or can interact with various neurotransmitter systems to promote neuronal remodeling (Compagnone and Mellon, 1998; Mao and Barger, 1998). Consistent with a neurotrophic role for these steroids, studies have shown that DHEAS protects certain neuronal populations against neurotoxic insults inflicted by the excitatory amino acid glutamate (Kimonides et al., 1998; Mao and Barger, 1998). This finding suggests that DHEAS may be useful in treating neurodegenerative diseases in which excitotoxicity is believed to be the underlying cause or a major contributor to cell death. Moreover, because DHEA and DHEAS are multifunctional and exhibit a variety of properties in the CNS, including memory consolidation, neuroprotection, and reduction of neurodegeneration (Majewska, 1992, 1995; Lapchak et al., 2000), their potential therapeutic benefits may be extended to include the treatment of other neurodegenerative diseases not directly linked to excitotoxicity.
The discovery that the endogenous steroid derivatives 3 alpha-hydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one (allopregnanolone, or 3 alpha,5 alpha-TH PROG) and 3 alpha,21-dihydroxy-5 alpha-pregnan-20-one (allotetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone, or 3 alpha,5 alpha-TH DOC) elicit marked anxiolytic and anti-stress effects and selectively facilitate gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated neurotransmission in the central nervous system (see Chapter 3) has provided new perspectives for our understanding of the physiology and neurobiology of stress and anxiety. Evidence indicating that various stressful conditions that downregulate GABAergic transmission and induce anxiety-like states (Biggio et al., 1990) also induce marked increases in the plasma and brain concentrations of these neuroactive steroids (Biggio et al., 1996, 2000) has led to the view that stress, neurosteroids, and the function of GABAA receptors are intimately related. Changes in the brain concentrations of neurosteroids may play an important role in the modulation of emotional state as well as in the homeostatic mechanisms that counteract the neuronal overexcitation elicited by acute stress. Indeed, neurosteroids not only interact directly with GABAA receptors but also regulate the expression of genes that encode subunits of this receptor complex. This chapter summarizes observations from our laboratories and others, suggesting that neurosteroids and GABAergic transmission are important contributors to the changes in emotional state induced by environmental stress.
Certain pregnane steroids are now established as potent, positive allosteric modulators of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABAA) receptor. These compounds are known to be synthesized in the periphery by endocrine glands, such as the ovaries and the adrenal glands, and can rapidly cross the blood-brain barrier. Therefore, such steroids could act as endogeneous modulators of the major inhibitory receptor in the mammalian central nervous system. However, the demonstration that certain neurons and glia can synthesize the pregnane steroids (i.e., neurosteroids) additionally suggests that they may serve a paracrine role by influencing GABAA-receptor function through their local release in the brain itself. Here, we demonstrate that these neurosteroids are highly selective and extremely potent modulators of the GABAA receptor. The subunit composition of the GABAA receptor may influence the actions of the neurosteroids, particularly when considering concentrations of these agents thought to occur physiologically, which may underlie their reported differential effects at certain inhibitory synapses. However, recent work suggests that the phosphorylation status of either the synaptic GABAA receptor or its associated proteins may also influence neurosteroid sensitivity; these findings are discussed. Upon administration, the neurosteroids exhibit clear behavioral effects, including sedation, anticonvulsant actions, and behaviors predictive of anxiolysis; when given at high doses, they induce general anesthesia. Numerous synthetic steroids have been synthesized in an attempt to therapeutically exploit these properties, and these data are reviewed in this chapter. However, targeting the brain enzymes that synthesize and metabolize the neurosteroids may offer a new approach to exploit this novel endocrine-paracrine neurotransmitter interaction.
The peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor (PBR) has been demonstrated to be critical for steroidogenesis in all steroid-producing tissues. Here, we review the identification and characterization of the PBR, the evidence pointing to its function as a cholesterol pore involved in transporting cholesterol from the cytoplasm of steroid-producing cells into the inner mitochondrial membrane where it is metabolized, and the known mechanisms regulating its function. We present data on the functions of the PBR in the adrenal gland, a classical steroidogenic tissue, and in the brain, which has only recently been proven to be steroidogenic. Finally, we discuss other potential roles for the PBR in pathological conditions, including cancer, neurodegeneration, and neurotoxicity, and a broader role for the PBR in mediating intracellular cholesterol transport/compartmentalization, which may or may not be linked to steroid biosynthesis.










Since this list of mechanisms covers much of what we know about how brain cells operate, one might object to using such a broad brush in characterizing a purportedly special feature of brain function--&quot;plasticity.&quot; But that is really just the point. If a significant aspect of brain function is &quot;plasticity,&quot; as I believe to be the case, then all (or at least most) brain mechanisms are likely to be involved in &quot;plastic&quot; processes. Indeed, we have identified very few &quot;special&quot; mechanisms associated with plasticity. Certainly, the factors that appear to be involved in epileptic pathologies are almost all old friends from the plasticity literature. It is this critical interrelationship between plasticity and pathology that was so important in Frank Morrell's work, a concept he advanced at a time when our understanding of these mechanisms was far less sophisticated than it is now. The influence of this idea is now pervasive in the neuroscience field, so much so that it is hard to imagine why there was so much resistance to these hypotheses when first advanced by Morrell. It is this general concept of plasticity-pathology relationship that will survive as the most influential legacy of Frank Morrell.
Classical conditioning has been explained by two main types of theories that postulate different learning mechanisms. Rescorla and Wagner (1972) put forth a theory in which conditioning is based on the ability of the US to drive learning through error correction. Alternatively, Mackintosh (1973) put forth a theory in which the ability of the CS to be associated with the unconditioned stimulus is modulated. We have proposed a reconciliation of these two mechanisms as working in parallel within different neural systems: a cerebellar system for US modulation and a hippocampal system for CS modulation. We developed a computational model of cerebellar function in eyeblink conditioning based on the error correction mechanism of the Rescorla-Wagner rule in which learning-related activity from the cerebellum inhibits the inferior olive, which is the US input pathway to the cerebellum (Gluck et al., 1994). We developed a computational model of the hippocampal region that forms altered representations of conditioned stimuli based on their behavioral outcomes (Gluck &amp; Myers, 1993; Myers et al., 1995). Overall, computational modeling and empirical findings support the idea that, at least in the case of eyeblink conditioning, there may be two different neural systems: the cerebellum which mediates US-based error correction and hippocampus which alters representations of CSs.
The main anatomical resources found on the Internet are listed and discussed here, concerning the topics of gross anatomy, neuroanatomy, microscopic anatomy and anatomical museums. The search is updated to September 2000, and all the listed Web sites can be used to build a multimedial anatomical lab.
The repeated administration of cocaine produces enduring neuroadaptations that are associated with enhanced behavioral responsiveness to cocaine administration and lead to cocaine addiction and the manifestation of paranoid psychosis. This review describes the effect of chronic cocaine administration on dopamine and glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens, and discusses the relevance of these changes in the initiation of drug craving and relapse to drug abuse. Recent findings suggest that glutamate transmission in the nucleus accumbens is a dominant precipitator of relapse to drug-seeking activity, whereas both dopamine and glutamate transmission are important for sustaining drug-taking behavior.



The paper provides an overview of neuroinformatics research at Yale University being performed as part of the national Human Brain Project. This research is exploring the integration of multidisciplinary sensory data, using the olfactory system as a model domain. The neuroinformatics activities fall into three main areas: 1) building databases and related tools that support experimental olfactory research at Yale and can also serve as resources for the field as a whole, 2) using computer models (molecular models and neuronal models) to help understand data being collected experimentally and to help guide further laboratory experiments, 3) performing basic neuroinformatics research to develop new informatics technologies, including a flexible data model (EAV/CR, entity-attribute-value with classes and relationships) designed to facilitate the integration of diverse heterogeneous data within a single unifying framework.


The fields of genetics and neuroscience are yielding findings useful in understanding complex behavior-environment relations. We believe that these developments in interdisciplinary basic research are of interest to applied behavior analysts because of the long history of basic findings being used by the readership of the Journal of Applied Behavior Analysis to improve everyday human activities. An awareness of contemporary developments in a range of basic research disciplines may facilitate the systematic replication of those functional relations in applied settings. In this context, we selectively review papers published in the Journal of the Experimental Analysis of Behavior and other basic research journals that relate to gene-brain-behavior relations.
A review of the evidence for Escherichia coli STa causing fluid secretion in vito leads to the conclusion that the concept of STa acting through enhanced chloride secretion in order to derange intestinal function is unproven. However, a consistent effect of STa in the small intestine is on Na+/H+ exchange, leading to interruption of luminal acidification. A model for the action of STa, involving inhibition of Na+/H+ exchange, is proposed which explains the ability of STa to reduce absorption in vito but its inability to cause secretion in vito in contrast to its apparent secretory effect in vitro. The apparent ability to demonstrate secretion in vitro is shown to derive from methodologies which do not involve measurement of mass transport of water but instead, infer it from in vitro and in vivo proxy measurements. The in vitro demonstration of notional secretion after STa exposure can be reconciled with the proposed new model for fluid absorption in that cell swelling is argued to arise as a transient consequence of STa challenge followed by regulatory volume decrease. Evidence for this derangement model is presented in the form of observations derived from acute in vivo physiological studies and clinical studies on patients without the exchanger. This process of appraisal of the evidence for the mechanism of action of STa has led to a new model for fluid absorption. This is based on the formation of hypotonicity at the brush border luminal surface rather than hypertonicity within the lateral spaces as required by the present standing gradient model of fluid absorption. Evidence from the literature is presented for this new paradigm of water absorption, which may only be relevant for small intestine and other tissues that have Na+/H+ exchangers in contact with HCO-3-containing solutions but which may also be generalizable to all mammalian absorbing epithelial membranes.
Nucleus raph obscurus (NRo) modulates hypoglossal (XII) nerve motor output in the in vitro transverse brain stem slice of neonatal rats (1-5 days old); chemical ablation of NRo and its focal CO(2) acidification modulated the bursting rhythm of XII nerves. We microinjected a 4.5 mM solution of kainic acid into the NRo to disrupt cellular activity and observed that XII nerve activity was temporarily abolished (n = 10). We also microinjected CO(2)-acidified (pH = 6.00 +/- 0.01) artificial cerebrospinal fluid (aCSF) into the NRo (n = 6), the pre-Btzinger complex (PBC) (n = 6), as well as a control region in the lateral tegmental field equidistant to NRo, PBC, and the XII motor nuclei (n = 12). CO(2) acidification of the control region had no effect on XII motor output. CO(2) acidification of the NRo significantly (P &lt; 0.05) increased the burst discharge frequency of XII nerves by 77%; integrated burst amplitude and burst duration increased by 64% and 52%, respectively. CO(2) acidification of the PBC significantly (P &lt; 0.05) increased the burst discharge frequency of XII nerves by 65%, but neither integrated burst amplitude nor burst duration changed. These results demonstrate that chemical ablation of the NRo can abolish XII nerve bursting rhythm and that stimulation of the NRo with CO(2)-acidified aCSF can excite XII nerve bursting activity. From these observations, we conclude that, in transverse brain stem slices, the NRo contains pH/CO(2)-sensitive cells that modulate XII motor output.
Evidence from animals indicates that skeletal muscle afferents activate the vestibular nuclei and that both vestibular and skeletal muscle afferents have inputs to the ventrolateral medulla. The purpose of the present study was to investigate the interaction between the vestibulosympathetic and skeletal muscle reflexes on muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) and arterial pressure in humans. MSNA, arterial pressure, and heart rate were measured in 17 healthy subjects in the prone position during three experimental trials. The three trials were 2 min of 1) head-down rotation (HDR) to engage the vestibulosympathetic reflex, 2) isometric handgrip (IHG) at 30% maximal voluntary contraction to activate skeletal muscle afferents, and 3) HDR and IHG performed simultaneously. The order of the three trials was randomized. HDR and IHG performed alone increased total MSNA by 46 +/- 16 and 77 +/- 24 units, respectively (P &lt; 0.01). During the HDR plus IHG trial, MSNA increased 142 +/- 38 units (P &lt; 0.01). This increase was not significantly different from the sum of the individual trials (130 +/- 41 units). This finding was also observed with mean arterial pressure (sum = 21 +/- 2 mmHg and HDR + IHG = 22 +/- 2 mmHg). These findings suggest that there is an additive interaction for MSNA and arterial pressure when the vestibulosympathetic and skeletal muscle reflexes are engaged simultaneously in humans. Therefore, no central modulation exists between these two reflexes with regard to MSNA output in humans.
Because it is not clear that the induction of orthostatic intolerance in returning astronauts always requires prolonged exposure to microgravity, we investigated orthostatic tolerance and autonomic cardiovascular function in 16 healthy subjects before and after the brief micro- and hypergravity of parabolic flight. Concomitantly, we investigated the effect of parabolic flight-induced vomiting on orthostatic tolerance, R-wave-R-wave interval and arterial pressure power spectra, and carotid-cardiac baroreflex and Valsalva responses. After parabolic flight 1) 8 of 16 subjects could not tolerate 30 min of upright tilt (compared to 2 of 16 before flight); 2) 6 of 16 subjects vomited; 3) new intolerance to upright tilt was associated with exaggerated falls in total peripheral resistance, whereas vomiting was associated with increased R-wave-R-wave interval variability and carotid-cardiac baroreflex responsiveness; and 4) the proximate mode of new orthostatic failure differed in subjects who did and did not vomit, with vomiters experiencing comparatively isolated upright hypocapnia and cerebral vasoconstriction and nonvomiters experiencing signs and symptoms reminiscent of the clinical postural tachycardia syndrome. Results suggest, first, that syndromes of orthostatic intolerance resembling those developing after space flight can develop after a brief (i.e., 2-h) parabolic flight and, second, that recent vomiting can influence the results of tests of autonomic cardiovascular function commonly utilized in returning astronauts.
The role of c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase (JNK) signaling cascade in the stress-inducible phosphorylation of heat shock factor 1 (HSF1) was investigated using known agonists and antagonists of JNK. We showed that treatment of HeLa cells with MG132, a proteasome inhibitor and known INK activator, caused the transcriptional activation domain of HSF1 to be targeted and phosphorylated by JNK2 in vivo. Dose-response and time course studies of the effects of heat shock and anisomycin treatment showed a close correlation of the activation of JNK and hyperphosphorylation of HSF1. SB203580 inhibited INK at the 100 microM concentration and significantly reduced the amount of hyperphosphorylated HSF1 upon heat shock or anisomycin treatment. SB203580 and dominant-negative JNK suppress hsp70 promoter-driven reporter gene expression selectively at 45 degrees C but not at 42 degrees C heat stress, suggesting that JNK would be preferentially associated with the protective heat shock response against severe heat stress. The possibility that JNK-mediated phosphorylation of HSF1 may selectively stabilize the HSF1 protein and confers protection to cells under conditions of severe stress is discussed.
We recently demonstrated that dopamine (DA) as well as different DA receptor agonists and antagonists are able to decrease within a few minutes the aromatase activity (AA) measured in vitro in homogenates or in explants of the quail preoptic area - hypothalamus. In addition, DA also appears to regulate AA, in vivo presumably by modifying enzyme synthesis. The cellular mechanisms and the anatomical substrate that mediate these controls of AA by DA are poorly understood. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-ir) fibers and punctate structures have been previously observed in close vicinity of aromatase-immunoreactive (ARO-ir) cells in the quail medial preoptic nucleus (POM) and bed nucleus striae terminalis (BST) but these fibers could reflect a noradrenergic innervation. We also do not know whether aromatase cells are dopaminoceptive. The main goal of the present study was therefore to bring more information on the anatomical relationships between aromatase expressing neurons and the dopaminergic system in the quail brain. The visualization by immunocytochemistry of DA and of the D1 receptor associated protein DARPP-32 was used to address these questions. DA-ir fibers were observed in the quail forebrain and overlapped extensively with nuclei that contain high densities of ARO-ir cells such as the POM and BST. This confirms that the previously reported TH-ir innervation of ARO-ir cells is, at least in part, of dopaminergic nature. DARPP-32-immunoreactive cells were found in periventricular position throughout the hypothalamus. DARPP-32-ir cells were also observed in telencephalic and mesencephalic areas (hyperstriatum accessorium, paleostriatum, nucleus intercollicularis, optic tectum). DARPP-32-ir fibers were widespread in tel-, di-, and mes-encephalic areas. The highest densities of immunoreactive fibers were detected in the lobus parolfactorius, paleostriatum augmentatum and substantia nigra/area ventralis of Tsai. In double-labeled sections, appositions between DARPP-32 fibers and ARO-ir cells were present in the dorsolateral POM and BST but DARPP-32 immunoreactivity was not detected in the ARO-ir perikarya (no colocalization). These data confirm the presence of a dopaminoceptive structures within the main cell clusters of ARO-ir cells in the quail brain but provide no evidence that these ARO-ir cells are themselves dopaminoceptive. Because DARPP-32 is not present in all types of cells expressing DA receptors, the presence of DA receptors that would not be associated with DARPP-32 in ARO-ir cells still remains to be investigated
A variety of central nervous system injuries, diseases, and developmental deficits can lead to motor disorders that present complex mixtures of symptoms. Those that have a fundamental similarity characterized by the appearance of exaggerated velocity-dependent resistance to the lengthening of skeletal muscles are called spasticity. Reports based on clinical observations of motor disorders have and continue to provide the essential database of information regarding the range and distribution of unifying and discordant features of spasticity. Laboratory investigations employing animal models of motor disorders following experimental lesions of the central nervous system have reproduced some of the neurophysiologic changes that accompany injury of the central nervous system in humans. Those experimental lesions produced by spinal cord contusion/compression reproduce many of the histopathologic features displayed in traumatic injury of the human spinal cord as well. Studies using this model have revealed not only changes in reflex threshold and amplitude but also alterations in fundamental rate-modulation processes that regulate reflex excitability during repetitive stimulation. This report characterizes insights obtained from a laboratory investigation in search of fundamental mechanisms that contribute to the development of spasticity and provides a vantage point for understanding therapeutic strategies for treatment of spasticity.
GnRH-I is thought to represent the primary neuroendocrine link between the brain and the reproductive axis. Recently, however, a second molecular form of this decapeptide (GnRH-II) was found to be highly expressed in the brains of humans and nonhuman primates. In this study, in situ hybridization was used to examine the regional expression of GnRH-II messenger ribonucleic acid in the hypothalamus of immature (0.6 yr) and adult (10-15 yr) male and female rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). Overall, no sex-related differences were observed. In all of the animals (n = 3 animals/group), intense hybridization of a monkey GnRH-II riboprobe was evident in the paraventricular nucleus and supraoptic nucleus and to a lesser extent in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, but no age- or sex-related differences were apparent. Intense hybridization of the riboprobe also occurred in the mediobasal hypothalamus, and this was markedly greater in the adults than in the immature animals. These data show that the expression of GnRH-II messenger ribonucleic acid increases developmentally in a key neuroendocrine center of the brain. Moreover, because GnRH-II can stimulate LH release in vivo, it is plausible that changes in its gene expression represent an important component of the mechanism by which the hypothalamus controls reproductive function.
Compliance with medications is very important in the management of many gastrointestinal disorders: in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD), controlled trials have shown the benefit of prophylactic medical treatment in lowering the risk of recurrences. Our aim was to appraise the association between current psychiatric disorders and medication adherence in an unselected consecutive group of outpatients with IBD. In 85 unselected consecutive outpatients with IBD, a professional structured diagnostic interview and a psychiatric assessment, by the Structured Clinical Interview for Diagnostic and Statistical Manual-III-Reviewed, were carried out. In a stepwise regression analysis, compliance, as dependent variable, correlated positively with disease duration and inversely with both disease severity and presence of psychiatric disorders. In patients with IBD, preventive liaison psychiatry interventions seem indicated.
Most studies of dexamethasone (DXN) effects on experimental glioma have used doses 10-500 higher (on mg/kg basis) than those used for patients with brain tumour. The relevance of findings to patients with glioma are therefore uncertain. In order to evaluate the effects of clinical doses of DXN (0.22 mg kg(-1)day(-1)) on the pathophysiology of an experimental glioma we have treated rodents with established C6 gliomas for 3 days. The effects of therapy on local cerebral blood flow (LCBF), tumour blood flow (TBF), tumour capillary permeability (TCP), and inducible nit ric oxide synthase (iNOS) mRNA expression were evaluated. DXN caused a significant reduction in TCP (21 +/- 1.9 to 7.7 +/- 2.2 ml.gm(-1)min(-1)10(-3)) and iNOS mRNA production within and around tumour, but no significant change in either TBF or LCBF. The reduction in TCP was identical to that reported after higher doses of DXN and is probably mediated by glucocorticoid receptors. Further in vivo stud ies using either behavioural or neuropathological paradigms in rodents with established cerebral glioma should be treated with similar doses of DXN to optimise clinical relevance.
A paradigm shift in the management of depression has transpired in recent years with the modification of treatment goals toward remission, an outcome that transcends response. Pharmacotherapy, psychotherapy, electroconvulsive therapy, and combination therapies are treatment modalities available to the clinician for facilitating remission in depressed patients. For patients with moderate-to-severe depression, pharmacotherapy, either alone or in combination with other therapeutic approaches, is the treatment of choice. Antidepressants have heterogeneous effects on neurotransmitter systems that are manifested in different levels of selectivity and potency, influencing the drugs' safety profile through their potential for inducing drug-drug interactions. In terms of the pharmacokinetic-pharmacodynamic characteristics of antidepressants, a positive dose-response relationship has been shown to enhance the achievement of full remission because it allows the clinician to maximize drug dosage to optimize efficacy. Evidence from several studies indicates that treatment strategies that involve combined serotonergic and noradrenergic mechanisms result in pharmacologic synergism that leads to an enhanced antidepressant effect. This article identifies key characteristics of antidepressants that have been associated with greater efficacy.
Bipolar patients have been shown to be at high risk for suicidal behavior. Therefore, identifying potentially suicidal patients is necessary in the treatment of bipolar patients. A stress-diathesis model for suicidal behavior has been proposed to assist clinicians in determining which patients are at risk. In the model, suicidal behavior is the result of the interaction between an individual's threshold for suicidal acts and the stressors that can lead to suicidal behavior. Suicide risk factors can then be categorized as either diathesis-related or stress-related. In a study applying the model of suicidal behavior to bipolar disorder, bipolar patients who attempted suicide had higher levels of suicidal ideation, lifetime aggression, and substance abuse than the comparison group of nonattempters. Attempters had twice the number of major depressive episodes. Once high-risk patients are identified, their suicide risk can be managed through treatments such as prophylactic lithium treatment and other pharmacologic approaches.
The hypothesis provides the justification for the clinical trial. It is antecedent to the trial and establishes the trial's direction. Hypothesis testing is the most widely employed method of determining whether the outcome of clinical trials is positive or negative. Too often, however, neither the hypothesis nor the statistical information necessary to evaluate outcomes, such as p values and alpha levels, is stated explicitly in reports of clinical trials. This article examines 5 recent studies comparing atypical antipsychotics with special attention to how they approach the hypothesis and hypothesis testing. Alternative approaches are also discussed.
Interpreting the results of a clinical trial and reaching conclusions are matters of assessing the integrity of the trial's design and methods and the validity of the findings and drawing inferences to make conclusions that will guide health care decisions; these decisions are the ultimate goal of the clinical trial. This article examines 5 clinical trials of atypical antipsychotic agents with particular attention to aspects of their validity and refers to other articles in this supplement when appropriate. Finally, the Behavioral Health Care Enterprise Model, designed to help systematize the process of drawing inferences and implications from these and other clinical trials and assessing their impact on various sectors of the health care system, is introduced.
The art of psychopharmacology derives from the science of psychopharmacology, but still requires wisdom, judgment, and experience to translate findings from clinical trials of a new drug into clinical practice.

Although antidepressant medications are effective in approximately 70% of patients with major depressive disorder, they have a delayed onset of therapeutic effect. This latency is problematic in that it prolongs the impairments associated with depression, leaves patients vulnerable to an increased risk of suicide, increases the likelihood that a patient will prematurely discontinue therapy, and increases medical costs associated with severe depression. No adequately designed prospective trials have been conducted to evaluate comparative time to onset of antidepressant effect. However, evidence suggests that some antidepressant agents may begin to work faster than others. Citalopram, venlafaxine, and mirtazapine each have exhibited statistically significant differences in some measures of antidepressant action within the first 2 weeks of treatment, both in placebo-controlled trials and in head-to-head comparisons with other antidepressants. This article reviews the data that hint at these drug-specific differences in time to onset of action. Given the potential benefits of early-acting antidepressant treatments, the possibility of superior speed of onset of citalopram, venlafaxine, and mirtazapine presented here merits further study in adequately designed, prospective clinical trials.


The flagellar apparatus of Ploeotia costata Farmer and Triemer was reconstructed using serial sectioning and TEM. The flagellar apparatus is similar to other euglenoids having two flagella arising from basal bodies connected by a striated fiber, and three asymmetrically arranged roots. The flagella emerge subapically from between the two ventral pellicle strips. The dorsal flagellum is 1/2 the body length and actively pulls the cell, while the ventral flagellum is twice the body length and drags along the substrate surface. The ventral and dorsal roots are on the opposite sides of their respective basal bodies, while the intermediate root is associated with the ventral flagellum on the side closest to the dorsal basal body. The dorsal root lines the dorsal side of the reservoir and after giving rise to the dorsal band lines the right side of the reservoir/canal. The ventral and intermediate roots join at the reservoir forming the intermediate-ventral root, which lines the left and ventral sides of the reservoir/canal. There was no evidence of a microtubule-reinforced pocket in P. costata. Comparisons with Ploeotia vilrea, Lentomonas applanatum, and related flagellar apparatuses led to the conclusion that the basic euglenoid flagellar structure is symplesiomorphic but with enough variation to be taxonomically diagnostic.
Variability in postsynaptic potential (PSP) amplitude due to intrinsic noise limits the reliability of communication between neurons. I measured PSP variability at synapses between a forewing stretch receptor and wing depressor motor neurons in locusts, a pathway that is important in the control of flying. The intrinsic noise in the stretch receptor output synapse was measured by subtracting the background noise, originating in other synaptic pathways onto the motor neuron, from the variability in the amplitudes of PSPs evoked by the stretch receptor. Intrinsic synaptic noise caused successive PSPs to vary by 4-10 % in basalar and subalar flight motor neurons. Recordings from pairs of these wing depressor motor neurons showed that the amount of transmitter released varied independently between different output sites from the stretch receptor. Histograms of excitatory postsynaptic potential amplitude were normal distributions that lacked separate peaks. I estimate that quantal amplitude is significantly less than 0.1 mV and that several hundred quanta are released for each presynaptic spike. This accords well with a previous estimate of the number of discrete anatomical synapses and would facilitate modulation of output from the stretch receptor.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), are inflammatory diseases of the central nervous system (CNS) characterized by localized areas of demyelination. The mechanisms underlying oligodendrocyte (OLG) injury in MS and EAE remain unknown. Here we show that caspase-11 plays crucial roles in OLG death and pathogenesis in EAE. Caspase-11 and activated caspase-3 were both expressed in OLGs in spinal cord EAE lesions. OLGs from caspase-11-deficient mice were highly resistant to the cell death induced by cytotoxic cytokines. EAE susceptibility and cytokine concentrations in the CNS were significantly reduced in caspase-11-deficient mice. Our findings suggest that OLG death is mediated by a pathway that involves caspases-11 and -3 and leads to the demyelination observed in EAE.
Mild hypothermia prevents the development of brain edema in rats with acute liver failure resulting from hepatic devascularization. Mechanistic studies performed in this model suggest that the protective effect of hypothermia results from the inhibition of blood-brain transfer of ammonia, an action which could result (at least in part) from an effect on cerebral blood flow. Hypothermia-induced reductions of brain ammonia are associated with normalization of extracellular brain glutamate concentrations in rats with acute liver failure. Studies in humans suggest that mild hypothermia is beneficial in the management of severely raised intracranial pressure, both before and after liver transplantation in patients with acute liver failure due to acetaminophen overdose. Mild hypothermia offers a potentially useful bridge therapy in patients with acute liver failure who are awaiting liver transplantation.
Alexander disease is a leukodystrophy that is neuropathologically characterized by the presence of numerous Rosenthal fibers in astrocytes. Recently, mutations in the gene encoding glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) were identified in patients with Alexander disease. We sequenced the GFAP gene of a Japanese girl who presented with typical symptoms of Alexander disease but in whom the diagnosis was not proven by histopathology. We identified a missense mutation, R239C, which is identical to the mutation previously reported to be most frequent. As was the case in previously described patients, our patient was also heterozygous for the de novo mutation. Interestingly, despite the fact that this is a de novo mutation, R239C was found to be common in different ethnic groups, implying that the site is a &quot;hot spot&quot; for mutagenesis. Molecular genetic analysis now makes the antemortem diagnosis of Alexander disease possible.
Patients with mitochondrial ornithine transporter deficiency (or HHH syndrome) present with various neurological symptoms, including mental retardation, spastic paraparesis with pyramidal signs, cerebellar ataxia, and episodic disturbance of consciousness or coma due to hyperammonemia. We previously described three novel mutations in the ORNT1 gene in Japanese patients with HHH syndrome. In this article, we report a new patient with HHH syndrome, a 52-year-old woman, who had the typical clinical features, except for an absence of mental retardation. When we screened this patient, as well as a previously described Japanese patient, for mutations in the ORNT1 gene, we found that both were homozygous for a nonsense mutation (R179X). Furthermore, reverse transcription (RT)-polymerase chain reaction (PCR) of fibroblast RNA from one patient showed exon 4 skipping, as had been observed in a previously reported patient with R179X. These results, together with the findings in our previous report, show that, in three of our five reported Japanese HHH patients (six of ten alleles), R179X is present, suggesting that this is a common mutation in Japanese patients with HHH syndrome.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is a Th1 cell-mediated autoimmune disease that can be protected against by stimulating regulatory cells. Here we examined whether EAE can be purposefully modulated by stimulating Valpha14 NK T cells with the CD1d-restricted ligand alpha-galactosylceramide (alpha-GC). EAE induced in wild-type C57BL/6 (B6) mice was not appreciably altered by injection of alpha-GC. However, EAE induced in IL-4 knockout mice and IFN-gamma knockout mice was enhanced or suppressed by alpha-GC, respectively. This indicates that the IL-4 and IFN-gamma triggered by alpha-GC may play an inhibitory or enhancing role in the regulation of EAE. We next studied whether NK T cells of wild-type mice may switch their Th0-like phenotype toward Th1 or Th2. Notably, in the presence of blocking B7.2 (CD86) mAb, alpha-GC stimulation could bias the cytokine profile of NK T cells toward Th2, whereas presentation of alpha-GC by CD40-activated APC induced a Th1 shift of NK T cells. Furthermore, transfer of the alpha-GC-pulsed APC preparations suppressed or enhanced EAE according to their ability to polarize NK T cells toward Th2 or Th1 in vitro. These results have important implications for understanding the role of NK T cells in autoimmunity and for designing a therapeutic strategy targeting NK T cells.
This review highlights the occurrence of depressive disorders in medically ill patients. It discusses the difficulties in diagnosing depression in the medically ill due to the vegetative symptoms of depression which are also a feature of many medical diseases. Depression in the medically ill may be due to the disease itself, its psychological reaction, due to complications because of metabolic or other disturbances, or due to the medications for the treatment of the disease. The role of active consultation liaison between medical specialists and mental health professionals will help provide total care to the medically ill.
A brief overview of recent developments in the substance P field is provided, in addition to a historical introduction. It is emphasized that there are multiple tachykinins and tachykinin receptors and that there are examples of coexistence of several tachykinin peptides and of several tachykinin receptors in single cells, and there is evidence for tachykininergic cotransmission. The distribution and functional significance of tachykinins in the gastrointestinal tract and in sensory neurones, and interactions with other peptides and transmitters, are reviewed. The recent production of knock-out mice for either substance P or the NK1 receptor is discussed, as well as the exciting concept of substance P receptor internalization. Finally, the development of specific substance P antagonists is summarized, and possible clinical implications discussed, and, in particular, a recent study which reports that a substance P antagonist shows clinical efficacy in depression.


The emerging field of orofacial pain was considered by the American Dental Association for full status as a new dental specialty. While the recognition of orofacial pain as a specialty was denied, the American Academy of Orofacial Pain plans to continue its efforts. Many recent advances in the neuroscience of orofacial pain have led to treatments that provide significant relief for patients with chronic orofacial pain disorders. However, access to this care has been limited, leaving many patients to suffer. Dentists are generally supportive of the efforts to develop oral pain treatment into a specialty because the field will provide benefits for both dentists and their patients. A recent survey of 805 individuals who reported having a persistent pain disorder revealed that more than four out of 10 people have yet to find adequate relief, saying their pain is out of control--despite having the pain for more than five years and switching doctors at least once. &quot;This survey suggests that there are millions of people living with severe uncontrolled pain,&quot; says Russell Portenoy, MD, president of the American Pain Society. &quot;This is a great tragedy. Although not everyone can be helped, it is likely that most of these patients could benefit if provided with state-of-the-art therapies and improved access to pain specialists when needed.&quot; Development of the field of orofacial pain into a dental specialty has been moved primarily by the fact that historically, patients with complex chronic orofacial pain disorders have not been treated well by any discipline of healthcare. Recent studies of chronic orofacial pain patients have found that these patients have a higher number of previous clinicians and have endured many years with pain prior to seeing an orofacial pain dentist (see Figure 1). Complex pain patients and the clinicians who see them are often confused about who they should consult for relief of the pain. Treatment for those patients within the existing structure of dental or medical specialties has been inadequate, with millions of patients left suffering. Insurers are also confused with regard to reimbursement and may make decisions to exclude treatment for orofacial pain disorders under both dental and medical policies. However, dentistry has taken a leading role in healthcare to address the national problem of developing the field of orofacial pain into a dental specialty. A study of dentists and dental specialists has shown that there is a recognized need and broad support for developing this field into a specialty.
A line of evidence has shown that a link between the common pathological features of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) deposition and cholinergic degeneration observed in Alzheimer's disease (AD) may exist, however, no experimental evidence has shown that exposure to Abeta can decrease expression of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs), which have been shown to play roles in brain cognitive functions. Here, we report that treatment with Abeta1-40 and Abeta25-35 at nanomolar concentrations significantly decreased the [3H]epibatidine and [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin binding sites, the protein and mRNA levels of nAChR alpha3, alpha7 and beta2 subunits in PC12 cells. Abeta1-40 and Abeta25-35 at the concentrations used in the treatment study neither bound to nAChRs nor induced apoptosis, but significantly inhibited the MTT (3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5,diphenyl tetrazolium bromide) reduction. These data suggest that the decreased biosynthesis of nAChRs induced by Abeta may be attributable partially to perturbances of some intracellular signal transduction pathways. The results presented in this study lead to a hypothesis that Abeta can degenerate nAChRs early in the course of AD before the formation of abundant Abeta fibrils.
Animal models are a very important approach to study the pathogenesis and therapeutic intervention strategies of human diseases. Since many human disorders do not arise spontaneously in animals, characteristic functional changes have to be mimicked by neurotoxic agents. For instance, the application of the dopaminergic neurotoxin MPTP (1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine) is able to produce striking similarities to Parkinson's disease (PD) diagnosed in humans. MPTP is thought to selectively damage dopaminergic neurons predominantly those originating in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) which leads to impaired dopaminergic neurotransmission accompanied by a loss of dopaminergic nerve terminals in the striatum. MPTP-induced neurochemical, behavioral, and histopathological alterations replicate very closely the clinical symptoms of PD patients, which will be discussed in this paper and render the MPTP model currently the most favored PD model to study therapeutic intervention strategies in an easy and reliable way in preclinical studies. We and many other research groups propose that the knowledge about the neurotoxic mechanisms of MPTP such as mitochondrial dysfunction with breakdown of energy metabolism and free radical production will help us to understand the underlying mechanisms of PD, which are not fully understood yet. In particular, the novel aspects of inflammatory processes and the involvement of reactive nitrogen species in addition to reactive oxygen species seem to be important milestones for a better understanding of the neurodegenerative effects of MPTP. In this review we focus on the MPTP mouse model which is easy practicable and widely used in neuroscience research and draw comparisons to the human pathology in PD.
We investigated the relationship between the loss of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) and the cognitive decline or neuropathological changes seen in Alzheimer's Disease (AD) and dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB). Midfrontal (MF) cortex of 31 AD, 24 DLB and 11 non-demented controls was examined. Total plaque (TP), neuritic plaque (NP) and neurofibrillary tangle (NFT) counts were obtained. NAChR binding was assayed using 3H-epibatidine [3H-EPI]. Last Blessed Information-Memory-Concentration scores (BIMC), Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), Mattis Dementia Rating Scale (DRS) scores were collected. There were no correlations between 3H-EPI binding and TP, NP, NFTs counts in either AD or DLB. Last BIMC, MMSE, DRS scores did not correlate with 3H-EPI binding in AD or DLB. Thus, decline in cognitive function does not correlate with loss of nAChR in DLB or AD at the end of life suggesting that later in these diseases, loss of nAChR binding is not a reliable marker of cognitive function in AD or DLB. Loss of nAChR activity does not appear to be related to plaques or NFTs in AD or DLB.
We investigated the applicability [123I]FP-CIT SPECT for the assessment of the rate of dopaminergic degeneration in PD. Twenty early-stage PD patients (age range 43-73 yr; mean age 55.4) were examined twice, a mean of 12 months apart. The mean annual change in the ratio of specific to nonspecific [123I]FP-CIT binding to the striatum was used as the outcome measure. The mean annual decrease in striatal [123I]FP-CIT binding ratios was found to be about 8% (of the baseline mean). In order to demonstrate a significant effect (p &lt; 0.05) of putative neuroprotective agent with 0.80 power and 50% of predicted protection within 2 years, 36 patients are required in each group, when the effects are measured by means of changes in [123I]FP-CIT binding ratios in whole striatum. Our findings indicate that [123I]FP-CIT SPECT seems to be a useful tool to investigate the progression of dopaminergic degeneration in PD and may provide an objective method of measuring the effectiveness of neuroprotective therapies.
Cerebral dysfunction without corresponding structural pathology has been reported in brain imaging studies of violent offenders. Biochemical markers in the CSF reflect various types of CNS pathology, such as blood-brain barrier dysfunction (CSF/S albumin ratio), infectious or inflammatory processes (IgG and IgM indices), neuronal or axonal degeneration (CSF-tau protein) and synaptic de- or regeneration (CSF-growth associated protein-43 (GAP-43)). We compared these CSF markers in 19 non-psychotic perpetrators of severe violent crimes undergoing pretrial forensic psychiatric investigation and 19 age- and sex-matched controls. Index subjects had significantly higher albumin ratios (p = 0.002), indicating abnormal vascular permeability as part of the complex CNS dysfunction previously reported in violent offenders. Axis I disorders, including substance abuse or current medication, did not explain this finding. Since Ig-indices, CSF-tau protein or CSF-GAP-43 were not increased, there was no support for inflammation or neuronal/synaptic degeneration as etiological factors to CNS dysfunction in this category of subjects.
Low serotonin activity in man has been related to impulsive, self-destructive violence but not to instrumental aggression aimed at dominance. A relationship has also been suggested between aggression and high catecholaminergic activity. Several studies have reported signs of aberrant dopaminergic function in attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, autism, and schizophrenia. In 22 violent offenders undergoing pretrial forensic psychiatric investigation, interpersonal and behavioral features of psychopathy, measured by the Psychopathy Checklist Revised (PCL-R), were significantly predicted by low cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of 5-HIAA and high CSF concentrations of HVA in multivariate regression models. CSF concentrations of MHPG did not contribute to the model. This seems to link the outward-directed aggression of psychopathy to serotonergic hypofunctioning and high dopamine turnover, which might account for disinhibition of destructive impulses.
In vitro studies have consistently demonstrated a link between cholinergic neurotransmission and amyloid precursor protein metabolism, although few studies have examined such a relationship in vivo and none have been conducted in primate species. The purpose of this study was to test the hypothesis that a reduction in cholinergic activity in neocortical and hippocampal areas consequent upon destruction of ascending cholinergic projections may lead to long-term changes in levels of amyloid precursor protein in these target areas in a primate species. The status of three synaptic proteins associated with neurotransmitter release, synaptophysin, syntaxin and SNAP-25, was also been examined. Selective immunolesions of the basal forebrain cholinergic projections led to increases in amyloid precursor protein-like immunoreactivity in hippocampus and cortex, measured 8 months postlesion. Furthermore, reductions in cortical and hippocampal SNAP-25, but not syntaxin or synaptophysin, immunoreactivity were observed. These results imply that the reduced cholinergic activity characteristic of Alzheimer's disease may contribute to the continuing emergence of neuropathology in addition to the well-known association with cognitive dysfunction.
There is increasing interest in the identification of biological markers for the early diagnosis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Previous studies indicate changes of dopamine content, tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity and dopamine receptors in peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBL) in PD. Here we demonstrate a reduction of dopamine transporter immunoreactivity in PBL in the early clinical stages of the disease. These findings contribute to our understanding of the peripheral dopamine system in PD.
The existence of an &quot;addiction memory&quot; (AM) and its importance in relapse occurrence and maintenance of learned addictive behaviour will be explained with neurobiological and clinical arguments. Because the human brain is an open learning system, which reveals its own neuronal connectivity through the experience of the perceived environment with its own state, the personal AM is interpreted as an individual acquired software disturbance in relation to selectively integrating &quot;feedback loops&quot; and &quot;comparator systems&quot; of neuronal information processing. This is in accordance with the experience that the AM and its specific cue reactivity can be activated at any time by relapse-endangering complex internal and/or external situations with cue stimulated craving. The AM becomes part of the personality represented on the molecular level via the neuronal level and the neuropsychological level, especially in the episodic memory. This neurobiological unchangeable imprinted addictive behaviour with &quot;loss of control&quot; and &quot;obsessive-compulsive craving&quot; was also found in a long-term learning model with rats (Wolffgramm). Identical homological phylogenetically old brain structures for learning mechanisms allow the comparison between human and animal behaviour. The AM seems to be a clinical-empirical proved reality. It is compatible with recently discussed results of neurosciences.
The initial scientification of psychiatry after the European discovery of psychotropic drugs via psychopharmacology and biological psychiatry has gradually ended in an impasse. As a result of at least four developments, psychiatry is re-orientating in a more dimensional and functional direction in order to adapt to the progress in the neurosciences. Rigid adherence to nosological systems should be replaced by a careful observation and description of psychopathology as well as a search for relevant psychological dysfunctions and their putative pathophysiological basis. Psychotropics have to be developed that do not suppress symptoms but promote potentially intact functions. Emphasis should be given to the brain mechanisms that are involved in habit formation and chronicity. Modern genetics will drive the discipline towards early intervention and prevention and will elucidate the relations between genetic disorders and the behavioural phenotype. The basis, however, remains clinical observation, dynamically reshaped by neuroscience.
Today, cognitive impairment can be successfully treated with acetylcholine esterase inhibitors (AChE-I) in many, but not all, patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). To investigate the relation between tacrine treatment, inheritance of ApoE epsilon4 alleles, and rate of progression, the differences in MMSE and CIBIC scores (efficacy parameters) after 6 and 12 months of tacrine (an AChE-I) treatment were investigated in 145 AD patients. Of these, 84 were ApoE epsilon4-positive (ApoE4) and 61 were ApoE epsilon4-negative (ApoE2-3). No differences were found after 6 months of treatment, but after 12 months the CIBIC scores revealed that the ApoE4 patients had declined more than the ApoE2-3 patients (p &lt; 0.05). No differences were found for the last 6 months of treatment. The results primarily suggest a faster rate of decline in the ApoE4 AD compared to the ApoE2-3, but may also reflect that ApoE epsilon4 genotype inheritance is a negative predictor of treatment effect of tacrine in AD patients.
Effect of prolonged pretreatment with serotonin (5-HT) on 5-HT2A receptor desensitization was examined by the measurement of intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i) mobilization in C6 cells. 5-HT-induced desensitization of [Ca2+]i mobilization was in a time and dose dependent manner and reached a plateau after 3 hr. After 1 and 3 hr 5-HT pretreatment, 5-HT concentration in the medium little changed. 5-HT pretreatment with cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor, produced an enhancement of the desensitization for 3 and 6 hr pretreatment. However, 5-HT pretreatment for 3 and 6 hr caused no marked change in the 5-HT2A receptor mRNA level or Galphaq/11 protein in this study, suggesting that 5-HT may decrease 5-HT-induced [Ca2+]i mobilization independent of 5-HT2A receptor mRNA or G-proteins. Endothelin-1-induced [Ca2+]i mobilization did not alter after 5-HT and/or cycloheximide pretreatment. These results showed that activation of the 5-HT2A receptor induced homologous desensitization and pretreatment with 5-HT and/or cycloheximide did not change the efficacy of the second messenger pathway from Gq to a [Ca2+]i rise.
The antiparkinsonian effects of the uncompetitive NMDA antagonists, memantine, amantadine and MK-801, in combination with an acute subthreshold dose of L-Dopa (5 mg/kg) in drug-naive MPTP-treated mice or a suprathreshold dose (20 mg/kg) in L-Dopa tolerant MPTP-treated mice were investigated. In the former case, memantine (locomotion: 3 mg/kg; rearing: 1 mg/kg) and amantadine (locomotion and rearing: 10 mg/kg) injected 60 min before the subthreshold dose of L-Dopa (5 mg/kg), each induced an antiparkinsonian action in hypokinesic MPTP-treated mice that consisted of dose-specific, as opposed to dose-related, elevations of locomotion and rearing behaviour. At the same time, higher doses of memantine reduced further the rearing (10 and 30 mg/kg) and locomotor (30mg/kg) behaviour of the MPTP-treated mice. MK-801 plus L-Dopa elevated locomotion (0.1 mg/kg) but reduced rearing at the 0.3 mg/kg dose. In control, saline-treated mice, memantine (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg) and MK-801 (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg) increased locomotor behaviour but decreased rearing behaviour, while amantadine produced no effects. Memantine increased locomotor (1 and 3 mg/kg, s.c.; 1 mg/kg dose restored activity) and rearing (0.3 and 3 mg/kg) activity in the L-Dopa tolerant MPTP-treated mice, whereas amantadine (3 and 10 mg/kg) restored both locomotor (30 mg/kg significantly increased locomotion but did not restore the activity level) and rearing (3 mg/kg only) activity. MK-801 (0.1 and 0.3 mg/kg, s.c.) also increased significantly locomotor activity of L-Dopa-tolerant MPTP mice although the antikinetic action was not reversed, thereby precluding a restorative effect of the compound. These results, demonstrating both a synergistic and a restorative effect of the NMDA antagonists in coadministration with L-Dopa, demonstrate a putative antiparkinson action by these compounds in a functional animal model that incorporates the &quot;wearing-off&quot; complications of L-Dopa administration in the disorder.

Dietary restriction (DR; reduced calorie intake) increases the lifespan of rodents and increases their resistance to cancer, diabetes and other age-related diseases. DR also exerts beneficial effects on the brain including enhanced learning and memory and increased resistance of neurons to excitotoxic, oxidative and metabolic insults. The mechanisms underlying the effects of DR on neuronal plasticity and survival are unknown. In the present study we show that levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are significantly increased in the hippocampus, cerebral cortex and striatum of mice maintained on an alternate day feeding DR regimen compared to animals fed ad libitum. Damage to hippocampal neurons induced by the excitotoxin kainic acid was significantly reduced in mice maintained on DR, and this neuroprotective effect was attenuated by intraventricular administration of a BDNF-blocking antibody. Our findings show that simply reducing food intake results in increased levels of BDNF in brain cells, and suggest that the resulting activation of BDNF signaling pathways plays a key role in the neuroprotective effect of DR. These results bolster accumulating evidence that DR may be an effective approach for increasing the resistance of the brain to damage and enhancing brain neuronal plasticity.
Acute exposure to 100 mM isotonic ethanol (EtOH) increased intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), induced cell swelling, and transformed actin cytoskeleton in astroglial primary cultures from rat cerebral cortex. Fluorometric recordings of fluo-3AM- or fura-2AM-incubated astroglial cells revealed that EtOH induced [Ca2+]i transients in a small population of the cells. Cell swelling was estimated using a new method based on three-dimensional fluorescence imaging in conjunction with image analysis and graphic visualization techniques. The method provides detailed results concerning the reformation of structural shape and specific volume alterations, as well as total proportions between the different states. Astroglial cell swelling was registered and quantified in 7 of 39 cells chosen from 12 different coverslips. EtOH also induced reversible conformational changes in filamentous actin, appearing as increases in ring formations and a more dispersed appearance of the filaments. Filamentous actin was stained with Alexa phalloidin after incubation with EtOH for varied periods. The results presented here suggest that EtOH affects astrocytes in a way that could be of physiological relevance.
Creatine and phosphocreatine were evaluated for their ability to prevent death of cultured striatal and hippocampal neurons exposed to either glutamate or 3-nitropropionic acid (3NP) and to inhibit the mitochondrial permeability transition in CNS mitochondria. Phosphocreatine (PCr), and to a lesser extent creatine (Cr), but not (5R,10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine hydrogen maleate (MK801), dose-dependently ameliorated 3NP toxicity when applied simultaneously with the 3NP in Mg2+-free media. Pre-treatment of PCr for 2 or 5 days and Cr for 5 days protected against glutamate excitotoxicity equivalent to that achieved by MK801 post-treatment. The combination of PCr or Cr pre-treatment and MK801 post-treatment did not provide additional protection, indicating that both prevented the toxicity attributable to secondary glutamate release. To determine if Cr or PCr directly inhibited the permeability transition, mitochondrial swelling and depolarization were assayed in isolated, purified brain mitochondria. PCr reduced the amount of swelling induced by calcium by 20%. Cr decreased mitochondrial swelling when inhibitors of creatine kinase octamer-dimer transition were present. However, in brain mitochondria prepared from rats fed a diet supplemented with 2% creatine for 2 weeks, the extent of calcium-induced mitochondrial swelling was not altered. Thus, the neuroprotective properties of PCr and Cr may reflect enhancement of cytoplasmic high-energy phosphates but not permeability transition inhibition.
The neuromodulator adenosine can be released as such, mainly activating inhibitory A1 receptors, or formed from released ATP, preferentially activating facilitatory A2A receptors. We tested if changes in extracellular adenosine metabolism paralleled changes in A1/A2A receptor neuromodulation in the aged rat hippocampus. The evoked release and extracellular catabolism of ATP were 49-55% lower in aged rats, but ecto-5'-nucleotidase activity, which forms adenosine, was 5-fold higher whereas adenosine uptake was decreased by 50% in aged rats. The evoked extracellular adenosine accumulation was 30% greater in aged rats and there was a greater contribution of the ecto-nucleotidase pathway and a lower contribution of adenosine transporters for extracellular adenosine formation in nerve terminals. Interestingly, a supramaximal concentration of an A1 receptor agonist, N6-cyclopentyladenosine (250 nM) was less efficient in inhibiting (17% in old versus 34% in young) and A2A receptor activation with 30 nM CGS21680 was more efficient in facilitating (63% in old versus no effect in young) acetylcholine release from hippocampal slices of aged compared with young rats. The parallel changes in the metabolic sources of extracellular adenosine and A1/A2A receptor neuromodulation in aged rats further strengthens the idea that different metabolic sources of extracellular adenosine are designed to preferentially activate different adenosine receptor subtypes.
Threonine(668) (thr(668)) within the carboxy-terminus of the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein (APP) is a known in vivo phosphorylation site. Phosphorylation of APPthr(668) is believed to regulate APP function and metabolism. Thr(668) precedes a proline, which suggests that it is targeted for phosphorylation by proline-directed kinase(s). We have investigated the ability of four major neuronally active proline-directed kinases, cyclin dependent protein kinase-5, glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta, p42 mitogen-activated protein kinase and stress-activated protein kinase-1b, to phosphorylate APPthr(668) and report here that SAPK1b induces robust phosphorylation of this site both in vitro and in vivo. This finding provides a molecular framework to link cellular stresses with APP metabolism in both normal and disease states.
Adenosine produces analgesia in the spinal cord and can be formed extracellularly through enzymatic conversion of adenine nucleotides. A transverse push-pull microprobe was developed and characterized to sample extracellular adenosine concentrations of the dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord. Samples collected via this sampling technique reveal that AMP is converted to adenosine in the dorsal horn. This conversion is decreased by the ecto-5'-nucleotidase inhibitor, alpha,beta-methylene ADP. Related behavioral studies demonstrate that AMP administered directly to the spinal cord can reverse the secondary mechanical hyperalgesia characteristic of the intradermal capsaicin model of inflammatory pain. The specific adenosine A(1) receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethylxanthine (CPT) inhibits the antihyperalgesia produced by AMP. This research introduces a novel microprobe that can be used as an adjunct sampling technique to microdialysis and push-pull cannulas. Furthermore, we conclude that AMP is converted to adenosine in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord by ecto-5'-nucleotidase and subsequently may be one source of adenosine, acting through adenosine A(1) receptors in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, which produce antihyperalgesia.
The mechanisms for neuronal survival in the CNS are not well understood, but are likely to be complex due to possible autocrine and redundant neurotrophic support. Most studies have focused on the nerve growth factor (NGF)/TrkA pathway in peripheral neurons, and little is known regarding the other neurotrophins, particularly neurotrophin-3 (NT3)/TrkC. Progress has also been hampered by the paucity of homogenous and accessible CNS neuronal experimental models. We now report that the novel catecholaminergic CNS cell line, CAD, is capable of autocrine survival mediated by NT3. The CAD cell is of CNS neuronal origin and can survive and morphologically differentiate in the absence of exogenously provided trophic factors. However, neutralizing reagents against NT3 (the neutralizing TrkC-IgG fusion protein and anti-NT3 antibodies), but not those that block the other neurotrophins, inhibited survival of differentiating CAD cells. Moreover, Trk phosphorylation was detected in CAD cells and its inhibition by K252a was correlated with K252a-induced apoptosis. Finally, endogenous NT3 was detectable in CAD cell extracts by a specific ELISA assay. Thus, CAD cells possess an autocrine survival capability mediated by NT3, and may provide a valuable model system for studying the signaling pathways that mediate the actions of this little understood neurotrophin.
Measurement of the proportion of calcium/calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase II (CaMPK-II) that is autonomously active or phosphorylated on Thr(286) is thought to provide an index of the degree to which CaMPK-II in a tissue has been activated. We have examined how various ways of handling hippocampal tissue can alter these properties. Both autonomous activity and phospho-Thr(286) content was high in freshly dissected hippocampus or freshly cut hippocampal slices. After incubation of hippocampal slices in artificial cerebrospinal fluid for 120 min, both properties of CaMPK-II decreased to a steady state level. Freeze-thaw or cutting the equilibrated slices could rapidly increase both autonomous activity and phospho-Thr(286) immunoreactivity of CaMPK-II. These increases were comparable to changes induced by experimental treatment. Therefore, our results suggest that considerable care needs to be taken over the way in which hippocampal slices are handled.
Myelination, during both normal development and with respect to disorders of myelination, is commonly studied by morphological and/or biochemical techniques that assay as their end-points the extent of myelination. The rate of myelination is potentially a more useful parameter, but it is difficult and time-consuming to establish, requiring a complete developmental study with labor-intensive methodology. We report herein development of methodology to assay the absolute rate of myelination at any desired time during development. This involves intraperitoneal injection of (3)H(2)O to label body water pools, followed by determination of label in the myelin-specific lipid, cerebroside. The absolute amount of cerebroside synthesized can then be calculated from the specific radioactivity of body water and knowledge of the number of hydrogens from water incorporated into cerebroside. During development, the rate of cerebroside synthesis correlated well with the rate of accumulation of the myelin-specific components, myelin basic protein and cerebroside. For purposes of control, we also tested other putative, albeit less quantitative, indices of the rate of myelination. Levels of mRNA for ceramide galactosyltransferase (rate-limiting enzyme in cerebroside synthesis) and for myelin basic protein did not closely correlate with myelination at all times. Cholesterol synthesis closely matched the rate of cholesterol accumulation but did not track well with myelination. Synthesis of fatty acids did not correlate well with accumulation of either fatty acids (phospholipids) or myelin markers. We conclude that measurement of cerebroside synthesis rates provides a good measure of the rate of myelination. This approach may be useful as an additional parameter for examining the effects of environmental or genetic alterations on the rate of myelination.
Excessive glutamatergic neurotransmission, particularly when mediated by the N:-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor, is thought to underlie neuronal death in a number of neurological disorders. Histamine has been reported to potentiate NMDA receptor-mediated events under a variety of conditions. In the present study we have utilized primary hippocampal neurone cultures to investigate the effect of mast cell-derived, as well as exogenously applied, histamine on neurotoxicity evoked by excessive synaptic activity. Exposure of mature cultures for 15 min to an Mg(2+)-free/glycine-containing buffer to trigger synaptic transmission through NMDA receptors, caused a 30-35% neuronal loss over 24 h. When co-cultured with hippocampal neurones, activated mast cells increased excitotoxic injury to 60%, an effect that was abolished in the presence of histaminase. Similarly, addition of histamine during magnesium deprivation produced a concentration-dependent potentiation (+ 60%; EC(50) : 5 microM) of neuronal death which was inhibited by sodium channel blockers and NMDA receptor antagonists, although this effect did not involve known histamine receptors. The histamine effect was further potentiated by acidification of the culture medium. Cultures 'preconditioned' by sublethal (5 min) Mg(2+) deprivation exhibited less neuronal death than controls when exposed to a more severe insult. NMDA receptor activation and the extracellular regulated kinase cascade were required for preconditioning neuroprotection. The finding that histamine potentiates NMDA receptor-mediated excitotoxicity may have important implications for our understanding of conditions where enhanced glutamatergic neurotransmission is observed in conjunction with tissue acidification, such as cerebral ischaemia and epilepsy.
Neuronal apoptosis is considered to play a significant role in several neuropathological conditions. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying neuronal apoptosis are poorly understood. Insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signalling is considered to be an important regulator of neuronal differentiation, survival and apoptosis. We have examined the expression of two members of the IGF system, insulin-like growth factor binding protein 5 (IGFBP-5) and the type-1 IGF receptor (IGF1R), during apoptosis of rat cerebellar granule cells (CGCs) in vitro. We describe a prominent downregulation of IGFBP-5 mRNA and protein expression. We also show that IGF-I increases IGFBP-5 expression in CGCs and that the downregulation of IGFBP-5 mRNA can be suppressed by inhibiting mRNA synthesis with actinomycin D. The expression of IGF1R mRNA showed a transient upregulation during potassium chloride (KCl) deprivation induced apoptosis, in contrast to the IGF1R protein level, which was downregulated during KCl deprivation. Our results provide insight into the expression of IGF-related genes during neuronal apoptosis, and indicate that they mediate a protective response to the withdrawal of trophic stimulation. It seems that the expression of IGFBP-5 and IGF1R is regulated to maximize the availability of IGF and the activity of IGF-triggered survival signalling.
The mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAP kinase, MAPK) cascade, as the name implies, was originally discovered as a critical regulator of cell division and differentiation. As further details of this signaling cascade were worked out, it became clear that the MAPK cascade is in fact a prototype for a family of signaling cascades that share the motif of three serially linked kinases regulating each other by sequential phosphorylation. Thus, a revised nomenclature arose that uses the term MAPK to refer to the entire superfamily of signaling cascades (comprising the erks, the JNKs and the p38 stress activated protein kinases), and specifies the prototype MAPK as the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (erk). The two erk MAPK isoforms, p44 MAPK and p42 MAPK, are referred to as erk1 and erk2, respectively. The erks are abundantly expressed in neurons in the mature central nervous system, raising the question of why the prototype molecular regulators of cell division and differentiation are present in these non-dividing, terminally differentiated neurons. This review will describe the beginnings of an answer to this question. Interestingly, the general model has begun to emerge that the erk signaling system has been co-opted in mature neurons to function in synaptic plasticity and memory. Moreover, recent insights have led to the intriguing prospect that these molecules serve as biochemical signal integrators and molecular coincidence detectors for coordinating responses to extracellular signals in neurons. In this review I will first outline the essential components of this signal transduction cascade, and briefly describe recent results implicating the erks in mammalian synaptic plasticity and learning. I will then proceed to outline recent results implicating the erks as molecular signal integrators and, potentially, coincidence detectors. Finally, I will speculate on what the critical downstream effectors of the erks are in neurons, and how they might provide a readout of the integrated signal.
This study examined the role of the posterodorsal medial amygdala (MePD) in the control of prolactin secretion in gonadally intact female rats 20 min after mating, during the oestrous cycle, and during early pregnancy/pseudopregnancy (P/PSP). Cycling females received bilateral infusions of an excitotoxic dose of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) or vehicle into the MePD. Two to 4 weeks later, they were surgically implanted with intra-atrial catheters for repeated blood sampling and were mated on the evening of proestrus until receiving 5, 10, 15 or 20 intromissions or 15 mounts-without-intromission (MO) from males. The percentages of rats becoming P/PSP increased as a function of numbers of intromissions received. All groups receiving intromissions showed similar approximately four-fold increases in plasma prolactin concentrations 20 min after mating, while MO rats showed no increase at this time. There was no effect of NMDA lesion on this acute secretory response. Among rats that continued cycling, bilateral MePD lesion completely abolished the diurnal preovulatory prolactin surge, while incomplete and sham lesions did not. In rats that subsequently became P/PSP, bilateral lesion of the MePD resulted in dampening of prolactin concentrations at all sampling times 6-7 days after mating, while incomplete or sham lesions did not alter prolactin secretion at these times. These results demonstrate that the MePD is selectively important for the secretion of prolactin on the afternoon of proestrus and that this structure may also modulate prolactin release in P/PSP rats. Activity within MePD neurones does not appear to be required for the acute prolactin response to vaginocervical stimulation which occurs within minutes after mating.

The early-onset myasthenia gravis (EOMG) thymus shows characteristic medullary epithelial bands (MEB), greatly expanded perivascular infiltrates and fenestrations of the intervening basement membranes. We now compare epithelial expression of epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) and many integrins in EOMG and control samples. The main differences are striking/consistent thickening (in MEB) of what is normally a monolayer of perivascular epithelium, with focal protrusion into the infiltrates. This evidently hyperplastic epithelial subpopulation also strongly expresses EGFR and certain integrins. We suggest that its enhanced interactions with the locally increased extracellular matrix protein deposits may play an important role in autosensitization.
Several studies have established a role for interferon beta (IFNbeta) as a treatment for relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS). IFNbeta has been reported to decrease the relapse rate, relapse severity, progression of disability and development of new brain lesions. Its mechanisms of action, however, remain unclear. We hypothesize that immunomodulatory effects of IFNbeta may underlie its clinical efficacy. We used intracellular cytokine flow cytometry to analyze the effects of IFNbeta-1a on expression of the anti-inflammatory cytokine, IL-10, and its effects on major co-stimulatory molecules in MS patients. We found that peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) produced more IL-10 following in vitro or in vivo treatment with IFNbeta-1a. The primary cellular sources of IL-10 were monocytes and CD4(+) T lymphocytes. IL-10 production in response to IFNbeta-1a was increased in unseparated PBMC compared to purified lymphocyte cultures, indicating that interaction between monocytes and lymphocytes may influence IL-10 production in response to IFNbeta-1a. Using flow cytometry, we monitored the ex vivo expression of two major co-stimulatory pairs-B7/CD28 and CD40/CD40L-before and after intramuscular IFNbeta-1a treatment of MS patients. IFNbeta-1a lowered the expression of B7.1 on circulating B cells and increased B7.2 expression on monocytes. CD40 expression on B cells was down-regulated, but CD40 on monocytes was up-regulated by IFNbeta-1a treatment. These data suggest that co-stimulatory molecules are modulated by IFNbeta, providing a possible mechanism for its in vivo immune regulatory effects.
It was previously found that herpes simplex type 1 virus (HSV1) when present in the brain, is a risk factor for Alzheimer's disease in carriers of the type 4 allele of the gene for apolipoprotein E (apoE epsilon4), and apoE epsilon4 is a risk factor for herpes labialis. Whether a specific allele of the gene is involved in susceptibility to another disorder caused by HSV1-herpes simplex encephalitis (HSE)-has now been investigated. DNA was prepared from formalin-fixed, paraffin-embedded blocks of specimens from the brain or spleen of 14 United Kingdom patients with HSE, confirmed by necropsy, and from the CSF of seven United Kingdom clinical patients with HSV1 in their CSF detected by polymerase chain reaction (PCR). ApoE genotype of the DNA from blocks was determined by seminested PCR, and of the DNA from CSF by one step PCR, followed by restriction endonuclease digestion. The apoE allele frequencies were compared with values previously obtained for 238 normal people from the United Kingdom. The apoE epsilon2 allele frequency of the patients with HSE was 26%, significantly higher than the value of 7% for the normal subjects (OR=4.6, 95% confidence interval (95% CI) 2. 0-10.8). The apoE epsilon3 and epsilon4 allele frequencies did not differ significantly between the two groups. Thus, it seems that apoE epsilon2 is a risk factor for HSE.

Diabetes mellitus can lead to functional and structural deficits in both the peripheral and central nervous system. The pathogenesis of these deficits is multifactorial, probably involving, among others, microvascular dysfunction and oxidative stress. The present study examined the effects of 12 weeks of treatment with a conjugate of the essential fatty acid gamma-linolenic acid and the anti-oxidant alpha-lipoic acid (GLA-LA) on functional deficits in the peripheral and central nervous system in streptozotocin-diabetic rats. Treatment was initiated 16 weeks after diabetes induction. Sciatic nerve motor and sensory conduction velocity, brainstem auditory evoked potentials and visual evoked potentials were measured in control, untreated and GLA-LA treated diabetic rats. Also, long-term potentiation, a form of synaptic plasticity used as a model for learning and memory at the cellular level, was examined in hippocampal slices. GLA-LA treatment (50 mg/kg/day) did not reverse established deficits in nerve conduction velocity or in evoked potential latencies in diabetic rats. However, GLA-LA treatment did improve long-term potentiation in the hippocampus. It is concluded that GLA-LA, which is known to improve early deficits in peripheral nerve conduction in diabetic rats, is unable to reverse late deficits. However, the compound does reverse established deficits in long-term potentiation, suggesting that at least part of its activity is specifically directed at synaptic plasticity.
A long-term follow-up study was made of three patients with cerebrotendinous xanthomatosis (CTX) associated with parkinsonism, two of whom were siblings. Besides typical CTX symptoms, all three patients showed severe parkinsonism. This observation has been rarely reported in CTX. The fact that the two siblings showed parkinsonism strongly suggests the genetic propensity to parkinsonism in these CTX patients. Positron emission tomography studies of the two patients revealed presynaptic dysfunction of the nigro-striatal dopaminergic system. Treatment with the reductase inhibitor hydroxymethyl glutaryl coenzyme successfully corrected the serum cholestanol level in the early stage of the disease, which, however, did not arrest the progression of clinical symptoms, particularly their parkinsonism. Clinically, levodopa had a little effect on parkinsonism, whereas an antihistamine drug, diphenylpyraline hydrochloride (DPP) had excellent effects on all three patients throughout the long-term follow up. The mechanism of the action of DPP on parkinsonism is unclear, however, the drug seems to be a therapeutic choice for treating parkinsonism in CTX.
Niemann-Pick disease type C (NPC) is a lethal neurologic storage disorder of children most often caused by a defect in the protein NPC1. To better understand the disease we thoroughly characterized the cellular and morphological alterations occurring in murine, feline, and human NPC. Using immunocytochemistry and filipin histochemistry we show that both gangliosides and unesterified cholesterol are differentially stored in neurons of the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, and hippocampus, as well as in liver. Double fluorescence labeling revealed that GM2 ganglioside and unesterified cholesterol were partially co-localized in vesicular structures, and triple fluorescence labeling utilizing a LAMP-1 antibody identified many of these organelles as part of the late endosomal/lysosomal pathway. These observations, coupled with the proposed role of NPC1 in intracellular cholesterol movement, suggest that GM3 and GM2 gangliosides as well as unesterified cholesterol may be retrogradely cleared from late endosomes/lysosomes by an NPC1-dependent mechanism. Cellular consequences of the NPC metabolic defect as shown by parvalbumin immunocytochemistry and rapid Golgi staining, respectively, revealed characteristic axonal spheroids on GABAergic neurons and ectopic dendritogenesis that followed a species-specific gradient of: mouse &lt; feline &lt; human. These studies suggest that the homeostatic regulation of gangliosides and cholesterol in neurons is mediated by NPC1 and that perturbations in this mechanism cause a complex neuronal storage disorder.
An in vitro investigation was undertaken to study the roles of Na+ and Cl- in mammalian spinal cord (SC) neuron deterioration and death after injury involving physical disruption of the plasma membrane. Individual SC neurons in monolayer cultures were subjected to UV laser microbeam transection of a primary dendrite. Neurons lesioned in modified ionic environments (MIEs) where 50%-75% of the NaCl was replaced with sucrose had higher survival (65%-75%) than neurons lesioned in medium with normal (125 mM) NaCl (28%; p &lt; 0.001). Subsequent experiments found a comparable increase in lesioned neuron survival in MIEs in which only Na+ was replaced with specific ionic substitutes; however, replacement of Cl- was not protective. Electron microscope examinations of neurons fixed &lt;16 min after lesioning showed a dramatic decrease in vesiculation of the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus in the low NaCl or low Na+ MIEs. It is hypothesized that Na+ entry after membrane disruption may stimulate elevation of [Ca+2]i leading to ultrastructural disruption and death of injured neurons. The results of these studies suggest that a low NaCl MIE may be useful as an irrigant to limit damage spread and cell death within CNS tissues during surgery or after trauma.
The subthalamic nucleus (STN) has come under focus in Parkinson disease (PD) because of recent advances in the understanding of the functional organization of the basal ganglia in normal and pathological conditions. Manipulations of the STN have been described to compensate for some imbalance in motor output of the basal ganglia in animal models of PD and have been proposed as a potential therapeutic target in humans. Indeed, high frequency stimulation (HFS) (130 Hz) of the STN has beneficial effects in severe parkinsonian patients but the precise mechanisms underlying these clinical results remain to be elucidated. To date, very little is known concerning the effect of HFS-STN on striatal dopaminergic transmission. Since it has been reported that dopaminergic medication may be reduced in PD patients under HFS-STN, our goal was to study the effect of HFS-STN on striatal dopamine (DA) transmission by using intracerebral microdialysis in normal and partially DA denervated rats. Our results show that HFS STN induces a significant increase of extracellular DA in the striatum of normal and partially DA lesioned rats while striatal extracellular levels of DOPAC were not affected. We conclude that HFS-STN acts directly and/or indirectly on striatal DA levels in control or partially DA lesioned rats.
The magnitude of postsynaptic Ca(2+) transients is thought to affect activity-dependent synaptic plasticity associated with learning and memory. Large Ca(2+) transients have been implicated in the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP), while smaller Ca(2+) transients have been associated with long-term depression (LTD). However, a direct relationship has not been demonstrated between Ca(2+) measurements and direction of synaptic plasticity in the same cells, using one induction protocol. Here, we used glutamate iontophoresis to induce Ca(2+) transients in hippocampal CA1 neurons injected with the Ca(2+)-indicator fura-2. Test stimulation of one or two synaptic pathways before and after iontophoresis showed that the direction of synaptic plasticity correlated with glutamate-induced Ca(2+) levels above a threshold, below which no plasticity occurred (approximately 180 nM). Relatively low Ca(2+) levels (180-500 nM) typically led to LTD of synaptic transmission and higher levels (&gt;500 nM) often led to LTP. Failure to show plasticity correlated with Ca(2+) levels in two distinct ranges: &lt;180 nM and approximately 450-600 nM, while only LTD occurred between these ranges. Our data support a class of models in which failure of Ca(2+) transients to affect transmission may arise either from insufficient Ca(2+) to affect Ca(2+)-sensitive proteins regulating synaptic strength through opposing activities or from higher Ca(2+) levels that reset activities of such proteins without affecting the net balance of activities. Our estimates of the threshold Ca(2+) level for LTD (approximately 180 nM) and for the transition from LTD to LTP (approximately 540 nM) may assist in constraining the molecular details of such models.
Platelet-activating factor (PAF), a bioactive lipid (1-O-alkyl-2-acetyl-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine) derived from phospholipase A(2) and other pathways, has been implicated in neural plasticity and memory formation. Long-term potentiation (LTP) can be induced by the application of PAF and blocked by a PAF receptor (PAF-R) inhibitor in the hippocampal CA1 and dentate gyrus. To further investigate the role of PAF in synaptic plasticity, we compared LTP in dentate granule cells from hippocampal slices of adult mice deficient in the PAF-R and their age-matched wild-type littermates. Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were made in the current-clamp mode. LTP in the perforant path was induced by a high-frequency stimulation (HFS) and defined as &gt;20% increase above baseline of the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) from 26 to 30 min after HFS. HFS-induced enhancement of the EPSP amplitude was attenuated in cells from the PAF-R-deficient mice (163 +/- 14%, mean +/- SE; n = 32) when compared with that in wild-type mice (219 +/- 17%, n = 32). The incidence of LTP induction was also lower in the cells from the deficient mice (72%, 23 of 32 cells) than in the wild-type mice (91%, 29 of 32 cells). Using paired-pulse facilitation as a synaptic pathway discrimination, it appeared that there were differences in LTP magnitudes in the lateral perforant path but not in the medial perforant path between the two groups. BN52021 (5 microM), a PAF synaptosomal receptor antagonist, reduced LTP in the lateral path in the wild-type mice. However, neither BN52021, nor BN50730 (5 microM), a microsomal PAF-R antagonist, reduced LTP in the lateral perforant path in the receptor-deficient mice. These data provide evidence that PAF-R-deficient mice are a useful model to study LTP in the dentate gyrus and support the notion that PAF actively participates in hippocampal synaptic plasticity.
Postsynaptic currents were studied by whole cell recordings in visually identified large neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei (DCN) in slices of 4- to 11-day-old mice. Spontaneous postsynaptic currents were abolished by the GABA(A) receptor antagonist bicuculline and had a single-exponential decay with a mean time constant of 13.6 +/- 3.2 (SD) ms. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) were evoked in 48/56 neurons recorded. The addition of AMPA and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists together completely abolished all synaptic responses. In 1 mM [Mg(2+)](o) and at a holding potential of -60 mV, the peak amplitude of the NMDA component of the EPSC (NMDA-EPSC) was 83.2 +/- 21.2% of the AMPA component (AMPA-EPSC). This indicates that in DCN neurons, at a physiological [Mg(2+)](o) and at the resting membrane potential, NMDA receptors contribute to the synaptic signal. AMPA-EPSCs had a linear current-voltage relationship with a reversal potential of +2.3 +/- 0.4 mV and a single-exponential decay with a voltage-dependent time constant that at -60 mV was 7.1 +/- 3.3 ms. In 10 microM glycine and 1 mM [Mg(2+)](o), the I-V relationship of NMDA-EPSCs had a reversal potential of -0.5 +/- 3.3 mV and a maximal inward current at -33.4 +/- 5.8 mV. The apparent dissociation constant (K(D)) of Mg(2+) for the NMDA receptor-channel at -60 mV, measured by varying [Mg(2+)](o), was 135.5 +/- 55.3 microM, and when measured by fitting the I-V curves with a theoretical function, it was 169.9 +/- 119.5 microM. Thus in the DCN, NMDA receptors have a sensitivity to Mg(2+) that corresponds to subunits that are weakly blocked by this ion (epsilon 3 and epsilon 4) of which the DCN express epsilon 4. NMDA-EPSCs had a double-exponential decay with voltage-dependent time constants that at -60 mV were 20.2 +/- 8.9 and 136.4 +/- 62.8 ms. At positive voltages, the time constants were slower and their contributions were about equal, while in the negative slope conductance region of the I-V curve, the faster time constant became predominant, conferring faster kinetics to the EPSC. The weak sensitivity to Mg(2+) of NMDA receptors, together with a relatively fast kinetics, provide DCN neurons with strong excitatory inputs in which fast dynamic signals are relatively well preserved.
Standard patch-clamp and intracellular recording techniques were used to monitor membrane excitability changes in adult inferior vagal ganglion neurons (nodose ganglion neurons, NGNs) 5 days following section of the vagus nerve (vagotomy). NGNs were maintained in vivo for 5 days following vagotomy, and then in vitro for 2-9 h prior to recording. Vagotomy increased action potential (AP) threshold by over 200% (264 +/- 19 pA, mean +/- SE, n = 66) compared with control values (81 +/- 20 pA, n = 68; P &lt; 0.001). The number of APs evoked by a 3 times threshold 750-ms depolarizing current decreased by &gt;70% (from 8.3 to 2.3 APs, P &lt; 0.001) and the number of APs evoked by a standardized series of (0.1-0.9 nA, 750 ms) depolarizing current steps decreased by over 80% (from 16.9 APs to 2.6 APs, P &lt; 0.001) in vagotomized NGNs. Similar decreases in excitability were observed in vagotomized NGNs in intact ganglia in vitro studied with &quot;sharp&quot; microelectrode techniques. Baseline electrophysiological properties and changes following vagotomy were similar in right and left NGNs. A &quot;sham&quot; vagotomy procedure had no effect on NGN properties at 5 days, indicating that changes were due to severing the vagus nerve itself, not surrounding tissue damage. NGNs isolated after being maintained 17 h in vivo following vagotomy revealed no differences in excitability, suggesting that vagotomy-induced changes occur some time from 1-5 days after injury. Decreased excitability was still observed in NGNs isolated after 20-21 days in vivo following vagotomy. These data indicate that, in contrast to many primary sensory neurons that are thought to become hyperexcitable following section of their axons, NGNs undergo a marked decrease in electrical excitability following vagotomy.
In the isolated lamprey spinal cord, a very slow rhythm (0.03-0.11 Hz), superimposed on fast N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced locomotor activity (0.26-2.98 Hz), could be induced by a blockade of GABA(A) or glycine receptors or by administration of (1 s, 3 s)-l-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid a metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist. Ventral root branches supplying dorsal and ventral myotomes were exposed bilaterally to study the motor pattern in detail. The slow rhythm was expressed in two main forms: 1) a dorsal-ventral reciprocal pattern was the most common (18 of 24 preparations), in which bilateral dorsal branches were synchronous and alternated with the ventral branches, in two additional cases a diagonal dorsal-ventral reciprocal pattern with alternation between the left (or right) dorsal and the right (or left) ventral branches was observed; 2) synchronous bursting in all branches was encountered in four cases. In contrast, the fast locomotor rhythm occurred always in a left-right reciprocal pattern. Thus when the slow rhythm appeared in a dorsal-ventral reciprocal pattern, fast rhythms would simultaneously display left-right alternation. A longitudinal midline section of the spinal cord during ongoing slow bursting abolished the reciprocal pattern between ipsilateral dorsal and ventral branches but a synchronous burst activity could still remain. The fast swimming rhythm did not recover after the midline section. These results suggest that in addition to the network generating the swimming rhythm in the lamprey spinal cord, there is also a network providing slow reciprocal alternation between dorsal and ventral parts of the myotome. During steering, a selective activation of dorsal and ventral myotomes is required and the neural network generating the slow rhythm may represent activity in the spinal machinery used for steering.
&quot;Place&quot; cells of the rat hippocampus are coupled to &quot;head direction&quot; cells of the thalamus and limbic cortex. Head direction cells are sensitive to head direction in the horizontal plane only, which leads to the question of whether place cells similarly encode locations in the horizontal plane only, ignoring the z axis, or whether they encode locations in three dimensions. This question was addressed by recording from ensembles of CA1 pyramidal cells while rats traversed a rectangular track that could be tilted and rotated to different three-dimensional orientations. Cells were analyzed to determine whether their firing was bound to the external, three-dimensional cues of the environment, to the two-dimensional rectangular surface, or to some combination of these cues. Tilting the track 45 degrees generally provoked a partial remapping of the rectangular surface in that some cells maintained their place fields, whereas other cells either gained new place fields, lost existing fields, or changed their firing locations arbitrarily. When the tilted track was rotated relative to the distal landmarks, most place fields remapped, but a number of cells maintained the same place field relative to the x-y coordinate frame of the laboratory, ignoring the z axis. No more cells were bound to the local reference frame of the recording apparatus than would be predicted by chance. The partial remapping demonstrated that the place cell system was sensitive to the three-dimensional manipulations of the recording apparatus. Nonetheless the results were not consistent with an explicit three-dimensional tuning of individual hippocampal neurons nor were they consistent with a model in which different sets of cells are tightly coupled to different sets of environmental cues. The results are most consistent with the statement that hippocampal neurons can change their &quot;tuning functions&quot; in arbitrary ways when features of the sensory input or behavioral context are altered. Understanding the rules that govern the remapping phenomenon holds promise for deciphering the neural circuitry underlying hippocampal function.
Electrical correlates of differential appetitive classical conditioning were recorded in the neural network that underlies feeding in the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. In spaced training (15 trials over 3 days), the lips and the tentacle were used as CS+ (reinforced conditioned stimulus) or CS- (nonreinforced conditioned stimulus) sites for behavioral tactile conditioning. In one group of experimental animals, touch to the lips (the CS+ site) was followed by sucrose (the unconditioned stimulus, US), but touch to the tentacle (the CS- site) was not reinforced. In a second experimental group the CS+/CS- sites were reversed. Semi-intact lip-tentacle-CNS preparations were made from both experimental groups and a naive control group. Intracellular recordings were made from the B3 motor neuron of the feeding network, which allowed the monitoring of activity in the feeding central pattern generator (CPG) interneurons as well as early synaptic inputs evoked by the touch stimulus. Following successful behavioral conditioning, the touch stimulus evoked CPG-driven fictive feeding activity at the CS+ but not the CS- sites in both experimental groups. Naive snails/preparations showed no touch responses. A weak asymmetrical stimulus generalization of conditioned feeding was not retained at the electrophysiological level. An early excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) response to touch was only enhanced following conditioning in the Lip CS+/tentacle CS- group but not in the Tentacle CS+/lip CS- group. The results show that the main features of differential appetitive classical conditioning can be recorded at the electrophysiological level, but some characteristics of the conditioned response are selectively expressed in the reduced preparation.
Shaker-type K-channel alpha-subunits (SqKv1A, B, D) expressed in neurons of the squid stellate ganglion differ in the length of their N-termini and in the species of amino acid present at several points in the T1 domain, an intracellular region involved in the tetramerization process during channel assembly. Heterologous expression of wild-type SqKv1A, B, and D in Xenopus oocytes reveals large differences in the level of both functional channels (assayed by whole-oocyte voltage clamp) and total channel protein (assayed by immunoblotting). Functional expression is poorest with SqKv1A and by far the best with SqKv1D. Biophysical properties of the three SqKv1 channels are essentially identical (assayed by cell-attached patch clamp). Site-directed mutagenesis was used to determine whether the observed differences in expression level are impacted by two residues in the T1 domain at which SqKv1A and B (but not D) differ from the consensus sequences found in many other taxa. In SqKv1A, glycine is substituted for arginine in an otherwise universally conserved sequence (FFDR in the T1(B) subdomain). In SqKv1B, glycine replaces serine in a sequence that is conserved within the Kv1 subfamily (SGLR in the T1(A) subdomain). Restoration of the consensus amino acid at these positions largely accounts for the observed differences in expression level. Analysis of the glycosylation state of aberrant versus restored alpha-subunits suggests that the anomalous amino acids in SqKv1A and B exert their influence during early steps in channel processing and assembly which take place in the endoplasmic reticulum (ER).
Neuron loss, axon sprouting, and the formation of new synaptic circuits have been hypothesized to contribute to seizures in temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). Using the kainate-treated rat, we examined how alterations in the density of CA1 pyramidal cells and interneurons, and subsequent sprouting of CA1 pyramidal cell axons, were temporally associated with functional changes in the network properties of the CA1 area. Control rats were compared with animals during the first week after kainate treatment versus several weeks after treatment. The density of CA1 pyramidal cells and putative inhibitory neurons in stratum oriens was reduced within 8 days after kainate treatment. Axon branching of CA1 pyramidal cells was similar between controls and animals examined in the first week after kainate treatment but was increased several weeks after kainate treatment. Stimulation of afferent fibers in brain slices containing the isolated CA1 region produced graded responses in slices from controls and kainate-treated rats tested &lt;8 days after treatment. In contrast, synchronous all-or-none bursts of spikes at low stimulus intensity (i.e., &quot;network bursts&quot;) were only observed in the CA1 several weeks after kainate treatment. In the presence of bicuculline, the duration of evoked bursts was significantly longer in CA1 pyramidal cells weeks after kainate treatment than from controls or those examined in the first week posttreatment. Spontaneous network bursts were also observed in the isolated CA1 several weeks after kainate treatment in bicuculline-treated slices. The data suggest that the early loss of neurons directly associated with kainate-induced status epilepticus is followed by increased axon sprouting and new recurrent excitatory circuits in CA1 pyramidal cells. These changes characterize the transition from the initial acute effects of the kainate-induced insult to the eventual development of all-or-none epileptiform discharges in the CA1 area.
DARPP-32 (dopamine and adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein, 32 kDa) is an important component of dopaminergic function in brain areas thought to be important for drug and alcohol addiction. The present experiments characterized the acquisition of ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion, ethanol-induced conditioned place preference, and ethanol self-administration in DARPP-32 knock-out (KO) mice compared to wild-type (WT) controls. For taste conditioning, KO and WT mice received access to 0.2 m NaCl solution followed immediately by intraperitoneal injection of 0-4 gm/kg ethanol. Ethanol produced dose-dependent conditioned taste aversion that was the same in both genotypes. For place conditioning, KO and WT mice received eight pairings of a tactile stimulus with ethanol (2 gm/kg, i.p.), and a different stimulus with saline. Ethanol produced increases in locomotor activity during conditioning, with KO mice showing higher activity levels after ethanol compared to WT mice. WT mice, but not KO mice, acquired conditioned preference for the ethanol-paired stimulus. In the self-administration procedure, KO and WT mice were trained to lever press for access to 10% v/v ethanol. Subsequently, the mice had 23 hr/d access to food, ethanol, and water. Response patterns were determined using 0-30% v/v ethanol concentrations. WT mice displayed concentration-dependent responding for ethanol. Responding on the ethanol lever by KO mice did not change as a function of ethanol concentration. Saccharin (0.2% w/v) was subsequently added to the ethanol mixture, and responding was examined at 0, 5, 10, and 20% ethanol concentrations. Ethanol responding increased in both genotypes, although WT mice showed higher rates at all concentrations.
Dopamine is known to regulate several behavioral phenomena, including sensorimotor gating and aspects of motor activity. The roles of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors in these behaviors have been documented in the rat literature, but few reports exist on their role in mice. We used dopamine transporter (DAT) (-/-) mice to examine the behavioral consequences of a chronically hyperdopaminergic state, challenging them with the preferential dopamine D2 receptor antagonist raclopride and D1 receptor antagonist SCH23390. At baseline, DAT (-/-) mice exhibited deficient sensorimotor gating as measured by prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle response, exhibited nonfocal preservative patterns of locomotion, and were hyperactive in a novel environment. Pretreatment with raclopride significantly increased PPI in the DAT (-/-) mice, whereas SCH23390 had no significant effect. Blockade of D2 receptors did not affect the predominantly straight patterns of motor behavior produced by the DAT (-/-) mice, but antagonism of D1 receptors significantly attenuated the preservative patterns, producing more of a meandering behavior seen in the DAT (+/+) control mice. Both D1 and D2 receptor antagonists decreased the hyperactivity seen in the DAT (-/-) mice. These findings support the role of the D2, but not the D1, receptor in the modulation of PPI in mice. Furthermore, D1 receptor activation appears to be the critical substrate for the expression of preservative patterns of motor behavior, whereas both D1 and D2 receptors appear to regulate the amount of motor activity.
Intersensory temporal synchrony is an ubiquitous sensory attribute that has proven to be critical for binding multisensory inputs, sometimes erroneously leading to dramatic perceptual illusions. However, little is known about how the brain detects temporal synchrony between multimodal sensory inputs. We used positron emission tomography to demonstrate that detecting auditory-visual stimulus onset asynchrony activates a large-scale neural network of insular, posterior parietal, prefrontal, and cerebellar areas with the highest and task-specific activity localized to the right insula. Interregional covariance analysis further showed significant task-related functional interactions between the insula, the posterior thalamus, and superior colliculus. Based on these results and the available electrophysiological and anatomical connectivity data in animals, we propose that the insula, via its known short-latency connections with the tectal system, mediates temporally defined auditory-visual interaction at an early stage of cortical processing permitting phenomena such as the ventriloquist and the McGurk illusions.
Activity-dependent attenuations in extracellular spike amplitude have been shown to correlate with a decrease in the effectiveness with which somatic action potentials back-propagate into the dendritic arbor of hippocampal pyramidal cells. In this paper we demonstrate that activity-dependent attenuations in amplitude occur during behavior and that the amount of attenuation is reduced with an animal's experience in an environment. The observed reductions are caused by an animal's experience within a specific environmental context, are dependent on functional NMDA receptors, and are accompanied by an increase in the effective coupling of pyramidal cells and interneurons. These results provide an important step in linking together in vivo studies with in vitro data and suggest that mechanisms of plasticity engaged during behavior may be sufficient to alter the biophysical and integrative properties of hippocampal pyramidal cells.
In Drosophila photoreceptors the multivalent PDZ protein INAD organizes the phototransduction cascade into a macromolecular signaling complex containing the effector PLC, the light-activated TRP channels, and a regulatory PKC. Previously, we showed that the subcellular localization of INAD signaling complexes is critical for signaling. Now we have examined how INAD complexes are anchored and assembled in photoreceptor cells. We find that trp mutants, or transgenic flies expressing inaD alleles that disrupt the interaction between INAD and TRP, cause the mislocalization of the entire transduction complex. The INAD-TRP interaction is not required for targeting but rather for anchoring of complexes, because INAD and TRP can be targeted independently of each other. We also show that, in addition to its scaffold role, INAD functions to preassemble transduction complexes. Preassembly of signaling complexes helps to ensure that transduction complexes with the appropriate composition end up in the proper location. This may be a general mechanism used by cells to target different signaling machinery to the pertinent subcellular location.
Voltage-gated ion channels localized to dendritic membranes can shape signal processing in central neurons. This study describes the distribution and functional role of a high voltage-activating K(+) channel in the electrosensory lobe (ELL) of an apteronotid weakly electric fish. We identify a homolog of the Kv3.3 K(+) channel, AptKv3.3, that exhibits a high density of mRNA expression and immunolabel that is distributed over the entire soma-dendritic axis of ELL pyramidal cells. The kinetics and pharmacology of native K(+) channels recorded in pyramidal cell somata and apical dendrites match those of AptKv3.3 channels expressed in a heterologous expression system. The functional role of AptKv3.3 channels was assessed using focal drug ejections in somatic and dendritic regions of an in vitro slice preparation. Local blockade of AptKv3.3 channels slows the repolarization of spikes in pyramidal cell somata as well as spikes backpropagating into apical dendrites. The resulting increase in dendritic spike duration lowers the threshold for a gamma-frequency burst discharge that is driven by inward current associated with backpropagating dendritic spikes. Thus, dendritic AptKv3.3 K(+) channels influence the threshold for a form of burst discharge that has an established role in feature extraction of sensory input.
The cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB) is an evolutionarily conserved transcription regulator essential for long-term memory formation. It is not known, however, whether the molecular events downstream of CREB activation are also conserved. An early, cAMP-dependent event necessary for learning-related long-term synaptic plasticity in the invertebrate Aplysia californica is the induction of the transcription factor CCAAT enhancer-binding protein (C/EBP). Here we show that two homologs in the rat, C/EBPbeta and C/EBPdelta, are induced at discrete times after inhibitory avoidance learning and co-localize with phosphorylated CREB in the hippocampus. This induction is blocked by fornix lesions, which are known to disrupt activation of CREB in the hippocampus and to impair memory consolidation. These results indicate that C/EBPs are evolutionarily conserved components of the CREB-dependent gene cascade activated in long-term memory.
Although it is well established that members of the Egr family of transcription regulatory factors are induced in many neuronal plasticity paradigms, it is still unclear what role, if any, they play in this process. Because NGF stimulation of pheochromocytoma 12 cells elicits a robust induction of Egr family members, we have investigated their role in mediating long-term effects elicited by NGF in these cells by using the Egr zinc finger DNA-binding domain as a selective antagonist of Egr family-mediated transcription. We report that expression of this Egr inhibitor construct suppresses neurite outgrowth elicited by NGF but not by dibutyryl cAMP. To check that this Egr inhibitor construct does not act by blocking the MEK/ERK pathway, which is known to mediate NGF-induced neurite outgrowth, we confirmed that the Egr inhibitor construct does not block NGF activation of Elk1-mediated transcription, a response that is dependent on this pathway. Conversely, inhibition of MEK does not impair Egr family-mediated transcription. Thus, we conclude (1) that induction of Egr family members and activation of the MEK/ERK pathway by NGF are mediated by separate signaling pathways and (2) that both are required to trigger neurite outgrowth induced by NGF.
A chemical form of synaptic potentiation was produced with a brief bath application of NMDA to rat hippocampal slices. Two methods were used to assess changes in membrane-bound AMPA receptors. Traditional subcellular fractionation was used to isolate synaptic membranes; alternatively, membrane receptors were cross-linked with the membrane-impermeable reagent bis(sulfosuccinimidyl) suberate, and levels of nonmembrane receptors were determined. In both cases, Western blots were used to determine the content of receptor subunits in various subcellular fractions. NMDA-induced potentiation was associated with increased levels of glutamate receptor 1 (GluR1) and GluR2/3 subunits of AMPA receptors in synaptic membrane preparations, whereas no change was observed in whole homogenates. Both KN-62, an inhibitor of calcium/calmodulin kinase, and calpain inhibitor III, a calpain inhibitor, inhibited NMDA-induced potentiation and changes in GluR1 and GluR2/3 subunits of AMPA receptors. Brefeldin A (BFA) inhibits protein trafficking between the Golgi apparatus and cell membranes. Pretreatment of hippocampal slices with BFA significantly decreased NMDA-induced potentiation and completely prevented an NMDA-induced increase in GluR1 levels in membrane fractions. Thus, the levels of GluR1 and GluR2/3 subunits of AMPA receptors are rapidly upregulated in synaptic membranes under conditions associated with potentiation of synaptic responses, and this upregulation requires a functional secretory pathway.
Initiation and elongation of neurites in PC12 cells has been shown to be stimulated by nerve growth factor (NGF). Initiation of NGF-stimulated neurites in a PC12 subclone (PC12-N09) is rapid, giving rise to short neurites that do not elongate after 1 day. To determine whether increasing activation of p21(ras) could restore neurite elongation in these cells and whether it would affect the phosphorylation of signaling proteins, the subclone PC12-N09 was transfected with constitutively active p21(ras61L) (PC12-N09ras61L) and neurite outgrowth with or without NGF was determined. Overexpression of wild-type p21(ras) (PC12-N09rasWT) did not lead to spontaneous neurite initiation but restored the ability of NGF to stimulate continuous neurite elongation. However, NGF-stimulated phosphorylation of ERK, p38, and Akt in PC12-N09rasWT cells is similar in duration to that in PC12-N09 cells, indicating that the p21(ras) signaling through ERK, p38, and Akt was not involved in the restoration of normal neurite elongation in PC12-N09 cells. These results show that p21(ras)-activated pathways other than ERK, p38, and Akt are necessary for appropriate NGF-stimulated neurite elongation in PC12 cells.
In rat (Knig et al. [1998] 28th Annual Meeting of the Society of Neuroscience, Los Angeles. 24:314.6) and mouse (Mtin et al. [2000] J. Neurosci. 20:696-708), neurons migrating tangentially in the intermediate zone (IZ) of the neocortical anlage express functional AMPA receptors permeable to calcium. The role of these receptors is as yet unknown. We exposed organotypic cultures of rat telencephalon (embryonic day 15) to AMPA receptor agonists or antagonists, and analyzed the effects of these treatments on cells in the IZ labeled with antibodies against the isoforms a, b and c of microtubule associated protein 2 (MAP2) and the polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM). The presence of functional AMPA receptors permeable to calcium was checked by cobalt-loading. After exposure to AMPA alone for at least 6 hr, we observed a significant increase in the number of rounded, MAP2 positive cells in the IZ close to the migratory front. When AMPA was combined with cyclothiazide, the increase was already significant after 3 hr. These effects were dose-dependent and could be partially or totally blocked by DNQX or GYKI 53655 respectively, that suggests that they are mediated by AMPA receptors. Paracrine AMPA receptor activation might participate, together with other signals, in guiding the migratory stream, or provide stop signals for migrating cells.
The effects of glucose and O2 deprivation (OGD) on the survival of cortical and cerebellar neurons were examined to characterize the biochemical mechanisms involved in OGD and OGD followed by reoxygenation. To this aim, neurons were kept for different time periods in a hypoxic chamber with a controlled atmosphere of 95% N(2) and 5% CO2 in a glucose-free medium. After OGD, reoxygenation was achieved by exposing the cells to normal O2 and glucose levels. Neither MTT, an index of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation, nor malondialdehyde (MDA) production, a parameter measuring lipid peroxidation, were affected by 1 hr of OGD in cortical neurons. When OGD was followed by 24 hr of reoxygenation, MTT levels were reduced by 40% and MDA was significantly increased, whereas cellular ATP content did not change. Cerebellar granule cells, on the other hand, did not show any reduction of mitochondrial activity after exposure to 1 hr OGD or to 1 hr OGD plus 24 hr of reoxygenation. When OGD was prolonged for 2 hr, a significant reduction of the mitochondrial activity and of cellular ATP content occurred, coupled to a significant MDA increase in cerebellar granule cells, whereas in cortical neurons a reduction of MTT levels after 2 hr OGD was not accompanied by a decrease of cellular ATP content nor by an increase of MDA production. Moreover, 24 hr of reoxygenation further reinforced lipid peroxidation, LDH release, propidium iodide positive neurons and the reduction of ATP content in cerebellar granule cells. The results of the present study collectively show that cortical and cerebellar neurons display different levels of vulnerability to reoxygenation followed by OGD. Furthermore, the impairment of mitochondrial activity and the consequent overproduction of free radicals in neurons were observed for the first time occurring not only during the reoxygenation phase, but already beginning during the OGD phase.
Telomerase is an enzyme consisting of a reverse transcriptase called TERT and an RNA component that adds repeats of a DNA sequence (TTAGGG) to the ends of chromosomes, thereby preventing their shortening and cell cycle arrest. Telomerase levels are high in neural progenitor cells and neurons during early development, and decrease in association with cell differentiation. A role for TERT in regulation of developmental death of neurons is suggested by a decrease in TERT expression that coincides with the period of neuronal death and by data showing that TERT promotes survival of developing brain neurons. Suppression of telomerase activity and TERT expression promotes apoptosis, whereas overexpression of TERT prevents apoptosis by suppressing cell death at a premitochondrial step in the death cascade Moreover, neurotrophic factors known to play important roles in brain development can regulate telomerase activity and TERT expression in cultured neural cells. A better understanding of the functions of telomerase and TERT in neuronal differentiation and survival may lead to novel approaches for preventing neuronal death and promoting recovery in various neurodegenerative conditions. J. Neurosci. Res. 63:1-9, 2001. Published 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
The aim of this study was to develop, for the first time in the human spinal dorsal horn (DH), an in vivo method for the study of amino acids (AAs). A microdialysis technique was used to sample AAs in the extracellular fluid of the DH apex in eight patients in whom surgery in the dorsal root entry zone (DREZ) was performed. Before making microsurgical lesions, specific concentric-type microdialysis probes were implanted over a 60-minute period in the DREZ and directed to the DH apex (10 implantations). The AA concentrations in the dialysates were determined using high-performance liquid chromatography with fluorescence detection. The concentrations of excitatory AAs (glutamate and aspartate) and inhibitory AAs (gamma-aminobutyric acid and glycine) decreased and were stabilized by 45 minutes after probe implantation, whereas the levels of nonneurotransmitter AAs (alanine and threonine) were not stabilized at 60 minutes. The ability of the probe to track the changes of extracellular AAs was demonstrated. Neither intra- nor postoperative microdialysis-related complications were observed (with a follow up of 18 months). The present study demonstrates that microdialysis can be performed safely in the human DH during DREZ lesioning. Despite technical and analytical limitations related to the intraoperative conditions, this technique offers new possibilities for clinical research on neurotransmitters involved in some relevant pathological states, especially in chronic pain and spasticity.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) accumulation is a sensitive marker for the axonal damage that is commonly seen in the brain as the result of head injury. This form of damage is particularly associated with midline structures such as the corpus callosum, although it is not clear whether some areas are more susceptible than others. The aim of this study was to determine if there was a differential distribution of axonal injury throughout the corpus callosum after head injury in an unselected group of cases. Coronal tissue sections from eight cases were taken at different levels through the corpus callosum, including the genu, body, and splenium. The sections were immunostained with an antibody to APP, and the amount of axonal damage at the different levels was quantified using computer image analysis to build up a rostro-caudal profile for each case. The profiles revealed a significantly higher APP load in caudal parts of the corpus callosum. This supports previous nonquantitative reports in the literature and has important implications in terms of choosing where tissue should be sampled to maximize the chance of detecting axonal injury post mortem.
Joint contracture, a major complication after casting, usually makes the therapeutic outcome worse by causing a limited range of motion and related pain. We developed rat models of wrist contracture with fracture of the radius (group A) and wrist contracture without fracture (group B), and investigated whether contracture and fracture changed the characteristics of cervical dorsal horn neuronal responses and the behavior of the animals. After 4 weeks of immobilization, both groups showed wrist contracture and disuse tendencies in the treated forelimb. In an electrophysiological study, the responses of 403 cervical dorsal horn neurons to mechanical stimuli were examined. In normal (control) animals, the neurons had the following distribution: 63% were low-threshold (LT); 15% were high-threshold (HT); and 22% were wide-dynamic-range (WDR). In group A, the distribution of the neurons changed to 51% LT, 16% HT, and 33% WDR. Similar changes were observed for group B. Responses during wrist movement were also examined. Forty-one percent of cells in the control group were responsive to the movements, whereas the number of neurons responding to motion stimulus in both groups A and B was increased, to 77%. The changed population of WDR and LT neurons responding to wrist movement suggests that the characteristics of dorsal horn neurons may undergo plastic changes after contracture.


The use of trifluoroperazine in a well washed rat brain membrane preparation revealed [(3)H]ifenprodil binding to a single high affinity state with the pharmacology of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors containing NR2B subunits. Inhibition of [(3)H]ifenprodil binding in the presence of trifluoroperazine by 10 NR1a/NR2B selective agents was highly correlated with their inhibition at rat NR1a/NR2B receptors expressed in Xenopus ooctyes and [(3)H]TCP binding to rat brain NR2B subunit containing NMDA receptors but not with their inhibition of [(3)H]DTG binding. Allosteric interactions with polyamines, Mg(2+), Zn(2+), glutamate, glycine, and their antagonists were consistent with NMDA receptors with NR2B subtype pharmacology. The rank order of polyamine inhibition was spermine &gt; spermidine &gt; 1,5-(diethylamino)piperidine &gt; arcaine &gt; agmatine &gt; putrescine. Both spermidine and MgCl(2) shifted the inhibition curve of ifenprodil to the right in a parallel manner, but Mg(2+) did not appear to be additive to spermidine. Glutamate increased and glycine decreased the binding. Conversely, CPP decreased the binding, and MDL 105,519 increased the binding in an agonist reversible manner. The increase with MDL 105,519 and glutamate appeared to be additive as did the decrease with glycine and CPP. Changes in the buffer pH between 6.5 and 8.0 did not affect the affinity of NR2B agents. Cirazoline but not clonidine inhibited the binding. MK-801 and agents from various other pharmacological classes did not significantly inhibit [(3)H]ifenprodil binding. [(3)H]Ifenprodil binding in the presence of trifluoroperazine appears to be selective for the voltage-independent ifenprodil site on NMDA receptors containing the NR2B subunit.
The effect of selective group I metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 5 (mGluR5) antagonists 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine (MPEP) and (E)-2-methyl-6-(2-phenylethenyl)-pyridine (SIB-1893) on neuronal cell survival and post-traumatic recovery was examined using rat in vitro and in vivo trauma models. Treatment with MPEP and SIB-1893 showed significant neuroprotective effects in rat cortical neuronal cultures subjected to mechanical injury. Application of the antagonists also attenuated glutamate- and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced neuronal cell death in vitro. Intracerebroventricular administration of MPEP to rats markedly improved motor recovery and reduced deficits of spatial learning after lateral fluid percussion-induced traumatic brain injury. Lesion volumes as assessed by magnetic resonance imaging were also substantially reduced by MPEP treatment. Although we show that MPEP acts as a potent mGluR5 antagonist in our culture system, where it completely blocks agonist-induced phosphoinositide hydrolysis, electrophysiological and pharmacological studies indicate that MPEP and SIB-1893 also inhibit NMDA receptor activity at higher concentrations that are neuroprotective. Taken together, these data suggest that MPEP and SIB-1893 may have therapeutic potential in brain injury, although the mechanisms of neuroprotective action for these drugs may reflect their ability to modulate NMDA receptor activity.
Most drugs have some efficacy so that improved methods to determine the relative intrinsic efficacy of partial agonists should be of benefit to preclinical and clinical investigators. We examined the effects of partial D(1) or partial D(2) dopamine agonists using a partial agonist interaction model. The dependent variable was the modulation of the dopamine-receptor-mediated cAMP response in C6 glioma cells selectively and stably expressing either D(1) or D(2) recombinant dopamine receptors. The dissociation constant (K(B)) and relative intrinsic efficacy (E(r)) for each partial agonist were calculated using a partial agonist interaction null model in which the effects of fixed concentrations of each partial agonist on the dopamine dose-response curve were evaluated. This model is an extension of the competitive antagonist null model to drugs with efficacy and assumes only that the log-dose--response curve is monotonic. Generally, the partial agonist interaction model fit the data, as well as fits of the independent logistic curves. Furthermore, the partial agonist K(B) values could be shared across partial agonist concentrations without worsening the model fit (by increasing the residual variance). K(B) values were also similar to drug affinities reported in the literature. The model was validated in three ways. First, we assumed a common tissue stimulus parameter (beta) and calculated the E(r) values. This provided a qualitative check on the interaction model results. Second, we calculated new relative efficacy values, E(r)(beta), using the beta estimate. Third, we calculated relative efficacy using relative maxima times midpoint shift ratios (J. Theor. Biol. 198 (1999) 347.). All three methods indicated that the present model yielded reasonable estimates of affinity and relative efficacy for the set of compounds studied. Our results provide a quick and convenient method of quantification of partial agonist efficacy. Special applications and limitations of the model are discussed. In addition, the present results are the first report of the relative intrinsic efficacy values for this set of D(2) ligands.
The pivotal role of capsaicin-sensitive peptidergic sensory fibers in the maintenance of gastric mucosal integrity against injurious interventions was suggested by the authors 20 years ago. Since then substantial evidence has accumulated for the local sensory-efferent function of the released CGRP, tachykinins and NO in this gastroprotective mechanism. This overview outlines some recent achievements which shed light on new aspects and further horizons in this field. (1) Cloning the capsaicin VR-1 receptor (an ion channel-coupled receptor) and raising the VR-1 knockout mice provided a definite molecular background for the existence of capsaicin-sensitive afferents with both sensory and mediator releasing functions in the stomach. This cation channel is also sensitive to hydrogen ions. (2) VR-1 agonists (capsaicin, resiniferatoxin, piperine) protect against gastric ulcer of the rat parallel with their sensory stimulating potencies. (3) Antidromic stimulation of capsaicin-sensitive vagal and somatic afferents results in the release of CGRP, tachykinins, NO and somatostatin. Somatostatin with gastroprotective effect is released from D cells and sensory nerve endings. (4) The recent theory for the existence of spinal afferents without sensory function [P. Holzer, C.A. Maggi, Dissociation of dorsal root ganglion neurons into afferent and efferent-like neurons, Neuroscience 86 (1998) 389-398] is discussed. Data proposed to support this theory are interpreted here on the basis of a dual sensory-efferent function of VR-1 positive afferents, characterized by a frequency optimum of discharges for release vasodilatory neuropeptides below the nociceptive threshold. (5) Recent data on the effect of capsaicin in healthy human stomach are summarized. These results indicate that the gastroprotective effect of capsaicin in the human stomach involves additional mechanisms to those already revealed in the rat.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC), defined as the cortical region which has the major reciprocal connections with the mediodorsal thalamic nucleus (MD), has often been implicated in schizophrenia. Morphometric studies have shown altered neuronal density and structure in parts of the PFC in schizophrenic brains. In addition, the MD and nucleus accumbens have shown a significant deficit in total neuron number. The purpose of the present study was to estimate the total neuron number in the PFC in schizophrenics and controls. Using a stereological design, the PFC was studied in eight brains from schizophrenic patients and 10 age-matched control brains. The bilateral average total number of neurons in the PFC was estimated to be 2.76 x 10(9) (CV=S.D./mean=0.15) in the schizophrenic brains whereas that of controls was a non-significantly different value of 3.11 x 10(9) (CV=0.22; P=0.23). Furthermore, no significant differences were found between the two groups in neuronal density (P=0.10) or volume of the PFC (P=0.49). It is of course possible that a neuronal deficit, which cannot be revealed when estimating the total global number of neurons in the whole PFC, might exist in a subregion of the PFC. In conclusion, uniform loss of neuronal soma in the PFC does not appear to constitute the neural substrate of the pathological process in schizophrenia.
Many behavioural overlaps exist in the effects of norepinephrine (NE), serotonin (5-HT) and dopamine, and it is now thought that complex behaviour patterns may reflect interactions among these neurotransmitters. There is a wide variety of evidence for the pivotal role of the NE system in the pathogenesis and treatment of major depression. This paper discusses the functioning of the NE system, specifically the regulation of neuronal firing and the postsynaptic responses to NE, which can be controlled by norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors and other drugs. In addition, interactions between NE neurons and 5-HT neurons have implications for the treatment of depression and anxiety disorders. Specifically, the projections of 5-HT neurons have an inhibitory effect on NE neurons, which means that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors also affect the NE system. Further experiments and long-term studies will increase knowledge of the mechanisms of action of various psychopharmacologic agents and may eventually lead to better therapeutic choices.

An enhancement of neurotransmission of serotonin (5-HT), noradrenaline, or both, underlies the antidepressant response associated with most agents presently available to treat major depression. With respect to the 5-HT system, antidepressant drugs exert immediate effects on some neuronal elements controlling overall transmission, but it is the gradual changes in neuronal responses to such treatments that are ultimately responsible for producing their therapeutic benefits. In major depression, an increase in 5-HT1A transmission is thought to be a crucial determinant of the antidepressant response, whereas an enhancement of 5-HT2 transmission in the orbitofrontal cortex may mediate the therapeutic effect of 5-HT reuptake inhibitors in obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). The doses of medication and the durations of treatment necessary to obtain these alterations in 5-HT transmission in various brain structures of laboratory animals are fully consistent with the conditions in the clinic necessary to attenuate symptoms in depression and OCD. It is also possible that the relief of chronic pain produced by some antidepressants may be mediated, in part, by the blockade of peripheral 5-HT2A receptors. These observations emphasize the notion that the 5-HT system is endowed with different adaptive properties in various parts of the body, which, in addition to the multiplicity of 5-HT receptors, makes this chemospecific network important in many disorders.
Our use of language depends upon two capacities: a mental lexicon of memorized words and a mental grammar of rules that underlie the sequential and hierarchical composition of lexical forms into predictably structured larger words, phrases, and sentences. The declarative/procedural model posits that the lexicon/grammar distinction in language is tied to the distinction between two well-studied brain memory systems. On this view, the memorization and use of at least simple words (those with noncompositional, that is, arbitrary form-meaning pairings) depends upon an associative memory of distributed representations that is subserved by temporal-lobe circuits previously implicated in the learning and use of fact and event knowledge. This &quot;declarative memory&quot; system appears to be specialized for learning arbitrarily related information (i.e., for associative binding). In contrast, the acquisition and use of grammatical rules that underlie symbol manipulation is subserved by frontal/basal-ganglia circuits previously implicated in the implicit (nonconscious) learning and expression of motor and cognitive &quot;skills&quot; and &quot;habits&quot; (e.g., from simple motor acts to skilled game playing). This &quot;procedural&quot; system may be specialized for computing sequences. This novel view of lexicon and grammar offers an alternative to the two main competing theoretical frameworks. It shares the perspective of traditional dual-mechanism theories in positing that the mental lexicon and a symbol-manipulating mental grammar are subserved by distinct computational components that may be linked to distinct brain structures. However, it diverges from these theories where they assume components dedicated to each of the two language capacities (that is, domain-specific) and in their common assumption that lexical memory is a rote list of items. Conversely, while it shares with single-mechanism theories the perspective that the two capacities are subserved by domain-independent computational mechanisms, it diverges from them where they link both capacities to a single associative memory system with broad anatomic distribution. The declarative/procedural model, but neither traditional dual- nor single-mechanism models, predicts double dissociations between lexicon and grammar, with associations among associative memory properties, memorized words and facts, and temporal-lobe structures, and among symbol-manipulation properties, grammatical rule products, motor skills, and frontal/basal-ganglia structures. In order to contrast lexicon and grammar while holding other factors constant, we have focused our investigations of the declarative/procedural model on morphologically complex word forms. Morphological transformations that are (largely) unproductive (e.g., in go-went, solemn-solemnity) are hypothesized to depend upon declarative memory. These have been contrasted with morphological transformations that are fully productive (e.g., in walk-walked, happy-happiness), whose computation is posited to be solely dependent upon grammatical rules subserved by the procedural system. Here evidence is presented from studies that use a range of psycholinguistic and neurolinguistic approaches with children and adults. It is argued that converging evidence from these studies supports the declarative/procedural model of lexicon and grammar.

The possession of severe mental illness, mainly schizophrenia and affective psychosis, may be perceived in positive terms. We have identified a group of patients, most of them with a history of previous psychotic disorder, who present with deliberately created symptoms and behaviour, and who are defined as having instrumental psychosis. Because most such patients have had a psychotic disorder in the past the symptoms are very like those of a real psychosis. A parallel is drawn with the fictional anti-hero of the Czech nation, the Good Soldier Svejk, who demonstrated both real and instrumental psychosis. A rating scale, the 'pseudopsychosis inventory', was devised to identify the main components of this disorder and was applied in 15 consecutive patients presenting with putative psychotic disorders in whom assessment could be made by two raters within five days. The inter-rater reliability of the items of the scale was good (intra-class correlation coefficient 0.68). An epidemiological study with this scale in 45 patients with a putative psychotic disorder suggested the presence of instrumental psychosis in 2.
The intra- and inter-tester reliability for measurement of handgrip strength and indexgrip strength using the Jamar dynamometer was investigated in 32 healthy volunteers, and the intra-tester reliability in 13 patients with cervical radiculopathy. The results from the reliability studies showed that handgrip and indexgrip strength measured with the Jamar dynamometer is a reliable method (ICC values 0.85-0.98) and can be recommended for use in clinical practice. Age- and sex-specific reference values for handgrip strength and indexgrip strength were measured with the Jamar dynamometer in 101 randomly selected healthy volunteers, aged 25-64 years. The results from the reference value study showed that sex is a more important determinant of hand strength than age, height and body weight. The reference values for hand strength improve the potential for objective evaluation of patients with arm/hand disorders caused by cervical radiculopathy.
Recent studies relying on the recording of neuronal unit activity in freely moving rats show the existence of two populations of neurons signalling the animal's location or head direction: place cells found primarily in the hippocampus and head direction cells found in brain areas anatomically and functionally related to the hippocampus. The properties of these two neuronal populations suggest that their activity strongly depends upon information cues stemming from the spatial environment, and also suggest their involvement in spatial memory. Place cells and head direction cells would jointly participate in a neural network allowing the animal to orient in space and to store spatial locations in memory. This network would also be operating in humans, in particular for encoding specific events in episodic memory.
Autobiographical memory refers to events and information about personal life and the self. Within autobiographical memory, many authors make a difference between episodic and semantic components. Study of retrograde amnesia gives information about memory consolidation. According to the &quot;standard model&quot; of consolidation, the medial temporal lobe plays a time-limited role in retrieval memory. Functional neuroanatomy studies of autobiographical memory are very few and many are recent. These studies concern which brain regions are involved in the autobiographical retrieval, episodic or semantic autobiographical memory and consolidation process. Results show that autobiographical retrieval depends on specific brain regions like frontal cortex. Concerning memory consolidation, findings are most consistent with the idea that hippocampal complex is involved in both recent and remote memories.
Women in treatment for substance abuse have been reported to have more severe problems at assessment than men but not to differ in treatment retention. To examine gender differences in problems at assessment, 30-day retention, and treatment completion, data from Detroit's publicly funded substance abuse treatment system were used. Women had significantly more severe problems at assessment, lower 30-day retention, and lower treatment completion rates than men. These gender differences in retention remained significant even after controlling for problem severity, primary drug of abuse, and referred treatment setting. There was no evidence of improvements in women's problems at assessment or retention over time during this period. Women presented with more severe problems at assessment and were less likely to stay in treatment for 30 days or to complete treatment than men. Monitoring gender differences in problems at presentation and retention outcomes is recommended to assess local need for interventions.
Intermittent short-radius centrifugation is a promising countermeasure against the adverse effects of prolonged weightlessness. To assess the feasibility of this countermeasure, we need to understand the disturbing sensory effects that accompany some movements carried out during rotation. We tested 20 subjects who executed yaw and pitch head movements while rotating at constant angular velocity. They were supine with their main body axis perpendicular to earth gravity. The head was placed at the centrifuge's axis of rotation. Head movements produced a transient elevation of heart-rate. All observers reported head-contingent sensations of body tilt although their bodies remained supine. Mostly, the subjective sensations conform to a model based on semicircular canal responses to angular acceleration. However, some surprising deviations from the model were found. Also, large inter-individual differences in direction, magnitude, and quality of the illusory body tilt were observed. The results have implications for subject screening and prediction of subjective tolerance for centrifugation.
In order to investigate interactions in the visual and vestibular systems' oculomotor response to linear movement, we developed a two-frequency stimulation technique. Thirteen subjects lay on their backs and were oscillated sinusoidally along their z-axes at between 0.31 and 0.81 Hz. During the oscillation subjects viewed a large, high-contrast, visual pattern oscillating in the same direction as the physical motion but at a different, non-harmonically related frequency. The evoked eye movements were measured by video-oculography and spectrally analysed. We found significant signal level at the sum and difference frequencies as well as at other frequencies not present in either stimulus. The emergence of new frequencies indicates non-linear processing consistent with an agreement-detector system that have previously proposed.
Menire's disease (MD) and migraine associated dizziness (MAD) are two disorders that can have similar symptomatologies, but differ vastly in treatment. Vestibular testing is sometimes used to help differentiate between these disorders, but the inefficiency of a human interpreter analyzing a multitude of variables independently decreases its utility. Our hypothesis was that we could objectively discriminate between patients with MD and those with MAD using select variables from the vestibular test battery. Sinusoidal harmonic acceleration test variables were reduced to three vestibulo-ocular reflex physiologic parameters: gain, time constant, and asymmetry. A combination of these parameters plus a measurement of reduced vestibular response from caloric testing allowed us to achieve a joint classification rate of 91%, independent quadratic classification algorithm. Data from posturography were not useful for this type of differentiation. Overall, our classification function can be used as an unbiased assistant to discriminate between MD and MAD and gave us insight into the pathophysiologic differences between the two disorders.
The effects of aging on the vertical vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR), and its interactions with vision during active head motion had not been investigated. We measured smooth pursuit, combined eye-head tracking, the VOR, and its visual enhancement and cancellation during active head motion in pitch using a magnetic search coil technique in 21 younger (age &lt; 65) and 10 elderly (age &gt; or = 65) subjects. With the head immobile, subjects pursued a target moving sinusoidally with a frequency range of 0.125 to 2.0 Hz, and with peak target accelerations (PTAs) ranging from 12 to 789 degrees /s(2). Combined eye-head tracking, the VOR in darkness, and its visual enhancement during fixation of an earth-fixed target (VVOR) were measured during active sinusoidal head motion with a peak-to-peak amplitude of 20 degrees at frequencies of 0.25, 0.5, 1.0 and 2.0 Hz. The efficacy of VOR cancellation was determined from VOR gains during combined eye-head tracking. VOR and VVOR gains were symmetrical in both directions and did not change with aging, except for reduced gains of the downward VOR and VVOR at low frequency (0.25 Hz). However, in the elderly, smooth pursuit, and combined eye-head tracking gains and the efficacy of cancellation of the VOR were significantly lower than in younger subjects. In both the young and elderly groups, VOR gain in darkness did not vary with the frequency of active head motion while the gains of smooth pursuit, combined eye-head tracking, and VVOR declined with increasing target frequency. VOR and VVOR performance in the elderly implicates relative preservation of neural structures subserving vertical vestibular smooth eye motion in senescence.

Human amniotic epithelial cells (HAEC) are formed from epiblasts on the 8th day after fertilization. Because they lack major histocompatibility complex (MHC) antigen, human amniotic tissue transplantation has been used for allotranplantation to treat patients with lysosomal diseases. We have provided evidence that HAEC have multiple functions such as synthesis and release of acetylcholine (ACh) and catecholamine (CA) as well as expressing mRNA coding for dopamine receptors and dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT). On the other hand, we showed that monkey amniotic epithelial cells (MAEC) synthesize and release CA and posses DA receptors and DAT. Detection of muscarinic actylcholine receptors indicates the presence of an autocrine mechanism in HAEC. Recently, we found that HAEC have neurotrophic function in conditioned medium from HAEC, indicating the presence of a novel neurotrohpic factor that is synthesized and released from HAEC. The amniotic membrane may have a significant role in supplying neurotrophic factors as well as neurotransmitters to the amniotic fluid, suggesting an important function in the early stages of neural development of the embryo. This review will focus on the neuropharmacological aspects of HAEC and MAEC in relation to the physiology of amniotic membrane.
The mouse genome contains a wide array of uncharacterized genes that are involved in olfactory system development and cellular function. The author describes how random mutagenesis of these genes combined with rapid screening techniques afford the identification of the particular olfactory-related genes that have been altered.
The extracellular signal-regulated kinases (ERKs) are members of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) superfamily of enzymes and have recently garnered considerable attention in the field of learning and memory. ERK activation has been shown to be required for the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the rat hippocampus and for the formation of associative and spatial memories in both the rat and the mouse. However, the individual roles for the two isoforms of ERK have yet to be deciphered. To investigate the specific contribution of the ERK1 (p44) isoform of MAPK to mammalian learning, we performed a general behavioral and physiological characterization of mice lacking the ERK1 gene. The ERK1-null animals demonstrated significantly higher levels of activity in the open field test. However, we observed no other discernible deficits in the ERK1 knockout mice in our behavioral testing. Specifically, no differences were observed in the acquisition or retention (24 h and 2 wk after training) of either contextual or cue fear conditioning between the ERK1(-/-) and their wild-type littermate controls. In addition, no learning phenotype was observed in the passive avoidance test. When hippocampal slices were analyzed, we found no deficits in baseline synaptic transmission or in tetanus-induced LTP in hippocampal area CA1. We found no apparent compensatory changes in the expression of ERK2 (p42 MAPK). We conclude that hippocampus- and amygdala-dependent emotional learning does not depend critically on the activity of ERK1.
The control and maintenance of vascular tone is due to a balance between vasoconstrictor and vasodilator pathways. Vasomotor responses to neural, metabolic and physical factors vary between vessels in different vascular beds, as well as along the same bed, particularly as vessels become smaller. These differences result from variation in the composition of neurotransmitters released by perivascular nerves, variation in the array and activation of receptor subtypes expressed in different vascular beds and variation in the signal transduction pathways activated in either the vascular smooth muscle or endothelial cells. As the study of vasomotor responses often requires pre-existing tone, some of the reported heterogeneity in the relative contributions of different vasodilator mechanisms may be compounded by different experimental conditions. Biochemical variations, such as the expression of ion channels, connexin subtypes and other important components of second messenger cascades, have been documented in the smooth muscle and endothelial cells in different parts of the body. Anatomical variations, in the presence and prevalence of gap junctions between smooth muscle cells, between endothelial cells and at myoendothelial gap junctions, between the two cell layers, have also been described. These factors will contribute further to the heterogeneity in local and conducted responses.

Analogy between testicles and brain is an ancient one, and it has often taken the form of an analogy between semen and 'succus nerveus' (a liquid substance produced by the brain and circulating in the nerves). The paper deals with an Early Modern version of the analogy, outlined by Giovanni Alfonso Borelli in his De motu animalium (1680-81). Elements from the medical tradition of Antiquity and Renaissance can be traced in Borelli's system, together with the effort towards the creation of a mechanico-chemical model of the machine of the living organism. Nervous and seminal fluids are supposed to animate and perfect the machine.

Disorders of ammonia metabolism including urea cycle enzymopathies, Reye Syndrome, and liver failure are associated with brain edema and severe neurological impairment. Excess blood-borne ammonia crosses the blood-brain barrier by diffusion as NH(3) where it interacts with various cellular processes involved in neurotransmission and brain energy metabolism. Ammonia exerts a potent effect on glutamate (AMPA) receptor-mediated neurotransmission. Ammonia also inhibits high affinity transport of glutamate by an action on astrocytic glutamate transporter expression, an action which results in increased extracellular concentrations of glutamate. Acute hyperammonemia directly activates the NMDA subclass of glutamate receptors resulting in increased intracellular Ca(2+) and increased synthesis of nitric oxide and cGMP. Chronic hyperammonemia, on the other hand, results in a loss of NMDA receptor sites. Activation of NMDA receptors in acute ammonia toxicity results in depletion of ATP in brain. Neuropathologic studies in experimental animals with congenital urea cycle disorders and severe hyperammonemia reveal evidence of neuronal cell death which is excitotoxic in nature. These findings suggest that overactivation of NMDA receptors is a significant feature of acute hyperammonemic syndromes and that antagonists of these receptors or of their signal transduction pathway enzymes such as nNOS could be beneficial in the treatment of the central nervous system manifestations (encephalopathy, brain edema) which are characteristic of hyperammonemic disorders.
Perinatal brain injury following trauma, hypoxia, and/or ischemia represents a substantial cause of pediatric disabilities including mental retardation. Such injuries lead to neuronal cell death through either necrosis or apoptosis. Numerous in vivo and in vitro studies implicate ionotropic (iGluRs) and metabotropic (mGluRs) glutamate receptors in the modulation of such cell death. Expression of glutamate receptors changes as a function of developmental age, with substantial implications for understanding mechanisms of post-injury cell death and its potential treatment. Recent findings suggest that the developing brain is more susceptible to apoptosis after injury and that such caspase mediated cell death may be exacerbated by treatment with N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists. Moreover, group I metabotropic glutamate receptors appear to have opposite effects on necrotic and apoptotic cell death. Understanding the relative roles of glutamate receptors in post-traumatic or post-ischemic cell death as a function of developmental age may lead to novel targeted approaches to the treatment of pediatric brain injury.
Both genetic and environmental factors contribute to the pathogenesis of a wide variety of neurodevelopmental disorders, including autism, mental retardation, and schizophrenia. Some heritable disorders approach 100% penetrance; nonetheless, even in these disorders, subtle aspects of clinical disease expression may be influenced by the environment. In other disorders with genetic influences, exogenous factors, and the timepoint(s) during nervous system development at which they are introduced, modulate expression of disease. Elucidation of the mechanisms guiding this intricate interplay between host response genes, environmental agents, and the neurodevelopmental context within which these interactions occur, is necessary to understand the continuum of clinical outcomes. This chapter will review the evidence that infectious and immune factors may contribute to the pathogenesis of neurodevelopmental disorders, describe an animal model of neurodevelopmental disorders based upon viral infection, identify processes by which neural circuitry may be compromised, and outline areas for future research.
Neuronal migration disorders are a category of developmental brain disorders leading to cortical dysplasia. This group of disorders is characterized by defective movement of neurons from the place of origin along the lining of the lateral ventricle, to the eventual place of residence in the correct laminar position within the cerebral cortex. As a result of defective migration, affected individuals typically display mental retardation and epilepsy. Although patients with the more severe forms of these disorders often present during infancy, patients may present at any age from newborn to adulthood. The migration defect may be generalized or focal, and may be disturbed at any of several stages, leading to several distinct radiographical and clinical presentations. The human phenotypes suggests that there are at least four distinct and clinically-important steps in cortical neuronal migration, and the identification of the responsible genes suggests that multiple cellular processes are critical for correct neuronal positioning.
Huntington's disease (HD) is an inherited neurodegenerative disorder. The mutation which causes the disease is an expansion in the number of repetitions of three nucleotides, C, A, and G in exon 1 of the huntingtin gene. The gene normally has 15 to 30 repeats and an expansion to 40 or more is associated with HD. HD usually has a mid-life onset, but a juvenile form, defined by onset of symptoms before the age of 21 years, is present in about 7% of HD cases. Juvenile HD is characterized by (1) transmission from an HD affected father, (2) an unusually large repeat size, usually of 60 or more units, and (3) unique clinical features, including rigidity and seizure disorder. Although juvenile onset is associated with a more severe neuropathological involvement, the neuropathological characteristics of juvenile HD are similar to those seen in the adult form in that the striatum bears the brunt of the illness. Clumps of protein, termed inclusion bodies, which stain positive for huntingtin and ubiquitin, are found primarily in the nucleus but also in the cytoplasm and axons in HD neurons. Research suggests that these inclusion bodies sequester a deleterious protein fragment and prolong cell life during the degenerative process of the disease.
This review discusses the research published in the last five years on the behavioral, genetic, medical, and neuroscience aspects of Down syndrome. The subject areas that have experienced the most active research include Alzheimer disease, language development, leukemia, and pregnancy screening and diagnosis. These and other areas are reviewed.
In vivo sampling of interstitial fluid by using microdialysis fibers has become a standard and accepted procedure. This sampling method is generally coupled to offline analysis of consecutive dialysate samples by high-performance liquid chromatography or capillary electrophoresis, but this combination is not the best approach for some applications, especially those which require high temporal resolution and rapid data collection. The purpose of this review is to provide information on enzyme-based online assays, i.e., continuous analysis of the dialysate as it emerges from the outlet of the sampling device. We have focused on methods developed specifically for the analysis of solutions perfused at a very slow flow rate, i.e., a feature of microdialysis and ultrafiltration techniques. These methods include flow enzyme-fluorescence assays, flow enzyme-amperometric assays, and sequential enzyme-amperometric detection. Each type of assay is discussed in terms of principle, applications, advantages, and limitations. We also comment on implantable biosensors, an obvious next step forward for in vivo monitoring of molecules in neuroscience.















An emerging new technology based on genetic engineering of viral vectors that can insert genes into the cells of living organisms may play a significant role in treating disorders of the central nervous system (CNS). Most neurodegenerative disorders affect focal regions of the brain. Preventive and/ or palliative treatment strategies need to be targeted only to the diseased parts of the brain without affecting other regions. Administration of therapeutic genes specifically to the disease-affected regions of the brain may be more beneficial than current treatment strategies, which are largely based on systemically administering small molecules. The latter can result not only in peripheral side effects but also CNS side effects since the drugs can affect both targeted and nontargeted brain sites. In addition, many therapeutic agents are prevented from entering the brain by the blood-brain barrier (BBB). For these reasons, many otherwise potentially useful proteins, such as trophic factors, cannot be administered systemically (1).
Following a complete disruption of blood flow to the brain, cerebral ischemia, a specific neuronal population, namely the CA1 pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus, will die a delayed type of cell death. This is often referred to as &quot;delayed neuronal death&quot; (DND). It is not known why it takes around 48 hours for these cells to die. It is very often speculated that events, intrinsic to the CA1 neurons, regulate their demise, whereas it is less often considered that extrinsic mechanisms also could play an important role for the development of DND. We discovered that in addition to the CA1 pyramidal neurons, cells in the choroid plexus were TUNEL (terminaldeoxynucleotidyl-mediated biotin-dUTP nick-end labeling)-positive following transient forebrain global ischemia. The time course and the number of TUNEL-positive cells were determined. A dramatic increase in the number of TUNEL-positive cells in the choroid plexus was seen at 18, 24, and at 36 hours of recovery, but not at 48 hours of recovery following 15 minutes of transient forebrain global ischemia. No TUNEL-positive cells were seen at 24 hours of recovery in the CA1 region. The cell death in the choroid plexus thus preceded the occurrence of cell death in the CA1 region. Massive cell death in the choroid plexus will inevitably lead to a leaky blood-CSF barrier, which in turn will allow substances to enter the ventricular system and from there reach the brain parenchyma. We, therefore, conclude that choroid plexus cell death may adversely affect the outcome of CA1 pyramidal neurons following transient forebrain global ischemia, through, e.g., a disruption of the blood-cerebro spinal fluid barrier. Alternatively, the choroid plexus may produce factors, which can affect the outcome of neurons.
Choroid plexus (CP) is an important target organ for polypeptides. The fenestrated phenotype of choroidal endothelium facilitates the penetration of blood-borne polypeptides across the capillary walls. Thus, both circulating and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)-borne polypeptides can reach their receptors on choroidal epithelium. Several polypeptides have been demonstrated to regulate CSF formation by controlling blood flow to choroid plexus and/or the activity of ion transport in choroidal epithelium. However, many ligand-receptor interactions occurring in the CP are not involved in the regulation of fluid secretion. Increasing evidence suggests that the choroidal epithelium plays an important role in hormonal signaling via a receptor-mediated transport into the brain (e.g., leptin) and helps to clear certain CSF-borne polypeptides (e.g., soluble amyloid beta-protein). Thus, impaired choroidal transport or insufficient clearance of polypeptides may contribute to pathogenesis of systemic or central nervous system (CNS) disorders, such as obesity or Alzheimer's disease. CP epithelium is not only a target but is also a source of neuropeptides, growth factors, and cytokines in the CNS. These polypeptides following their release into the CSF may exert distal, endocrine-like effects on target cells in the brain due to bulk flow of this fluid. Distinct temporal patterns of choroidal expression of several polypeptides are observed during brain development and in various CNS disorders, including traumatic brain injury and ischemia. Therefore, it is proposed that the CP plays an integral role not only in normal brain functioning, but also in the recovery from the injury. This review attempts to critically analyze the available data to support the above hypothesis.
GABAergic alterations in hypothalamus during compensatory hyperplasia after partial hepatectomy (PH), lead nitrate (LN) induced direct hyperplasia and N-nitrosodiethylamine (NDEA) induced neoplasia in liver were investigated. Serum GABA levels were increased in all 3 experimental groups compared with the control. GABA content decreased in hypothalamus of PH and NDEA treated rats, while it increased in LN treated rats. GABA(A) receptor number and affinity in hypothalamic membrane preparations of rats showed a significant decrease in PH and NDEA treated rats, while in LN treated rats the affinity increased without any change in the receptor number. The GABA(B) receptor number increased in PH and NDEA treated rats, while it decreased in LN treated rats. The affinity of the receptor also increased in NDEA treated rats. Plasma NE levels showed significant increase in PH and NDEA rats compared with the control while it decreased in LN treated rats. The results of the present study suggests that liver cell proliferation is influencing the hypothalamic GABAergic neurotransmission and these changes regulate the hepatic proliferation through the sympathetic stimulation.
Since recent reports have suggested that alpha-synuclein might play a role in neuronal plasticity, the main objective of this study was to determine the effects of alpha-synuclein on neuritic outgrowth. We stably transfected either human (h) alpha- or beta-synuclein cDNA in B103 rat neuronal cells. Expression of h(alpha)-synuclein resulted in reduced neurite extension and weak adhesion compared to vector-transfected and h(beta)-synuclein expressing cells. To investigate the potential pathways involved, we studied the effects of reagents known to modulate B103 proliferation and differentiation. Neither phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate nor forskolin or antioxidants (catalase, superoxide dismutase, or vitamin E) were able to restore the reduced length of neurites in h(alpha)-synuclein-expressing cells. These results suggest that reduced neuritic activity in the h(alpha)-synuclein-expressing cells might be due, in part, to alterations in cell adhesion capacity. This might be attributed to alpha-synuclein affecting a signal transduction pathway distinct from protein kinase C and protein kinase A.
TTF-1 is a member of the Nkx family of homeodomain genes required for morphogenesis of the hypothalamus. Whether TTF-1, or other Nkx genes, contributes to regulating differentiated hypothalamic functions is not known. We now report that postnatal hypothalamic TTF-1 expression is developmentally regulated and associated with the neuroendocrine process of female sexual development. Lesions of the hypothalamus that cause sexual precocity transiently activate neuronal TTF-1 expression near the lesion site. In intact animals, hypothalamic TTF-1 mRNA content also increases transiently, preceding the initiation of puberty. Postnatal expression of the TTF-1 gene was limited to subsets of hypothalamic neurons, including LHRH neurons, which control sexual maturation, and preproenkephalinergic neurons of the lateroventromedial nucleus of the basal hypothalamus, which restrain sexual maturation and facilitate reproductive behavior. TTF-1 mRNA was also detected in astrocytes of the median eminence and ependymal/subependymal cells of the third ventricle, where it colocalized with erbB-2, a receptor involved in facilitating sexual development. TTF-1 binds to and transactivates the erbB-2 and LHRH promoters, but represses transcription of the preproenkephalin gene. The singular increase in hypothalamic TTF-1 gene expression that precedes the initiation of puberty, its highly specific pattern of cellular expression, and its transcriptional actions on genes directly involved in neuroendocrine reproductive regulation suggest that TTF-1 may represent one of the controlling factors that set in motion early events underlying the central activation of mammalian puberty.
Neuronal cell death is in many cases regulated by competitive interactions between pro- and antiapoptotic proteins of the Bcl-2 family. In this study we have identified two splice variants of the rat proapoptotic molecule Bad, which differ in their carboxy-terminal regions. Both splice variants of Bad interacted with the antiapoptotic molecule Bcl-w as shown by yeast two-hybrid assay and by co-immunoprecipitation experiments from transfected cells. mRNA expression for the two variants of bad were detected in all neonatal and adult rat tissues tested. Overexpression of either of the two isoforms of Bad in nerve growth factor (NGF)-maintained sympathetic neurons by microinjection induced the cell death of these neurons, which was neutralized by co-expression of Bcl-w. Overexpression of Bcl-w in sympathetic neurons also counteracted death induced by NGF deprivation, which was not reduced by co-expression of either of the two Bad variants. The results suggest that Bcl-w, Bad-alpha, and Bad-beta may participate in the regulation of apoptosis in the sympathetic nervous system.
GAP-43 is first expressed in proliferating neuroblasts and is required for maturation of neurons. When GAP-43 is not expressed in differentiating embryonal carcinoma P19 cells, reduced numbers of neurons were generated. Here we show that neuronal differentiation is initially disrupted at the onset of cell-cycle arrest in aggregated, proliferating neuronal precursors. The ratio of nestin:beta-tubulin-labeled progeny generated at this stage suggests that the differentiation is asymmetric. Apoptosis of immature neurons subsequently produced was also significantly induced. In vivo, too, proliferation of neuroblasts was significantly reduced in cortex of GAP-43(-/-) mice at E14.5. These data demonstrate that when GAP-43 is not expressed in proliferating neuroblasts, neural differentiation is not initiated appropriately, inducing apoptosis. Moreover, the concurrent inhibition of Ca2+-dependent adhesion between differentiating P19 cells in aggregates implicates GAP-43 in CAM-mediated signaling during neurogenesis, as has been previously shown in growth cones.
The central melanocortin (MC) system has been demonstrated to act downstream of leptin in the regulation of body weight. The system comprises alpha-MSH, which acts as agonist, and agouti-related protein (AgRP), which acts as antagonist at the MC3 and MC4 receptors (MC3R and MC4R). This property suggests that MCR activity is tightly regulated and that opposing signals are integrated at the receptor level. We here propose another level of regulation within the melanocortin system by showing that the human (h) MC4R displays constitutive activity in vitro as assayed by adenylyl cyclase (AC) activity. Furthermore, human AgRP(83-132) acts as an inverse agonist for the hMC4R since it was able to suppress constitutive activity of the hMC4R both in intact B16/G4F melanoma cells and membrane preparations. The effect of AgRP(83-132) on the hMC4R was blocked by the MC4R ligand SHU9119. Also the hMC3R and the mouse(m)MC5R were shown to be constitutively active. AgRP(83-132) acted as an inverse agonist on the hMC3R but not on the mMC5R. Thus, AgRP is able to regulate MCR activity independently of alpha-MSH. These findings form a basis to further investigate the relevance of constitutive activity of the MC4R and of inverse agonism of AgRP for the regulation of body weight.
In the past several years there has been significant progress made on the biophysics of neurotransmitter transporters, leading to the proposal of new models of substrate and ion permeation across membranes. Questions arising from these studies are as follows: How are substrate uptake and substrate-induced current related? Where and how does substrate-ion coupling occur? What is the functional significance of the coupled and uncoupled currents? Because of a long-standing interest and collaboration, and because of their importance for normal function and disease, the authors have focused on the properties of human norepinephrine and serotonin transporters, using other clones and mutations as specific needs arise. It has been know for decades that hNETs (human norepinephrine transporters) clear NE+ (norepinephrine) following its release in peripheral sympathetic and central noradrenergic synapses. Neuronal activity influences NE+ uptake, so one is also interested in the acute regulation of hNET. To study these problems, hNET-expressing cells have been developed that are suitable for patch clamp, radioligand uptake, biochemistry, and transiently expressed clones for structure-function analysis, and new protocols have been designed combining patch-clamp, microamperometry, Ca2+ imaging, and native catecholamine transporter preparations to study transporters in whole cells and isolated patches. Using these methods, Na-dependent, NE+-induced hNET currents that are blocked by cocaine and antidepressants, channel modes of NE+ conduction, voltage-dependent uptake coupled to NE+-induced ion channel activity, PKC (phosphokinase C) regulation of NE+ uptake, and transporter modulation by [Ca2+]i have all been discovered. There is also provocative new data on other transporters in this family, such as Li/Na mole fraction experiments in the Drosophila serotonin transporters and sided enkephalin block in proline transporters. These studies have led one to postulate the existence of a narrow pore within transporters through which the substrate (NE+ or serotonin, 5HT+) and other ions (principally Na+) pass. It is hypothesized that the pore resides in an oligomeric structure and that separate gene products of hNET or hSERT (human serotonin transporters) come together to form a channel.
Presynaptic dopamine D2 receptors (D2Rs) regulate dopamine transporter (DAT) activity in the brain. A potential mechanism was suggested by the observations that somatodendritic D2R activation produces hyperpolarization and the velocity of DAT expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes varies with changes in membrane potential. To investigate whether D2R regulation of DAT function is voltage-dependent, we coexpressed the long isoform of the human (h) D2R and the hDAT in oocytes. Most DAT substrates fully activate D2Rs at concentrations used to measure uptake. Thus, DAT function was compared under conditions of maximal D2R activation (0.1-10 microM DA) or maximal D2R blockade (DA + 1 microM (-)-sulpiride). D2R activation significantly increased [3H]DA uptake into unclamped oocytes expressing relatively lower velocities. Uptake measured with a saturating concentration of DA suggested a D2R-induced increase in Vmax. The D2R-mediated enhancement of DA uptake was not associated with changes in resting membrane potential and was abolished by pertussis toxin pretreatment. Furthermore, in voltage-clamped oocytes, D2R activation enhanced both DA uptake and DAT-mediated steady-state currents by as much as 70%. Activation of D2Rs resulted in a 59% increase in cell surface binding of the cocaine analog [3H]WIN 35,428; this effect was also abolished by pertussis toxin pretreatment. Saturation experiments confirmed that D2R activation was associated with an increased Bmax and unchanged Ki for [3H]WIN 35,428. These results suggest that D2R-induced up-regulation of DAT activity occurs via a voltage-independent mechanism that depends on G(i/o) activation and a rapid increase in expression of functional DAT molecules at the cell surface.
The experimental simulation method was based upon the separate activation of up to 10 small groups of motor units (MU) in an acute nerve-muscle preparation. The investigator was able to precisely control and systematically alter the features of MU pool activation strategies. No implicit assumptions were made regarding MU properties. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the validity of this method. Three criteria were formulated and found to be satisfied: First, in the time domain, visual and audio displays of simulated EMG were indistinguishable from physiological EMG. Secondly, in the frequency domain, power spectra of simulated EMG revealed the typical features of EMG recorded during voluntary activation in the cat. Thirdly, the well-known monotonic relationship between EMG magnitude and force was readily reproduced, although strictly linear relations were not found. In addition, the relationship between the pool's ensemble activation rate and EMG magnitude showed distinct gain compression, mostly attributable to signal cancellation.
In 1963, an article on &quot;Tonus&quot; (tone), written by Nikolai A. Bernstein and Yakov M. Kots, appeared in the second edition of the Bols'aja Medicinskaja Enciclopedija [Grand Medical Encyclopedia]. The paper is now published for the first time in the English language, with Mark L. Latash as translator. In accordance with then contemporary neurophysiology and neuropsychology, the paper presented &quot;tone&quot; as a graded phenomenon (as opposed to all-or-none), serving to prepare the segmental level for phasic contractions. Influenced by Granit and Matthews, the authors proposed that the suprasegmental level controls the threshold and the slope of the stretch reflex. In their introduction to the present edition, the editors understand this proposal in the context of low-dimensional control, that is, control in terms of one or a few variables (as opposed to central commands specifying all the details). Selected episodes from the history of low dimensional control and its logical counterpart, spinal intelligence, are used to illustrate how difficult these ideas were to accept. As so often in new scientific developments, confusion was the rule, and in this respect the paper on &quot;Tonus&quot; is no exception. In the epilogue, Kots gives his personal memories of the context in which the paper was written. At the time, he was working on &quot;equitonometry&quot; (equi-tono-metry), measuring tonic balance with gravity eliminated. Results of equitonometric research quite naturally led to the idea that suprasegmental centers control the threshold and the slope of the tonic stretch reflex. As Kots remembers, that was &quot;no big deal&quot;.
The kinematics characteristics of an upper arm extension of large amplitude (90 degrees) performed in the horizontal plane and the simultaneous activity of the shoulder muscles were recorded in 12 parkinsonian patients and in six normal control subjects. The movement, triggered by an acoustic &quot;go&quot; signal, was preceded by an isometric adduction. Within the whole population of individuals (n = 18) a strong, positive correlation was observed between the root mean square value of agonist EMG activity, evaluated during the acceleration phase of the movement, and both peak velocity and acceleration. In six patients tremor bursts at the frequency of 8-14 Hz (action tremor) were observed during the movement phase in the anterior, middle, and posterior deltoid: all these patients showed low root mean square values and were bradykinetic with respect to the control subjects. The remaining six patients did not show this action tremor during the movement phase. All but one had an agonist activation of normal duration and amplitude, showed high root mean square values, and performed well in the range of control subjects. We conclude that the inability to suppress the activity of pathological oscillator(s) responsible for the action tremor plays a fundamental role in the bradykinesia associated with Parkinson's disease.
Olfactory dysfunction is a common finding in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). As most studies reported on odor identification in more advanced and treated PD, we administered an odor detection, discrimination, and identification test to a heterogeneous, partly de novo, group of patients. Forty-one non-demented PD patients, 24 of whom had untreated early PD, and 18 healthy controls, were examined. Odor identification and discrimination data were corrected for odor detection scores. PD patients scored significantly lower on all olfactory tests. Interestingly, the subgroup of de novo patients with early PD also showed significant olfactory disturbances compared with healthy subjects. Within the PD group, using multiple regression analysis, we found a significant, negative correlation between odor discrimination measures and disease The present study is the first to describe decreased performance of PD patients on odor discrimination, in addition to the already well-established deficits in odor detection and identification. Furthermore, odor discrimination measures were related to disease severity, possibly indicating that at least some aspects of olfactory dysfunction in PD may be secondary to ongoing degenerative processes in PD. As significant olfactory impairments were found in early, de novo PD, olfactory tests may be useful in the early diagnosis of PD.
Recent work has revealed an evolutionarily conserved trio of proteins that regulate cell polarity in epithelial cells, embryonic blastomeres and neural precursors. This common cell-polarity mechanism is used in cell-specific ways, as highlighted by the recent finding that at least two different types of asymmetric division are observed in Drosophila neural precursors.
Studies in three different transgenic mouse models suggest that the amyloid beta-protein contributes to memory loss in Alzheimer disease. Immunization with an amyloid beta-peptide fragment reduces learning and memory impairments in mice, and this approach may eventually be used to prevent and/or treat this disease in people.
We describe a mechanism for coincidence detection mediated by the interaction between backpropagating action potentials and EPSPs in neocortical pyramidal neurons. At distal dendritic locations, appropriately timed EPSPs or oscillations could increase the amplitude of backpropagating action potentials by three- to fourfold. This amplification was greatest when action potentials occurred at the peak of EPSPs or dendritic oscillations and could lead to somatic burst firing. The increase in amplitude required sodium channel activation but not potassium channel inactivation. The temporal characteristics of this amplification are similar to those required for changes in synaptic strength, suggesting that this mechanism may be involved in the induction of synaptic plasticity.
Human visual perception and many visual system neurons adapt to the luminance and contrast of the stimulus. Here we describe a form of contrast adaptation that occurs in the retina. This adaptation had a local scale smaller than the dendritic or receptive fields of single ganglion cells and was insensitive to pharmacological manipulation of amacrine cell function. These results implicate the bipolar cell pathway as a site of contrast adaptation. The time required for contrast adaptation varied with stimulus size, ranging from approximately 100 ms for the smallest stimuli, to seconds for stimuli the size of the receptive field. The differing scales and time courses of these effects suggest that multiple types of contrast adaptation are used in viewing natural scenes.
In contrast to peripheral nerves, damaged axons in the mammalian brain and spinal cord rarely regenerate. Peripheral nerve injury stimulates neuronal expression of many genes that are not generally induced by CNS lesions, but it is not known which of these genes are required for regeneration. Here we show that co-expressing two major growth cone proteins, GAP-43 and CAP-23, can elicit long axon extension by adult dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in vitro. Moreover, this expression triggers a 60-fold increase in regeneration of DRG axons in adult mice after spinal cord injury in vivo. Replacing key growth cone components, therefore, could be an effective way to stimulate regeneration of CNS axons.
Both lesion and functional imaging studies in humans, as well as neurophysiological studies in nonhuman primates, demonstrate the importance of the prefrontal cortex in representing the emotional value of sensory stimuli. Here we investigated single-neuron responses to emotional stimuli in an awake person with normal intellect. Recording from neurons within healthy tissue in ventral sites of the right prefrontal cortex, we found short-latency (120-160 ms) responses selective for aversive visual stimuli.

Adaptive phenomena such as desensitization of autoreceptors are considered an important factor in the achievement of therapeutic efficacy of antidepressant drugs after chronic treatment. We have studied whether a chronic treatment with desipramine had a greater effect than a single dose on the extracellular concentrations of noradrenaline in the dorsal hippocampus. Administration of 10 mg/kg i.p. desipramine once daily for 14 days significantly raised the basal extracellular noradrenaline in the dorsal hippocampus 24 h but not 48 h after the last drug injection. A challenge dose of desipramine increased extracellular noradrenaline in rats treated chronically with vehicle and desipramine. The effect was significantly higher in rats treated chronically with desipramine 48 h but not 24 h after the last injection. An intraperitoneal administration of the alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine at the dose of 10 microg/kg significantly reduced extracellular noradrenaline in the control group but not in animals chronically treated with desipramine whereas 30 microg/kg clonidine produced a similar decrease in both groups. Three concentrations of clonidine (0.05, 0.5 and 1 microM) infused into the hippocampus significantly reduced extracellular noradrenaline to a similar extent in rats chronically treated with saline or desipramine. Fourty-eight hours after the last injection of the chronic treatment, [3H]RX-821002 binding to alpha2-adrenoceptors in the rat locus coeruleus measured by autoradiography was not significantly modified. A slight (17%) but significant decrease of neuronal uptake of [3H]noradrenaline was found in synaptosome preparations from dorsal hippocampus of rats chronically treated with desipramine, but this was likely due to a decrease in affinity. The results suggest that a repeated treatment with desipramine (10 mg/kg i.p. once daily for 14 days) facilitates its effect on extracellular noradrenaline in the dorsal hippocampus and induces adaptive changes probably involving desensitization of alpha2-adrenoceptors, with no changes in their density, on noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus.
The point of departure for this discussion is a critical review of the philosophy of randomized controlled trials (RCT) and their specific errors when applied to psychotherapeutic methods. There is a gap between the highly artificial settings of psychotherapy RCT and naturalistic psychotherapy procedures, which are grounded more in personality than in technique, less regulated, and mostly eclectic. Although RCT are necessary for general assessments of efficacy, they should be complemented by efficiency studies and evaluation of whole health care systems which include psychotherapy. We argue against overstretching the analogy of good clinical practice (GCP) research for the purpose of admitting new psychotropic drugs to psychotherapy research. A rational approach to psychotherapy for indication, quality ascertainment, and allocation of resources needs research which is methodologically explicable, replicable, and relevant to practice. The Cochrane Collaboration is a means of distributing such knowledge and making it work for practitioners. However, Cochrane also sheds light on psychological and practical obstacles which must be overcome before public health care systems can utilize new scientific results. The discussion of disorder-specific psychotherapy versus general psychotherapy ends by emphasizing the importance of more detailed psychopathology and pathopsychology of dysfunctions that cannot be sufficiently explained in manuals. Such dysfunctions--not necessarily specific for diagnoses or abnormality at all--can then be matched to specific psychotherapy tools. Further innovations can be expected from neurosciences, and some of the most promising paradigms are discussed. Finally, the lasting importance of hermeneutics is stressed not only with regard to the generation of new hypotheses but also to guiding the psychotherapeutic process.

A minimal model is presented to explain changes in frequency, shape, and amplitude of Ca2+ oscillations in the neuroendocrine melanotrope cell of Xenopus Laevis. It describes the cell as a plasma membrane oscillator with influx of extracellular Ca2+ via voltage-gated Ca2+ channels in the plasma membrane. The Ca2+ oscillations in the Xenopus melanotrope show specific features that cannot be explained by previous models for electrically bursting cells using one set of parameters. The model assumes a KCa-channel with slow Ca2+-dependent gating kinetics that initiates and terminates the bursts. The slow kinetics of this channel cause an activation of the Kca-channel with a phase shift relative to the intracellular Ca2+ concentration. The phase shift, together with the presence of a Na+ channel that has a lower threshold than the Ca2+ channel, generate the characteristic features of the Ca2+ oscillations in the Xenopus melanotrope cell.

Functional improvement after cortical injury can be stimulated by various factors including experience, psychomotor stimulants, gonadal hormones, and neurotrophic factors. The timing of the administration of these factors may be critical, however. For example, factors such as gonadal hormones, nerve growth factor, or psychomotor stimulants may act to either enhance or retard recovery, depending upon the timing of administration. Nicotine, for instance, stimulates recovery if given after an injury but is without neuroprotective effect and may actually retard recovery if it is given only preinjury. A related timing problem concerns the interaction of different treatments. For example, behavioral therapies may act, in part, via their action in stimulating the endogenous production of trophic factors. Thus, combining behavioral therapies with pharmacological administration of compounds to increase the availability of trophic factors enhances functional outcome. Finally, anatomical evidence suggests that the mechanism of action of many treatments is through changes in dendritic arborization, which presumably reflects changes in synaptic organization. Factors that enhance dendritic change stimulate functional compensation, whereas factors that retard or block dendritic change block or retard compensation.

Previous studies, as well as the present one, report that acute exposure to intermittent tailshocks enhances classical eyeblink conditioning in male rats when trained 24 h after stressor cessation. In Experiment 1, it was determined that the facilitating effect of stress on conditioning could also be obtained in response to a stressor of acute inescapable swim stress but not inescapable noise or the unconditioned stimulus of periorbital eyelid stimulation. These selective responses arose despite comparable enhancements of the stress-related hormone corticosterone in response to tailshocks, periorbital eyelid stimulation, noise stress, and supraelevation in response to swim stress. Although corticosterone is necessary for the enhanced learning in response to stress (Beylin &amp; Shors, 1999), these results suggest that it is not sufficient. In addition, the results suggest that the enhancement is not dependent on common characteristics between the stressor and the conditioning stimuli (stimulus generalization). In Experiment 2, it was determined that the facilitating effect of the stressor on conditioning occurs within 30 min of stressor cessation. Thus, the mechanism responsible for facilitating memory formation is rapidly induced as well as persistently expressed. In Experiment 3, it was determined that exposure to the stressor does not enhance performance of the conditioned response after the response has been acquired. Thus, exposure to the stressor enhances the formation of new associations rather than affecting retention or performance of the motor response. These studies extend the circumstances under which stress is known to enhance associative learning and implicate neural mechanisms of memory enhancement that are rapidly induced and persistently expressed.

The contribution of the pre-frontal cortex to movement-related potentials (MRPs) is unclear. We recorded MRPs from six subdural electrode strips placed over the frontal cortex in a 13-year-old girl being monitored prior to surgery for intractable epilepsy. MRPs were recorded prior to two types of movement: self-paced random joystick movements which involve 'what to do' and 'when to do' decision making on every trial and prior to joystick movements in a fixed forward direction triggered by a tone which does not involve any trial-by-trial decision making. Self-paced random joystick movements were associated with an increased subdural positivity starting from 1000 ms prior to onset of joystick movement at electrodes over the pre-motor cortex (BA 6) and dorsolateral and inferior pre-frontal cortex (BA 46/45/10), as evident from a magnetic resonance imaging scan. These results suggest that in addition to the pre-motor area, the pre-frontal cortex also contributes to the generation of MRPs in conditions involving decision making about the precise nature ('what to do') and timing ('when to do') of the movement. These preliminary results require replication in a larger series of patients.
This article reviews 147 cases of amnesia following damage including the hippocampus or fornix as reported in 179 publications. The aetiology, mnestic abilities and reference(s) are tabulated for each case. Consistent findings across cases include the association of bilateral hippocampal damage with a deficit in anterograde episodic memory combined with spared procedural and working memory. The limited nature of retrograde amnesia following lesions to the fornix is also noted. Less consistent and thus more controversial findings, include effects of lesion size or laterality, deficits in semantic memory or familiarity-based recognition and the extent of retrograde amnesia. The evidence concerning these issues is reviewed across cases.
The search for specific patterns of impaired reaction time in Parkinson's disease has yielded conflicting results. We propose subtypes that exhibit different patterns of impairment and report the case of a patient, Jobe, whose simple and binary choice reaction times were tested repeatedly in a variety of stimulus-response paradigms over a period of 4 years. Jobe consistently failed to exhibit the normal simple reaction advantage even though his choice reaction times fell well within the normal range. While his general intellectual status was above average, he had great difficulty with some neuropsychological tests. He was seldom able to acquire a new category in the Wisconsin Card Sort Test and also had difficulty with the Tower of London Test. We ascribe Jobe's selective impairment of simple reactions to an inability to engage in the off-line preparatory processing that confers an advantage on simple reactions.
In this study, the performance on semantic tests of five patients with a diagnosis of probable herpes simplex encephalitis was examined. Only one of the patients, MU, showed a marked category-specific deficit for living things, unlike the other patients. Results which closely mirrored those obtained with the category living things were found in each of the five patients for the other categories, edible substances, materials, and liquids, selected for a priori theoretical reasons. The processing of these additional categories was investigated with tasks involving naming abilities in different modalities, matching to sample, and questionnaires exploring the status of the patients' knowledge about the semantic features of both living things and exemplars of novel 'sensory quality' categories. MU showed in all tasks a comparable impairment for both living things and the other three new categories, in spite of a performance closely equivalent to that of the other four patients with man-made artefacts. This finding supports an explanation of MU's performance in terms of an impairment relating to categories highly dependent on the sensory quality of stimuli. In addition, his difficulty involved all aspects of the processing of the impaired categories.
Dopamine D3 receptors may be involved in drug addiction and in disorders such as schizophrenia and Parkinson's disease. To determine the pharmacological properties of dopamine D3 receptors in the rat caudate-putamen, we have investigated R(+)-[3H]7-hydroxy-N,N-di-n-propyl-2-aminotetralin ([3H]R(+)-7-OH-DPAT) binding to membrane preparations from the rat caudate-putamen. Kinetic analyses showed that [3H]R(+)-7-OH-DPAT binding reached equilibrium in approximately 1 h and that both association and dissociation curves were composed of at least two components. Likewise, saturation curves showed at least two binding components with a combined Bmax value of about 600 fmol/mg protein, which is three times higher than what is present in the subcortical limbic area. Competition curves were performed with agonists such as R(-)-propylnorapomorphine, dopamine, PD 128907, quinpirole, and bromocriptine, and antagonists such as haloperidol, raclopride, clozapine, GR 218231x, remoxipride, and U99194A. These experiments revealed that [3H]R(+)-7-OH-DPAT binding could be resolved into three specific binding sites (R1-R3) and one nonspecific binding site, with R1-R2 probably representing D3 receptor binding and the minor R3 representing D2 receptor binding. The low affinities of (+/-)-8-OH-DPAT and 1,3-di(2-tolyl)guanidine to inhibit [3H]R(+)-7-OH-DPAT binding indicate negligible involvement of 5-HT1A or sigma binding sites, respectively. The pharmacological profile of [3H]R(+)-7-OH-DPAT (2 nM) binding in the caudate-putamen was similar to that of dopamine on [125I]iodosulpride binding in the cerebellar lobule X, which contain D3 but not D2 receptors. Mg2+ increased and GTP and Na+ decreased the binding of [3H]R(+)-7-OH-DPAT, suggesting a coupling of endogenous D3 receptors to G proteins. Taken together, these results suggest that dopamine D3 receptors display multiple agonist binding states, and that D3 receptors are present in high concentrations in the rat caudate-putamen. These results may have implications for the physiological and pathological roles of dopamine D3 receptors in the brain.
There is increasing evidence that central noradrenaline (NA) transport mechanisms are implicated in the central nervous system complications of acute liver failure. In order to assess this possibility, binding sites for the high affinity NA transporter ligand [3H]-nisoxetine were measured by quantitative receptor autoradiography in the brains of rats with acute liver failure resulting from hepatic devascularization and in appropriate controls. In vivo microdialysis was used to measure extracellular brain concentrations of NA. Severe encephalopathy resulted in a significant loss of [3H]-nisoxetine sites in frontal cortex and a concomitant increase in extracellular brain concentrations of NA in rats with acute liver failure. A loss of transporter sites was also observed in thalamus of rats with acute liver failure. This loss of NA transporter sites could result from depletion of central NA stores due to a reserpine-like effect of ammonia which is known to accumulate to millimolar concentrations in brain in ischemic liver failure. Impaired NA transport and the consequent increase in synaptic concentrations and increased stimulation of neuronal and astrocytic noradrenergic receptors could be implicated in the pathogenesis of the encephalopathy and brain edema characteristic of acute liver failure.
We have previously reported that ropinirole, a non-ergot dopamine agonist, has neuroprotective effects against 6-hydroxydopamine in mice based on in vivo antioxidant properties such as the glutathione (GSH)-activating effect. In the present study, we determined that the effects of ropinirole on the level of expression of GSH-related enzyme mRNA, these enzymes were shown to regulate GSH contents in the brain. This study focused on the mechanism of GSH enhancement by ropinirole. Striatal GSH contents were significantly increased by 7-day daily administration of ropinirole. Furthermore, the expression levels of gamma-glutamylcysteine synthetase (gamma-GCS), glutathione peroxidase (GPx), glutathione reductase (GR) and glutathione S-transferase (GST) mRNA increased following daily injections of ropinirole for 7 days. In addition, ropinirole treatment for 7 days suppressed auto-oxidation in mouse striatal homogenates, in contrast to the vehicle treatment. In conclusion, ropinirole was able to suppress auto-oxidation, most probably by increasing GSH levels due to an increase of GSH synthesis. In addition, it is likely that auto-oxidation was also suppressed by the activation of GSH-regulating enzymes such as GPx, GR, and GST in the mouse striatum. Thus, our results indicate that the GSH-activating effect of ropinirole may render this dopamine agonist beneficial as a neuroprotective drug.
The presence of an &quot;internal clock&quot; in the brain has been assumed to underlie the information processing related to time. This clock plays a critical role in time keeping and time perception, which are closely associated with integrated functions in the brain. To identify the brain areas recruited for time keeping and time perception, we performed positron emission tomography (PET) studies with rhesus monkeys to measure regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as an index of neural activity during time discrimination tasks of different durations ranging from 400 to 1500 ms. Changes in rCBF that covaried significantly with the durations of the target being perceived by subjects were found in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC), the posterior part of the inferior parietal cortex, basal ganglia, and posterior cingulate cortex. Furthermore, a loss of neuronal function in the DLPFC caused by a local application of bicuculline resulted in the selective reduction of performance in time discrimination tasks. The results indicate that a neural network composed of the posterior inferior parietal cortex to the DLPFC plays a crucial role in the temporal monitoring process in time perception.
The Stroop interference task requires a person to respond to a specific dimension of a stimulus while suppressing a competing stimulus dimension. Previous PET and fMRI studies using the Color Stroop paradigm have shown increased activity in the &quot;cognitive division&quot; of the cingulate cortex. In our fMRI study with nine subjects, we used a Color-Word Matching Stroop task. A frontoparietal network, including structures in the lateral prefrontal cortex, the frontopolar region, the intraparietal sulcus, as well as the lateral occipitotemporal gyrus, was activated when contrasting the incongruent vs the neutral condition. However, no substantial activation in either the right or left hemisphere of the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) was detected. In accordance with a series of recent articles, we argue that the ACC is not specifically involved in interference processes. The ACC seems rather involved in motor preparation processes which were controlled in the present Color-Word Matching Stroop task. We argue that the region around the banks of the inferior frontal sulcus is required to solve interference problems, a concept which can also be seen as a component of task set management.


The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews summarizes all the existing randomized evidence of all treatments for all diseases, so that doctors can quickly access the most up-to-date information. The trials for the Cochrane systematic review of thrombolytic therapy in acute ischemic stroke were identified from extensive searching of the literature and contact with trial investigators. Data on several prespecified outcomes (death and symptomatic intracranial hemorrhages within the first 7 to 10 days after treatment, and death and poor functional outcome at long-term follow-up) were sought in each identified randomized, controlled trial. There have thus far been 17 completed randomized, controlled trials of thrombolytic therapy versus control in 5,216 patients (including the provisional data from the Alteplase Thrombolysis for Acute Noninterventional Therapy in Ischemic Stroke [ATLANTIS] A and B and Recombinant Prourokinase in Acute Cerebral Thromboembolism [PROACT] II trials). Of these, eight trials tested recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rt-PA) in 2,889 patients (56% of all data). Overall, there was an increase in the odds of death within the first 10 days (odds ratio [OR] 1.85, 95% confidence interval [CI] 1.48 to 2.32) and symptomatic intracranial hemorrhage (OR 3.53, 95% CI 2.79 to 4.45) with thrombolysis (slightly less with rt-PA). The odds of death at the end of follow-up were also slightly increased with thrombolysis (OR 1.31, 95% CI 1.13 to 1.52), although this increase was not significant in patients receiving rt-PA. Despite this, overall there was a significant reduction in the number of patients with a poor functional outcome (combined death or dependency) at the end of follow-up (OR 0.83, 95% CI 0.73 to 0.94), which was slightly better in patients receiving rt-PA. Most of the data came from trials testing thrombolysis up to 6 hours after stroke, but the subgroup of patients treated within 3 hours showed a greater reduction in poor functional outcome with thrombolysis (OR 0.58, 95% CI 0.46 to 0.74) with a less adverse effect on death. The available data do not allow much further subgroup analysis, although there is reasonable evidence to indicate that aspirin or heparin given within 24 hours of thrombolytic therapy causes a significant increase in intracranial hemorrhage and death. It is hoped that a meta-analysis using individual patient data may be able to address the effect of thrombolysis in further specific subgroups and examine the interaction between the severity of stroke and the effect of thrombolysis.
Spine function requires precise control of the actin cytoskeleton. Kalirin-7, a GDP/GTP exchange factor for Rac1, interacts with PDZ proteins such as PSD-95, colocalizing with PSD-95 at synapses of cultured hippocampal neurons. PSD-95 and Kalirin-7 interact in vivo and in heterologous expression systems. In primary cortical neurons, transfected Kalirin-7 is targeted to spines and increases the number and size of spine-like structures. A Kalirin-7 mutant unable to interact with PDZ proteins remains in the cell soma, inducing local formation of aberrant filopodial neurites. Kalirin-7 with an inactivated GEF domain reduces the number of spines below control levels. These results provide evidence that PDZ proteins target Kalirin-7 to the PSD, where it regulates dendritic morphogenesis through Rac1 signaling to the actin cytoskeleton.
Although both c-Ret and GFRalpha1 are required for responsiveness to GDNF, GFRalpha1 is widely expressed in the absence of c-Ret, suggesting alternative roles for &quot;ectopic&quot; sites of GFRalpha1 expression. We show that GFRalpha1 is released by neuronal cells, Schwann cells, and injured sciatic nerve. c-Ret stimulation in trans by soluble or immobilized GFRalpha1 potentiates downstream signaling, neurite outgrowth, and neuronal survival, and elicits dramatic localized expansions of axons and growth cones. Soluble GFRalpha1 mediates robust recruitment of c-Ret to lipid rafts via a novel mechanism requiring the c-Ret tyrosine kinase. Activated c-Ret associates with different adaptor proteins inside and outside lipid rafts. These results provide an explanation for the tissue distribution of GFRalpha1, supporting the physiological importance of c-Ret activation in trans as a novel mechanism to potentiate and diversify the biological responses to GDNF.
The receptive fields of visual cortical neurons are bidirectionally modified by sensory deprivation and experience, but the synaptic basis for these changes is unknown. Here we demonstrate bidirectional, experience-dependent regulation of the composition and function of synaptic NMDA receptors (NMDARs) in visual cortex layer 2/3 pyramidal cells of young rats. Visual experience decreases the proportion of NR2B-only receptors, shortens the duration of NMDAR-mediated synaptic currents, and reduces summation of synaptic NMDAR currents during bursts of high-frequency stimulation. Visual deprivation exerts an opposite effect. Although the effects of experience and deprivation are reversible, the rates of synaptic modification vary. Experience can induce a detectable change in synaptic transmission within hours, while deprivation-induced changes take days. We suggest that experience-dependent changes in NMDAR composition and function regulate the development of receptive field organization in visual cortex.
Human dreaming occurs during rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. To investigate the structure of neural activity during REM sleep, we simultaneously recorded the activity of multiple neurons in the rat hippocampus during both sleep and awake behavior. We show that temporally sequenced ensemble firing rate patterns reflecting tens of seconds to minutes of behavioral experience are reproduced during REM episodes at an equivalent timescale. Furthermore, within such REM episodes behavior-dependent modulation of the subcortically driven theta rhythm is also reproduced. These results demonstrate that long temporal sequences of patterned multineuronal activity suggestive of episodic memory traces are reactivated during REM sleep. Such reactivation may be important for memory processing and provides a basis for the electrophysiological examination of the content of dream states.
GABA(B) receptor agonists have been reported to have both pro- and antiepileptic properties. Here, the effects of a GABA(B) receptor agonist, baclofen, were studied on epileptiform activity induced in the absence of synaptic transmission - to focus on the postsynaptic effects. Perfusion of hippocampal slices with 0-added calcium and high potassium induced field bursts in CA1 and the dentate gyrus. Addition of baclofen caused a transient suppression of the field bursts in CA1 and the dentate gyrus. The duration of the suppression was dependent on the concentration of baclofen and when the bursts reappeared they had a larger amplitude than before baclofen. Baclofen also suppressed the multiple population spikes evoked by antidromic stimulation in the dentate gyrus. This effect also decreased with continued baclofen perfusion. The effects of baclofen on the amplitude of the spontaneous field bursts and on the stimulation-induced multiple population spikes were blocked by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist SCH 50911, suggesting that these effects of baclofen are mediated by GABA(B) receptor activation. Baclofen significantly increased the peak extracellular K(+) concentration during each field burst in the dentate gyrus but did not change the baseline level of K(+) between field bursts. The results suggest that postsynaptic GABA(B) receptor activation by baclofen has transient antiepileptic effects followed by a rebound increase in excitability.
Previously, we reported a relationship between silent cerebral infarction (SCI), as detected by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and late onset major depression. In the present study, we clarify the clinical features of the depressive phase of patients with major depression and SCI, and their response to antidepressant pharmacotherapy. Using clinical charts, we retrospectively examined patients with depression, who were first admitted for antidepressant pharmacotherapy. All patients were classified according to the MRI findings and the age on admission (older or younger than 50 years) into either the young SCI(-) group (n = 23), the elderly SCI(-) group (n = 27) or the elderly SCI(+) group (n = 20).The characteristics of the clinical features were evaluated at the time of admission, after 2 weeks of treatment and at the time of discharge using the Hamilton rating scale for depression (HAMD). These data were compared between each patient group. No differences in the clinical features, as evaluated by HAMD, were observed between the three groups at the time of admission. However, the mean length of treatment was significantly longer and the treatment response, as evaluated by the total HAMD score, was significantly worse in the elderly SCI(+) group than in the other two groups, when examined after 2 weeks of treatment and at the time of discharge. The elderly SCI(+) group demonstrated higher scores in feelings of guilt, suicide, retardation and hypochondriasis than the young SCI(-) group and the elderly SCI(-) group after two weeks of treatment, and higher scores in early insomnia, late insomnia, somatic anxiety and hypochondriasis at the time of discharge. Our findings suggest that while the presence of SCI does not affect the clinical features observed at the time of admission, it does affect the treatment response to antidepressant pharmacotherapy.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) concentrations of monoamine compounds are influenced by factors such as age, gender, height, body weight, tapping time, and atmospheric pressure. We have now examined the role of intraspinal pressure. Thirteen male volunteers underwent lumbar puncture in the right decubitus position without preceding strict bed rest. The intraspinal pressure was recorded, and monoamine precursors, transmitters, and metabolites were analyzed in two consecutively collected CSF fractions. Tryptophan in 12 ml of CSF and the 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentration ratio [fraction II (7--12 ml CSF)/fraction I (0--6 ml CSF)] correlated with the intraspinal pressure. Hypothetically, the intraspinal pressure may be a confounding factor for a correct interpretation of CSF tryptophan and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid concentrations, and this is an issue that has to be addressed in future CSF studies.
Positron emission tomography with uptake of [(18)F]fluorodeoxyglucose (FDG) and quantitative EEG were simultaneously performed in 18 medication-free patients with schizophrenia and in 13 normal volunteers. Subjects performed the Continuous Performance Task (CPT) during FDG uptake. Correlations were calculated between alpha power during the CPT and glucose metabolic rate (GMR) in thalamic regions and between alpha power during the CPT and GMR in occipital cortices. Regression analyses were used to describe the prediction of GMR in the occipital cortices and in the thalamic regions of occipital alpha power. In normal controls, we found (1) significant negative correlations between absolute alpha power and GMR in the left occipital cortex, (2) significant positive correlations between normalized alpha power and GMR in the right and left lateral thalamus and (3) combined effects of GMR in the thalamic regions and the occipital cortices on alpha power, which accounted for 98% of the variance of alpha power. In patients with schizophrenia, we found no significant correlations between alpha power and GMR in the occipital cortices or between alpha power and GMR in the thalamic regions. Correlation coefficients between absolute alpha power and GMR in the left occipital cortex and between normalized alpha power and GMR in the left lateral thalamus were significantly different in normal subjects compared to schizophrenic patients. The present findings provide evidence for involvement of the thalamus in the generation of alpha rhythm in humans. Furthermore, the present results suggest differences in thalamocortical circuits between normal controls and schizophrenic subjects.
Lumbar punctures and ratings of depressive symptoms were done in hypothyroid patients before and during L-thyroxine therapy. Before treatment, the most prominent symptoms were concentration difficulties, lassitude, and reduced sexual interest. All patients suffered from sleep disturbances. Suicidal thoughts did not occur at all. Inner tension was negatively correlated with the anxiogenic cholecystokinin tetrapeptide (CCK-4) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), while reduced sexual interest was negatively correlated with CSF tryptophan. Furthermore, failing memory correlated negatively with T3 as well as T4 in serum. A positive correlation was found between failing memory and serum TSH. All patients improved significantly during treatment. No biochemical correlates were found. In conclusion, hypothyroidism is associated with major depressive symptoms. CSF CCK-4 and tryptophan, as well as serum thyroid hormones, may constitute biochemical correlates for some of these symptoms.
There are a number of investigations which indicate the important relationship between depression and cytokines. In this study, we investigated plasma interleukin (IL)-1beta, IL-6, soluble IL-2 receptor (sIL-2R) and tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha of depressed patients whose clinical evaluation was performed by the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression (HAM-D) and the Profile of Mood States (POMS). They were compared with those of the control subjects, and before and after treatment with antidepressants. Before the treatment, plasma IL-1beta, IL-6, sIL-2R and TNF-alpha of the patients were not significantly different from those of the control subjects. sIL-2R was positively correlated with the POMS-tension-anxiety subscale and tended to have a positive correlation with HAM-D. After pharmacotherapy, TNF-alpha levels of the depressed patients increased, without any relationship between the change in the HAM-D or the POMS and the change in TNF-alpha. These results suggest that the plasma sIL-2R concentration is associated with mood state, and that the plasma TNF-alpha concentration is increased after pharmacotherapy in Japanese depressed patients.
Chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) is a debilitating disease characterized by severe, unexplained fatigue and postexertional exacerbation of symptoms. We examined basal endocrine function in a group of CFS patients and a carefully matched group of sedentary controls. The subjects then completed a graded, maximal exercise test on a treadmill, and additional blood samples were drawn 4 min and a day after the end of exercise. There were no differences in basal hormone levels before exercise. Plasma adrenocorticotropin, epinephrine, prolactin and thyrotropin responses 4 min after exercise were lower in the CFS group, but the growth hormone response may have been exaggerated, and the plasma norepinephrine response was similar to that in controls. The next day, there were no differences in hormone levels between the groups, which suggests that long-term changes in endocrine function are unlikely to be a cause of the prolonged fatigue that occurs in CFS patients after a bout of exertion.
It is a fairly well-known fact that the CSF collection time (tapping time) at lumbar puncture may influence CSF levels of monoamine compounds (e.g. the serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, 5-HIAA) and some neuropeptides. Since serum levels of cholesterol and triglycerides and low CSF levels of 5-HIAA have been linked to violent behaviour and impulsivity, we investigated retrospectively whether serum cholesterol and triglycerides affect CSF collection time. The series consists of 14 healthy males lumbar punctured at the L(4-5) level. We found that both serum cholesterol and serum triglycerides influenced the CSF collection time for 12 ml of CSF (R = 0.77; p = 0.0067). There was no correlation between cholesterol in serum and CSF, nor between cholesterol in the CSF and collection time. However, we accidentally found a correlation between cholesterol in the CSF and age. The proposed hypothesis tries to explain why cholesterol- and triglyceride-rich lipoprotein particles modify the CSF collection time and influence endothelial function with a subsequent effect on CSF production and/or intraspinal pressure. Thus, it may be of interest to pay attention to serum cholesterol and triglycerides, their effect on CSF collection time and, in the next step, their putative impact on levels of various compounds in the CSF.
The interpretation of data on compounds in the lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is limited by several confounding factors, e.g. motor activity for which strict bed rest prior to lumbar puncture is recommended for standardisation. Now we report data from 14 healthy males employing the standardised procedure except for the requirement of strict bed rest. The levels of serotonin, noradrenaline, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), homovanillic acid and 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenylglycol in the second CSF fraction (7-12 ml) were significantly higher than those in the first fraction (0-6 ml), indicating the presence of concentration gradients. 5-HIAA was negatively influenced by age and the neuraxis distance in the lying position and positively by atmospheric pressure. Storage time and atmospheric pressure contributed to the variance in dopamine. Both tyrosine, tryptophan and dopamine were linearly correlated with storage time. We also found a significant curvilinear correlation between tapping time and atmospheric pressure. On comparing with previous studies, the results support the notion that the issue of strict bed rest or not prior to lumbar puncture might have to be taken into consideration when interpreting lumbar monoamine CSF data.
Reading and spelling performance was analysed for a sample of 45 children with unilateral brain damage. Boys showed impairments only when the lesion was on the left, while girls showed no significant impairments when either hemisphere was affected. The results support the hypothesis that specialised substrates, which underlie literacy acquisition, have limited plasticity and may be more strongly lateralised to the left hemisphere in males than in females.
Three split-brained subjects, one (N.G.) with full forebrain commissurotomy and two (V.P. and J.W.) with callosotomy, made same-different judgments about pairs of visual stimuli that were flashed either unilaterally or bilaterally. In separate blocks of trials, the stimuli could differ in luminance, size, or color. In the bilateral condition, only J.W. scored above chance, and only minimally, on the luminance and size tasks, and none of the subjects scored above chance on the color task. Accuracy was generally much higher, especially for V.P. and J.W., when the stimuli were unilateral. These results confirm that there is little or no interhemispheric transfer of the visual attributes of luminance, size or color in the split brain.
This review focuses on neuroimaging studies that address the relationship between selective attention, neural activity and visual awareness. Withdrawing attention from particular visual stimuli reduces modality-specific processing in posterior visual cortex, and when attention is fully engaged elsewhere, even highly salient but task-irrelevant stimuli can fail to evoke activity and reach awareness. However, the link between visual attention and awareness extends beyond posterior visual cortex to also encompass regions of parietal and prefrontal cortex. Activity in the posterior visual cortex may be necessary but not sufficient for awareness, without a contribution from frontal and parietal cortex. Consistent with this, enhanced interactions between parietal, frontal and posterior visual cortex are observed as a function of both visual attention and visual awareness; and lesions of parietal cortex disrupt both visual attention and awareness. Taken together, these data suggest that distributed interactions between modality-specific posterior visual cortex and frontoparietal areas subserve both visual attention and visual awareness.
Neuroimaging techniques can be used not only to identify the neural substrates of attention, but also to test cognitive theories of attention. Here we consider four classic questions in the psychology of visual attention: (i) Are some 'special' classes of stimuli (e.g. faces) immune to attentional modulation?; (ii) What are the information units on which attention operates?; (iii) How early in stimulus processing are attentional effects observed?; and (iv) Are common mechanisms involved in different modes of attentional selection (e.g. spatial and non-spatial selection)? We describe studies from our laboratory that illustrate the ways in which fMRI and MEG can provide key evidence in answering these questions. A central methodological theme in many of our fMRI studies is the use of analyses in which the activity in certain functionally-defined regions of interest (ROIs) is used to test specific cognitive hypotheses. An analogous sensor-of-interest (SOI) approach is applied to MEG. Our results include: evidence for the modulation of face representations by attention; confirmation of the independent contributions of object-based and location-based selection; evidence for modulation of face representations by non-spatial selection within the first 170 ms of processing; and implication of the intraparietal sulcus in functions general to spatial and non-spatial visual selection.
In the present paper, we review several functional imaging studies investigating crossmodal interactions between vision and touch relating to spatial attention. We asked how the spatial unity of a multimodal event in the external world might be represented in the brain, where signals from different modalities are initially processed in distinct brain regions. The results highlight several links between visual and tactile spatial representations. First, we found that activity in the anterior part of the intraparietal sulcus was influenced by stimulus position independently of the modality of the stimulation. This is consistent with crossmodal interactions via sensory convergence from early modality-specific spatial maps to higher-order multimodal regions. Second, we found that stimulation in, or attention to, one modality could affect activity in areas dedicated to a different modality, in a spatially-specific manner. These spatial crossmodal effects in unimodal regions demonstrate congruous activity in anatomically distant brain areas that represent similar external locations, implicating a distributed network of spatial representations in crossmodal integration. Finally, the results suggest that the temporo-parietal junction may be involved in aspects of controlling spatial attention, for both vision and touch. A multimodal attentional system may influence activity in distinct brain areas representing common regions of space for different modalities, thus suggesting a link between spatial attention and crossmodal integration.
Selective attention allows people to process some stimuli more thoroughly than others. This is partly under voluntary control, and partly determined by stimulus salience. Selective attention has been studied with psychological methods for many years, but recent cognitive neuroscience studies using brain-imaging methods (and other neurobiological measures) have transformed the topic. Such studies have demonstrated that sensory processing can be strongly modulated by attention throughout perceptual networks, including even processing in primary sensory cortex. They have shown that some of these modulations can be anticipatory, arising prior to stimulus presentation, while other components reflect a changed neural response to an incoming stimulus. Recent imaging studies have also examined the mechanisms involved in controlling such attentional modulation of sensory processing. In addition to answering many long-standing questions about selective attention, such research also raises new questions. The various contributions in this volume provide an overview of the spectacular recent advances in attention research using neurobiological measures, and they outline critical issues to be resolved in the future.
Several studies have shown that patients with frontal lobe damage (FL) generate fewer words than control participants in verbal fluency tasks. In the current study, we were interested in assessing the quality of such verbal fluency data. Multidimensional exploratory techniques, namely, hierarchical clustering (HC) and correspondence analysis (CoA), were performed on verbal fluency data collected from 13 FL patients and 11 age-matched controls. HC of individual word-profiles distinguished between patients with left frontal lobe (LFL) and right frontal lobe (RFL) lesions. CoA revealed that LFL patients generated unusual word-profiles, as evidenced by their peripheral location on a CoA map, while RFL patients produced highly typical word-profiles. We would like to suggest that preserved functioning of the left frontal lobe might have constrained the responses of the RFL group resulting in typical word combinations, whereas preserved right frontal lobe functioning might have mediated greater diversification in the responses of the LFL group. The present study shows that HC and CoA can be applied to neuropsychological data to reveal complex relationships between cognitive performance and cerebral lesion sites.
We examined a patient with left spatial neglect and visual extinction due to right parietal damage in tasks where identical stimuli were presented before and after they were primed so as to be perceived as the eyes of schematic faces. In a first block, we presented alphanumeric stimuli (+, o, T, 6) on the right, left, or both sides of fixation on a blank background, and established that the patient could perceive unilateral stimuli on either side but extinguished most of the left-sided ones in the bilateral trials. In a second block, some of these stimuli (+, o) were presented again, but now in the position of eyes within the context of an oval frame which created the impression of a schematic face. Other stimuli (T, 6) were presented as previously on a blank background for an equal number of trials. In the third critical block, all stimuli were presented once again on a blank background, as in the first block. Now the patient extinguished very few of those left-sided stimuli primed to be seen as a pair of eyes in face configuration (+, o), but still extinguished most of the other stimuli (T, 6). A second control experiment showed no effect of repeatedly exposing stimuli in a common region of space defined by meaningless shape boundaries. These results suggest that facial organization can group eye features before the level where attentional selection or extinction occurs, and that such grouping may be influenced by rapid perceptual learning.
Patients with left-neglect bisect horizontal lines to the right of true center. Their bisection bias is affected by line length, so that longer lines are bisected further to the right. Patients often crossover and bisect very short lines to the left of true center. We tested the hypothesis that the context in which lines are apprehended accounts for the crossover phenomenon. We replicated previous findings that a line is bisected further leftward when it is preceded by a longer line and further rightward when it is preceded by a shorter line. These contextual effects occur with relatively short and relatively long target lines. Bisection patterns in two different series of lines, one ranging from 10 to 150 mm, and the other from 110 to 250 mm, were investigated. If crossover bisections were simply due to contextual effects then left-sided errors would be observed on bisections of the shorter lines of both series. Our findings did not support this hypothesis. Crossover bisections occurred only with objectively short lines, those shorter than 40 mm. Even though we found significant contextual effects on line bisection biases, these effects per se do not account for the crossover phenomenon. Rather, our data suggest that the absolute length of the line is associated specifically with the crossover phenomenon.
The extent to which irrelevant perception of visual motion distractors can be modulated by manipulating auditory load in a relevant task was assessed with Positron Emission Tomography (PET) and behavioural experiments. Subjects performed an auditory task and ignored an irrelevant visual motion stimulus, under two conditions. In a low load condition, subjects were asked to detect words spoken in a loud voice among words spoken in a quiet voice, while in a high load condition they attempted to detect bisyllabic words among monosyllabic and trisyllabic words. We found that motion-related visual areas were strongly activated by the irrelevant motion stimulus, compared to a static stimulus, under both conditions of load in the auditory task. In a second behavioural experiment, the duration of the motion after-effect was similarly unaffected by adaptation under low or high auditory load. These results are in clear contrast with the strong modulation of irrelevant motion processing by visual load, as reflected in the duration of the motion after effect (Section 6) and neural responses in motion-related visual areas (Rees et al., Science, (1997) 278, 338). These findings support the claim that attentional capacity is restricted within but not between sensory modalities, and indicate that processing of visual distractors may occur whenever there is sufficient visual capacity to process them, despite being task- and modality-irrelevant.
To address the question of which brain regions subserve retrieval of emotionally-valenced memories, we used event-related fMRI to index neural activity during the incidental retrieval of emotional and non-emotional contextual information. At study, emotionally neutral words were presented in the context of sentences that were either negatively, neutrally or positively valenced. At test, fMRI data were obtained while participants discriminated between studied and unstudied words. Recognition of words presented in emotionally negative relative to emotionally neutral contexts was associated with enhanced activity in right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, left amygdala and hippocampus, right lingual gyrus and posterior cingulate cortex. Recognition of words from positive relative to neutral contexts was associated with increased activity in bilateral prefrontal and orbitofrontal cortices, and left anterior temporal lobe. These findings suggest that neural activity mediating episodic retrieval of contextual information and its subsequent processing is modulated by emotion in at least two ways. First, there is enhancement of activity in networks supporting episodic retrieval of neutral information. Second, regions known to be activated when emotional information is encountered in the environment are also active when emotional information is retrieved from memory.
Abruptly presented items capture attention automatically so they constitute the first items to be examined [Yantis and Jonides, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 1984;10:601; Jonids and Yantis, Perception and Psychophysics, 1988;43:346; Theeuwes, Perception and Psychophysics, 1992;51:599; Theeuwes, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 1994;20:799]. This attentional priority can be controlled in a top-down manner by directing attention towards the locus of interest [Yantis and Johnson, Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 1990;16:812; Theeuwes. Perception and Psychophysics, 1991;49:83; Miller, Perception and Psychophysics, 1989;45:567; Folk et al., Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 1992; 18:1030]. The premotor theory of attention [Rizzolatti et al., Neuropsychologia 1987;25:31; Rizzolatti et al., Attention and Performance XV, 1994, p. 231] assumes that the mechanism responsible for the attentional shifts is strictly linked to that responsible for eye movements, and several studies [Corbetta et al., Society of Neuroscience Abstracts 1997;23:122.12; Nobre et al., Brain 1997;120:515; Theeuwes et al., Journal of Experimental Psychology: Human Perception and Performance, 1999;25:1595] suggested that the premotor cortex plays a role in the control of attention. However, the nature of this involvement is still unclear. We have been asking a patient (RJ) with a damage of the right premotor cortex to decide whether a target had a discontinuity on its right or left side. The absolute location of the target was pre-cued. In Section 2, an interference was observed when a sudden onset occurred in the visual space, suggesting that RJ was not able to control attentional capture. The possibility to attribute this interference to an insufficient focalization of attention or a grouping effect were discarded by Sections 3 and 4, respectively. Section 5 revealed that this interference followed exclusively the onset occurring in the hemifield opposite the one containing the target (meridian effect [Rizzolatti et al., Neuropsychologia 1987;25:31]). The results suggest that the control of attentional capture may be achieved by keeping constant the parameters of the appropriate oculomotor program.
The timecourse and scalp topography of interactions between neural responses to stimuli in different visual quadrants, straddling either the vertical or horizontal meridian, were studied in 15 subjects. Visual evoked potentials (VEPs) were recorded from 64 electrodes during a simple reaction time (RT) task. VEPs to single stimuli displayed in different quadrants were summed ('sum') and compared to the VEP response from simultaneous stimulation of the same two quadrants ('pair'). These responses would be equivalent if the neural responses to the single stimuli were independent. Divergence between the 'pair' and 'sum' VEPs indicates a neural response interaction. In each visual field, interactions occurred within 72-86 ms post-stimulus over parieto-occipital brain regions. Independent of visual quadrant, RTs were faster for stimulus pairs than single stimuli. This replicates the redundant target effect (RTE) observed for bilateral stimulus pairs and generalizes the RTE to unilateral stimulus pairs. Using Miller's 'race' model inequality (Miller J. Divided attention: evidence for coactivation with redundant signals, Cognitive Psychology 1982;14:247-79), we found that probability summation could fully account for the RTE in each visual field. Although measurements from voltage waveforms replicated the observation of earlier peak P1 latencies for the 'pair' versus 'sum' comparison (Miniussi C, Girelli M, Marzi CA. Neural site of the redundant target effect: electrophysiological evidence. Journal of Cognitive Neuroscience 1998;10:216-30), this did not hold with measurements taken from second derivative (scalp current density) waveforms. Since interaction effects for bilateral stimulus pairs occurred within 86 ms and require interhemispheric transfer, transcallosal volleys must arrive within 86 ms, which is earlier than previously calculated. Interaction effects for bilateral conditions were delayed by approximately 10 ms versus unilateral conditions, consistent with current estimates of interhemispheric transmission time. Interaction effects place an upper limit on the time required for neuronal ensembles to combine inputs from different quadrants of visual space ( approximately 72 ms for unilateral and approximately 82 ms for bilateral conditions).
Eye movements provide a behavioural measure of sensorimotor processing and higher cognitive functions of the brain. With the development of novel paradigms that can be used for the study of various cognitive operations, saccadic eye movements in particular, have become increasingly popular. Patients with schizophrenia have neurocognitive impairments that can be readily investigated with these paradigms. From animal, human lesion and neuroimaging studies, the cerebral centres underlying saccadic eye movements have been identified. The areas of the prefrontal cortex include the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, the frontal eye fields, the supplementary eye fields, and the anterior cingulate cortex. Pathology of saccadic eye movements, therefore, provides information on the functional status of the underlying neural circuitry in brain disorders such as schizophrenia. In this paper, we evaluate: (i) methodological considerations that are central to the design and application of saccadic paradigms; (ii) brain activation that is associated with saccadic paradigms; (iii) recent findings in healthy subjects and schizophrenic patients; (iv) saccadic abnormalities in other psychiatric and neurological disorders and in individuals at risk for developing schizophrenia.
Several recent studies have shown cross-modal visual-tactile extinction in patients with right hemisphere lesions. In the present case, patient BV, a visual stimulus close to the right hand extinguished awareness of a touch on the left hand that would otherwise have been felt. Such extinction was reduced if the right visual stimulus was placed more distant from the patient's hand in the radial plane. However, when the patient held sticks in both hands, so that a far right visual stimulus was now at the end of the &quot;tool&quot; in his right hand, cross-modal extinction from this far stimulus increased. This effect depended on the patient holding a stick that reached to the position of the far visual stimulus; a similar large stick, but not connected with the patient's hand and laying passively on the right, had no effect. Wielding the stick induced a re-mapping of space, so that the far light became treated as near (and reachable by) the hand, thus modifying the spatial nature of cross-modal extinction. This may relate to the properties of multimodal neurons as found in the monkey intraparietal sulcus.
Prospective memory (PM) refers to the functions that enables a person to carry out an intended act after a delay. Despite the ubiquity of this behaviour, little is known about the supporting brain structures and the roles that they play. In this study, eight healthy participants performed four different PM tasks, each under three conditions: a baseline, and two conditions involving an intention. In the first of the intention conditions, subjects were asked to make a novel response to a certain class of stimuli whilst performing an attention-demanding task. However, the expected stimuli never actually occurred. In the second intention condition subjects were expecting to see these stimuli as before, and they did occur on approximately 20% of trials. Relative to the baseline condition, increases in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) as estimated by oxygen-15 positron emission tomography technique across all four tasks were seen in the frontal pole (Brodmann's area 10) bilaterally, right lateral prefrontal and inferior parietal regions plus the precuneus when subjects were expecting a PM stimulus regardless of whether it actually occurred. Further activation was seen in the thalamus when the PM stimuli occurred and was acted upon, with a corresponding rCBF decrease in right lateral prefrontal cortex. It is argued that the first set of region play a role in the maintenance of an intention, with the second set involved additionally in its realisation.
Damasio has proposed an influential model of human decision making - the somatic marker hypothesis (Damasio AR. Descates' Error. London: Papermac/Macmillan, 1994), where he argues that somatic feedback to the brain influences decision making in man. It is proposed that when choosing between options that differ in relative risk, a somatic marker (e.g. a 'gut feeling') feeds back to the brain and influences cognitive appraisal. In the present study patients who had suffered a complete tetraplegia at the level of the sixth cervical vertebra were compared with matched healthy control subjects. As the spinal injury group have reduced somatic/peripheral feedback via the spinal cord, it was predicted, based on the somatic marker hypothesis, that they may demonstrate riskier behaviour than controls. All subjects completed the Iowa Gambling Task, a computerised card playing game where the player is instructed to try and win as much money as possible over 100 selections from one of four decks. The rules are not disclosed in advance, and the player gradually 'learns' that two of the decks are 'high risk' and lead to significant financial losses. Healthy individuals have previously been shown to learn to avoid the risky decks, whereas patients with medial frontal lobe damage (Bechara A, Damasio AR, Damasio H, Anderson SW. Insensitivity to future consequences following damage to human prefrontal cortex. Cognition 1994;50:7-15) and those with peripheral neuropathy (Bechara A, Tranel D, Wilson J, Heberlein AS, Ross M, Damasio AR, 1998. Impaired decision-making in peripheral neuropathy. Society for Neuroscience Abstracts 24:1176) select an excessive number from the risky decks, and consequently lose money. In the present study there were no significant differences between the spinal sectioned and healthy control groups in either card selection strategy or net financial outcome. This result suggests that in terms of the somatic marker hypothesis, feedback to the brain from the periphery via the cranial vagus and other nerves and the hormonal route may be equally or more influential than afferent feedback transmitted via the spinal cord.

Based on the similarity of brain areas lesioned in neglect and those activated by spatial working memory (WM) tasks in normals, we hypothesized that neglect may involve spatial WM impairments. A left neglect patient with right inferior frontal and basal ganglia damage performed cancellation tasks, making either highly visible marks (to provide a reminder of visited items), or invisible marks (so only spatial WM could represent cancelled items). Invisible marks led to repeated cancellations for targets that differed only in location, but not for targets with memorable unique identities, suggesting a deficit of spatial WM, with non-spatial WM spared. Neglect was greater for cancellation with invisible marks, consistent with a role for deficient spatial WM in cancellation deficits, but contrary to account solely in terms of attention capture by salient visible marks made in ipsilesional space.
We report a positron emission tomography (PET) study in a 37-year-old, right handed, bilingual (English and American Sign Language) male with left frontal lobe damage, without evidence of language or general intellectual dysfunction. A brain MRI scan demonstrated an atrophic lesion of the left dorsolateral prefrontal, orbital, and opercular cortices extending from the frontal pole to precentral gyrus and including parts of anterior cingulate cortex, due to an probable infantile encephalitis. H(2) (15)O PET scans found evidence of increased right hemisphere activity compared to normal controls during spontaneous generation of narrative in both English and ASL. Neuropsychological data were within normal limits with the exception of visuospatial function. The results suggest the possibility that plasticity, unmasking of neural pathways, and or other adaptations of language function in the right hemisphere may have occurred, and are discussed with regard to the crowding hypothesis.
What roles are played by the cerebral hemispheres in planning object-oriented reaching and grasping movements? In an attempt to address this question, we compared the abilities of the left and right hemispheres of commissurotomy patient J.W. to imagine hand manipulation (i.e., grasp) or arm transportation (i.e., reach) movements. A graphically rendered manipulandum (dowel) was briefly presented to the left (LVF) or right (RVF) visual fields in a variety of different orientations. In the grasp selection task (experiment 1), J.W. was required to determine which side of a dowel his thumb would be on if he were to engage the stimulus in a power grip using either his dominant (right) or non-dominant hand. In the reach selection task (experiment 3), J.W. judged which end his elbow would be on if he treated the dowel as an armrest for his dominant or non-dominant forearm. No actual movements were allowed in either task. Movements selected in the imagery tasks were compared with those chosen during actual motor control under comparable circumstances. These comparisons revealed a left hemisphere advantage for representing grasping movements involving the right hand, and reaching movements involving the left arm. The right hemisphere, by contrast, displayed moderate accuracy when representing grasping movements with the left hand, but appeared incapable of imagining reaching movements with either arm. The double dissociation between imagery for hand and arm movements in the left cerebral hemispere is consistent with the hypothesis that grasping and reaching components of prehension involve dissociable planning mechanisms.
Functional imaging studies have proposed a role for left BA37 in phonological retrieval, semantic processing, face processing and object recognition. The present study targeted the posterior aspect of BA37 to see whether a deficit, specific to one of the above types of processing could be induced. Four conditions were investigated: word and nonword reading, colour naming and picture naming. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) was delivered over posterior BA37 of the left and right hemispheres (lBA37 and rBA37, respectively) and over the vertex. Subjects were significantly slower to name pictures when TMS was given over lBA37 compared to vertex or rBA37. rTMS over lBA37 had no significant effect on word reading, nonword reading or colour naming. The picture naming deficit is suggested to result from a disruption to object recognition processes. This study corroborates the finding from a recent imaging study, that the most posterior part of left hemispheric BA37 has a necessary role in object recognition.
Brain activation was examined using functional magnetic resonance imaging during mathematical problem solving in 7 young healthy participants. Problems were selected from the Necessary Arithmetic Operations Test (NAOT; R. B. Ekstrom, J. W. French, H. H. Harman, &amp; D. Dermen, 1976). Participants solved 3 types of problems: 2-operation problems requiring mathematical reasoning and text processing, 1-operation problems requiring text processing but minimal mathematical reasoning, and 0-operation problems requiring minimal text processing and controlling sensorimotor demands of the NAOT problems. Two-operation problems yielded major activations in bilateral frontal regions similar to those found in other problem-solving tasks, indicating that the processes mediated by these regions subserve many forms of reasoning. Findings suggest a dissociation in mathematical problem solving between reasoning, mediated by frontal cortex, and text processing, mediated by temporal cortex.
Stable amides of clozapine derived from fatty acids prominent in cerebral tissue might enhance the central activity of clozapine and reduce its exposure to peripheral tissues. Such derivatives might enhance the safety of this unique drug, which is the only agent with securely established superior antipsychotic effectiveness, but with a risk of potentially lethal systemic toxicity. Amide derivatives of clozapine were prepared from structurally varied fatty acid chlorides and evaluated for ability to inhibit behavioral arousal in rat induced by dopamine agonist apomorphine and to induce catalepsy. Their duration-of-action and potency were compared to free clozapine, and concentrations of clozapine were assayed in brain and blood. Selected agents were also evaluated for affinity at dopamine receptors and other potential drug-target sites. Clozapine-N-amides of linoleic, myristic, oleic, and palmitic acids had moderate initial central depressant activity but by 6 h, failed to inhibit arousal induced by apomorphine. However, the docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) derivative was orally bioavailable, 10-times more potent (ED(50) 5.0 micromol/kg) than clozapine itself, and very long-acting (&gt;/= 24 h) against apomorphine, and did not induce catalepsy. DHA itself was inactive behaviorally. Clozapine showed expected dopamine receptor affinities, but DHA-clozapine was inactive at these and other potential target sites. After systemic administration of DHA-clozapine, serum levels of free clozapine were very low, and brain concentrations somewhat lower than after administering clozapine. DHA-clozapine is a long-acting central depressant with powerful and prolonged antidopaminergic activity after oral administration or injection without inducing catalepsy, and it markedly reduced peripheral exposure to free clozapine. It lacked the receptor-affinities shown by clozapine, suggesting that DHA-clozapine may be a precursor of free, pharmacologically active clozapine. Such agents may represent potential antipsychotic drugs with improved central/peripheral distribution, and possibly enhanced safety.
The bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) is involved in autonomic and behavioral reactions to fearful stimuli and contains corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) fibers and terminals. The role of CRH in the medial part of the BNST in the regulation of heart rate (HR) and PQ interval of the electrocardiogram was studied under resting conditions and conditioned fear stress in freely moving rats. Microinfusion of CRH (0.2 microg/0.6 microl) in the medial BNST under resting conditions significantly enhanced HR as compared to saline treatment, but did not reduce the PQ interval, indicating that exogenous CRH in the medial BNST can activate both the sympathetic and parasympathetic cardiac outflow. In addition, CRH induced a slight increase in gross locomotor activity, an effect that succeeded the tachycardiac response, indicating that the HR response was not a consequence of increased locomotor activity, but likely a direct effect of CRH. CF was induced by 10-min forced exposure to a cage in which the rat had experienced footshocks (5 x 0.5 mA x 3s) the day before. alpha-helical CRH(9-41) (alphahCRH; 5 microg/0.6 microl), a non-selective CRH receptor antagonist, or saline was infused into the medial BNST of rats prior to CF. CF induced freezing behavior, associated with an increase in HR and PQ interval, indicating activation of sympathetic and vagal outflow to the heart. alphahCRH significantly reduced the PQ response, but enhanced the tachycardia, suggesting inhibition of vagal activity. In addition, alpha-helical CRH(9-41) reduced the freezing response. Taken together, the data provide first evidence that CRH, released in the medial BNST during stress, contributes to cardiac stress responses, particularly by activating vagal outflow.

For a comparative neurobiological analysis of spatial learning and memory, a large outdoor eight-arm radial maze was constructed which permits behavioral assessment of many avian and mammalian species both from the laboratory or the wild, using the same metric space and session schedules. It consists of a central part of 250cm diameter, and has arms of 650cm length, 170cm height and 80cm width. In order to determine appropriate training schedules for comparison of different species, we tested four mammalian and two avian species during 9-15 sessions: 18 albino rats (Rattus norvegicus), nine outdoors and nine in a conventional small indoor maze; six guinea pigs (Cavia porcellus); six rabbits (Oryctolagus cuniculus); five hedgehogs (Erinaceus europaeus); seven hooded crows (Corvus corone cornix) and six chickens (Gallus domesticus). Rats learned fast in both mazes yet significantly better in the large one. Good-to-excellent learning was also observed in juvenile rabbits and wild-caught crows, although the latter tended to avoid arms in the vicinity of the observer. Hedgehogs and chickens did not show significant learning as a group, but some individuals appeared to learn the task. Guinea pigs remained continuously passive and could not be trained. Thus, in spite of species-specific demands for reward, adaptation and pre-training, this type of radial maze permits to directly compare a wide variety of species. Such comparability is essential for an analysis of underlying neurobiological mechanisms.
Human language is a unique faculty of the mind. It has been the ultimate mystery throughout the history of neuroscience. Despite many aphasia and functional imaging studies, the exact correlation between cortical language areas and subcomponents of the linguistic system has not been established. One notable drawback is that most functional imaging studies have tested language tasks at the word level, such as lexical decision and word generation tasks, thereby neglecting the syntactic aspects of the language faculty. As proposed by Chomsky, the critical knowledge of language involves universal grammar (UG), which governs the syntactic structure of sentences. In this article, we will review recent advances made by functional neuroimaging studies of language, focusing especially on sentence processing in the cerebral cortex. We also present the recent results of our functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) study intended to identify cortical areas specifically involved in syntactic processing. A study of sentence processing that employs a newly developed technique, optical topography (OT), is also presented. Based on these findings, we propose a modular specialization of Broca's area, Wernicke's area, and the angular gyrus/supramarginal gyrus. The current direction of research in neuroscience is beginning to establish the existence of distinct modules responsible for our knowledge of language.
The effects of GABA in the CNS are mediated by three different GABA receptors: GABA(A), GABA(B) and GABA(C) receptors. GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors, but not yet GABA(C) receptors, have been demonstrated in the enteric nervous system, where GABA has been proposed to be a transmitter. The purpose of this study was to determine whether GABA(C) receptors are present and thus may play a role in mediating the effects of GABA in the myenteric plexus of the rat gastrointestinal tract. We examined the expression of the three known GABA(C) receptor subunits, rho1, rho2 and rho3, in the rat duodenum, ileum and colon using the reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. We determined the localization of GABA(C) receptors in the myenteric plexus of these regions using two different antisera directed against GABA(C) receptor subunits. The polymerase chain reaction revealed that all three subunits were expressed in the gastrointestinal tract. When the layers of the intestine were separated and the layer containing myenteric neurons was assayed, the rho3 subunit was found in the ileum and colon, whereas rho1 was expressed in the duodenum and weakly in the colon and rho2 was expressed in the ileum. Immunocytochemistry revealed numerous labeled neurons in the myenteric plexus of each region. Colocalization showed that a large proportion of calbindin plus calretinin immunoreactive neurons (intrinsic primary afferent neurons) were immunoreactive for the GABA(C) receptor, and that 56% of nitric oxide synthase immunoreactive neurons (inhibitory motor neurons) exhibited the receptor. These results indicate that GABA(C) receptors of differing subunit compositions are expressed by neurons in the rat gastrointestinal tract. The effects of GABA on intrinsic sensory and on inhibitory motor neurons are likely to be mediated in part through GABA(C) receptors.
This research has examined the relationship between axonal regeneration and the return of normal movement following complete transection of the spinal cord. We made measurements of tail beat frequency and amplitude of the caudal body wave from video recordings of eels (Anguilla anguilla) swimming in a water tunnel at several speeds. Each eel was then anaesthetised and the spinal cord cut caudal to the anus; in some animals the resulting gap was filled with a rubber block. All animals were kept at 25 degrees C for recovery periods ranging from 7 to 128 days, during which their swimming performance was monitored regularly. Each fish was then re-anaesthetised and perfused with fixative and the regrowing descending axons labelled with 1,1'-diotadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindocarbocyanine perchlorate. For all animals and at all speeds after surgery, tail beat frequency increased, while amplitude decreased. In non-blocked animals, an improvement in performance was first seen from 8 days following transection and thereafter tail beat frequency decreased progressively until it had returned to normal after 35 to 45 days, while amplitude remained below baseline until at least 45 days. In these animals, few axonal growth cones had penetrated the caudal stump by 7 days, but some had extended as much as 3 mm by 15 days. Many had reached as far as 6 mm between 25 and 36 days, while by 128 days they had progressed up to 10.5 mm. Contralateral crossing was never observed. Functional recovery was never witnessed in animals in which the cord had been blocked and these eels swam at all times with elevated tail beat frequency and reduced caudal amplitude. No labelled axons could be traced into the caudal spinal cord at any recovery stage in such animals. We conclude that re-innervation of only 1-2 segments caudal to the injury is necessary for functional recovery, although continued axonal growth may be important for the refinement of some aspects of movement.
The human CB1 cannabinoid receptor couples to G(i/o) proteins and inhibits neuronal voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. The role of the C-terminal tail of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor in G(i/o) protein coupling was examined using the superior cervical ganglion neuronal expression system. Deletion of the distal intracellular C-terminal tail (amino acids 418-472) slowed the kinetics and reduced the magnitude of Ca2+ channel inhibition. Deletion of the entire intracellular C-terminal tail (amino acids 401-472) abolished Ca2+ channel inhibition demonstrating the critical role of the proximal amino acids 401-417 of the C-terminal tail in G protein signaling. Expression of the C-terminal truncated receptors on the cell surface was examined using an N-terminal CB1 antibody. Both the C-terminal truncated receptors were expressed on the cell surface and were no different from wild type CB1 cannabinoid receptors. This study establishes that the proximal CB1 cannabinoid receptor intracellular C-terminal tail domain (amino acids 401-417) is critical for G(i/o) protein coupling and that the distal C-terminal tail domain (amino acids 418-472) profoundly modulates both the magnitude and kinetics of signal transduction. Thus, the C-terminal tail of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor has a wider role in G protein coupling than was previously thought.
Expression of the inducible transcription factors Jun, Fos and Krox is commonly used to map neurons in the brain that are activated by sensory inputs. However, some neurons known to be electrically excited by such inputs do not always express these factors. In particular, stimulation of hindlimb sensory nerve C-fibers induces expression of c-Fos in the medial thalamus (the mediodorsal, intermediodorsal, centrolateral and centromedial), but not in the lateral thalamus (the ventroposterolateral, ventroposteromedial and posterior group). We hypothesized that c-Fos expression might only occur in these lateral areas after more complex stimulation patterns, or that only other transcription factors can be induced in these areas by such stimuli. Thus we examined the effects of single, repeated and coincident C-fiber inputs on expression of six inducible transcription factors in the medial, lateral and reticular thalamus of the rat. A weak C-fiber input caused by noxious mechanical stimulation of the skin of one hindpaw did not induce expression of c-Fos, FosB, Krox-20 or Krox-24; but it did reduce the basal expressions of c-Jun and JunD in both the medial and lateral areas. An intense input produced by electrical stimulation of all the C-fibers in one sciatic nerve also failed to induce expression of c-Fos, FosB, Krox-20 or Krox-24 in the medial or lateral areas. However, in the medial thalamus it increased c-Jun and reduced the basal expression of JunD, whereas in the lateral thalamus it had no effect on c-Jun but again reduced the basal expression of JunD. With repeated stimulation, i.e. when the noxious stimulus was applied to the contralateral hindpaw 6 h after the sciatic stimulation, there was again no induction of c-Fos, FosB or Krox-20 in the medial thalamus; but there was an increase in c-Jun and Krox-24, and a decrease in JunD levels. In the lateral thalamus the repeated stimulation again failed to induce c-Fos, but the expressions of FosB, c-Jun and Krox-24 were increased, and that of JunD was again reduced. With coincident stimulation, i.e. when a stimulus was applied to each hindpaw simultaneously, c-Fos and Krox-24 remained absent; but there was a marked induction of FosB and Krox-20, a strong repression of c-Jun, and no effect or a reduction of the basal levels of JunD. This coincident stimulation also caused FosB to appear in the nucleolus of many thalamic neurons. MK-801, but not L-NAME, blocked all these changes. In summary, noxious stimulation affects the expression of all transcription factors in the medial, lateral and reticular thalamus in a complex manner depending upon the inducible transcription factor considered, the thalamic nucleus, and the stimulation paradigm. The expression of some transcription factors uniquely after simultaneous inputs suggests they act as coincidence detectors at the gene level.
The abundance of the integral membrane protein synaptophysin in synaptic vesicles and its multiple possible functional contributions to transmitter exocytosis and synaptic vesicle formation stand in sharp contrast to the observed lack of defects in synaptophysin knockout mice. Assuming that deficiencies are compensated by the often coexpressed synaptophysin isoform synaptoporin, we now show that retinal rod photoreceptors, which do not synthesize synaptoporin either in wild-type or in knockout mice, are affected by the loss of synaptophysin. Multiple pale-appearing photoreceptors, as seen by electron microscopy, possess reduced cytoplasmic electron density, swollen mitochondria, an enlarged cell surface area, and, most importantly, a significantly reduced number of synaptic vesicles with an unusually bright interior. Quantification of the number of synaptic vesicles per unit area, not only in these, but also in all other rod terminals of knockout animals, reveals a considerable reduction in vesicles that is even more pronounced during the dark period, i.e., at times of highest synaptic activity. Moreover, activity-dependent reduction in synaptic vesicle diameter, typically occurring in wild-type mice, is not detected in knockout animals. The large number of clathrin-coated pits and vesicles in dark-adapted synaptophysin knockout mice is taken as an indication of compensatory usage of synaptophysin-independent pathway(s), and, conversely, in view of the overall reduction in the number of synaptic vesicles, as an indication for the presence of another synaptophysin-dependent synaptic vesicle recycling pathway. Our results provide in vivo evidence for the importance of the integral membrane protein synaptophysin for synaptic vesicle recycling and formation.
Vocalization and straining-related activities require the activation of laryngeal muscles. The control of laryngeal muscles during these activities is thought to be mediated by a pathway from the periaqueductal gray via premotor neurons in the nucleus retroambiguus to laryngeal motoneurons in the nucleus ambiguus. However, direct contacts between the nucleus retroambiguus and laryngeal motoneurons have never been demonstrated anatomically. Moreover, data in primates about the nucleus retroambiguus-nucleus ambiguus pathway are lacking. Therefore, the present study examines the projection from the nucleus retroambiguus region to laryngeal motoneurons in the rhesus monkey at the light and electron microscopic levels. Injections with wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase were made into the nucleus retroambiguus in five rhesus monkeys to anterogradely label fibers in the nucleus ambiguus. In two of these animals, the cricothyroid muscle was injected with cholera toxin subunit b to identify the motoneurons that supply it. The results show that the nucleus retroambiguus region most densely projects to the compact formation of the nucleus ambiguus, whereas cricothyroid motoneurons, which surround the compact formation, receive a moderate projection. The projections are bilateral, with a contralateral predominance. Ultrastructurally, anterogradely labeled terminal profiles from the nucleus retroambiguus contact cholera toxin subunit b-labeled dendrites of cricothyroid motoneurons. The terminal profiles contain primarily spherical vesicles and form asymmetrical contacts with cricothyroid motoneurons. This study demonstrates that the nucleus retroambiguus region projects to the nucleus ambiguus in the primate. Some of these projections include monosynaptic connections to laryngeal motoneurons. This pathway is important for the control of the vocal folds during vocalization and straining-related activities.
In normal rats maintained in the dark, very few cells in the primary visual centers, including the superior colliculus, show Fos-like immunoreactivity. By contrast, in rats presented with flashing lights many Fos-like immunoreactivity cells are observed distributed throughout the visual centers. In the dystrophic Royal College of Surgeons rat, in which there is major loss of photoreceptors over the first 3 months of life, similar numbers of Fos-like immunoreactivity cells are seen on light presentation, but in marked contrast, cell densities in the rats maintained in the dark are many times higher than in non-dystrophic rats maintained under similar conditions. Here we show that this elevated dark response can be abolished by intravitreal injection of the sodium channel blocker tetrodotoxin, indicating that this effect results from changed retinal activity, rather than being centrally generated. We suggest that since Fos-like immunoreactivity is not usually elicited by steady state conditions, the elevated levels in the superior colliculus in these animals reflect the return of waves of activity, first seen in development coursing across the retina, but lost with photoreceptor maturation.
The present study investigated the membrane mechanisms underlying the inhibitory influence of melatonin on suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) neurones in a hypothalamic slice preparation. Perforated-patch recordings were performed to prevent the rapid rundown of spontaneous firing rate as observed during whole cell recordings and to preserve circadian rhythmicity in SCN neurones. In current-clamp mode melatonin (1 microM or 1 nM) application, in the presence of agents that block action potential generation and fast synaptic transmission, resulted in a membrane hyperpolarisation accompanied with a decrease in input resistance in the majority of SCN neurones (71-86%). The amplitude of the hyperpolarisation was not found to be significantly different between circadian time 5-12 and 14-21. In voltage-clamp mode melatonin (1 microM or 1 nM) induced an outward current accompanied with an increase in membrane conductance. The current was found to be mainly potassium driven with voltage kinetics resembling those of an open rectifying potassium conductance. Investigations into the signal transduction mechanism revealed melatonin-induced inhibition of SCN neurones to be sensitive to pertussis toxin but independent of intracellular cAMP levels and phospholipase C activity. The present study shows that melatonin, at night-time physiological concentrations, reduces the neuronal excitability of the majority of SCN neurones independent of the time of application in the circadian cycle. Thus in vivo melatonin may be important for circadian time-keeping by amplifying the circadian rhythm in SCN neurones, by lowering their sensitivity to phase-shifting stimuli occurring at night.
Long-term depression (LTD) in the basolateral amygdala, following low frequency stimulation (1 Hz/900 pulses) of the lateral amygdala, was studied in an in vitro slice preparation of 2-3 weeks and 2-4 months old mice. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings of neurons, visualized by means of infrared videomicroscopy, and extracellular field potential recordings were performed. Loading single neurons with the calcium chelator BAPTA (30 mM) did not reduce the excitatory postsynaptic currents following low frequency stimulation. However, buffering presynaptic calcium with BAPTA-AM, and application of the specific Ca2+/calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase II antagonist KN-62 (1-[N,O-bis(5-isoquinoline sulfonyl)-N-methyl-L-tyrosyl]-4-phenylpiperizine), blocked low frequency stimulation-induced LTD. The induction of LTD was reduced by the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (50 microM), and blocked by the metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist (-)-amino-4-carboxy-methyl-phenylacetic acid (1 mM), and by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT; 30 microM) via the activation of 5-HT(1A) receptors. Also blocking GABA(A) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission with bicuculline (10 microM) or picrotoxin (20 microM) reduced the induction of LTD. Visually and electrophysiologically identified interneurons in slices from 2 weeks old mice, expressed in contrast to adult mice (2-4 months), pronounced LTD. Principal neurons showed only weak LTD after low frequency stimulation.A synopsis of these findings suggests a pivotal role of GABAergic interneurons and serotonergic afferents in the induction of LTD in the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala.
Studies were undertaken to examine the effects recurrent early-life seizures have on the ability of rats to acquire spatial memories in adulthood. A minute quantity of tetanus toxin was injected unilaterally into the hippocampus on postnatal day 10. Within 48 h, rats developed recurrent seizures that persisted for 1 week. Between postnatal days 57 and 61, rats were trained in a Morris water maze. Toxin-injected rats were markedly deficient in learning this task. While these rats showed gradual improvement in escape latencies over 20 trials, their performance always lagged behind that of controls. Poor performance could not be explained by motor impairments or motivational difficulties since swimming speed was similar for the groups. Only eight of 16 toxin-injected animals showed focal interictal spikes in the hippocampus during electroencephalographic recordings. This suggests that learning deficiencies and chronic epilepsy may be independent products of recurrent early-life seizures. A quantitative analysis of hippocampus revealed a significant decrease in neuronal density in stratum pyramidale of experimental rats. However, the differences were largely explained by a concomitant increase in the area of stratum pyramidale. Studies of glial fibrillary acidic protein expression and spread of horseradish peroxidase-conjugated tetanus toxin in the hippocampus suggest that the dispersion of cell bodies in stratum pyramidale can neither be explained by a reactive gliosis nor the direct action of the toxin itself. Taken together, we suggest that recurrent seizures beginning in early life can lead to a significant deficiency in spatial learning without ongoing hippocampal synchronized network discharging or a substantial loss of hippocampal pyramidal cells.
Mossy fiber activity can evoke Ca2+ release from internal stores in CA3 neurons, but the physiological conditions under which this occurs and the mechanisms underlying the release are not understood. Using rat hippocampal slices we report here that short trains of mossy fiber stimulation activate group I metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) on CA3 pyramidal neurons and elicit waves of Ca2+ release from inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) sensitive internal stores that propagate from stratum lucidum to the soma and in some cases distally out the dendrites. Activation of mGluR1,5 receptors by an agonist trans-azetidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (tADA) applied to stratum lucidum was also sufficient to induce waves of Ca2+ release. This release was blocked by internal heparin, but not by dantrolene, suggesting the involvement of IP3 rather than ryanodine receptors in not only the initial release but also in the maintenance of the propagating waves. Release could be facilitated by Ca2+ influx through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels, which is consistent with the known Ca2+ sensitivity of IP3 receptors.These results provide insight into the mechanisms and conditions of Ca2+ release in CA3 neurons and demonstrate the powerful influence mossy fiber input can have on these neurons.
Human immunodeficiency virus infection is often followed by neurodegeneration, the cause of motor and cognitive impairment in some patients affected by acquired immunodeficiency. Several in vitro data indicate glycoprotein (gp) 120 as one of the substances responsible for the neurodegenerative event that takes place only if non-neuronal cells (glial cells) are present. Our purpose was to investigate the molecular mechanisms through which glial cells could affect neuron viability after exposure to gp120 protein. We used a sandwich co-culture of primary hippocampal neurons and primary glial cells, where the two cell populations face each other but are separable. Exposure of 1-week-old rat hippocampal neurons in co-culture with glia to 600 pM gp120 protein resulted in the death of 30% of neurons after 6 days of treatment. A significant increase of intracellular calcium ([Ca2+]i), evident 72 h after gp120 exposure (control 45.8+/-7.6 nM, gp120 176.5+/-43.6 nM), preceded neuron death. The gp120 protein affected neither the viability nor the morphology or [Ca2+]i of glial cells. However, a significant amount of reactive oxygen species as well as of interleukin-1beta was produced. Treatment of the co-culture with an antibody against interleukin-1beta prevented neuron increase of [Ca2+]i and cell death but not glial production of reactive oxygen species, whereas prior incubation of glial cells with Trolox, an antioxidant analog of vitamin E, down-regulated interleukin-1beta expression and completely prevented neuron cell death. Our results indicate that reactive oxygen species produced in glial cells by gp120 exposure cause neurodegeneration by inducing the synthesis of interleukin-1beta.
Global cerebral ischemia, with or without preconditioning, leads to an increase in heat shock protein 27 (HSP27) immunocontent and alterations in HSP27 phosphorylation in CA1 and dentate gyrus areas of the hippocampus. We studied different times of reperfusion (1, 4, 7, 14, 21 and 30 days) using 2 min, 10 min or 2+10 min of ischemia. The results showed an increase in HSP27 immunocontent of about 300% after 10 min of ischemia in CA1 and dentate gyrus. CA1, a hippocampal vulnerable area, showed an increase in HSP27 phosphorylation, parallel with immunocontent. In dentate gyrus, a resistant area, the increase in HSP phosphorylation was lower than immunocontent. After preconditioned ischemia (2+10 min), when CA1 neurons are protected to a lethal, 10 min insult, we observed an increase in HSP immunocontent and a decrease in phosphorylation in both regions of the hippocampus, suggesting that, when there is no neuronal death, HSP27 in a vulnerable area responds similarly to the resistant area.When dephosphorylated, HSP27 acts as a chaperone, protecting other proteins from denaturation. As it is markedly expressed in astrocytes, we suggest that HSP27 could be protecting hippocampal astrocytes, which could then be helping neurons to resist to the insult, maintaining tissue normal homeostasis.
The retinal degeneration B (rdgB) gene in Drosophila is essential for photoreceptor function and survival. The rdgB mutant fly exhibits an abnormal electroretinogram and a light-dependent photoreceptor degeneration. The function of RdgB is not fully understood, but the presence of a phosphatidylinositol transfer protein domain suggests a possible role in phosphatidylinositol metabolism and signaling. Two mammalian homologs, M-RdgB1 and M-RdgB2, are known. While M-RdgB1 is widely expressed, M-RdgB2 is found primarily in the retina and the dentate gyrus. Functional conservation between the Drosophila and mammalian RdgBs was demonstrated by the ability of both M-RdgBs to rescue the photoreceptor phenotype in rdgB mutant flies through transgenic expression. To investigate the role of M-RdgB2 in the mammalian retina, we disrupted the m-rdgB2 gene in mice by gene targeting. The homozygous knockout mice are fertile and apparently healthy. By light microscopy, immunocytochemistry and electroretinograms, mice up to 18 months of age showed normal photoreceptor function and survival. The inner retinal neurons were also examined by immunolabeling with a number of cell-specific markers and no apparent defects were found in the major cell populations. We conclude that M-rdgB2 is not essential for phototransduction and photoreceptor survival. Thus, m-rdgB2 is not a candidate gene for human retinal degenerations. Whether M-rdgB2 has a role in visual processing in the inner retina, or whether it is required for hippocampal function, remains to be determined.
Microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2) is an abundant component of the neuronal cytoskeleton whose function is related to the outgrowth and stability of neuronal processes, to synaptic plasticity and neuronal cell death. We have sought to study whether abnormal patterns of neuronal activity which are characteristic of epileptic patients are associated to alterations of MAP2 phosphorylation. An antibody (305) that selectively recognizes a phosphorylated epitope in a proline-rich region of the MAP2 molecule has been used to analyze neocortical biopsy samples from temporal lobe epileptic patients, whose electrocorticogram activity had been previously monitored. Immunoblot analysis showed that samples with greater spiking activity displayed significantly diminished MAP2 phosphorylation. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed the occurrence of discrete areas in the neocortex with highly decreased or no immunostaining for antibody 305, which showed a clear, although non-significant, tendency to appear more frequently in areas with greater spiking activity. To further support an association between epileptiform activity and MAP2 dephosphorylation an experimental model of epileptiform activity in cultures of rat hippocampal neurons was used. Neurons were cultured during 15 days in the presence of kynurenic acid, an antagonist of glutamate receptors. At this time, kynurenic acid was removed from the culture medium and neurons developed seizure-like activity. Using antibody 305, we found a decrease of MAP2 phosphorylation that was already visible after 15 min of kynurenic acid withdrawal. We therefore propose that MAP2 phosphorylation is decreased in the neocortex of epileptic patients and that this decrease is a likely consequence of seizure activity. Also, MAP2 dephosphorylation may lead to alterations of the neuronal cytoskeleton and eventually to neuronal damage and loss, which is typical of epileptic patients.
To investigate the basis of the fluctuating activity present in neocortical neurons in vivo, we have combined computational models with whole-cell recordings using the dynamic-clamp technique. A simplified 'point-conductance' model was used to represent the currents generated by thousands of stochastically releasing synapses. Synaptic activity was represented by two independent fast glutamatergic and GABAergic conductances described by stochastic random-walk processes. An advantage of this approach is that all the model parameters can be determined from voltage-clamp experiments. We show that the point-conductance model captures the amplitude and spectral characteristics of the synaptic conductances during background activity. To determine if it can recreate in vivo-like activity, we injected this point-conductance model into a single-compartment model, or in rat prefrontal cortical neurons in vitro using dynamic clamp. This procedure successfully recreated several properties of neurons intracellularly recorded in vivo, such as a depolarized membrane potential, the presence of high-amplitude membrane potential fluctuations, a low-input resistance and irregular spontaneous firing activity. In addition, the point-conductance model could simulate the enhancement of responsiveness due to background activity. We conclude that many of the characteristics of cortical neurons in vivo can be explained by fast glutamatergic and GABAergic conductances varying stochastically.
Microstructural electroencephalographic changes during the wakefulness-sleep transition have been investigated by comparing two definitions of sleep onset: the first occurrence of stage 1 and of stage 2. Power values were calculated across a 1-28-Hz frequency range in a 1-Hz bin resolution in the sleep recordings of 26 normal subjects. Quantitative changes were assessed after averaging individual time series, aligned with respect to the first occurrence of stage 1 or of stage 2. The time course of the single-Hz activity revealed a linear increase of power in the 1-6-Hz range and a linear decrease in the 9-12- and 16-28-Hz ranges during the stage 1 transition. During the stage 2 transition, electroencephalogram power linearly increased in the 1-7- and 14-15-Hz ranges and decreased in the 18-28-Hz range, while the 8-12-Hz range fitted a second-order polynomial curve. The two 'switch' points were also compared in their ability to differentiate Hz by Hz wakefulness from sleep: a lower mean power was found after stage 1 onset in the 9-11-Hz and 20-28-Hz bins and a higher one in the 1-5-Hz bins, while a higher power was found in the 1-8-Hz and 12-16-Hz bins and a lower one in 18-28-Hz bins after stage 2 onset. The time course of three electroencephalographic frequency ranges [delta/theta/sigma (1-7 and 12-16 Hz); beta (17-28 Hz); alpha (8-11 Hz)], grouped on the basis of a principal component analysis, fitted a first-order polynomial curve for the first two ranges, and a second-order polynomial curve for the last, with a progressive decrease during wakefulness, a minimum point during stage 1, and a subsequent increase during stage 2. The uniformly increasing electroencephalographic power across the 1-16-Hz frequency range during stage 2 and the shift of functional meaning for the alpha power during stage 1 point to the start of stage 2 as a more reliable boundary between wakefulness and sleep.
The inherited form of frontotemporal dementia with Parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17 (FTDP-17) has been attributed to mutations in the tau gene. Pathologically, affected FTDP-17 brains share tau aggregates with other tauopathies, the most common being Alzheimer's disease. FTDP-17 mutations may therefore affect tau function leading to tau aggregation and cell loss. Interaction of tau with microtubules is thought to be regulated by phosphorylation. Investigating FTDP-17 mutations transiently expressed as enhanced green fluorescent protein (EGFP)-tagged proteins for the first time in differentiated neuronal cells, we found that two out of three missense mutations showed surprisingly decreased phosphorylation at the pathologically relevant S202/T205 site, mutant EGFP-tau being completely dephosphorylated in most cells. Moreover, phosphorylation at the S396/S404 site was moderately decreased for all mutant isoforms. Although microtubule integrity was not affected, with all mutants tested we demonstrated an increase in cellular tau protein level, some of which is microtubule-bound. Further enhancing this EGFP-tau accumulation by inhibition of tau degradation resulted in the previously less phosphorylated mutant EGFP-tau becoming highly phosphorylated. We conclude that the missense tau mutations primarily result in an excess of neuronal tau, which may interfere with important cellular functions such as axonal transport.
The tachykinin neurokinin-1 (NK(1)) receptor mediates the vasoactive effects of substance P and related members of the tachykinin family. Substance P acts via the NK(1) receptor to mediate increased microvascular permeability leading to oedema formation as confirmed in NK(1) receptor knockout mice. In addition there is evidence that neuropeptides such as substance P can have a modulatory effect on the wound-healing process. In this study male and female wild-type and NK(1) knockout mice were investigated for their comparative ability to induce acute oedema formation in response to topical application of capsaicin, as measured by the extravasation of intravenous radiolabelled-albumin, and wound healing in response to a cut, as measured by area of wound over the following days. Significant (P&lt;0.001) oedema, approximately three-fold over basal, was induced by capsaicin in both male and female wild-type mice, an indicator of a similar responsiveness irrespective of sex. However, as expected, the oedema was not observed in the knockout mice. Wounding was achieved through a 1-cm full-thickness cut into the interscapular area of dorsal skin. Wound healing was then followed in two different protocols. The wound was left to heal naturally over 14 days in the first protocol and no significant changes in healing were observed in wild-type compared to knockout. In the second protocol, the skin was sutured open for the first 48 h, to prevent the elasticity of the skin from initiating a natural healing process through flap formation. This caused a significant increase in the area of the wound. Despite this, wounds in both wild-type and knockout mice healed in an identical manner that was complete after 17 days. In conclusion, it is shown that deletion of a functional NK(1) receptor has little effect on wound healing in response to a simple cut in mouse skin.
Most experimental studies of spinal cord injury have centered on the rat as an experimental model. A shift toward a mouse model has occurred in recent years because of its usefulness as a genetic tool. While many studies have concentrated on motor function and the inflammatory response following spinal cord injury in the mouse, the development of autonomic dysreflexia after injury has yet to be described. Autonomic dysreflexia is a condition in which episodic hypertension develops after injuries above the mid-thoracic segment of the spinal cord. In this study 129Sv mice received a spinal cord transection at the second thoracic segment. The presence of autonomic dysreflexia was assessed 2 weeks later. Blood pressure responses to stimulation were as follows: moderate cutaneous pinch caudal to the injury (35+/-6 mm Hg), tail pinch (25+/-7 mm Hg), and a 0.3 ml balloon distension of the colon (37+/-4 mm Hg). Previous reports have suggested that small diameter primary afferent fiber sprouting after spinal cord injury may be responsible for the development of autonomic dysreflexia. In order to determine whether autonomic dysreflexia in the mouse may be caused by a similar mechanism, the size of the small diameter primary afferent arbor in spinal cord-injured and sham-operated animals was assessed by measuring the area occupied by calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive fibers. The percentage increase in the area of the small diameter primary afferent arbor in transected over sham-operated spinal cords was 46%, 45% and 80% at spinal segments thoracic T5-8, thoracic T9-12 and thoracic T13-lumbar L2 respectively. This study demonstrates the development of autonomic dysfunction in a mouse model of spinal cord injury that is associated with sprouting of calcitonin gene-related peptide fibers. These results provide strong support for the use of this mouse model of spinal cord injury in the study of autonomic dysreflexia.
ATP has been shown to excite neurones of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) via the activation of P2X receptors. In the present study, the distribution of six P2X receptors (P2X(1)-P2X(6)) within the rat NTS was investigated by peroxidase immunohistochemistry. Immunopositive neurones for P2X receptor subtypes were detected in all divisions of the NTS, although the staining densities differed according to receptor subtype and sub-nuclei. P2X(1)-immunopositive cells were distributed throughout the rostro-caudal extent of the NTS, while varicose fibres were mainly located along the postremal border. P2X(2) immunoreactivity was present in neurones and fibres located throughout the NTS. In the commissural NTS intense staining was observed medial of the solitary tract while in the sub-postremal NTS neurones were observed along the postremal border. A high density of P2X(3)-positive neurones and fibres was observed in the sub-postremal NTS along the border of the area postrema and in the rostral NTS in the medial subdivision. In comparison to the staining observed with the other receptor antibodies, there was considerably reduced P2X(4) receptor immunoreactivity. P2X(4)-positive neurones tended to be more sparsely distributed, and found mainly in the intermediate portion of the commissural NTS, and along the postremal border. In contrast, we observed dense staining for the P2X(5) receptor subtype in a majority of regions within the NTS. The most striking staining was observed in the intermediate subdivision at the level of the sub-postremal NTS and the medial portion of the rostral NTS. P2X(6) immunoreactive neurones were observed in the medial commissural NTS, along the postremal border and in the dorso-medial and medial subdivisions of the rostral NTS.Taken together, our findings confirm the presence of six P2X receptor subtypes within the NTS of the rat, consistent with a neurotransmitter role for ATP in the rat NTS. These results indicate the need for more extensive functional studies to elucidate the roles of the individual and heterodimeric assemblies of P2X receptor subtypes within the NTS.
Previous reports have described the transient expression of the neuropeptides calcitonin gene-related peptide and neuropeptide Y in selected subsets of rat olivocerebellar compartments during embryonic and postnatal development. Using these neuropeptides as endogenous markers for olivocerebellar fibers, the aim of this electron microscopic analysis was to reveal the synaptogenetic processes occurring between climbing fibers and their target Purkinje cells, from embryonic day 19 to postnatal day 16, the period during which Purkinje cells undergo intense emission and retraction of dendrites, and climbing fibers translocate their synapses along Purkinje cell membrane surfaces. The present findings provide the first direct evidence that climbing fiber synaptogenesis starts on embryonic day 19 and that these first synapses mainly involve the Purkinje cell embryonic dendrite rather than the Purkinje cell soma. At the same age, the presence of unlabeled synapses resembling calcitonin gene-related peptide-labeled synapses in the Purkinje cell plate makes it possible to conclude that climbing fibers form a major synaptic investment on embryonic Purkinje cells, a finding that strongly supports the hypothesis of an early differentiating role of climbing fibers on cerebellar development. Furthermore, during the period of intense dendritic remodeling of Purkinje cells, 'myelin figures' were often detected in Purkinje cell dendrites suggesting that they may at least in part represent real ultrastructural markers of membrane turnover that identifies the sites where Purkinje cell dendritic rearrangement is taking place. Finally the finding that the climbing fiber terminals apposed to degenerating dendrites did not generally show signs of degeneration leads us to suggests that climbing fiber translocation from a perisomatic to a dendritic location may be driven by the Purkinje cell dendritic remodeling.
Acute ambient hypoxia interacts with the ventilatory and cardiocirculatory control systems, via the concomitant activation of arterial chemoreceptors and tissue oxygen-sensing mechanisms. Whether these latter mechanisms may trigger a specific pathway had not yet been elucidated. We addressed this issue, mapping Fos expression in adult conscious rats subjected to tissue hypoxia elicited by carbon monoxide inhalation, under conditions of minimal activation of arterial chemoreceptors. Brief stimuli have been delivered (1% carbon monoxide inhaled during 5, 10 or 20 min) to produce steady tissue hypoxia. Compared to normoxia, even the briefest stimuli led to marked neuronal activation within areas involved in ventilatory and cardiocirculatory control. In the brainstem, stimulated rats exhibited enhanced Fos expression in the nucleus of the solitary tract, the area postrema, the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve, the ventrolateral medulla, the parapyramidal group, the nucleus raphe pallidus, the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus, the locus coeruleus, the dorsal raphe nucleus, the lateral parabrachial area, and the ventrolateral central gray. In the hypothalamus, activated neurons were identified at the ventral border and in the supramamillary, posterior, and dorsomedial nuclei. Fos expression appeared with increasing the severity of tissue hypoxia in the retrotrapezoid nucleus, the ventral tegmental area and the arcuate and paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei. The present data support the idea that inputs related to tissue hypoxia might play a crucial role in patterning the physiological response to hypoxia.
Recent evidence indicates that stimulation of postsynaptic 5-HT(1A) receptors abates excitotoxic neuronal death. Here we investigated whether oral post-lesion administration of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist (-)-(R)-2-[4-[[(3,4-dihydro-2H-1-benzopyran-2-yl)methyl]amino]butyl]-1,2-benzisothiazol-3(2H)-one 1,1-dioxide monohydrochloride (Repinotan HCl) attenuates N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) excitotoxicity (60 nmol/microl) in the rat magnocellular nucleus basalis. Repinotan HCl (1 mg/kg) was administered from day 1, 2, 3, or 6 post-surgery twice daily for five consecutive days. This delayed drug administration protocol was employed to investigate the initiation period during which 5-HT(1A) receptor agonists may significantly influence ongoing neurodegeneration processes. 8-Hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT, 1 mg/kg) served as reference compound. Twenty-four hours after drug delivery a small open-field test, while on day 14 post-surgery a passive avoidance test was performed. Effects of Repinotan HCl treatment on the survival of cholinergic magnocellular nucleus basalis neurons and their cortical projections were determined by quantitative acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and choline-acetyltransferase (ChAT) histochemistry. Moreover, AChE and ChAT activities were biochemically measured both in the cerebral cortex and in the magnocellular nucleus basalis. Repinotan HCl treatment markedly increased spontaneous activities in the small open-field at any time-point investigated. Improved memory performance was only demonstrated when Repinotan HCl was administered from day 1 post-lesion on wards. Repinotan HCl treatment from day 2 and 3 post-lesion on markedly attenuated both histochemical and neurochemical characteristics of NMDA excitotoxicity on cholinergic magnocellular nucleus basalis neurons and on their cortical projections. Whereas the neuroprotective profile of Repinotan HCl was superior to that of 8-OH-DPAT, oral administration of both 5-HT(1A) receptor agonists yielded largely equivalent behavioral recovery after NMDA infusion in the magnocellular nucleus basalis. In conclusion, the present data indicate the potent neuroprotective action of the 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist Repinotan HCl with a peak efficacy of delayed (2-3 day) post-lesion drug treatment in vivo. Post-lesion treatment with 5-HT(1A) receptor agonists may therefore be of significance in the intervention of neuronal damage associated with acute excitotoxic conditions.
Cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain form one of the neuron populations that are susceptible to excitotoxic injury. Whereas neuropharmacological studies have aimed at rescuing cholinergic neurons from acute excitotoxic attacks, the short-term temporal profile of excitotoxic damage to cholinergic nerve cells remains largely elusive. The effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) infusion on cytochemical markers of cholinergic neurons in rat magnocellular nucleus basalis were therefore determined 4, 24 and 48 h post-lesion. Additionally, the influence of excitotoxic damage on the efficacy of in vivo labelling of cholinergic neurons with carbocyanine 3-192IgG was investigated. Carbocyanine 3-192IgG was unilaterally injected in the lateral ventricle. Twenty-four hours later, NMDA (60 nM/microl) was infused in the right magnocellular nucleus basalis, while control lesions were performed contralaterally. Triple immunofluorescence labelling for carbocyanine 3-192IgG, NMDA receptor 2A and B subunits and choline-acetyltransferase (ChAT) was employed to determine temporal changes in NMDA receptor immunoreactivity on cholinergic neurons. The extent of neuronal degeneration was studied by staining with Fluoro-Jade. Moreover, changes in the numbers of ChAT or p75 low-affinity neurotrophin receptor immunoreactive neurons, and the degree of their co-labelling with carbocyanine 3-192IgG were determined in basal forebrain nuclei. The effects of NMDA-induced lesions on cortical projections of cholinergic nucleus basalis neurons were studied by acetylcholinesterase (AChE) histochemistry. Characteristic signs of cellular damage, as indicated by decreased immunoreactivity for NMDA receptors, ChAT and p75 low-affinity neurotrophin receptors, were already detected at the shortest post-lesion interval investigated. Fluoro-Jade at 4 h post-lesion only labelled the core of the excitotoxic lesion. Longer survival led to enhanced Fluoro-Jade staining, and to the decline of ChAT immunoreactivity reaching a maximum 24 h post-surgery. Significant loss of p75 low-affinity neurotrophin receptor immunoreactivity and of cortical AChE-positive projections only became apparent 48 h post-lesion. Carbocyanine 3-192IgG labelling in the ipsilateral basal forebrain exceeded that of the contralateral hemisphere at all time points investigated and progressively declined in the damaged magnocellular nucleus basalis up to 48 h after NMDA infusion. The present study indicates that excitotoxic lesion-induced alteration of cholinergic neuronal markers is a rapid and gradual process reaching its maximum 24 h post-surgery. Furthermore, in vivo labelling of cholinergic neurons may be applied to indicate neuronal survival under pathological conditions, and enable to follow their degeneration process under a variety of experimental conditions.
1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is a dopaminergic neurotoxin which inhibits mitochondrial complex I. 3-Nitropropionic acid (3-NPA) inhibits mitochondrial complex II and produces specific striatal lesions. In order to produce a combined striatal neuronal and dopaminergic afferent lesion, we administered both toxins simultaneously to the mouse. The combination brought about a lesion in the striatum that was not simply additive of the two combined toxins. Intriguingly, a group of striatal neurons became immunoreactive to tyrosine hydroxylase after day 1. Some of them were clearly visible up to the dendritic details. Immuno-electron microscopy indicated that the tyrosine hydroxylase-positive striatal neurons contained densely immunoreactive polyribosomes. Reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction analysis indicated the up-regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA in the treated striatum. These neurons were also immunoreactive to aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase.We conclude that the combined administration of MPTP and 3-NPA caused a more profound damage to the nigro-striatal dopaminergic system, and thus some striatal neurons capable of up-regulating tyrosine hydroxylase were induced to produce dopamine, probably to compensate for the dopamine depletion.
Temporal lobe epilepsy is known to be associated with hyperactivity that is likely to be generated or amplified in the hippocampal formation. The majority of granule cells, the principal cells of the dentate gyrus, are found to be resistant to damage in epilepsy, and may serve as generators of seizures if their inhibition is impaired. Therefore, the parvalbumin-containing subset of interneurons, known to provide the most powerful inhibitory input to granule cell somata and axon initial segments, were examined in human control and epileptic dentate gyrus. A strong reduction in the number of parvalbumin-containing cells was found in the epileptic samples especially in the hilar region, although in some patches of the granule cell layer parvalbumin-positive terminals that form vertical clusters characteristic of axo-axonic cells were more numerous than in controls. Analysis of the postsynaptic target elements of parvalbumin-positive axon terminals showed that they form symmetric synapses with somata, dendrites, axon initial segments and spines as in the control, but the ratio of axon initial segment synapses was increased in the epileptic tissue (control: 15.9%, epileptic: 31.3%). Furthermore, the synaptic coverage of granule cell axon initial segments increased more than three times (control: 0.52, epileptic: 2.10 microm synaptic length/100 microm axon initial segment membrane) in the epileptic samples, whereas the amount of somatic symmetric synapses did not change significantly. Although the number of parvalbumin-positive interneurons is decreased, the perisomatic inhibitory input of dentate granule cells is preserved in temporal lobe epilepsy. Basket and axo-axonic cell terminals - whether positive or negative for parvalbumin - are present, moreover, the axon collaterals targeting axon initial segments sprout in the epileptic dentate gyrus. We suggest that perisomatic inhibitory interneurons survive in epilepsy, but their somadendritic compartment and partly the axon loses parvalbumin or immunoreactivity for parvalbumin. The hyperinnervation of axon initial segments might be a compensatory change in the inhibitory network, but at the same time may lead to a more effective synchronization of granule cell firing that could contribute to the generation or amplification of epileptic seizures.
Intracerebroventricular or intracortical administration of nerve growth factor (NGF) has been shown to block or attenuate visual cortical plasticity in the rat. In cats and ferrets, the effects of exogenous NGF on development and plasticity of visual cortex have been reported to be small or nonexistent. To determine whether locally delivered NGF affects ocular dominance column formation or the plasticity produced by monocular deprivation in cats at the height of the critical period, we infused recombinant human NGF into the primary visual cortex of kittens using an implanted cannula minipump. NGF had no effect on the normal developmental segregation of geniculocortical afferents into ocular dominance columns as determined both physiologically and anatomically. The plasticity of binocular visual cortical responses induced by monocular deprivation was also normal in regions of immunohistochemically detectable NGF infusion, as measured using intrinsic signal optical imaging and single-unit electrophysiology. Immunohistochemical analysis of the basal forebrain regions of the same animals demonstrated that the NGF infused into cortex was biologically active, producing an increase in the number of NGF-, TrkA-, p75(NTR)-, and choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in basal forebrain nuclei in the hemisphere ipsilateral to the NGF minipump compared to the contralateral basal forebrain neurons. We conclude that NGF delivered locally to axon terminals of cholinergic basal forebrain neurons resulted in increases in protein expression at the cell body through retrograde signaling.
A recently developed method for determining the length of cholinergic axons and number of cholinergic axon varicosities (terminals) in brain sections immunostained for choline acetyltransferase was used to estimate the areal and laminar densities of the cholinergic innervation in rat frontal (motor), parietal (somatosensory) and occipital (visual) cortex at different postnatal ages. This cortical innervation showed an early beginning, a few immunostained fibers being already present in the cortical subplate at birth. In the first two postnatal weeks, it developed rapidly along three parameters: a progressive increase in the number of varicosities per unit length of axon, and a lengthening and branching of the axons. Between postnatal days 4 and 16, the number of varicosities increased steadily from two to four per 10 microm of cholinergic axon. The mean densities of cholinergic axons increased from 1.4 to 9.6, 1.7 to 9.3 and 0.7 to 7.2 m/mm(3), and the corresponding densities of varicosities from 0.4 to 3.9, 0.4 to 3.5, and 0.2 to 2.6x10(6)/mm(3) in the frontal, parietal and occipital areas, respectively. The rate of growth was maximal during these first two weeks, after which the laminar pattern characteristic of each area appeared to be established. Adult values were almost reached by postnatal day 16 in the parietal cortex, but maturation proceeded further in the frontal and particularly in the occipital cortex. These quantitative data on the ingrowth and maturation of the cholinergic innervation in postnatal rat cerebral cortex substantiate a role for acetylcholine in the development of this brain region and emphasize the striking growth capacity of individual cholinergic neurons.
In late-onset Alzheimer's disease, there is a puzzling inconsistency between the findings of case-control studies of most proposed risk genes, except apolipoprotein E epsilon4. This inconsistency may stem from the failure to define the genetic and non-genetic interactions that affect the disease association of each particular susceptibility gene. Such interactions will limit the influence of the gene to a 'relevant subset' of vulnerable people. The relevant subsets for many risk genes will be narrow, compared to that of apolipoprotein E epsilon4. Studies may therefore miss the association or even suggest that a risk gene is protective. In these circumstances, the precise composition of a cohort is critical and defining the relevant subset is crucial. We illustrate how such definition may be achieved through meta-analysis. We take as an example the butyrylcholinesterase K variant, whose association with Alzheimer's disease may now be provisionally defined. This analysis leads to the identification of a potentially high-risk group: over 75 year old male carriers of both apolipoprotein E epsilon4 and butyrylcholinesterase K variant.
Selective neuronal injury in the CA1 zone of hippocampus following transient cerebral ischemia has been well documented. Extracellular potassium concentration markedly increases during ischemia/hypoxia. Accumulating evidence has indicated that the outward potassium currents, including delayed rectifier potassium current, not only influence membrane excitability but also mediate apoptosis. It has been shown that the amplitude of delayed rectifier potassium current in CA1 neurons significantly increased after cerebral ischemia. To elucidate the mechanisms underlying the changes of potassium currents following ischemia, single potassium channel activities of rat CA1 neurons were compared before and after transient forebrain ischemia. Using cell-attached configuration, depolarizing voltage steps activated outward single channel events. The channel properties, the kinetics and pharmacology of these events resemble the delayed rectifier potassium current. After ischemia, the unitary amplitude of single channels significantly increased, the open probability, mean open time and open time constant also significantly increased while the conductance remained unchanged. These data indicate that the increase of single channel activity is responsible, at least in part, for the increase of delayed rectifier potassium current in CA1 neurons after cerebral ischemia.
In a previous study we used P2 receptor antagonists to inhibit diverse responses that nerve growth factor (NGF) promotes and coordinates in PC12 cells and we suggested that P2 receptors partake in the NGF signalling cascade. In this paper, we examine the direct role of extracellular P2 receptor agonists as neurotrophic factors. ATP and 2-Cl-ATP promote neurite regeneration after priming PC12 cells with NGF and the effect is dose-dependent, with an EC(50) of about 5 and 3 microM, respectively. The number of cell clumps bearing neurites was maximally induced in day 1 and it was maintained up to about one week by ATP, or up to at least 2 weeks by 2-Cl-ATP. The involvement of P1 receptors or intracellular inosine in these actions was excluded, whereas various antagonists of P2 receptors were inhibitory. Moreover, NGF and ATP caused a direct up-regulation of P2X(2), P2X(3), P2X(4) and P2Y(2), but not P2Y(4) receptor proteins under neurite-regenerating conditions, as well as extracellular signal-regulated kinase (Erk)1-2 tyrosine/threonine phosphorylation and activation. Finally, ATP, 2-Cl-ATP and ATPgammaS enhanced neurite initiation evoked by sub-optimal NGF concentrations and ATP and 2-Cl-ATP fully sustained survival of PC12 cells after serum deprivation. Our results establish that P2 receptor agonists can behave as neurotrophic factors for neuronal cells and suggest a potential interplay between ATP and NGF in the signalling pathways triggered on their target cells.
We have previously shown that the extent of axotomy-induced death of retinal ganglion cells is reduced by cycloheximide, an inhibitor of protein synthesis, and that an earlier sublethal oxidative insult induced by buthionine sulfoximine, a glutathione synthesis inhibitor, enhances the protective effects of cycloheximide. Thus, axotomy-induced ganglion cell death seems to involve an interaction between the redox status and genetic expression. The redox-sensitive transcription factor nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-kappaB) is a logical candidate for providing this interaction. In the present study, we injected intraocularly selective inhibitors of NF-kappaB in chick embryos either unlesioned, or after a unilateral tectal lesion, which axotomizes ganglion cells. The number of dying cells in the retina contralateral to the lesion was reduced in embryos receiving NF-kappaB inhibitors as compared with vehicle-injected controls. In contrast, the same NF-kappaB inhibitors administered as pretreatment before intraocular injection of buthionine sulfoximine and cycloheximide drastically raised neuronal death and induced fulgurant degenerative changes in the retina. The most parsimonious interpretation of our results is that in axotomized retinal ganglion cells of chick embryos NF-kappaB may have either death-promoting or death-inhibiting effects. We propose a theoretical model to explain these dual effects assuming the existence of parallel death pathways differently affected by NF-kappaB. These results may have implications for future redox-based therapeutic strategies for neuroprotection.
The clinical use of the antineoplastic agent paclitaxel (Taxol) is significantly limited in its effectiveness by a dose-related painful peripheral neuropathy. To evaluate underlying mechanisms, we developed a model of Taxol-induced painful peripheral neuropathy in the rat and determined the involvement of two second messengers that contribute to enhanced nociception in other models of inflammatory and neuropathic pain, protein kinase Cepsilon and protein kinase A. Taxol administered acutely, or chronically over 12 days, produced a decrease in mechanical nociceptive threshold. Acutely, Taxol induced hyperalgesia that was significant within 1 h, maximal after 6 h and resolved completely by 24 h after a single treatment. Chronically, Taxol treatment resulted in a dose (0.1-1 mg/kg/day)-dependent decrease in nociceptive threshold, measured 24 h after administration, maximal within 5 days from the commencement of Taxol administration and resolving by 2 weeks after the last dose of Taxol. Chronic Taxol treatment also increased the number of action potentials evoked by sustained (60-s) threshold and suprathreshold (10-g) stimulation of a sub-population of C-fibers in rats with Taxol-induced hyperalgesia. Mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia were also present in Taxol-treated rats. Hyperalgesia, produced by both acute and chronic Taxol, was attenuated by intradermal injection of selective second messenger antagonists for protein kinase Cepsilon and protein kinase A. These findings provide insight into the mechanism of Taxol-induced painful peripheral neuropathy that may help control side effects of chemotherapy and improve its clinical efficacy.
Using fluorometric and immunocytochemical techniques, we found that high glycine concentrations or blockade of glycine receptors increases neurite outgrowth in developing mouse spinal cord neurons. Glycine- and GABA(A)-activated currents were demonstrated during applications of glycine and GABA (50-100 microM) in 5 days in vitro (DIV) neurons. Long application (&gt; or =10 min) of 100 microM glycine desensitized the membrane response by more than 95%. Application of glutamate in the absence of external Mg(2+), at several membrane potentials, did not produce any detectable membrane response in these cells. Immunocytochemical studies with NR1 and GluR1 antibodies showed a delayed appearance of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) receptors respectively. Spontaneous synaptic activity was readily observed in 5 DIV neurons. The use of various receptor antagonists (strychnine, bicuculline, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate [APV], 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione [CNQX]) revealed that this activity was predominantly glycinergic, and to a smaller extent, GABAergic. In the presence of bicuculline, APV and CNQX, we detected abundant spontaneous depolarizing potentials which often reached the action potential threshold. Further evidence for functional synaptic activity was provided by the detection of co-localization of gephyrin and synaptophysin at 5 DIV using confocal microscopy. Fluorometric studies with Fluo-3, a Ca(2+) indicator, in 5 DIV cultures showed the presence of spontaneous fluctuations associated with tetrodotoxin-sensitive synaptic events. The number of neurons displaying these fluctuations was significantly increased (&gt;100%) when the cells were bathed in a strychnine-containing solution. On the other hand, these synaptically mediated Ca(2+) events were blocked by the co-application of strychnine and bicuculline. This suggests that glycine and GABA(A) receptors provide a fundamental regulation of both neuronal excitability and intracellular Ca(2+) at this early time of development.The neurotrophic effects of agonists and antagonists for glycine, GABA(A) and glutamate receptors were examined in neurons cultured for 2 or 5 DIV. From all the agonists used, only high concentrations of glycine increased neurite outgrowth in 5 DIV neurons. We found that strychnine also increased neurite outgrowth, whereas tetrodotoxin (1 microM), nimodipine (4 microM) and bicuculline (20 microM) completely blocked it. On the other hand, APV (50 microM) and CNQX (20 microM) were unable to affect neurite outgrowth. These data suggest that spinal glycine receptors depress neurite outgrowth by shunting neuronal excitability. Outgrowth induction possibly results from the enhanced activity found after the inhibition of glycinergic activity. We postulate that this resets the intracellular calcium at a concentration that favors neurite outgrowth.
Intracellular action potentials evoked by dorsal root stimulation were intracellularly recorded from L6 and S1 dorsal root ganglion neurones in deeply anaesthetised guinea-pigs in vivo. Units were classed as C, Adelta or Aalpha/beta units and as nociceptive, low-threshold mechanoreceptive or unresponsive. Units with membrane potentials of at least -40 mV and action potentials with an amplitude of &gt;20 mV were included. Nociceptive neurones had significantly larger somatic action potential overshoots than low-threshold mechanoreceptors in C, Adelta and Aalpha/beta units. A higher proportion of low-threshold mechanoreceptors than of nociceptors had action potentials that failed to overshoot in all conduction velocity groups. 60% of muscle spindle afferents failed to overshoot. The size of the overshoot was correlated positively with log(10) action potential duration, log(10) action potential rise time, log(10) afterhyperpolarisation duration, action potential amplitude and membrane potential and negatively (weakly) with log(10) conduction velocity.We conclude that nociceptive neurones are more likely to have somatic action potential overshoots than low-threshold mechanoreceptors in any conduction velocity group. This effect was not due to electrode properties or conduction failure at site(s) of failure of action potential regeneration. Differences in overshoot may affect the influence of neuronal firing on cellular processes. If an overshooting action potential is used as a selection criterion, a bias towards nociceptive neurones is likely to occur. An overshooting action potential coupled with a long afterhyperpolarisation or broad action potential may help in identifying sensory neurones as nociceptive.
Chronic administration of mu-opioid receptor agonists is known to produce adaptive changes within noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus. Although mu-opioid receptors are densely expressed by locus coeruleus neurons, the effects of acute and chronic administration of agonists on the subcellular distribution of mu-opioid receptors remain poorly understood. Therefore, we examined the ultrastructural distribution of mu-opioid receptor immunoreactivity in the locus coeruleus of rats subjected to either acute morphine, or etorphine, or chronic morphine treatment. In the locus coeruleus of control rats receiving acute saline injections or placebo pellet implants, immunogold-silver labeling for mu-opioid receptors was localized to parasynaptic and extrasynaptic portions of the plasma membranes of perikarya and dendrites. Only 8% of the gold-silver particles analyzed were distributed within the cytoplasm of dendrites and perikarya in vehicle-treated rats. Immunolabeling for mu-opioid receptors was distributed along portions of the plasma membrane that were often apposed by astroglial sheaths. After acute injections of etorphine, there was a dramatic internalization of mu-opioid receptors to intracellular compartments. Quantitative analysis of gold-silver particles indicative of mu-opioid receptors showed that a substantial number of gold particles shifted from the plasma membrane to early endosomes in dendrites from etorphine-treated rats. In dendrites sampled from etorphine-treated rats, 85% of the gold-silver grains indicative of mu-opioid receptor labeling were located in intracellular compartments as compared to 15% that were distributed along the plasma membrane. In animals that received either acute morphine injections or chronic morphine via pellet implantation, no change in the subcellular distribution of immunogold particles indicative of mu-opioid receptors was detected when compared to matched control animals. These results provide the first ultrastructural evidence that mu-opioid receptors are internalized by agonists such as etorphine, but not the partial agonist morphine, in the locus coeruleus.
The effects of bilateral lesions of the medial preoptic nucleus in association with testosterone on the metabolic activity in discrete brain regions was studied quantitatively by the in vivo autoradiographic 2-deoxyglucose method. Adult male quail were castrated and then left without hormone replacement therapy or treated with testosterone or treated with testosterone and submitted to a bilateral lesion of the medial preoptic nucleus, a brain region that plays a key role in the activation of male copulatory behavior by testosterone. Treatment for about 10 days with testosterone activated the expression of the full range of male sexual behaviors and these behaviors were completely suppressed by the medial preoptic nucleus lesions. Mapping of 2-deoxyglucose uptake revealed both increases and decreases of metabolic activity in discrete brain regions associated with the systemic treatment with testosterone as well as with the lesion of the medial preoptic nucleus. Testosterone affected the oxidative metabolism in brain areas that are known to contain sex steroid receptors (such as the nucleus taeniae and the paraventricular and ventromedial nuclei of the hypothalamus) but also in nuclei that are believed to be devoid of such receptors. Effects of testosterone in these nuclei may be indirect or reflect changes in terminals of axons originating in steroid-sensitive areas. Bilateral medial preoptic nucleus lesions affected 2-deoxyglucose uptake in a variety of brain regions. Some of these regions are known to be mono-synaptically connected to the medial preoptic nucleus. Metabolic depression in these areas may reflect retrograde changes in the neurons projecting to the damaged field.The metabolic changes identified in the present study confirm the prominent role of the preoptic area in the control of sexual behavior, show that changes in the physiology of the visual system represent one of the ways through which testosterone influences the occurrence of this behavior and demonstrate that the medial preoptic nucleus has marked effects on the metabolic activity in a variety of limbic and telencephalic structures. This study also indicates that the medial preoptic nucleus affects the activity of the area ventralis of Tsai, a dopaminergic area known to send projections to a variety of hypothalamic, thalamic and mesencephalic nuclei that are implicated in the control of male sexual behavior. These data therefore support the notion that the control of the dopaminergic activity in the area ventralis of Tsai by the medial preoptic nucleus represents one of the ways through which the medial preoptic area regulates male reproductive behavior.
Hypothalamic pro-opiomelanocortin neurones have an established role in the control of feeding. While pro-opiomelanocortin is the precursor for at least three melanocortin peptides, alpha-, beta- and gamma-melanocyte-stimulating hormone (MSH), it has been widely assumed that alpha-MSH is the predominant ligand involved. We compared the effects of centrally administered alpha-, beta- and gamma(2)-MSH on hypothalamic neuronal activation and on food intake in rats fasted for 48 h. Significant reductions in food intake were seen with alpha-MSH (first hour) and gamma(2)-MSH (second hour) but not with beta-MSH. The pattern of neuronal activation, assessed by the detection of early growth response factor-1 protein, showed considerable overlap; all three melanocortins activated cells in the arcuate, ventromedial, paraventricular, periventricular and supraoptic nuclei, as well as the preoptic area. alpha-MSH and beta-MSH produced activation in the dorsomedial nuclei while gamma(2)-MSH was only weakly active here. Retrograde labelling by systemic Fluorogold injection revealed that many cells activated by MSH compounds in the arcuate, paraventricular, periventricular and supraoptic nuclei (but not dorsomedial or ventromedial) project outside the blood-brain barrier and are therefore likely to include neuroendocrine cells. Desacetyl-alpha-MSH, which has previously been reported to lack effects on feeding, produced no discernible neuronal activation in the hypothalamus. Our finding that both the pattern of neuronal activation and the distribution of neuroendocrine cells activated in response to these closely related peptides show only partial overlap suggests that, in addition to common pathways, there may exist distinct hypothalamic circuits activated by different pro-opiomelanocortin products. The slower time course of gamma(2)-MSH- versus alpha-MSH-induced suppression of feeding provides further support for the notion that the biological responses to individual melanocortin peptides may involve distinct neuronal mechanisms.
Effects of baclofen on synaptic transmission were studied in rat subthalamic neurons using whole-cell patch clamp recording from brain slices. Focal electrical stimulation of the brain slice evoked GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents and glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents. Baclofen reduced the amplitude of evoked inhibitory postsynaptic currents in a concentration-dependent manner with an IC(50) of 0.6+/-0.2 microM. Evoked excitatory postsynaptic currents were also reduced by baclofen concentration-dependently (IC(50) of 1.6+/-0.2 microM), but baclofen was more potent at reducing the GABA(A) receptor inhibitory postsynaptic currents. The GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP 35348 blocked these inhibitory effects of baclofen on evoked inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic currents. Baclofen increased the paired-pulse ratios of evoked inhibitory and excitatory postsynaptic currents. Furthermore, baclofen reduced the frequency of spontaneous miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents, but had no effect on their amplitude. These results provide evidence for presence of presynaptic GABA(B) receptors that modulate both GABA and glutamate release from afferent terminals in the subthalamus.
Astrocytes express a variety of neurotransmitter receptors which render them capable of responding to extracellular stimuli, like ATP. Release of ATP, e.g. after brain injury, may initiate reactive gliosis via stimulation of purinergic P2X and P2Y receptors. In the present study, the expression and cellular localization of P2X receptor subtypes on astrocytes in the nucleus accumbens of rats under normal physiological conditions and after stab wound were investigated. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) with specific P2X(1-7) primers, and double immunofluorescence with antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP, a specific marker of fibrous astrocytes) and to different P2X receptor subtypes (P2X(1-4), P2X(7)) were used. The RT-PCR of tissue extracts of the nucleus accumbens of untreated rats revealed the presence of all seven currently known P2X receptor subtype mRNAs indicating the presence of these receptors in this region. A double immunofluorescence approach with confocal laser scanning microscopy showed the localization of P2X(2-4) receptor subtypes on GFAP-labelled astrocytes in untreated rats. Labelling for P2X(1) and P2X(7) receptor subtypes was not found. After mechanical damage all P2X receptor subtypes studied (P2X(1-4), P2X(7)) were observed on the GFAP-labelled reactive astrocytes. A characteristic distribution of the P2X receptors on astrocytic processes and cell bodies as well as an up-regulation of the P2X-immunofluorescence was found. In conclusion, the data show the presence of P2X receptors on rat nucleus accumbens astrocytes and suggest that astrogliosis in vivo is associated with an up-regulation of distinct P2X receptor subtypes.
The effect of acute administration of 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline, an endogenous substance suspected of producing Parkinsonism in humans, on the levels of glutathione and reactive oxygen species and on the enzymatic activity of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase was investigated in the substantia nigra, striatum and cortex of rat brain. Four hours after a single dose of 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline (100 mg/kg i.p.), a significant increase in tissue glutathione level was found in the dopaminergic structures studied. The most pronounced effect was observed in the substantia nigra and cortex, and the weakest in the striatum. At the same time, significant inhibition of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase was observed in the substantia nigra, cortex and striatum whose extent strictly corresponded to the increase in glutathione levels in those structures. Moreover, in 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-treated rats, the production of reactive oxygen species was significantly reduced in the substantia nigra, whereas it was markedly enhanced in the striatum.Our results suggest that the increase in tissue glutathione level in the dopaminergic structures studied results from inhibition of gamma-glutamyl transpeptidase and refers to the extracellular pool of this peptide. Moreover, it is likely that both the 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroisoquinoline-induced alterations in glutathione level and the enhanced production of reactive oxygen species in the striatum may have implications for the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease.
To determine how hippocampal location-selective discharges might influence downstream structures for navigation, nucleus accumbens neurons were recorded in rats alternating between two tasks guided respectively by lit cues in the maze or by extramaze room cues. Of 144 phasically active neurons, 80 showed significant behavioral correlates including displacements, immobility prior to, or after reward delivery, as well as turning, similar to previous reports. Nine neurons were position-selective, 22 were sensitive to task and platform changes and 40 others were both. Although the accumbens neurons showed the same behavioral correlate in two or four functionally equivalent locations, these responses were stronger at some of these places, evidence for position sensitivity. To test whether position responses were selective for room versus platform cues, the experimental platform was rotated while the rat performed each of the two tasks. This revealed responses to changes in position relative to both platform and room cues, despite the fact that previous studies had shown that place responses of hippocampal neurons recorded in the same task are anchored to room cues only. After these manipulations and shifts between the two tasks, the responses varied among simultaneously recorded neurons, and even in single neurons in alternating visits to reward sites. Again this contrasts with the uniformity of place responses of hippocampal neurons recorded in this same task. Thus accumbens position responses may derive from hippocampal inputs, while responses to context changes are more likely to derive from other signals or intrinsic processing. Considering the accumbens as a limbic-motor interface, we conclude that position-modulated behavioral responses in the accumbens may be intermediate between the allocentric reference frame of position-selective discharges in the hippocampus and the egocentric coding required to organize movement control. The conflicting responses among simultaneously recorded neurons could reflect competition processes serving as substrates for action selection and learning.
Ras guanyl nucleotide-releasing protein (RasGRP) is a recently discovered Ras guanyl nucleotide exchange factor that is expressed in selected regions of the rodent CNS, with high levels of expression in the hippocampus. Biochemical studies suggest that RasGRP can activate the Ras signal pathway in response to changes in diacylglycerol and possibly calcium. To investigate potential sites for RasGRP signaling, we have determined the cellular and subcellular localization of RasGRP protein in adult rat hippocampus, and have also examined the appearance of RasGRP mRNA and protein during hippocampal development. RasGRP immunoreactivity is predominately localized to those neurons participating in the direct cortico-hippocampo-cortical loop. In both hippocampal and entorhinal neurons, RasGRP protein appeared to be localized to both dendrites and somata, but not to axons. Electron microscopy of hippocampal pyramidal cells confirmed RasGRP immunoreactivity in neuronal cell bodies and dendrites, where it appeared to be associated with microtubules. The localization of RasGRP to dendrites suggests a role for this pathway in the regulation of dendritic function. Examination of developing hippocampal structures indicated that RasGRP mRNA and protein appear synchronously during the first 2 weeks of postnatal development as these neurons become fully mature. This result indicates that the RasGRP signal transduction pathway is not required during early hippocampal development, but is a feature of mature neurons during the later stages of development.
Chronic cocaine use is known to elicit changes in the pattern of gene expression within the brain. The hippocampus plays a critical role in learning and memory and may also play a role in mediating behaviors associated with cocaine abuse. To profile the gene expression response of the hippocampus to chronic cocaine treatment, cDNA hybridization arrays were used to illuminate cocaine-regulated genes in rats treated non-contingently with a binge model of cocaine (45 mg/kg/day, i.p.) for 14 days. Validation of mRNA changes illuminated by hybridization array analysis was accomplished by measuring immunoreactive protein (via specific immunoblots). The induction of protein kinase Calpha, potassium channel 1.1, and metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 seen by hybridization arrays was confirmed at the level of protein. Immunoblot screening of previously described cocaine-responsive genes demonstrated increased levels of protein tyrosine kinase 2, beta-catenin, and protein kinase Cepsilon. While some of these changes exist in previously described cocaine-responsive models, others are novel to any model of cocaine use. The inductions of potassium channel 1.1, protein tyrosine kinase 2 and metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 are novel findings to hippocampal cocaine-responsive gene expression. These proteins have been shown to subserve learning and memory and/or long-term potentiation functions within the hippocampus. Additionally, these genes are known to interact with one another, forming a more complex pattern of gene expression changes. The findings suggest altered expression of genes with a number of different functions in the rat hippocampus after a 'binge' style of non-contingent cocaine administration. These changes in gene expression may play roles in neuronal plasticity and the behavioral phenomena associated with cocaine abuse.
Reciprocal dendrodendritic synapses between mitral and granule cells in the accessory olfactory bulb have been implicated in a specialized form of olfactory learning in mice, in which a female forms a memory to the pheromonal signal of the male that mates with her. Relatively little is known, however, about the mechanism of synaptic transmission at the reciprocal synapses. We analyzed synaptic currents generated in accessory olfactory bulb mitral cells in slice preparations with the patch-clamp technique in nystatin-perforated whole-cell configuration. A brief (5-20-ms) depolarizing voltage step from -70 to 0 mV applied to a single mitral cell evoked GABA(A) receptor-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents. The inhibitory postsynaptic currents persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin, indicating that the inhibitory postsynaptic current in mitral cells can be elicited through purely dendritic interactions. The inhibitory postsynaptic currents were greatly enhanced by washout of extracellular Mg(2+). In Mg(2+)-free solution, the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid greatly reduced the inhibitory postsynaptic currents, whereas the non-NMDA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-(1H,4H)-dione (CNQX) slightly reduced them. These data demonstrate that NMDA receptors play an important role in the generation of dendrodendritic inhibition in mitral cells of the mouse accessory olfactory bulb.
The circadian pacemaker of the suprachiasmatic nuclei is a complex multioscillator system, which controls circadian and seasonal rhythmicity. A number of clock genes have been identified that play a key role in the generation of circadian rhythms. These clock genes are expressed in a circadian manner as has been shown in mice, rats and hamsters. The time at which their expression reaches peak values differs among the several genes. Expression profiles for a specific gene may also differ among subdivisions of the suprachiasmatic nuclei. It has been shown that mPer1 peaks slightly out of phase in the left and right suprachiasmatic nuclei and that the rhythm in c-fos expression is significantly different between the dorsomedial and ventrolateral regions. In the special case that the animal shows splitting of its locomotor activity pattern, mPer1 in the left and right suprachiasmatic nuclei appeared to oscillate in antiphase. Whether the molecular organization within the suprachiasmatic nuclei plays a role in seasonal rhythmicity, allowing animals to track daylength and become reproductive at the proper phase of the annual cycle, receives increasing interest (). The differences in peak expression times that exist between different genes, and the spatial differences in peak time for single genes, are suggestive of a genetic mechanism underlying the multioscillator structure. It is unknown, however, whether phase differences that are observed at the molecular level exist at the level of electrical activity rhythms in the suprachiasmatic nuclei in order to become potentially functional. In this study we investigated the presence of phase differences in neuronal discharge rhythms in the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the rat. To this purpose we combined simultaneous electrophysiological recordings of neuronal populations in the left and right suprachiasmatic nuclei with a detailed analysis of the phase relationship between them. The results demonstrate that neuronal subpopulations of the suprachiasmatic nuclei show phase differences both in their peak and half-maximum times of up to 4 h. We propose that these phase differences may play a role in the plasticity of the circadian timing system.
The interrelationships of motor patterns controlling the mouthparts and the salivary gland of the migratory locust were studied in a deafferented preparation activated by the muscarinic agonist pilocarpine. The aim of the study was to check whether motor output of different neuromeres of the suboesophageal ganglion and the brain is coherent and functionally adequate in the absence of sensory feedback. Our analysis shows that motor output to labial, maxillar, and labral muscles and to the salivary gland is strongly coupled to the mandibular motor pattern. Bilateral coupling is of similar strength. For a muscle of the labial palp, however, an independent pattern is shown. From our findings it is concluded that for stable coordination of most muscles involved in mouthpart movements sensory feedback is not essential. This is in contrast to motor patterns controlling thoracic appendages in similar insect model systems. As mouthparts are widely accepted to be homologous to thoracic appendages, it is concluded that during the evolutionary process which led to derived features of mouthparts also the central nervous networks controlling these structures were reconfigured accordingly.
Research using animal models of neuropathic pain has revealed sympathetic sprouting onto dorsal root ganglion cells. More recently, sensory fibre sprouting onto dorsal root ganglion cells has also been observed. Previous work in our laboratory demonstrated persistent sympathetic fibre sprouting in the skin of the rat lower lip following sensory denervation of this region. Therefore, we applied immunocytochemistry to determine the effects of sympathectomies on the terminal fields of sensory fibres. The superior cervical ganglia were removed bilaterally and the effects on the innervation of the skin of the rat lower lip were observed 1, 2, 3, 4, 6 and 8 weeks post-surgery. Substance P and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase immunoreactivities were used to identify a subset of sensory and sympathetic fibres, respectively. We also assessed neurokinin-1 receptor immunoreactivity. Quantitative data was obtained with the aid of an image analysis system. In controls, the epidermis and upper dermis were innervated by substance P-immunoreactive fibres only and upper dermal blood vessels possessed the highest density of neurokinin-1 receptor immunoreactivity. Blood vessels in the lower dermis were innervated by both substance P- and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibres. Following sympathectomies, substance P-immunoreactive fibres in the epidermis and upper dermis were more intensely labelled only 1 and 2 weeks post-surgery when compared to sham controls. The length of substance P-immunoreactive fibres in this region was also increased only on the second week. Neurokinin-1 receptor immunoreactivity in the upper dermis was slightly decreased 1 and 2 weeks post-surgery. In the lower dermis, substance P-immunoreactive fibres associated with blood vessels were more intensely labelled only 1 and 2 weeks post-surgery, and at all post-surgical time points studied, blood vessels in this region were devoid of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibres. The length of substance P-immunoreactive fibres was increased from the first to the third week post-surgery in the lower dermis. These results indicate that sympathectomies lead to transient changes in substance P-immunoreactive fibre innervation and neurokinin-1 receptor expression in rat lower lip skin. The effects are most prominent in the lower dermis probably due to a greater local concentration of nerve growth factor in this region. The plasticity of the interactions between sensory and sympathetic fibres may prove important in the regulation of skin microcirculation and in the generation of painful sensations under normal conditions or following peripheral nerve injuries.
The isolectin I-B4 (IB4) binds specifically to a subset of small sensory neurons. We used a conjugate of IB4 and the toxin saporin to examine in vivo the contribution of IB4-binding sensory neurons to nociception. A single dose of the conjugate was injected unilaterally into the sciatic nerve of rats. The treatment resulted in a permanent selective loss of IB4-binding neurons as indicated by histological analysis of dorsal root ganglia, spinal cord, and skin from treated animals. Behavioral measurements showed that 7-10 days after the injection, conjugate-treated rats had elevated thermal and mechanical nociceptive thresholds. However, 21 days post-treatment the nociceptive thresholds returned to baseline levels. These results demonstrate the utility of the IB4-saporin conjugate as a tool for selective cytotoxic targeting and provide behavioral evidence for the role of IB4-binding neurons in nociception. The decreased sensitivity to noxious stimuli associated with the loss of IB4-binding neurons indicates that these sensory neurons are essential for the signaling of acute pain. Furthermore, the unexpected recovery of nociceptive thresholds suggests that the loss of IB4-binding neurons triggers changes in the processing of nociceptive information, which may represent a compensatory mechanism for the decreased sensitivity to acute pain.
In the superficial superior colliculus, a center of sensory processing related to visual salience, glutamate is used as a major excitatory neurotransmitter. alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors include a Ca(2+)-impermeable, outwardly rectifying type (type I) and a Ca(2+)-permeable, inwardly rectifying type (type II). To study the contribution of these AMPA receptor subtypes to visual sensory processing in the superior colliculus, we investigated the expression of these two types of AMPA receptors in six morphologically identified subgroups of neurons in the superficial superior colliculus by whole-cell recording using slice preparations of young (17-23 days old) and adult (60-68 days old) rats. Both outwardly and inwardly rectifying current responses were observed to pressure applied 10 mM kainate, a non-desensitizing AMPA receptor agonist. These currents were completely abolished by the selective AMPA receptor antagonist 1-(4-aminophenyl)-3-methylcarbamyl-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-3,4-dihydro-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine (100 microM). The type II receptor antagonist spermine (1 mM) suppressed inwardly rectifying responses. The degree of inward rectification was correlated with the ratio of suppression by spermine, and inversely correlated with estimated Ca(2+) permeability, indicating that the degree of rectification reflects the relative amount of co-expressed type I and type II receptors. An inwardly rectifying and spermine-sensitive AMPA component of excitatory postsynaptic currents was observed, suggesting involvement of type II receptors in synaptic transmission. Morphological analysis revealed that a substantial population of horizontal cells in both young and adult rats (n=31/53 and 15/17, respectively) and all wide field multipolar cells in adult rats (n=6) showed inwardly rectifying AMPA receptor responses. From these results we suggest that type I and type II AMPA receptors are co-expressed with varying ratios in individual neurons in the rat superficial superior colliculus, and that type II receptors are abundantly expressed in most horizontal cells and wide field multipolar cells. Since these neurons are putatively GABAergic inhibitory neurons and have wide dendritic trees, type II receptors may contribute to the regulation of remote inhibitory interaction in the visual field map in the the superficial superior colliculus.
Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV-1) encephalitis may present with fever and behavioral changes, to the extent of a psychotic state and psychomotor agitation. We developed a clinically relevant experimental model of HSV-1 encephalitis and investigated host brain responses associated with its clinical signs and whether these responses depend on the presence of circulating glucocorticoids. Intracerebral inoculation of HSV-1 in rats induced fever, motor hyperactivity and aggressive behavior. In adrenalectomized rats HSV-1 failed to induce these signs, although mortality rate was identical to sham-operated rats. Hypophysectomy or blocking glucocorticoid receptors also prevented HSV-1-induced fever. Dexamethasone replacement therapy to adrenalectomized rats restored the HSV-1-induced fever and behavioral abnormalities. HSV-1 inoculation produced hyperproduction of prostaglandin E(2) by brain slices. This effect was abolished in adrenalectomized rats and was restored by dexamethasone treatment. In intact rats HSV-1 induced brain interleukin-1beta (IL-1beta) gene expression. Adrenalectomy alone caused brain IL-1beta expression, which did not increase after HSV-1 infection. Similarly, HSV-1 induced IL-1beta expression in astrocyte cultures. Removal of cortisol from the culture medium caused basal IL-1beta mRNA expression which was not increased by infection. In conclusion, fever, motor hyperactivity and aggressive behavior during experimental HSV-1 encephalitis are dependent on brain responses, including prostaglandin E(2) and IL-1beta synthesis. Circulating glucocorticoids play an essential permissive role in the induction of these host brain responses.
Using the viral transneuronal tracing technique, the cell groups in the CNS transneuronally connected with the female mammary gland were detected. Lactating and non-lactating female rats were infected with pseudorabies virus injected into the mammary gland. The other group of animals was subjected to virus injection into the skin of the back. Four days after virus injection, infected neurons detected by immunocytochemistry, were present in the dorsal root ganglia ipsilateral to inoculation and in the intermediolateral cell column of the spinal cord. In addition, a few labelled cells could be detected in the dorsal horn and in the central autonomic nucleus (lamina X) of the spinal cord. At this survival time several brain stem nuclei including the A5 noradrenergic cell group, the caudal raphe nuclei (raphe obscurus, raphe pallidus, raphe magnus), the A1/C1 noradrenergic and adrenergic cell group, the nucleus of the solitary tract, the area postrema, the gigantocellular reticular nucleus, and the locus coeruleus contained virus-infected neurons. In some animals, additional cell groups, among others the periaqueductal gray and the red nucleus displayed labelling. In the diencephalon, a significant number of virus-infected neurons could be detected in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. In most cases, virus-labelled neurons were present also in the lateral hypothalamus, in the retrochiasmatic area, and in the anterior hypothalamus. In the telencephalon, in some animals a few virus-infected neurons could be found in the preoptic area, in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, in the central amygdala, and in the somatosensory cortex. At the longer (5 days) survival time each cell group mentioned displayed immunopositive neurons, and the number of infected cells increased. The pattern of labelling was similar in animals subjected to virus inoculation into the mammary gland and into the skin. The distribution and density of labelling was similar in lactating and non-lactating rats. The present findings provide the first morphological data on the localization of CNS structures connected with the preganglionic neurons of the sympathetic motor system innervating the mammary gland. It may be assumed that the structures found virus-infected belong to the neuronal circuitry involved in the control of the sympathetic motor innervation of the mammary gland.
Dopamine transmission within the nucleus accumbens has been implicated as a neurochemical substrate of associative learning processes. It has been suggested that the acquisition of classically conditioned fear to a specific environment, or context, differs fundamentally from the development of conditioned fear to a discrete stimulus, such as a light or a tone. In this study, we assessed extracellular dopamine in the rat nucleus accumbens shell and core during the expression of a conditioned fear response. Animals were aversively conditioned to either a context or a tone and extracellular dopamine was measured in the nucleus accumbens shell and core by in vivo microdialysis over the next 2 days as animals were returned first to the conditioning chamber (day 1: context test), and subsequently as animals were again returned to the chamber and presented with the conditioned tone stimulus (day 2: tone test). Dopamine levels in the core were significantly higher in the Context-Shock group compared to the Tone-Shock group during the 30-min exposure to context while dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens shell did not differ significantly during the context test between groups. In contrast, extracellular dopamine in the shell but not the core of Tone-Shock animals increased significantly during presentation of the tone. Dopamine in both the shell and core remained unchanged during the tone test in the Context-Shock groups.These data suggest distinct roles for shell and core dopamine transmission in the expression of a conditioned emotional response. While dopamine increased in the shell primarily during the presentation of a discrete tone conditioned stimulus, core dopamine responded more to a contextual conditioned stimulus. These results may reflect differences in either the type of information acquired or the salience of the learned associations which are formed to a context vs. a discrete tone cue.
The effects of the pro-inflammatory cytokine interleukin-18 (IL-18) were investigated on both normal and isolated N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated field excitatory post synaptic potentials (fEPSP) and on the induction of long-term potentiation (LTP) in the rat dentate gyrus in vitro. Bath perfusion with IL-18 (100 ng/ml) for 20 min prior to high-frequency stimulation had no significant effect on baseline synaptic transmission or paired pulse depression, but did impair the induction of LTP (115.7+/-8.8% versus 150.8+/-8.1% in vehicle control slices, n=6, P&lt;0.05 at 60 min). Further analysis demonstrated that IL-18 significantly depressed the amplitude of pharmacologically isolated NMDA receptor-mediated fEPSP (NMDA-fEPSP; 77.4+/-4.3% of baseline compared to controls at 1 h; P&lt;0.05, n=7), an effect that may underlie the impairment of LTP by IL-18. This action of IL-18 on LTP and NMDA-fEPSPs was attenuated in full by pretreatment of slices with exogenously applied IL-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1ra, 100 ng/ml), the naturally occurring antagonist of IL-1 type 1 receptors. This ability of IL-1ra to block the inhibitory effects of IL-18 is likely to be receptor-specific as no reversal of the tumour necrosis factor-alpha-induced inhibition of LTP was seen with IL-1ra administration (110.7+/-5.4% versus tumour necrosis factor-alpha-treated slices; 107.4+/-8.7%, P=0.6, n=6). These are the first experiments providing evidence of a direct neuromodulatory role for IL-18 in synaptic plasticity.
Dendritic excitability is modulated by the highly variable spatial and temporal expression pattern of voltage-dependent potassium channels. Somatodendritic Kv2.1 channels contribute a major component of delayed rectifier potassium current in cultured hippocampal neurons, where Kv2.1 is localized to large clusters on the soma and proximal dendrites. Here we found that dramatic differences exist in the clustering of endogenous Kv2.1 in cultured rat hippocampal GABAergic interneurons and glutamatergic pyramidal neurons. Studies on neurons developing in culture revealed that while a similar sequence of Kv2.1 localization and clustering occurred in both cell types, the process was temporally delayed in pyramidal cells. Localization and clustering of recombinant green fluorescent protein-tagged Kv2.1 occurred by the same sequence of events, and imaging of GFP-Kv2.1 clustering in living neurons revealed dynamic fusion events that underlie cluster formation. Overexpression of GFP-Kv2.1 accelerated the clustering program in pyramidal neurons such that the observed differences in Kv2.1 clustering in pyramidal neurons and interneurons were eliminated. Confocal imaging showed a preferential association of Kv2.1 with the basal membrane in cultured neurons, and electrophysiological recordings from neurons cultured on transistors revealed that Kv2.1 contributed the bulk of a previously described adherens junction delayed rectifier potassium conductance. Finally, Kv2.1 clusters were found spatially associated with ryanodine receptor intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) release channels. These findings reveal a stepwise assembly of Kv2.1 potassium channels into membrane clusters during development, and an association of these clusters with Ca(2+) signaling apparatus. Together these data suggest that the restricted localization of Kv2.1 may play an important role in the previously observed contribution of this potassium channel in regulating dendritic [Ca(2+)](i) transients.
Activation of ionotropic glutamate receptors can induce neuronal apoptosis in vitro and in vivo. We showed previously that activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptors in a low Ca(2+) and low Na(+) condition induced apoptotic neuronal death, and that the K(+) efflux via NMDA receptor channels was likely a key event in NMDA-induced apoptosis. Since non-NMDA receptors, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionate (AMPA) and kainate receptors, are also permeable to K(+), we tested the hypothesis that stimulating K(+) efflux via non-NMDA receptor channels could induce apoptosis in cultured cortical neurons. Using a Ca(2+)-free and Na(+)-free external solution, application of kainate revealed outward membrane currents carried by K(+) efflux. In a low Ca(2+)/low Na(+) medium, a 5-h exposure to 50-500 microM AMPA in the presence of the NMDA receptor antagonist MK801 induced dose-dependent neuronal death 24 h after the onset of the insult, accompanied by intracellular K(+) reduction and caspase-3 activation. The AMPA-induced cell death was attenuated by the caspase inhibitor Z-Val-Ala-Asp(OMe)-fluoromethyl ketone (Z-VAD-FMK) and by the protein synthesis inhibitor cycloheximide. Reducing K(+) efflux by raising extracellular K(+) concentration from 5 to 25 mM attenuated AMPA-triggered cell death, the Ca(2+) channel antagonist nifedipine showed no effect on the AMPA toxicity. Kainate induced similar neuronal death sensitive to attenuation by Z-VAD-FMK or elevated extracellular K(+).We suggest that the non-NMDA receptor-mediated K(+) efflux may participate in apoptotic process and that blocking excessive K(+) efflux mediated by NMDA and non-NMDA receptors may selectively prevent neuronal apoptosis under certain pathological conditions.
Glutamate transporter-1 (GLT-1) is responsible for the largest proportion of glutamate transport in the brain and the density of GLT-1 molecules inserted in the plasma membrane is highest in regions of high demand. Previous electron microscopic studies in the hippocampus and cerebellum have shown that GLT-1 is concentrated both in the vicinity of and at considerable distance from the synaptic cleft [Chaudry et al., Neuron 15 (1995) 711-721], but little is known about its distribution in the neocortex. We therefore studied the spatial relationships between elements expressing the presynaptic marker synaptophysin and those containing GLT-1 in the rat cerebral cortex using confocal microscopy. Preliminary studies confirmed that GLT-1 positive puncta were exclusively astrocytic processes; moreover, they showed that in most cases GLT-1 positive processes either completely surrounded asymmetric synapses or had no apparent relationship with synapses; occasionally, they were apposed to terminals containing pleomorphic vesicles. In sections double-labeled for GLT-1 and synaptophysin, codistribution analysis revealed that 61.2% of pixels detecting fluorescent emission for GLT-1 immunoreactivity overlapped with pixels detecting synaptophysin. The percentages of GLT-1/synaptophysin codistribution were significantly different from controls. In sections double-labeled for GLT-1 and the vesicular GABA transporter, codistribution analysis revealed that 27% of pixels detecting GLT-1 overlapped with those revealing the vesicular GABA transporter.The remarkable 'synaptic' localization of GLT-1 provides anatomical support for the hypothesis that in the cerebral cortex GLT-1 contributes to shaping fast, point-to-point, excitatory synaptic transmission. Moreover, the considerable fraction of GLT-1 immunoreactivity localized at sites distant from axon terminals supports the notion that glutamate spillout occurs also in the intact brain and suggests that 'extrasynaptic' GLT-1 regulates the diffusion of glutamate escaped from the cleft.
In brain, signaling pathways initiated by atrial natriuretic peptide, or transmitters which stimulate nitric oxide synthesis, increase cGMP as their second messenger. One important class of target molecules for cGMP is cGMP-dependent protein kinases, and in the present study, biochemical and immunocytochemical analyses demonstrate the widespread distribution of type II cGMP-dependent protein kinase in rat brain, from the cerebral cortex to the brainstem and cerebellum. Also, colocalization of cGMP-dependent protein kinase type II with its activator, cGMP, was found in several brain regions examined after in vitro stimulation of brain slices with sodium nitroprusside. In western blots, cGMP-dependent protein kinase type II was observed in all brain regions examined, although cerebellar cortex and pituitary contained comparatively less of the kinase. Immunocytochemistry revealed cGMP-dependent protein kinase type II in certain neurons, and occasionally in putative oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, however, its most striking and predominant localization was in neuropil. Electron microscopy examination of neuropil in the medial habenula showed localization of the kinase in both axon terminals and dendrites. As a membrane-associated protein, cGMP-dependent protein kinase type II often appeared to be transported to cell processes to a greater extent than being retained in the cell body. Thus, immunocytochemical labeling of cGMP-dependent protein kinase type II often did not coincide with the localization of kinase mRNA previously observed by others using in situ hybridization. We conclude that in contrast to cGMP-dependent protein kinase type I, which has a very restricted localization to cerebellar Purkinje cells and a few other sites, cGMP-dependent protein kinase type II is a very ubiquitous brain protein kinase and thus a more likely candidate for relaying myriad cGMP effects in brain requiring protein phosphorylation.
Using 96-well microtiter strip-plates we established in vitro ischemia models with acute, progressive and delayed neuronal death onset. In vitro ischemia was induced by washing neuronal cultures with a balanced salt solution with (acute/delayed models) or without (progressive model) 25 mM 2-deoxy-D-glucose and incubating in an anaerobic chamber. Reperfusion was performed by removing cultures from the anaerobic chamber and washing and/or adding Dulbecco's modified Eagle medium containing N2 supplement. Acute neuronal death resulted in cell swelling during in vitro ischemic incubation with the majority of neurons appearing swollen and necrotic within 3 h post-insult. Progressive neuronal death was characterized by cell shrinkage during and immediately following in vitro ischemia with increasing neuronal degeneration resembling both necrosis and apoptosis over a 24-h period post-in vitro ischemia. Delayed neuronal death was induced by glutamate-receptor blockade during in vitro ischemia. Neurons appeared morphologically normal immediately following and up to 6 h after in vitro ischemia and then started to degenerate over the next 42 h by a process resembling apoptosis. We monitored oxygen consumption during in vitro ischemia and found it to be similar for the three models and have shown that plastic culture wells store oxygen. The establishment of acute, progressive and delayed in vitro models of ischemia using 96-well microtiter strip-plates will provide useful tools to further investigate ischemic neuronal death/survival mechanisms and provide a high-throughput system to evaluate potential neuroprotective agents. Oxygen storage in plastic culture wells is likely to contribute to the extended oxygen- and oxygen-glucose-deprivation times required to induce significant neuronal injury in vitro.
We have investigated the mechanisms regulating the expression of the mu-opioid receptor, using P19 mouse embryonal carcinoma cells, which normally lack this receptor, but which can be induced to express it in aggregated cells by retinoic acid treatment. The expression level of mu-opioid receptor mRNA was found to be closely correlated with aggregation status, and more specifically by cell to cell interaction requiring neural cell adhesion molecules (NCAM). We showed that NCAM activates the mu-opioid receptor gene through a pathway involving phospholipase C-arachidonic acid-calcium channel-calcium/calmodulin kinase II. A similar pathway was previously shown to promote neurite outgrowth, however, with distinct specificity, including the role of calcium channels. Activation of L-type calcium channels elevated mu-opioid receptor expression, while N-type-channel activity had the opposite effect. The effect of anti-NCAM-antibody treatment was not due to retardation of general neural development and was specific to the mu-opioid receptor gene. Our results indicate that the P19 system is an useful model to study the expression of the mu-opioid receptor gene.
Behavioral stimuli with emotional/motivational content can reinforce long-term potentiation in the dentate gyrus, if presented within a distinct time window. A similar effect can be obtained by stimulating the basolateral amygdala, a limbic structure related to emotions. We have previously shown that aging impairs amygdala-hippocampus interactions during long-term potentiation. In this report we show that behavioral reinforcement of long-term potentiation is also impaired in aged rats with cognitive deficits. While among young water-deprived animals drinking 15 min after induction of long-term potentiation leads to a significant prolongation of potentiation, cognitively impaired aged rats are devoid of such reinforcing effects. In contrast, a slight but statistically significant depression develops after drinking in this group of animals. We suggest that an impaired mechanism of emotional/motivational reinforcement of synaptic plasticity might be functionally related to the cognitive deficits shown by aged animals.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) has neurotrophic and neuroprotective as well as angiogenic properties, but the pathways involved in VEGF-mediated neuronal survival have not been identified. We found previously that VEGF protects cultured neural cells from death induced by serum withdrawal or hypoxia via the activation of VEGF-2/fetal liver kinase-1 receptors, phosphatidylinositol 3'-kinase, Akt and nuclear factor-kappa B. We now report that in mouse cortical neuron cultures subjected to hypoxia, the neuroprotective effect of VEGF involves suppression of cell-death pathways mediated by caspase-3. Exposure to hypoxia for 24 h caused the death of 71+/-4% of cultured neurons; this was reduced to 40+/-1% by VEGF (n=3, P&lt;0.005) and to 44+/-1% by the caspase-3 inhibitor benzyloxycarbonyl-DEVD-fluoromethyl ketone (n=3, P&lt;0.005). VEGF inhibited the activation of caspase-3 as measured by the 17-20-kDa caspase-3 cleavage product, and immunolocalization of VEGF and activated caspase-3 showed segregated expression in separate neuronal populations. An antisense, but not sense, oligodeoxyribonucleotide directed against VEGF increased the proportion of neurons expressing activated caspase-3, and correspondingly reduced the viability of hypoxic neurons by 37+/-2% (n=3, P&lt;0.005). These findings suggest that VEGF protects neurons from hypoxic injury by inhibiting the activation of caspase-3, and could therefore act as an endogenous neuroprotective factor in cerebral ischemia.
Neurturin and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor are novel mitogens for normal adult rat chromaffin cells in vitro. These neurotrophic factors differ from the previously described adult chromaffin cell mitogens, nerve growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor, in that their effects are potentiated by depolarization and activation of protein kinase C. Neurturin and glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor signal via the receptor tyrosine kinase, ret, but may also act independently of ret. Both depolarization and phorbol esters act synergistically with neurturin to up-regulate ret protein expression in chromaffin cell cultures, suggesting a mechanism for potentiation of mitogenesis. However, a direct role for ret in mitogenesis has not been established. Stimulation by neurturin causes increased phosphorylation of extracellular signal-regulated kinases 1 and 2 in cultured chromaffin cells, and mitogenesis is prevented by inhibitors of their phosphorylation. Inhibitors of phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase also prevent mitogenesis. The present findings suggest the hypothesis that neurotrophic factors and neurally derived signals might cooperatively regulate chromaffin cell proliferation in vivo in the rat. In addition, trans-synaptic stimulation might provide a route by which epigenetic factors could influence the development of adrenal medullary hyperplasia in humans with hereditary multiple endocrine neoplasia syndromes 2A and 2B by affecting expression and/or activation of ret.
Circulating testosterone has potent effects on the structure and function of many pelvic ganglion cells in adult rats in vivo. However not all androgen-sensitive pelvic neurones possess androgen receptors and testosterone effects may therefore be indirect, by an action on the target organs. Here we have examined if testosterone influences neuronal structure in vitro in pelvic ganglion cells cultured from adult male rats. We have also used multiple label immunofluorescence to monitor the expression of transmitter-synthesising enzymes and peptides under various culture conditions. Testosterone was a more potent stimulant of noradrenergic soma growth in culture than nerve growth factor. Whereas nerve growth factor increased the number, branching and length of neurites, testosterone stimulated growth of a small number of very short processes, each of which bore numerous short protrusions. Testosterone also impeded the longer neurite growth induced by nerve growth factor. Many pelvic ganglion cells altered their expression of transmitters/neuropeptides under different culture conditions. In particular, under control conditions or during nerve growth factor treatment, vasoactive intestinal peptide was up-regulated in noradrenergic and cholinergic neurones; testosterone impeded this up-regulation in noradrenergic neurones. Choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity could only be visualised when nerve growth factor was present in the cultures, and cholinergic neurones showed less neurite outgrowth than noradrenergic neurones under all culture conditions. Nerve growth factor did not stimulate levels of this enzyme as strongly if testosterone was present. This study has shown that testosterone has potent effects on the structure of many pelvic ganglion cells in vitro. It is possible that these effects are mediated indirectly, e.g. by stimulating glial-derived substances, however our results suggest that the effects are not mediated by nerve growth factor. The results also show that testosterone influences some of the actions of nerve growth factor, suggesting that there may be complex interactions between steroid signalling and neurotrophic factors in maintaining neuronal structure and function in vivo.
Nociceptin (NOC), also known as orphanin FQ, is a newly discovered endogenous ligand for the opioid receptor-like1 (ORL1) receptor. Although NOC has been shown to modulate nociceptive transmission, mechanisms for this action are still unknown. In the present study, actions of NOC on substantia gelatinosa (SG) neurones were examined in adult rat spinal cord slice preparations by using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. NOC at a concentration of 1 microM induced an outward current having an amplitude of 26+/-5 pA (n=68) at a holding potential of -70 mV; this action was dose-dependent with an EC(50) value of 0.23 microM (Hill coefficient: 1.5). The NOC current reversed its polarity at a potential which was close to the equilibrium potential for K(+), as calculated by the Nernst equation (n=4). The NOC current had slope conductances of 0.80+/-0.15 nS and 0.50+/-0.13 nS (n=4) in voltage ranges of -120 to -140 mV and of -60 to -90 mV, respectively. The NOC current was inhibited by Ba(2+) (100 microM; by 56+/-8%, n=4) but not by 4-aminopyridine (4-AP; 1 mM; n=4) and tetraethylammonium (TEA; 5 mM; n=4). The NOC current was not affected by tetrodotoxin (TTX; 1 microM; n=4) and also by a non-specific opioid receptor antagonist, naloxone (1 microM; n=4). When examined using some inhibitors with respect to the ORL1 receptor, the NOC (1 microM) current was depressed in amplitude by a putative NOC precursor product, nocistatin (1 microM; by 18+/-4%, n=6) and also by a non-peptidyl ORL1 receptor antagonist, CompB (1 microM; by 64+/-10%, n=7) without a change in holding currents. On the other hand, a putative ORL1 receptor antagonist, [Phe(1)psi(CH(2)-NH)Gly(2)]nociceptin-(1-13)-NH(2) (1 microM; which is a derivative of NOC), by itself induced an outward current (7+/-3 pA, n=8), during which the NOC current was suppressed in amplitude by 56+/-8% (n=8). We conclude that NOC activates in SG neurones a K(+) channel exhibiting a mild inwardly rectification through the activation of ORL1 receptor; this hyperpolarising action of NOC might contribute to at least a part of its antinociceptive effect.
The activity of bulbospinal (presympathetic) vasomotor neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla is modulated pre- and postsynaptically by exogenously applied opioid agonists. To determine whether these neurons receive direct opioid inputs, we examined the relationship between bulbospinal barosensitive neurons and nerve terminals immunoreactive for enkephalin in the rostral ventrolateral medulla of rats. By light microscopy, we mapped the distribution of close appositions by enkephalin-immunoreactive varicosities on 10 bulbospinal barosensitive neurons labelled in vivo with biotinamide. We also examined four labelled neurons ultrastructurally for synapses by enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals and determined with post-embedding immunogold labelling whether these enkephalin-positive terminals contained amino acids. Enkephalin-immunoreactive varicosities closely apposed all bulbospinal barosensitive neurons. Maps of the dendritic distribution of appositions indicated that fast-conducting bulbospinal barosensitive neurons with myelinated axons (conduction velocity &gt;3 m/s; n=3) received many appositions (up to 470/neuron); and slowly conducting neurons with unmyelinated axons (conduction velocity &lt;0.90 m/s; n=3), substantially fewer. Ultrastructural analysis of three fast- and one slowly conducting bulbospinal barosensitive neurons revealed numerous synapses from enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals on cell bodies and dendrites. Enkephalin-positive terminals synapsing on bulbospinal barosensitive neurons contained one or more amino acid: GABA+glycine, glutamate alone or GABA+glutamate. Enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals located near biotinamide-labelled cells contained a similar variety of amino acids. In summary, enkephalin-immunoreactive terminals in the rostral ventrolateral medulla densely innervate lightly myelinated presympathetic neurons and more sparsely those with unmyelinated axons. Enkephalin is present in both excitatory (glutamate-immunoreactive) and inhibitory (GABA- and/or glycine-immunoreactive) terminals. The data suggest that endogenous enkephalin inhibits amino acid release from terminals that innervate bulbospinal barosensitive neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla.
Information processing and attentional abnormalities are prominent in neuropsychiatric disorders. Since the cholinergic neurons located in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis have been shown to be involved in attentional performance and information processing, recent efforts to analyze the significance of the basal forebrain in the context of schizophrenia have focused on this nucleus and its projections to the cerebral cortex. We report here that bilateral selective immunolesioning of the cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis is followed by significant deficits in sensorimotor gating measured by prepulse inhibition of the startle reflex in adult rats. This behavioral approach is used in both humans and rodents and has been proposed as a valuable model contributing to the understanding of the neurobiological substrates of schizophrenia. The disruption of prepulse inhibition persisted over repeated testing. The selective lesions were induced by bilateral intraparenchymal infusions of 192 IgG saporin at a concentration having minimal diffusion into adjacent nuclei of the basal forebrain. The infusions were followed by extensive loss of choline acetyltransferase-immunopositive neurons. Our results show that the cholinergic neurons of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis represent a critical station of the startle gating circuitry and suggest that dysfunction of these neurons may result in impaired sensorimotor gating characteristic of schizophrenia.
Perineuronal nets of extracellular matrix have been shown to characterize the microenvironment of individual neurons and the chemoarchitecture of brain regions such as basal forebrain nuclei. Previous work has also demonstrated that neurons in the human cerebral cortex ensheathed by perineuronal nets rarely undergo cytoskeletal changes in Alzheimer's disease, suggesting a neuroprotective effect of extracellular matrix components. It is not known, however, whether or not perineuronal nets are absent in the microenvironment of the cholinergic basal forebrain neurons that are involved early in the cascade of neurodegeneration in humans. Therefore, the present study was undertaken to examine the distribution patterns of perineuronal nets in the basal forebrain of the higher primates, rhesus monkey and human. Cytochemical staining was performed with the lectin Wisteria floribunda agglutinin and a polyclonal antibody to core proteins of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans in the perfusion-fixed tissue of rhesus monkeys. In human brains, perineuronal nets were only stained with the immunoreaction for chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans. The results showed similar characteristics in distribution patterns of perineuronal nets in the medial septum, the diagonal band of Broca, the basal nucleus of Meynert (Ch1-Ch4), the lateral septum, the caudate-putamen, and the globus pallidus in both species. Double-labelling revealed that the vast majority of cholinergic neurons, labelled either with antibodies to choline acetyltransferase or the low-affinity neurotrophin receptor p75(NTR), were not ensheathed by perineuronal nets. A small subpopulation of net-associated neurons in close proximity to or intermingled with cholinergic neurons of the Ch1-Ch4 cell groups was found to be immunoreactive for parvalbumin. In the caudate-putamen, a large number of the parvalbumin-positive neurons were surrounded by perineuronal nets, whereas in the external and internal segments of the globus pallidus the coincidence of both markers was nearly complete. The study demonstrates that perineuronal nets of extracellular matrix are associated with different types of non-cholinergic neurons in the primate basal forebrain. The absence of nets around cholinergic basal forebrain neurons may be related to their slow modulatory activity but may also contribute to their susceptibility to degeneration in Alzheimer's disease.
Transplantation of embryonic dopaminergic neurons is an experimental therapy for Parkinson's disease, but limited tissue availability and suboptimal survival of grafted dopaminergic neurons impede more widespread clinical application. Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) and neurotrophin-4/5 (NT-4/5) exert neurotrophic effects on dopaminergic neurons via different receptor systems. In this study, we investigated possible additive or synergistic effects of combined GDNF and NT-4/5 treatment on rat embryonic (embryonic day 14) nigral explant cultures grown for 8 days. Contrary to cultures treated with GDNF alone, cultures exposed to NT-4/5 and GDNF+NT-4/5 were significantly larger than controls (1.6- and 2.0-fold, respectively) and contained significantly more protein (1.6-fold). Treatment with GDNF, NT-4/5 and GDNF+NT-4/5 significantly increased dopamine levels in the culture medium by 1.5-, 2.5- and 4.7-fold, respectively, compared to control levels, and the numbers of surviving tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive neurons increased by 1.7-, 2.1-, and 3.4-fold, respectively. Tyrosine hydroxylase enzyme activity was moderately increased in all treatment groups compared to controls. Counts of nigral neurons containing the calcium-binding protein, calbindin-D28k, revealed a marked increase in these cells by combined GDNF and NT-4/5 treatment. Western blots for neuron-specific enolase suggested an enhanced neuronal content in cultures after combination treatment, whereas the expression of glial markers was unaffected. The release of lactate dehydrogenase into the culture medium was significantly reduced for GDNF+NT-4/5-treated cultures only. These results indicate that combined treatment with GDNF and NT4/5 may be beneficial for embryonic nigral donor tissue either prior to, or in conjunction with, intrastriatal transplantation in Parkinson's disease.
After complete adrenalectomy, part of the granule cells in the dentate gyrus undergo apoptosis. Findings on morphological changes in non-apoptotic granule cells, though, have been equivocal. In the present study we examined the dendritic trees of dentate granule cells 7 days after adrenalectomy or sham operation, and tested the hypothesis that changes in dendritic trees have considerable consequences for ionic currents, as measured in the soma with whole cell recording. For the latter, we focussed on voltage-gated calcium currents, which are partly generated in distal dendrites. All cells were passively filled with a fluorescent dye via the patch pipette while recording calcium currents; subsequently the cells were three-dimensionally reconstructed with the use of a confocal microscope. In sham-operated rats, dendritic trees of cells with a soma located in the inner part of the granule cell layer (facing the hilus) were significantly smaller than trees of cells located in the outer part of the layer. Neurons from rats that had extremely low (undetectable-0.3 microg/dl) circulating levels of corticosterone displayed very small and simple dendritic trees compared to cells from adrenalectomized rats that still had residual levels of corticosterone (0.6-1.0 microg/dl), regardless of the location of their soma. Despite the observation that simple dendritic trees were seen in rats where corticosterone was extremely low, the whole cell calcium current amplitude recorded from the soma of these cells was not reduced compared to the remaining cells from adrenalectomized or sham-operated rats. Our data indicate that in the absence of corticosterone dendritic trees of dentate granule cells display atrophy but that this does not necessarily reduce ionic currents measured in the soma.
We have investigated the spatial map of tissue resistivity across CA1 layers in vivo, its modifications during repetitive orthodromic activity, and the influence of this factor on the shaping of population spikes. Measurement of tissue resistance was made by a high-spatial-resolution three-electrode method. A computer network of equivalent resistors aided theoretical analysis. Tissue resistivity was homogeneous within the basal and apical dendritic trees (260+/-4.5 and 287+/-2.6 Omega cm, respectively). In the stratum pyramidale we found a sharply delimited high-resistivity (643+/-35 Omega cm) band approximately 20 microm wide. Resistivity in slices was approximately 30% higher than in vivo. Computer analysis indicated that the high-resistance somatic layer has a strong influence on the somatic and proximal dendritic contribution to the shaping of population spikes, and reduces volume propagation of currents between dendritic trees. Repetitive orthodromic activation at the theta frequency (4-5 Hz, 20-30 s) caused a stereotyped cycle of field potentials and layer-specific changes of resistivity. Initially (approximately 10 s), long-lasting field excitatory postsynaptic potentials and multiple somatodendritic population spikes developed, and resistivity gradually increased in all layers at a similar rate (period average: 11%). Subsequently, the long-lasting field excitatory synaptic potential subsided and dendritic spike generators were strongly reduced, but multiple somatic spikes remained. Concurrently, the resistivity reached a plateau in all dendritic layers but continued to increase in the somatic layer for about 10-15 s (20% average and up to 50% maximum). Recovery required approximately 60 s. The orthodromic somatic population spike increased variably during stimulation (up to 60%). Using local resistivity changes for correction, supernormal increments of the population spikes were offset, but not totally, uncovering several sub- and supernormal phases that were partially related to changes in dendritic population spike. These resistivity-independent modulations of the somatic population spike are caused by variable volume spread from dendritic spike currents and changed somatic contribution of firing units. This report demonstrates that the strong heterogeneity in the stratum pyramidale is an important factor shaping and modulating the population spike. The different regional rates of resistivity variation force the independent correction of local evoked potentials. We show that not doing so may cause bulk errors in the interpretation of, for instance, field potential ratios widely used to measure the population excitability. The present results underscore the importance of checking variations in recording conditions, which are inherent in most experimental protocols.
This study tests the hypothesis that a history of common stressful experiences further promotes the cognitive deficit of apolipoprotein E (apoE)-knockout mice, an animal model to study aspects of Alzheimer's disease. In experiment 1, apoE-knockout and wild-type mice were repeatedly subjected to an environmental challenge (i.e. exposure to rats) and the effect was monitored on Morris water maze performance. Naive apoE-knockout mice were impaired, but surprisingly after rat stress their water maze performance improved and switched to a goal-directed search strategy. Rat stress induced in wild-type mice spatial learning deficits and an inefficient search strategy. Swim ability was not affected by rat stress and under basal conditions measures for locomotion and anxiety were similar for both genotypes. In experiments 2 and 3, we found that the rat stress paradigm attenuated the elevation of basal and stress-induced corticosterone concentrations in the apoE-knockout mice towards concentrations observed in wild-type mice. The expression of hippocampal mineralocorticoid and glucocorticoid receptor mRNA was similar in both genotypes, but in response to rat stress, the level of glucocorticoid receptor mRNA increased selectively in the CA1 pyramidal field. In conclusion, repeated exposure to a common environmental experience did abolish and reverse the difference in cognitive performance and corticosterone concentrations of apoE-knockout and wild-type mice.
The tish rat is a neurological mutant exhibiting bilateral cortical heterotopia similar to those found in certain epileptic patients. Previous work has shown that thalamocortical fibers originating in the ventroposteromedial nucleus, which in normal animals segregate as 'barrel' representations for individual whiskers, terminate in both normotopic and heterotopic areas of the tish cortex (Schottler et al., 1998). Thalamocortical innervation terminates as barrels in layer IV and diffusely in layer VI of the normotopic area. Discrete patches of terminals are also observed in the underlying heterotopic area suggesting that representations of individual vibrissa may be present in the heterotopic somatosensory areas. The present study examines this issue by investigating the organization of the vibrissal somatosensory system in the tish cortex. Staining for cytochrome oxidase or Nissl substance reveals a normal complement of vibrissal barrels in the normotopic area of the tish cortex. Dense patches of cytochrome oxidase staining are also found in the underlying lateral portions of the heterotopic area (i.e. the same area that is innervated by the ventroposteromedial nucleus). Injections of retrograde tracers into vibrissal areas of either the normotopic or heterotopic area produce topographically organized labeling of neurons restricted to one or a small number of barreloids within the ventroposteromedial nucleus of the thalamus. Physical stimulation of a single whisker (D3 or E3) elicits enhanced uptake of [(14)C]2-deoxyglucose in restricted zones of both the normotopic and heterotopic areas, demonstrating that single whisker stimulation can increase functional activity in both normotopic and heterotopic neurons. These findings indicate that the barrels are intact in the normotopic area and are most consistent with the hypothesis that at least some of the individual vibrissae are 'dually' represented in normotopic and heterotopic positions in the primary somatosensory areas of the tish cortex.
We have identified a novel transcript that is abundantly and specifically expressed in both the adult and developing rat CNS. Within the full-length cDNA sequence we were unable to identify a clear open reading frame. Moreover, we were unable to detect any protein product derived from the full-length cDNA sequence using an in vitro translation assay. Therefore, we suggest this gene is one of a growing number of non-coding mRNA-like RNA transcripts that exert their cellular functions directly as an RNA. We have named this novel gene Ntab for non-coding transcript abundantly expressed in brain (accession number AY035551). In addition, in some regions of the brain we find evidence for RNA accumulation in cellular processes at some distance from the soma. These findings suggest that Ntab is actively transported and may function within cellular processes. Since Ntab is a targeted non-coding RNA, such cellular functions could include the targeting and/or regulation of localised translation of other mRNA species.
Previous studies suggest that Fgf8 has a key role in regulating vertebrate development. In the rostral head of the embryonic chicken, there are increasing numbers of separate Fgf8 domains; these are present in tissues that appear to have previously expressed Otx2. As Fgf8 expression becomes established, Otx2 expression weakens, but remains in cells abutting the Fgf8 expression domain. These Fgf8 expression domains are closely associated with tissues expressing Bmp4 and Shh. Based on analogy with the embryonic limb, we suggest that Fgf8, Bmp4 and Shh function together in patterning regions of the embryonic head. Gene expression changes are particularly prominent in 14-21 somite stage embryos in the rostral forebrain, during early morphogenesis of the telencephalic and optic vesicles, when several new interfaces of Fgf8, Bmp4 and Shh are generated. To gain insights into the functions of fibroblast growth factor 8 (FGF8) in the embryonic forebrain, we studied the effects of implanting beads containing this protein in the dorsal prosencephalon of embryonic day 2 chicken embryos. Ectopic FGF8 had profound effects on morphogenesis of the telencephalic and optic vesicles. It disrupted formation of the optic stalk and caused a transformation of the pigment epithelium into neural retina. Within the telencephalon, FGF8 beads frequently induced a sulcus that had features of an ectopic rostral midline. The sulcus separated the telencephalon into rostral and caudal vesicles. Furthermore, we present evidence that FGF8 can regulate regionalization of the prosencephalon through inhibition of Otx2 and Emx2 expression. Thus, these experiments provide evidence that FGF8 can regulate both morphogenesis and patterning of the rostral prosencephalon (telencephalic and optic vesicles). FGF8 beads can induce midline properties (e.g. a sulcus) and can modulate the specification and differentiation of adjacent tissues. We suggest that some of these effects are through regulating the expression of homeobox genes (Otx2 and Emx2) that are known to participate in forebrain patterning.
The orexins (orexin A and B, also known as hypocretin 1 and 2) are two recently identified neuropeptides (de Lecea et al., 1998; Sakurai et al., 1998) which are importantly implicated in the control of wakefulness (for reviews see Hungs and Mignot, 2001; van den Pol, 2000; Willie et al., 2001 ). Indeed, alteration in these peptides' precursor, their receptors or the hypothalamic neurones that produce them leads to the sleep disorder narcolepsy (Chemelli et al., 1999; Lin et al., 1999; Peyron et al., 2000; Thannickal et al., 2000). The mechanisms by which the orexins modulate wakefulness, however, are still unclear. Their presence in fibres coursing from the hypothalamus (Peyron et al., 1998) up to the preoptic area (POA) and basal forebrain (BF) suggests that they might influence the important sleep and waking neural systems situated there (Jones, 2000). The present study, performed in rat brain slices, demonstrates, however, that the orexins have no effect on the GABA sleep-promoting neurones of the POA, whereas they have a strong and direct excitatory effect on the cholinergic neurones of the contiguous BF. In addition, by comparing the effects of orexin A and B we demonstrate here that orexins' action depends upon orexin type 2 receptors (OX(2)), which are those lacking in narcoleptic dogs (Lin et al., 1999). These results suggest that the orexins excite cholinergic neurones that release acetylcholine in the cerebral cortex and thereby contribute to the cortical activation associated with wakefulness.
Neuregulins, a large family of polypeptide growth factors, exert various distinctive effects in the nervous system. neuregulins and their receptors are widely expressed in neurons implying important roles in neuronal cell functions. Recently, we have shown that ErbB-4 receptors expressed in PC12 cells mediate neuregulin-induced differentiation. In the present study we demonstrate that in the PC12-ErbB-4 cells, neuregulin rescues cells from apoptosis induced by serum deprivation or tumor necrosis factor (TNF)alpha treatment. The neuregulin-induced survival is comparable to the effect mediated by the neurotrophic factor nerve growth factor (NGF). Both neuregulin and NGF protect cells from apoptosis induced by serum deprivation and TNF alpha treatment. Moreover, neuregulin like NGF induces the survival of neuronal differentiated PC12-ErbB-4 cells. The survival effect of neuregulin is probably mediated by the phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3K) and protein kinase B/Akt signaling pathways. Neuregulin induces the activation of PI3K and prolonged activation of protein kinase B/Akt. In addition, inhibition of the PI3K activity prevented the neuregulin-induced survival effect. Taken together, these results indicate that survival induced by neuregulin in PC12-ErbB-4 cells requires PI3K signaling networks.
We have previously shown that the pharmacological agents 4-(2-aminoethyl)=benzenesulfonylfluoride hydrochloride (AEBSF) and Na-p-tosyl-L-lysine chloromethylketone (TLCK), inhibitors of trypsin-like serine proteases, prevent the death of trophic factor-deprived PC12 cells and sympathetic neurons. Both AEBSF and TLCK inhibit caspase activation in this model, but it is unclear whether they do so indirectly or through a direct effect at the level of the caspases. In the current study, we have used these agents in another model of neuronal death that is induced by DNA damage. We find that both agents delay the death of DNA-damaged PC12 cells, neonatal rat sympathetic neurons and embryonic rat cortical neurons. As in the trophic deprivation model, they act upstream of the caspases. In addition, they prevent mitochondrial alterations, such as cytochrome c release or loss of transmembrane potential. In contrast, the general caspase inhibitor bok-asp-fmk does not prevent cytochrome c release and has only a partial and transient effect on loss of transmembrane potential. Interestingly, both AEBSF and TLCK prevent the induction and nuclear accumulation of p53 that is induced by DNA damage in cortical neurons. Therefore, these serine protease inhibitors act at a point upstream in the apoptotic pathway, prior to p53 induction and the mitochondrial checkpoint, to delay neuronal death in this model, and do not act at the level of the caspases. We conclude that therapeutic strategies based on serine protease inhibition may be useful in preventing neuronal cell death.
Detailed electrophysiological characterisation of spinal opioid receptors in the mouse has been limited due to various technical difficulties. In this study, extracellular single unit recordings were made from dorsal horn neurones in a perfused spinal cord with attached trunk-hindquarter to investigate the role of delta-opioid receptor in mediating nociceptive and non-nociceptive transmission in mouse. Noxious electrical shock, pinch and heat stimuli evoked a mean response of 20.8+/-2.5 (n=10, P&lt;0.005), 30.1+/-5.4 (n=58, P&lt;0.005) and 40.9+/-6.3 (n=29, P&lt;0.005) spikes per stimulus respectively. In 5 of 22 cells, repetitive noxious electrical stimuli applied to the hindpaw for 20 s produced a progressive increase in spike number, the phenomenon known as 'wind-up' and/or hyperactivity. When the selective delta-opioid receptor agonist (+)-4-[(alpha R)-alpha-((2S,5R)-4-allyl-2,5-dimethyl-1-piperazinyl)-3-methoxybenzyl]-N,N-diethylbenzamide (SNC 80) was perfused for 8-10 min, these evoked nociceptive responses were reversibly depressed. SNC 80 (2 microM) depressed the nociceptive responses evoked by electrical shock, pinch and heat by 74.0+/-13.7% (n=8, P&lt;0.01), 66.5+/-16.6% (n=10, P&lt;0.01) and 74.1+/-17.0% (n=10, P&lt;0.01) respectively. The maximum depression by 5 microM SNC 80 was 92.6+/-6.8% (n=3). SNC 80 at 5 microM also completely abolished the wind-up and/or hypersensitivity (n=5). The depressant effects of SNC 80 on the nociceptive responses were completely blocked by 10 microM naloxone (n=5) and 3 microM 17-(cyclopropylmethyl)-6,7-dehydro-4,5 alpha-epoxy-14 beta-ethoxy-5 beta-methylindolo [2',3':6',7'] morphinan-3-ol hydrochloride (HS 378, n=8), a novel highly selective delta-opioid receptor antagonist. Interestingly, HS 378 (3 microM) itself potentiated the background activity and evoked responses to pinch and heat by 151.8+/-38.4% (P&lt;0.05, n=8), 34.2+/-6.1% (P&lt;0.01, n=7) and 45.5+/-11.8% (P&lt;0.05, n=5) respectively. In contrast, the responses of non-nociceptive dorsal horn neurones were not inhibited by SNC 80 at a dose of up to 10 microM (n=5). These data demonstrate that delta-opioid receptor modulate nociceptive, but not non-nociceptive, transmission in spinal dorsal horn neurones of the adult mouse. The potentiation of neuronal activity by HS 378 may reflect an autoregulatory role of the endogenous delta-opioid in nociceptive transmission in mouse.
In this study, a trigeminal model was used in which high threshold C-fibre-evoked activities of convergent neurones located in the subnucleus oralis of the trigeminal complex are modulated through the superficial part, the substantia gelatinosa, of the subnucleus caudalis. The two subnuclei are located 3 mm apart, therefore, it was possible to inject dizocilpine, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, into either the superficial or the deep parts of subnucleus caudalis without interfering with ongoing recording of convergent neurones in subnucleus oralis. A differential NMDA-dependent modulation of wind-up was observed according to the dose and the injection target. (1) The injections of small non-diffusible doses (0.12 microg) of dizocilpine into the superficial part of subnucleus caudalis facilitated wind-up. The effect peaked at 25 min with a mean increase above control of 173+/-31%. Injection (0.5 microg) of either the less active enantiomer dizocilpine or saline into superficial subnucleus caudalis had no significant effect on subnucleus oralis convergent neurones. This suggests that NMDA-dependent interneurones, probably located in substantia gelatinosa of subnucleus caudalis, exert, in normal conditions, an inhibitory control on wind-up of convergent subnucleus oralis neurones. (2) The injection of larger doses (0.5 microg) into the superficial part of subnucleus caudalis induced a predominant inhibitory effect on wind-up. The mean peak effect at 15 min was 46+/-7% compared to control (100%). Small and large doses of dizocilpine injected into the deep part of subnucleus caudalis had a predominant inhibitory effect. The inhibition of wind-up of subnucleus oralis neurones after injection of NMDA receptor antagonists in superficial or deep subnucleus caudalis indicates that wind-up may be due, at least in part, to NMDA activation at synapses that do not involve the recorded convergent neurones.
The activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors is implicated in the spinal and trigeminal processing of nociceptive information conveyed by convergent (wide dynamic range) neurons and particularly in C-fiber-evoked responses elicited by repetitive and high-intensity electrical stimulation of the neuronal receptive field. In this study, the effects of intrathecal NMDA application on the electrically evoked nociceptive responses of trigeminal subnucleus caudalis convergent neurons have been investigated. The total C-fiber-evoked activity triggered by 30 successive stimuli was divided into two components: the C-fiber input response and the 'wind-up' response. Application of 0.1 microg (in 50 microl) of NMDA evoked a bi-directional effect on the total C-fiber-evoked activity of 19 neurons tested. A significant increase in the total C-fiber-evoked activity was observed 15-25 min after the NMDA application for nine neurons located in superficial laminae II and III. In contrast, a significant decrease in the total C-fiber-evoked activity was observed 5-25 min after the NMDA application for 10 neurons located more deeply, in lamina V. The NMDA-induced modifications seen in the total C-fiber-evoked activity were likely a reflection of a significant increase or decrease in neuronal activity evoked by the C-fiber input rather than wind-up of the responses since the latter was not significantly modified by the NMDA application. These results provide evidence for a possible inhibitory role for NMDA-dependent interneurons of the superficial laminae of the medullary dorsal horn on the nociceptive activity of deep convergent neurons.
Chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve and lumbar L5 and L6 spinal nerve ligation provide animal models for pain syndromes accompanying peripheral nerve injury and disease. In the present study, we evaluated changes in brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) immunoreactivity in the rat L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and areas where afferents from the DRG terminates (the L4/5 spinal cord and gracile nuclei) in these experimental models of neuropathic pain. Chronic constriction injury induced significant increase in the percentage of small, medium and large BDNF-immunoreactive neurons in the ipsilateral L4 and L5 DRG. Following spinal nerve ligation, the percentage of large BDNF-immunoreactive neurons increased significantly, and that of small BDNF-immunoreactive neurons decreased markedly in the ipsilateral L5 DRG, while that of BDNF-immunoreactive L4 DRG neurons of all sizes showed marked increase. Both chronic constriction injury and spinal nerve ligation induced significant increase in the number of BDNF-immunoreactive axonal fibers in the superficial and deeper laminae of the L4/5 dorsal horn and the gracile nuclei on the ipsilateral side. Considering that BDNF may modulate nociceptive sensory inputs and that injection of antiserum to BDNF significantly reduces the sympathetic sprouting in the DRG and allodynic response following sciatic nerve injury, our results also may suggest that endogenous BDNF plays an important role in the induction of neuropathic pain after chronic constriction injury and spinal nerve ligation. In addition, the increase of BDNF in L4 DRG may contribute to evoked pain which is known to be mediated by input from intact afferent from L4 DRG following L5 and L6 spinal nerve ligation.
Effects of ATP on substance P immunoreactivity were examined in cultured dorsal root ganglion neurons. We found that treatment of dorsal root ganglion neurons with ATP significantly depleted substance P immunoreactivity on the neurites and somata of the neurons. The effects of ATP were significantly inhibited by the purinergic P2 receptor antagonists suramin (30 microM) and pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (10 microM). We also showed that ATP-induced depletion of substance P immunoreactivity from dorsal root ganglion neurons depended on the entry of Ca(2+). In a spinal cord slice preparation, we also found the internalization of neurokinin-1/substance P receptors in many dorsal horn neurons following the application of ATP or alpha,beta-methylene-ATP. Together these results indicate that activation of P2X receptors may result in release of substance P from primary afferent neurons.
The pre- and postsynaptic actions of exogenously applied ATP were investigated in intact and dissociated parasympathetic neurones of rat submandibular ganglia. Nerve-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) were not inhibited by the purinergic receptor antagonists, suramin and pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid (PPADS), or the desensitising agonist, alpha,beta-methylene ATP. In contrast, EPSPs were abolished by the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists, hexamethonium and mecamylamine. Focal application of ATP (100 microM) had no effect on membrane potential of the postsynaptic neurone or on the amplitude of spontaneous EPSPs. Taken together, these results suggest the absence of functional purinergic (P2) receptors on the postganglionic neurone in situ. In contrast, focally applied ATP (100 microM) reversibly inhibited nerve-evoked EPSPs. Similarly, bath application of the non-hydrolysable analogue of ATP, ATP gamma S, reversibly depressed EPSPs amplitude. The inhibitory effects of ATP and ATP gamma S on nerve-evoked transmitter release were antagonised by bath application of either PPADS or suramin, suggesting ATP activates a presynaptic P2 purinoceptor to inhibit acetylcholine release from preganglionic nerves in the submandibular ganglia. In acutely dissociated postganglionic neurones from rat submandibular ganglia, focal application of ATP (100 microM) evoked an inward current and subsequent excitatory response and action potential firing, which was reversibly inhibited by PPADS (10 microM). The expression of P2X purinoceptors in wholemount and dissociated submandibular ganglion neurones was examined using polyclonal antibodies raised against the extracellular domain of six P2X purinoceptor subtypes (P2X(1-6)). In intact wholemount preparations, only the P2X(5) purinoceptor subtype was found to be expressed in the submandibular ganglion neurones and no P2X immunoreactivity was detected in the nerve fibres innervating the ganglion. Surprisingly, in dissociated submandibular ganglion neurones, high levels of P2X(2) and P2X(4) purinoceptors immunoreactivity were found on the cell surface. This increase in expression of P2X(2) and P2X(4) purinoceptors in dissociated submandibular neurones could explain the increased responsiveness of the neurones to exogenous ATP. We conclude that disruption of ganglionic transmission in vivo by either nerve damage or synaptic blockade may up-regulate P2X expression or availability and alter neuronal excitability.
The present study investigated the modulatory actions of nociceptin/orphanin FQ on excitatory glutamatergic transmission in spinal dorsal horn. In transverse spinal cord slices with an attached dorsal root, mono- and polysynaptic A delta-fibre-evoked extracellular field potentials were recorded from superficial dorsal horn. Nociceptin/orphanin FQ showed bidirectional effects on monosynaptic transmission with a potentiation at lower concentrations (100-300 nM) and a dose-dependent depression at higher concentrations (1-3 microM). The polysynaptic field potential was dose-dependently depressed by nociceptin/orphanin FQ (100 nM-3 microM). None of the actions of nociceptin/orphanin FQ was reversed by the non-specific opioid receptor antagonist naloxone, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid or the peptide nocistatin. The bidirectional actions of nociceptin/orphanin FQ on the monosynaptic field potential may provide an in vitro model for the bidirectional actions of nociceptin/orphanin FQ in behavioural studies showing hyperalgesia at low doses of intrathecal nociceptin/orphanin FQ and analgesia at higher doses.
In order to examine differential strain susceptibility to neurotoxic effects of amphetamine and to assess the potential role of superoxide radicals in amphetamine-induced dopaminergic damage, the drug was injected to mice with different levels of copper/zinc superoxide dismutase (Cu/Zn SOD) enzyme. Administration of amphetamine (10 mg/kg, i.p., given every 2 h, a total of four times) to wild-type CD-1 and C57BL/6J mice caused significant decreases in dopamine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid levels, in [(125)I]RTI-121-labeled dopamine transporters as well as a significant depletion in the concentration of dopamine transporter and vesicular monoamine transporter 2 proteins. The amphetamine-induced toxic effects were less prominent in CD-1 mice, which have much higher levels of Cu/Zn SOD activity (0.69 units/mg of protein) in their striata than C57BL/6J animals (0.007 units/mg of protein). Transgenic mice on CD-1 and C57BL/6J background, which had striatal levels of Cu/Zn SOD 2.57 and 1.67 units/mg of protein, respectively, showed significant protection against all the toxic effects of amphetamine. The attenuation of toxicity observed in transgenic mice was not caused by differences in amphetamine accumulation in wild-type and mutant animals. However, CD-1-SOD transgenic mice showed marked hypothermia to amphetamine whereas C57-SOD transgenic mice did not show a consistent thermic response to the drug. The data obtained demonstrate distinctions in the neurotoxic profile of amphetamine in CD-1 and C57BL/6J mice, which show some differences in Cu/Zn SOD activity and in their thermic responses to amphetamine administration. Thus, these observations provide evidence for possible complex interactions between thermoregulation and free radical load in the long-term neurotoxic effects of this illicit drug of abuse.
Basal forebrain neurons play important parts in processes of cortical activation and memory that have been attributed to the cortically projecting, cholinergic neurons. Yet, non-cholinergic neurons also project to the cerebral cortex and also appear to participate in processes of cortical modulation and plasticity. GABAergic neurons compose a portion of the cortically projecting cell group, but do not fully account for the non-cholinergic cell contingent. In the present study in the rat, we investigated whether the non-cholinergic, non-GABAergic cell component might be composed of glutamatergic neurons. We examined afferents to the entorhinal cortex, which is known to be modulated by basal forebrain neurons and to be critically involved in memory. Dual immunofluorescent staining was performed for cholera toxin, as retrograde tracer, and phosphate-activated glutaminase, the synthetic enzyme for the neurotransmitter pool of glutamate. The retrogradely labeled cells were distributed across the basal forebrain through the medial septum, diagonal band, magnocellular preoptic area and substantia innominata. The major proportion (approximately 80%) of the retrogradely labeled cells was found to be immunopositive for phosphate-activated glutaminase. Equal minor proportions (approximately 40%) were immunopositive for choline acetyltransferase and glutamic acid decarboxylase. In other material dual-immunostained for neurotransmitter enzymes, approximately 95% of choline acetyltransferase- and approximately 60% of glutamic acid decarboxylase-immunopositive neurons were also immunopositive for phosphate-activated glutaminase. From these results it appears that a significant proportion of these cell groups, including their cortically projecting contingents, could synthesize glutamate together with acetylcholine or GABA as neurotransmitters and another proportion of cells could synthesize glutamate alone. Accordingly, as either co-transmitter or primary transmitter within basalocortical afferents, glutamate could have the capacity to modulate the entorhinal cortex and promote its role in memory.
Marmoset monkeys with excitotoxic lesions confined to cornu ammonis subfields 1-3, subiculum and pre-subiculum, but sparing the entorhinal cortex, were impaired on retention and learning of conditional object-choice discriminations. For each of these discriminations, the monkeys were required to choose one of two objects depending on which of two patterned backgrounds was used on each trial. Two styles of order of trial presentation were used: 'random' presentation which maximised the degree of interference between trials, and 'runs' presentation which was intended to encourage the monkeys to learn each component of the discrimination separately. Before surgery monkeys found the discriminations more difficult to learn when the trials were presented in the 'runs' style than when presented in the 'random' style suggesting that the task is best learnt by applying a conditional rule. After surgery a significant 'group x style' interaction indicated that the 'runs' style was especially difficult for the lesioned monkeys. From these results we suggest that the hippocampus is involved in learning about and remembering non-spatial, conditional relations between objects.
Age-related effects associated with the hippocampus include declines in numbers of neurons and synapses in the dentate gyrus and area CA1, and decreased cognitive ability as assessed with the Morris water maze. The present study quantified both neuron and synapse number in the same tissue block of area CA3 of the hippocampus. No investigations of both density of neurons and synapses together in area CA3 of hippocampus have been performed previously, despite its importance as the terminal field of dentate gyrus mossy fibers, the second synapse in the trisynaptic circuit in the hippocampus. Numerical density of neurons and synapses were assessed in 4-, 18-, and 29-month-old rats receiving infusions of saline into the lateral ventricle and in 29-month-old rats receiving infusions of insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1). Numerical density of neurons of the stratum pyramidale of CA3 of hippocampus remained constant across the life span as did the numerical density of synapses in stratum lucidum of area CA3. Despite the reported role of IGF-1 in synaptogenesis and improvements in behavior with age, ventricular infusion of this growth factor did not affect the numerical density of neurons or synapses in 29-month-old rats when compared to saline-infused old rats. Further, reported effects of IGF-1 on adult neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus are not reflected in an IGF-1-related increase in synapse density in this region.
To elucidate molecular mechanisms involved in physical activity-induced beneficial effects on brain function, we studied in rats the influence of voluntary running on the activation in the hippocampus of cyclic AMP response element-binding protein (CREB) and mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK)/extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK). These are signaling molecules that play critical roles in synaptic plasticity, including learning and memory. Exercise resulted in an increase in the level of the activated transcription factor, CREB phosphorylated at Ser-133. The amount of the activated transcription factor about doubled already after 1 night of running and remained elevated for at least a week, although control levels were restored after 1 month of exercise. In addition, binding activity in nuclear extracts to cyclic AMP response element (CRE) motif containing oligonucleotides increased significantly in the hippocampus after 3 nights of exercise, although the total amount of the immunochemically identified CREB remained unaltered. Electrophoretic mobility supershift assays indicated that the increased binding was due to the recruitment of members of this transcription factor family, in addition to the CREB proper. Voluntary running also resulted in an increase in the level of phosphorylated MAPK (both p42 and p44). The time-courses of the increases in the level of the phosphorylated protein kinase and the activated transcription factor were different. In comparison with the activated CREB, the increase in the phosphorylated MAPK was delayed, but lasted longer, being detectable even after 1 month of exercise. These observations are consistent with the view that the relatively long-lasting activation of these signaling molecules participates in the regulation of genes, such as the neurotrophin genes, and contributes to the beneficial effects of physical exercise on brain function.
Using the fluorescent indicator Fura-2, we investigated the effects of N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4), a noradrenergic neurotoxin, on intracellular calcium responses to noradrenaline, N-methyl-D-aspartate, and carbamylcholine chloride in brain slices of the rat visual cortex. Noradrenergic depletion in the visual cortex of young rats was induced by DSP-4, and its selectivity was confirmed by two different methods, i.e., immunostaining with anti-dopamine-beta-hydroxylase antibody and biochemical analysis by high-performance liquid chromatography. The treatment with DSP-4 (25 mg/kg i.p., x2) caused disruption of noradrenergic fibers throughout all cortical layers, and reduced the content of noradrenaline to 6.4% of that in the normal control. In the normal cortex, bath-applied noradrenaline (100 microM) increased the intracellular calcium to 123% of the control in terms of the F(340)/F(380) ratio of Fura-2 fluorescence. Quantitative analysis of the F(340)/F(380) ratio was performed in layers II to IV, since the increase was mainly observed in these layers. The intracellular calcium response to noradrenaline was significantly (P&lt;0.0001) reduced in the DSP-4-treated animals to 63.2% of that in the normal control. The response to N-methyl-D-aspartate (100 microM) was also reduced, whereas the response to carbamylcholine chloride, a muscarinic cholinergic agonist (100 microM), was not affected by the DSP-4 treatment. From these findings we suggest that noradrenergic denervation by DSP-4 reduces the intracellular calcium response to noradrenaline through changes in the intracellular signal transduction.
Brain and non-brain tumors contain acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE) transcripts and enzyme activity. AChE and BuChE occur in tissues as a set of molecular components, whose distribution in a cyst fluid from a human astrocytoma we investigated. The fluid displayed high BuChE and low AChE activities. Three types of cholinesterase (ChE) tetramers were identified in the fluid by means of sedimentation analyses and assays with specific inhibitors, and their sedimentation coefficients were 11.7S (ChE-I), 11.1S (ChE-II), and 10.5S (ChE-III). ChE-I was unretained, ChE-II was weakly retained and ChE-III was adsorbed to edrophonium-agarose, confirming the AChE nature of the latter. ChE-I and ChE-II tetramers contained BuChE subunits as shown by their binding with an antiserum against BuChE. The ChE activity of the immunocomplexes made with ChE-II and anti-BuChE antibodies decreased with the AChE inhibitor BW284c51, revealing that ChE-II was made of AChE and BuChE subunits, in contrast to ChE-I, which only contained BuChE subunits. The binding of an anti-AChE antibody (AE1) to ChE-II and ChE-III, but not to ChE-I, demonstrated the hybrid composition of ChE-II. A substantial fraction of the AChE tetramers and dimers of astrocytomas and oligodendrogliomas bound both to anti-AChE and anti-BuChE antibodies, which revealed a mixed composition of AChE and BuChE subunits in them. The AChE components of brain, meningiomas and neurinomas were only recognized by AE1. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that aberrant ChE oligomers consisting of AChE and BuChE subunits are generated in astrocytomatous cyst and gliomas but not in brain, meningiomas or neurinomas.
Cell migration from the olfactory neuroepithelium is a very peculiar phenomenon in the development of the nervous system. In this paper, we provide evidence that, in the chick embryo, migration of cells from the olfactory neuroepithelium begins earlier than previously reported, namely at the same time as the first olfactory placode differentiation, that occurs several hours before the superficial ectodermal invagination that gives rise to the olfactory pit. Moreover, we provide evidence that very early migrating cells express the HuC/D RNA-binding protein antigen, a specific neuronal marker. These observations refocus our knowledge on the very first developmental stages of olfactory neuroepithelium.
Crayfish nerve fibers incubated with radiolabeled glutamate or glutamine accumulate these substrates and synthesize radioactive N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG). Upon stimulation of the medial giant nerve fiber, NAAG is the primary radioactive metabolite released. Since NAAG activates a glial hyperpolarization comparable to that initiated by glutamate or axonal stimulation through the same receptor, we have proposed that it is the likely mediator of interactions between the medial giant axon and its periaxonal glia. This manuscript reports investigations of possible mechanisms for termination of NAAG-signaling activity. N-acetylaspartyl-[(3)H]glutamate was not accumulated from the bath saline by unstimulated crayfish giant axons or their associated glia during a 30-min incubation. Stimulation of the central nerve cord at 50 Hz during the last minute of the incubation dramatically increased the levels of radiolabeled glutamate, NAAG, and glutamine in the medial giant axon and its associated glia. These results indicate that stimulation-sensitive peptide hydrolysis and metabolic recycling of the radiolabeled glutamate occurred. There was a beta-NAAG-, quisqualate- and 2-(phosphonomethyl)-pentanedioic acid-inhibitable glutamate carboxypeptidase II activity in the membrane fraction of central nerve fibers, but not in axonal or glial cytoplasmic fractions. Inactivation of this enzyme by 2-(phosphonomethyl)-pentanedioic acid or inhibition of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors by MK801 reduced the glial hyperpolarization activated by high-frequency stimulation. These results indicate that axon-to-glia signaling is terminated by NAAG hydrolysis and that the glutamate formed contributes to the glial electrical response in part via activation of NMDA receptors. Both NAAG release and an increase in glutamate carboxypeptidase II activity appear to be induced by nerve stimulation.
The organization of synaptic connections between guinea-pig ileal submucosal neurons was examined using intracellular recordings from single or pairs of submucosal neurons. Synaptic inputs were elicited by stimulating cholinergic neurons using pressure-pulse application of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in ganglia adjacent to those where intracellular recordings were obtained. In addition, when pairs of intracellular recordings were obtained, one neuron was activated by intracellular stimulation and synaptic responses were recorded in the other neuron. Neurobiotin-filled microelectrodes were employed to characterize cells electrophysiologically and immunohistochemically. Recordings were obtained from 176 (173 S-type and three AH-type) neurons; 81% of cells were classified as vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) neurons. No fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials and only rare slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials were recorded following intracellular stimulation of paired S-type neurons. However, when paired intracellular recordings were obtained from neurons within the same ganglion and 5-HT was applied to an adjacent ganglion, this stimulation evoked synchronized fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials in 94% of pairs. In contrast, when cell bodies of VIP-VIP pairs were located in different ganglia, fast synaptic activation evoked by 5-HT stimulation was not synchronized in 87% of pairs. When intracellular recordings were obtained from a single neuron and two separate ganglia were stimulated by 5-HT pressure-pulse activation, fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials originating from both sources were recorded in the same VIP neuron. Morphological study of 34 S-type and three AH-type horseradish peroxidase-labeled neurons was conducted. AH-type neurons had multiple axonal branches with dense arborization of collaterals containing numerous varicosities in three to nine ganglia, whereas axons of S-type neurons exhibited relatively rare collaterals and varicosities within adjacent ganglia. These results demonstrate that cholinergic neurons provide both diverging and converging inputs to VIP neurons, providing a mechanism to enhance activation of VIP secretomotor neurons. The axonal projections of AH-type neurons suggest they are likely candidates to provide diverging inputs to multiple VIP neurons.
Excitotoxic mechanisms involving alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate (AMPA)/kainate receptors play an important role in mediating cellular damage in spinal cord injury. However, the precise cellular mechanisms of glutamate release from non-synaptic white matter are not well understood. We examined how the collapse of transmembrane Na(+) and K(+) gradients induces reverse operation of Na(+)-dependent glutamate transporters, leading to glutamate efflux and injury to rat spinal dorsal columns in vitro. Compound action potentials were irreversibly reduced to 43% of control after ouabain/high K(+)/low Na(+) exposure (500 microM ouabain for 30 min to increase [Na(+)](i), followed by 1 h ouabain+high K(+) (129 mM)/low Na(+) (27 mM), to further reverse transmembrane ion gradients) followed by a 2 h wash. Ca(2+)-free perfusate was very protective (compound action potential amplitude recovered to 87% vs. 43%). The broad spectrum glutamate antagonist kynurenic acid (1 mM) or the selective AMPA antagonist GYKI52466 (30 microM) were partially protective (68% recovery). Inhibition of Na(+)-dependent glutamate transport with L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylic acid (1 mM) also provided significant protection (71% recovery), similar to that seen with glutamate receptor antagonists. Blocking reverse Na(+)-Ca(2+) exchange with KB-R7943 (10 microM) however, was ineffective in this paradigm (49% recovery). Semiquantitative glutamate immunohistochemistry revealed that levels of this amino acid were significantly depleted in axon cylinders and, to a lesser degree, in oligodendrocytes (but not in astrocytes) by ouabain/high K(+)/low Na(+), which was largely prevented by glutamate transport inhibition. Our data show that dorsal column white matter contains the necessary glutamate pools and release mechanisms to induce significant injury. When Na(+) and K(+) gradients are disrupted, even in the absence of reduced cellular energy reserves, reverse operation of Na(+)-dependent glutamate transport will release enough endogenous glutamate to activate AMPA receptors and cause substantial Ca(2+)-dependent injury. This mechanism likely plays an important role during ischemic and traumatic white matter injury, where collapse of transmembrane Na(+) and K(+) gradients occurs.
The bradykinin B(1) receptor has been considered as an important mediator for inflammatory pain. In the present study, we have investigated the fibre types of sciatic nerve primary sensory neurones that express B(1) receptors by retrograde tracing in combination with immunohistochemical staining, or double-immunohistochemical staining. Approximately 12% of the A-fibre dorsal root ganglion neurones, retrogradely labelled from an intra-sciatic nerve injection of fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated cholera toxin B subunit, were B(1) receptor-immunoreactive. Over 70% of the small diameter dorsal root ganglion neurones, retrogradely labelled from an intra-sciatic nerve injection of tetramethylrhodamine isothiocyanate-conjugated wheat germ agglutinin, were B(1) receptor-immunoreactive. Over 50% of the (predominantly non-peptidergic) C-fibre dorsal root ganglion neurones, retrogradely labelled from an intra-sciatic nerve injection of fluorescein isothiocyanate-conjugated Bandeiraea simplicifolia isolectin B4, were B(1) receptor-immunoreactive. When calcitonin gene-related peptide, which is contained mainly in small caliber C- and A(delta)-fibre primary afferents, and B(1) receptors were stained with a double-immunofluorescent method, over 80% of the calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive dorsal root ganglion neurones were B(1) receptor-immunoreactive. From these results we suggest that B(1) receptors are predominantly expressed by small diameter primary afferent neurones that give rise to sciatic nerve fibres, which include both peptidergic and non-peptidergic C-fibres and A(delta)-fibres. Since peripheral nociceptive information is primarily transmitted by C- and A(delta)-fibres, B(1) receptors may be involved in the modulation of nociceptive transduction or transmission.
Considerable evidence indicates that adenosine may be an endogenous somnogen, yet the mechanism through which it promotes sleep is unknown. Adenosine may act via A1 receptors to promote sleep, but an A2a receptor antagonist can block the sleep induced by prostaglandin D(2). We previously reported that prostaglandin D(2) activates sleep-promoting neurons of the ventrolateral preoptic area, and we hypothesized that an A2a receptor agonist also should activate these neurons. Rats were instrumented for sleep recordings, and an injection cannula was placed in the subarachnoid space just anterior to the ventrolateral preoptic area. After an 8-10-day recovery period, the A2a receptor agonist CGS21680 (20 pmol/min) or saline was infused through the injection cannula, and the animals were killed 2 h later. The brains were stained using Fos immunohistochemistry, and the pattern of Fos expression was studied in the entire brain. CGS21680 increased non-rapid eye movement sleep and markedly increased the expression of Fos in the ventrolateral preoptic area and basal leptomeninges, but it reduced Fos expression in wake-active brain regions such as the tuberomammillary nucleus. CGS21680 also induced Fos in the shell and core of the nucleus accumbens and in the lateral subdivision of the central nucleus of the amygdala. To determine whether these effects may have been mediated through A1 receptors, an additional group of rats received subarachnoid infusion of the A1 receptor agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (2 pmol/min). In contrast to CGS21680, infusion of N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine into the subarachnoid space produced only a small decrease in rapid eye movement sleep, and the pattern of Fos expression induced by N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine was notable only for decreased Fos in regions near the infusion site. These findings suggest that an adenosine A2a receptor agonist may activate cells of the leptomeninges or nucleus accumbens that increase the activity of ventrolateral preoptic area neurons. These ventrolateral preoptic area neurons may then coordinate the inhibition of multiple wake-promoting regions, resulting in sleep.
The neuronal localization of the CB1 cannabinoid receptor in the rat basolateral amygdala was studied using peroxidase and fluorescence immunohistochemical techniques. All nuclei of the basolateral amygdala contained a large number of lightly stained pyramidal neurons and a small number of more intensely stained non-pyramidal neurons. Most of the latter cells had medium-sized to large multipolar somata and three to four aspiny dendrites, but some exhibited smaller oval somata. The axon initial segments of some of these non-pyramidal neurons exhibited large swollen varicosities in colchicine-injected animals, suggesting that much of the CB1 receptor protein is transported down the axons of these cells. Double-labeling studies using immunofluorescence histochemistry combined with confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed that the great majority of non-pyramidal neurons with CB1 receptor immunoreactivity belonged to a cholecystokinin-containing subpopulation. Whereas none of the other subpopulations of non-pyramidal neurons (exhibiting immunoreactivity for calretinin, parvalbumin, or somatostatin) expressed high levels of CB1 receptor immunoreactivity, a small percentage of these cells exhibited low levels of immunoreactivity. The results indicate that cannabinoids may modulate the activity of pyramidal projection neurons as well as a subpopulation of cholecystokinin-containing non-pyramidal neurons in the basolateral amygdala. Previous studies indicate that most of the latter are inhibitory interneurons that utilize GABA as a neurotransmitter. The intense staining of the cholecystokinin-containing interneurons and the evidence that large amounts of CB1 receptor protein are transported down the axons of these cells suggests that, as in the hippocampus, cannabinoids may inhibit the release of GABA from the axon terminals of these neurons.
Rewarding hypothalamic brain stimulation is thought to depend on trans-synaptic activation of high-threshold (and thus rarely directly depolarized by rewarding stimulation) dopaminergic fibers of the medial forebrain bundle. We used in vivo microdialysis and high-performance liquid chromatography coupled with electrochemical or fluorometric detection to investigate the concurrent release of dopamine and glutamate in the nucleus accumbens septi and in the ventral tegmental area, as a function of lateral hypothalamic self-stimulation.Self-stimulation at a variety of stimulation frequencies and pulse widths increased levels of dopamine and its primary metabolites, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid in the nucleus accumbens. Lateral hypothalamic self-stimulation also induced significant increases in ventral tegmental area dopamine and metabolite levels, and the percentage increase of dopamine was higher in this region than in the nucleus accumbens. Local perfusion with the dopamine uptake inhibitor nomifensine (10 microM) increased dopamine levels in the nucleus accumbens about three-fold and potentiated the increase of dopamine levels induced by self-stimulation. Nomifensine perfusion also induced a delayed decrease in nucleus accumbens glutamate levels, and self-stimulation did not modify this effect of the drug. Local perfusion with the D2-type dopamine receptor antagonist raclopride significantly increased both basal and self-stimulation induced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens. Neither nomifensine nor raclopride perfusion significantly affected the maximal rates of self-stimulation. Perfusion with tetrodotoxin (2 microM) into nucleus accumbens significantly decreased basal and prevented stimulation-induced increases in accumbens dopamine levels but only slightly decreased the rate of self-stimulation. In contrast, perfusion of tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM) into the ventral tegmental area decreased basal and blocked stimulation-induced increases in both nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area dopamine levels; this treatment also blocked or strongly inhibited self-stimulation. While it had no effect on glutamate levels in the nucleus accumbens, lateral hypothalamic self-stimulation induced a significant and tetrodotoxin-sensitive increase in glutamate levels in the ventral tegmental area. Taken together, the present results indicate that, across a broad range of stimulation parameters, rewarding lateral hypothalamus stimulation causes major and persistent activation of the mesolimbic dopamine system, and suggest descending glutamatergic fibers in the medial forebrain bundle as a candidate for the directly activated descending pathway in lateral hypothalamus brain stimulation reward.
Abnormal circling behavior in rodents is usually attributed to vestibular dysfunction. In rats, all circling mutants described previously have inner ear defects resulting in auditory and vestibular dysfunctions. Here, we describe a new mutant rat with abnormal spontaneous circling behavior but normal auditory and vestibular functions. The new circling mutant rat was discovered in progeny of an apparently normal black-hooded (BH) rat inbred line [BH.7A(LEW)/Won] and was termed ci3, because we recently found two other mutant circling rats (ci1 and ci2) in a Lewis (LEW) inbred rat strain. The ci3 mutant is characterized by circling behavior and locomotor hyperactivity, which occur in phases or bursts either spontaneously or in response to stress, e.g., when rats are transferred to a new environment. Video monitoring of undisturbed rats in their home cage during the light and dark periods showed that circling behavior is much more intense during the dark period, i.e., during the active phase of the animals. Most ci3 rats show a lateral preference in their rotational behavior, i.e., they either rotate to the left or to the right. Brainstem auditory evoked potential testing and different tests of vestibular function did not disclose any auditory or marked vestibular defects in ci3 rats. Furthermore, no morphological abnormalities were seen during histological examination of the cochlear and vestibular nuclei in the brainstem. Neurochemical determination of dopamine and dopamine metabolite levels in striatum, nucleus accumbens and substantia nigra showed that ci3 rats have a significant asymmetry in striatal dopamine in that dopamine levels were significantly lower in the hemisphere contralateral to the preferred direction of turning. Consistent with this finding, immunohistological examination of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area yielded a significant laterality in the medial part of substantia nigra pars compacta with a lower density of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the contralateral hemisphere of mutant circling rats, while no laterality was seen in unaffected rats of the background strain [BH.7A(LEW)/Won].Thus, the novel mutant ci3 rat exhibits several features which clearly differ from previously described circling rat or mouse mutants. The behavioral phenotype occurs in the absence of auditory or obvious vestibular defects and is most likely a consequence of lateralized abnormalities found in the nigrostriatal circuit. Apart from the use of ci3 rats for studying the functional lateralization of brain functions, the ci3 mutant may serve as a new model for movement disorders with abnormal lateralization.
The dentate gyrus of the hippocampus is one of few regions in the adult mammalian brain characterized by ongoing neurogenesis. Significantly, recent studies indicate that the rate of neurogenesis in the hippocampus declines with age, perhaps contributing to age-related cognitive changes. Although a variety of factors may influence the addition of new neurons in the adult dentate gyrus, the mechanisms responsible for the age-related reduction remain to be established. Insulin-like growth factor-I (IGF-I) is one promising candidate to regulate neurogenesis in the adult and aging brain since it influences neuronal production during development and since, like the rate of neurogenesis, it decreases with age. In the current study, we used bromodeoxyuridine labeling and multilabel immunofluorescence to assess age-related changes in neuronal production in the dentate gyrus of adult Brown Norway x Fischer 344 rats. In addition, we investigated the relationship between changes in neurogenesis and the age-dependent reduction in IGF-I by evaluating the effect of i.c.v. infusion of IGF-I on neurogenesis in the senescent dentate gyrus. The analyses revealed an age-dependent reduction in the number of newly generated cells in the adult dentate subgranular proliferative zone and, in addition, a 60% reduction in the differentiation of newborn cells into neurons. Restoration of IGF-I levels in senescent rats significantly restored neurogenesis through an approximately three-fold increase in neuronal production. The results of this study suggest that IGF-I may be an important regulator of neurogenesis in the adult and aging hippocampus and that an age-related decline in IGF-I-dependent neurogenesis could contribute to age-related cognitive changes.
A protective capacity of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) against various insults inducing neurone cell death in vitro and in vivo has been well established. We have recently shown the rapid up-regulation and persistent expression of TGF-beta1 in surviving CA1 pyramidal cells after cerebral ischemia suggesting an endogenous mechanism of neuroprotection by this multifunctional cytokine. In the present study, we demonstrated that intraperitoneal administration of clenbuterol, a lipophilic beta(2)-adrenoceptor agonist, caused an increase in TGF-beta1 expression in non-ischemic rats and further enhanced TGF-beta1 protein levels in rat CA1 pyramidal neurones after transient forebrain ischemia. In the hippocampus neuroprotection by clenbuterol (0.5 mg/kg) was accompanied by increased TGF-beta1 immunoreactivity as early as 3 h, and remained elevated up to 2 days after ischemia. The corresponding increased TGF-beta1 mRNA levels after ischemia were not further enhanced by clenbuterol, suggesting post-transcriptional regulation of TGF-beta1 protein after beta(2)-adrenoceptor stimulation. In saline-treated rats latent TGF-beta-binding protein-1 (LTBP-1) immunoreactivity was moderately elevated 3 and 6 h after ischemia, and returned to control levels after 1 day of reperfusion. In parallel with the up-regulation of TGF-beta1 immunoreactivity, LTBP-1 levels in the hippocampus were considerably increased by clenbuterol from 3 h to 2 days after ischemia. Our data demonstrate a concomitant increase in LTBP-1 and TGF-beta1 expression in the ischemic hippocampus after stimulation of beta(2)-adrenoceptors.
Prior exposure to brief 'conditioning' episodes of ischemia protects hippocampal CA1 neurons against a subsequent more severe ischemic insult. However, protected cells exhibit abnormal function and as survival times are extended this ischemic tolerance dissipates and cells begin to die. In this study, we sought to determine whether environmental enrichment could alter the above pattern of delayed cell death and functional impairment in a gerbil model of ischemic tolerance. Gerbils received either ischemic preconditioning, 5 min of ischemia without preconditioning or sham surgery. Three days after ischemia, gerbils were placed in either an enriched environment or standard laboratory housing. Open field habituation was assessed 3, 7, 10, 30 and 60 days after ischemia. Subsequently, animals were trained in two versions (win-shift and win-stay) of a T-maze task. Following behavioral testing, extracellular CA1 field potential amplitudes and CA1 cell counts were determined. Initial open field activity was significantly higher in all experimental groups compared to sham animals (P&lt;0.001). By 60 days, enriched ischemic preconditioned and enriched ischemic gerbils were not different than shams whereas non-enriched, ischemic preconditioned and ischemic gerbils continued to have higher activity scores (P&lt;0.05). Preconditioned and enriched ischemic animals learned the win-shift T-maze problem as quickly as shams while non-enriched ischemic gerbils were severely impaired compared with all other groups (P&lt;0.001). Only the sham and enriched preconditioned groups readily acquired the win-stay paradigm. CA1 field potential amplitudes were lower (P&lt;0.05) in ischemic than sham gerbils irrespective of treatment. Surprisingly, CA1 cell counts were significantly lower (P&lt;0.01) in enriched versus non-enriched ischemic preconditioned animals. These data demonstrate that early, intensive intervention after ischemia can improve functional outcome but that this is accompanied by increased brain damage. Careful consideration needs to be given to the timing of rehabilitation after stroke and related types of brain injury.
In vitro ischemic preconditioning induced by subjecting rat cortical cultures to nonlethal oxygen-glucose deprivation protects against a subsequent exposure to otherwise lethal oxygen-glucose deprivation. We provide evidence that attenuation of the postsynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor- and Ca(2+)-dependent neurotoxicity underlies oxygen-glucose deprivation tolerance. It is demonstrated that extended tolerance to otherwise lethal NMDA or oxygen-glucose deprivation can be induced by either of their sublethal forms of preconditioning. These four pathways are linked, since NMDA receptor blockade during preconditioning by oxygen-glucose deprivation eliminates tolerance. These results suggest that NMDA tolerance, induced by nonlethal activation of these receptors during oxygen-glucose deprivation preconditioning, underlies oxygen-glucose deprivation tolerance. Several neurotoxic downstream Ca(2+)-dependent signaling events specifically linked to NMDA receptor activation are attenuated during otherwise lethal oxygen-glucose deprivation in preconditioned cultures. Specifically, calpain activation, as well as degradation of microtubule-associated protein-2 and postsynaptic density-95, are attenuated 2 h following otherwise lethal NMDA treatment alone or oxygen-glucose deprivation in preconditioned cultures. Formation of microtubule-associated protein-2-labeled dendritic varicosities is also attenuated in preconditioned cultures within 1 h of lethal oxygen-glucose deprivation or NMDA application. Intracellular Ca(2+) levels, measured using the high- or low-affinity dyes Fluo-4 (K(d) approximately equal 345 nM) or Fluo-4FF (K(d) approximately equal 9.7 microM) respectively, are markedly attenuated during lethal oxygen-glucose deprivation in preconditioned cultures.Collectively, the results suggest the attenuation of the postsynaptic NMDA-mediated component of otherwise lethal oxygen-glucose deprivation through the suppression of Ca(2+)-dependent neurotoxic signaling, a mechanism that is initially induced by transient nonlethal activation of this receptor during ischemic preconditioning.
Proceeding from previous findings of a beneficial effect of endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) gene inactivation on negatively reinforced water maze performance, we asked whether this improvement in place learning capacities also holds for a positively reinforced radial maze task. Unlike its beneficial effects on the water maze task, eNOS gene inactivation did not facilitate radial maze performance. The acquisition performance over the days of place learning did not differ between eNOS knockout (eNOS-/-) and wild-type mice (eNOS+/+). eNOS-/- mice displayed a slight and eNOS+/+ mice a more severe working memory deficit in the place learning version of the radial maze compared to the genetic background C57BL/6 strain. Possible differential effects of eNOS inactivation, related to differences in reinforcement contingencies between the Morris water maze and radial maze tasks, behavioral strategy requirements, or to different emotional and physiological concomitants inherent in the two tasks are discussed. These task-unique characteristics might be differentially affected by the reported anxiogenic and hypertensional effects of eNOS gene inactivation. Post-mortem determination of acetylcholine concentrations in diverse brain structures revealed that acetylcholine and choline contents were not different between eNOS-/- and eNOS+/+ mice, but were increased in eNOS+/+ mice compared to C57BL/6 mice in the frontal cortex. Our findings demonstrate that phenotyping of learning and memory capacities should not rely on one learning task only, but should include tasks employing both negative and positive reinforcement contingencies in order to allow valid statements regarding differences in learning capacities between rodent strains.
Cholinergic inputs from the basal forebrain to cortex exert profound effects on cortical activities, such as a rhythmic synchronization. For these modulatory effects inhibitory interneurons could play crucial roles within the cortical circuitry. To study cholinergic modulation of GABA-mediated inhibition, we recorded inhibitory postsynaptic current (IPSC) during application of cholinergic agonists in the rat frontal cortex in vitro. Both carbachol and muscarine caused two temporally different patterns of IPSC modulation in both pyramidal cells and inhibitory interneurons: tonic or periodic increase of GABA-A receptor-mediated inhibition. The tonic pattern showed a continuous increase of IPSC frequency, while the periodic increase manifested itself as rhythmic (0.1-0.3 Hz, mean 0.2 Hz) bursts of IPSC (frequency: 6-69 Hz, mean 24 Hz; burst duration: 1.2-4.3 s, mean 2.2 s). Both types of increase were suppressed by atropine or pirenzepine, muscarinic-receptor antagonists. The periodical IPSC bursts were not affected by antagonists for ionotropic glutamate receptors. Following cholinergic stimulation, periodic IPSC bursts in nearby cells were synchronized as a whole, but individual inhibitory events within the bursts were not always temporally correlated, suggesting synchronized depolarizations of several presynaptic interneurons. It has been revealed that slow rhythmic depolarizations accompanying spike firing can be generated within the cortex. In addition to this periodic excitation of cortical circuits, these results indicate that cortical inhibitory interneurons have their own acetylcholine-dependent mechanism generating the slow rhythm independent of the excitatory circuits.
Both acute and chronic administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists such as phencyclidine and dizocilpine have been proposed to mimic some of the symptoms of schizophrenia. The purposes of the present study were first, to characterize the long-term behavioral and neurodegenerative effects of subchronic administration of phencyclidine to perinatal rats and second, to determine whether pretreatment with olanzapine could attenuate these effects. On postnatal days 7, 9 and 11 rat pups were pretreated with either vehicle or olanzapine prior to administration of either saline or phencyclidine (10 mg/kg). Some pups were killed on postnatal day 12 for biochemical determinations and others were tested on postnatal days 24-28 for prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle, on postnatal day 42 for phencyclidine-induced locomotor activity and between postnatal days 33 and 70 for acquisition of a delayed spatial learning task. Phencyclidine treatment resulted in a substantial increase in fragmented DNA in the frontal and olfactory cortices consistent with neurodegeneration by an apoptotic mechanism. An increase in the NMDA receptor NR1 subunit mRNA was also observed in the cortex. Gel shift assays showed that phencyclidine also increased the nuclear translocation of nuclear factor-kappaB proteins in the prefrontal cortex. In tissue from the frontal cortex, western blot analysis revealed that phencyclidine treatment increased Bax and decreased Bcl-X(L) proteins. Later in development, it was observed that perinatal phencyclidine treatment significantly retarded baseline prepulse inhibition of acoustic startle measured shortly after weaning. In 42-day-old rats, it was found that challenge with 2 mg/kg phencyclidine increased locomotor activity to a significantly greater extent in the rats that had been pretreated with phencyclidine. Similarly, perinatal phencyclidine treatment significantly delayed the acquisition of a delayed spatial alternation task. Each of the aforementioned changes (except for the spatial learning task, which was not tested) was significantly inhibited by olanzapine pretreatment, an antipsychotic drug known to be effective against both positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia. Further, olanzapine treatment for 12 days following the administration of phencyclidine was also able to reverse the phencyclidine-induced deficit in baseline prepulse inhibition. Together these data suggest that perinatal administration of phencyclidine results in long-term behavioral changes that may be mechanistically related to the apoptotic neurodegeneration observed in the frontal cortex. It is postulated that these deficits may model the hypofrontality observed in schizophrenia and that this model may be helpful in designing appropriate pharmacotherapy.
Ribosome clusters, referred to as endoaxoplasmic plaques, were documented and quantitatively analyzed in the squid giant axon at the light and electron microscopic levels. The methods included nonspecific high affinity fluorescence staining of RNA by YOYO-1, specific immunofluorescence labeling of ribosomal RNA, electron energy loss spectroscopic mapping of ribosomal phosphorus, and conventional transmission electron microscopy. The endoaxoplasmic plaques were sharply defined, oval in shape, and less than 2 microm in diameter. While they were very numerous in the postsynaptic axonal area of the giant synapse, the frequency of occurrence was much lower in the peripheral giant axon, with a density of about 1 plaque/1000 microm3. Their distribution was random within axoplasm, with no preferential localization near the membrane. The several thousand ribosomes in a plaque usually were not membrane bound, but vesicular structures were observed in or near plaques; plaques were often surrounded by mitochondria. We conclude that ribosomes, a requisite machinery for protein synthesis, are present in the squid giant axon in discrete configurations.
The massive invasion of the Mediterranean Sea by the tropical seaweed Caulerpa taxifolia (Vahl) C. Agardh has stimulated several investigations in order to test the environmental risk from an ecotoxicological point of view. The studies carried out on various experimental models have shown that caulerpenyne, the major metabolite synthesized by the seaweed, affects several cellular and molecular targets. In addition, neurological disorders have been reported in patients who accidentally ate C. taxifolia, but no evidence about the potential effects of the seaweed and of its metabolites on nerve cells were up to now available. Herein we describe that caulerpenyne modifies the electrical properties of touch mechanosensory cells of the leech Hirudo medicinalis. The physiological firing of these cells causes an afterhyperpolarization that is mainly due to the activity of the Na+/K+-ATPase and to a lesser extent to a calcium-dependent potassium current. Caulerpenyne depressed this afterhyperpolarization; the effect was dose-dependent and partially reversible. Experiments have been carried out in order to understand the mechanism through which caulerpenyne reduced the afterhyperpolarization. The action of the biotoxin has been tested in the presence of pharmacological blockers of calcium-dependent potassium channels such as cadmium and apamin. In these experimental conditions, caulerpenyne still reduced the residual afterhyperpolarization, suggesting a direct effect of the toxin on the Na+/K+-ATPase. In order to test this hypothesis, we have performed experiments where the Na+/K+-ATPase was activated by the intracellular injection of sodium and where also its basal activity was modified as well. From the data collected we suggest that caulerpenyne inhibits both the basal and the sodium-induced activity of the Na+/K+-ATPase in leech touch neurons.
Thyroid hormones are essential for the development and function of the brain and also for the maturation and repair of the peripheral nervous system. In the brain, most of the 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine is locally produced by 5'-deiodination of thyroxine catalyzed by the type 2 deiodinase. The absence of any information about thyroid hormone metabolism in the peripheral nervous system prompted us to study the expression of type 2 deiodinase (mRNA and activity) in the peripheral nervous system. Expression of type 2 deiodinase mRNA was very low in the sciatic nerve of rats until day 5 after birth, then increased from day 10 to 35-45 and gradually decreased afterwards, down to the low basal levels observed in the adult. A lesion of the sciatic nerve in the adult induced an increase in type 2 deiodinase mRNA and activity. After a cryolesion, the stimulation was observed as early as 4 h and mRNA levels increased until 24-48 h, then gradually declined down to basal levels around 28 days, when regeneration and functional recovery were completed. After a permanent transection, up-regulation of type 2 deiodinase persisted in both proximal and distal segments until the end of the experiment (28 days). Transection and cryolesion were also followed by increased type 2 deiodinase mRNA expression in the ipsilateral L4/L6 dorsal root ganglia within 24 h. Both mRNA and activity were found in the peripheral nerve sheaths but not in the internal compartment of the intact or injured nerve. Cultured fibroblasts from the sciatic nerve expressed type 2 deiodinase 4 h after stimulation by 10 microM forskolin, whereas purified Schwann cells did not. The present study provides evidence that the peripheral nervous system has its own system responsible for the local production of 3,5,3'-triiodothyronine, which may play a key role during the regeneration process.
The expression of H+-monocarboxylate cotransporters (MCTs) that facilitate cell uptake of lactate, pyruvate and other monocarboxylates was investigated in the adult and postnatally developing gerbil inner ear. In the mature cochlea, immunoreactive MCT1 was present in marginal cells of the stria vascularis and in type II, suprastrial and limbal fibrocytes. In the adult vestibular system, dark cells and a subpopulation of fibrocytes immediately underlying maculae and cristae stained strongly for MCT1. Satellite cells surrounding mature spiral and vestibular ganglia neurons also expressed MCT1. MCT1 immunoreactivity was present at birth in marginal and dark cells, at 8 days after birth in fibrocytes and at 12 days after birth in satellite cells, and coincided precisely with the developmental expression of Na,K-ATPase in these sites. The coexpression of MCT1 and Na,K-ATPase in these cell types points to MCT1 as an important source of energy to drive inner ear Na,K-ATPase activity. In the adult inner ear, MCT2 was detectable only in tectal cells of the cochlea and supporting cells of the crista ampullaris. Immunostaining was first observed at 16 days after birth in tectal and at 20 days after birth in supporting cells, and at the same time immunoreactive aquaporin 4 appeared in these cells. The coexpression of MCT2 and aquaporin 4 suggests a possible role for MCT2 in regulating transcellular water movement. Because MCT2 facilitates the transport of acidic intermediates, its biological significance also could relate to modulation of cell pH and volume. Maintenance of the inner ear's unique ion and fluid gradients is essential to normal hearing and balance and requires the expenditure of large amounts of energy. The cellular distribution of MCT1 and MCT2 points to their participation in generating these electrochemical gradients and their potential involvement in sensory deficits associated with various inner ear disorders.
Recent studies have provided convincing evidence for the presence of peptidergic nerve fibers in the pituitary anterior lobe in several animal species. This study was aimed at elucidating the origin of this innervation by neuroanatomical tracing, denervation experiments, and immunohistochemistry. Immunohistochemistry against substance P and growth-associated protein 43 revealed a dense fiber plexus within the anterior lobe, and these markers were mostly colocalized. Retrograde tracing with Fluorogold from the pituitary gland stained neurons in the hypothalamus, superior cervical ganglia and the nodose ganglia. None of the Fluorogold-labelled neurons in the hypothalamus or superior cervical ganglion were substance P-immunoreactive, while many of the neuronal cell bodies in the nodose ganglion exhibited substance P immunoreactivity. There were no Fluorogold-labelled neurons in the trigeminal, otic or cervical dorsal root ganglia. Surgical transection of the pituitary stalk or bilateral removal of the superior cervical ganglion did not abolish the anterior lobe nerve fibers, and anterograde tracing with 1,1'-dioctadecyl-3,3,3',3'-tetramethylindo-carbocyanine perchlorate from the pituitary stalk failed to stain any nerve fibers within the anterior lobe. Our findings suggest that the nodose ganglion neurons likely innervate the pituitary anterior lobe, while neither hypothalamus nor sympathetic superior cervical ganglion may be a source of this innervation. By showing a distinct neuronal system in the pituitary anterior lobe our findings (i) support the previous functional studies demonstrating a distinct regulation of the morphology of the anterior lobe innervation by hormonal changes, and (ii) suggest that the innervation of the pituitary anterior lobe is a part of the visceral innervation by the vagus nerve rather than a part of the other intracranial innervation. These findings provide a neuroanatomic basis for the reported observations about the neural regulation of the pituitary anterior lobe.
The ventrolateral medulla has a critical role in the generation and patterning of respiration via an extensive network of respiratory neurones. We have investigated the effects of activating purinergic P2 receptors within the ventrolateral medulla of the anaesthetised rat on the overall pattern of respiratory activity. In addition, using immunohistochemical techniques, we have identified the subtypes of P2X receptors in the ventrolateral medulla. Unilateral microinjection of ATP into the ventrolateral medulla reduced in a dose-dependent manner, or abolished, resting phrenic nerve discharge recorded as an indication of central inspiratory drive. ATP also elicited increases in blood pressure and variable changes in heart rate. These effects were mimicked by microinjection of the P2X receptor agonist alpha,beta-methylene ATP into the ventrolateral medulla. Whilst microinjection of suramin, a P2 receptor antagonist, had no effect on resting cardiorespiratory variables it blocked the respiratory and cardiovascular effects of ATP microinjected into the ventrolateral medulla. Immunohistochemical staining using IgG antibodies showed that P2X1, P2X2, P2X5 and P2X6, but not P2X3, P2X4 or receptor subunits were localised in the rostral ventrolateral medulla.Our results indicate that several P2X receptor subtypes are localised within areas of the ventrolateral medulla that are important for cardiorespiratory control (including the pre-Btzinger and Btzinger complexes), and that activation of these receptors can have profound effects on both the cardiovascular and the respiratory networks. Our pharmacological data suggest that different P2X subunits in this region may co-assemble to form hetero-oligomeric assemblies as well as homomultimers within this region.
We have tested the role of elevated corticosterone in modulating the responses to either a single (acute) or chronic (repeated daily) restraint stress. Male rats were adrenalectomised, and received subcutaneous corticosterone pellets that resulted in either low (ca. 60 ng/ml) or higher (ca. 130-150 ng/ml) levels of plasma corticosterone. They were also implanted with telemetric transmitters relaying heart rate and core temperature. Control rats were unoperated and untreated. In the first experiment, rats were exposed to daily (60 min) restraint stress for 9 days whereas in the second experiments, rats were only exposed to a single restraint stress. Heart rate and core temperature were recorded every 10 min during each stress session. Brains were removed 1 h after the end of the final stress, and stained immunocytochemically for Fos, Fos-b. Plasma corticosterone was measured by radioimmunoassay. Control rats showed marked tachycardia, peaking at about 10 min and declining thereafter (habituation). This pattern did not change significantly across the 9 days of repeated stress. Rats with low dose corticosterone replacement showed a different pattern: maximal heart rate responses were similar, but elevated heart rate persisted during the period of stress. This effect was most marked on the first exposure to restraint. In contrast, high dose replacement rats showed similar heart rate responses to controls. Restraint stress induced a transient hypothermia, which in control rats was reduced during repeated stress (adaptation). High dose corticosterone resulted in accelerated adaptation of this response. As expected, an acute stress increased Fos expression in a range of limbic structures including the lateral septum, lateral preoptic area, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and three divisions of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus and in the raphe, locus coeruleus and solitary nucleus of the brainstem. After 9 days, there was no longer increased Fos expression in any of these areas. There was no effect of corticosterone treatment on Fos expression after an acute stress, and following repeated stress the low dose group showed increased expression in the lateral preoptic area only. Results with Fos-b were quite different. The effects of an acute stress in control animals was similar to that observed for Fos. Corticosterone had no effects on Fos-b expression after a single stress. Following repeated stress, there were still elevations of Fos-b (compared to controls) in the lateral septum, and in the basolateral and medial amygdala. Rats receiving low dose corticosterone showed increased Fos-b expression following 9 days stress in the lateral septum and in the dorsal and medial parts of the paraventricular nucleus compared to either control, stressed rats or those receiving the higher corticosterone dose and repeated stress. From these results we suggest that persistently elevated corticosterone acts to reduce ('shut-off') stress-induced responses as assessed both by the reaction of the autonomic system and by the expression of immediate-early genes in the brain. However, there are marked differences in the relations between corticosterone and the parameters measured in our experiments. In particular, there are distinctions between Fos and Fos-b both in the way they adapt to repeated restraint stress, and the effect corticosterone has on this adaptive process.
The nucleus accumbens is considered to be critically involved in the control of complex motivated behaviors. By modulating its glutamatergic excitatory input, mesolimbic dopaminergic afferents have been implicated in the reinforcing properties of drugs of abuse. However, they might not represent the only path for influencing the accumbens output. The aim of this study was to investigate possible modulation of synaptic transmission at this glutamatergic synapse by adenosine receptors. The standard field potential recording technique was used on brain slices from wild-type and A2A receptor-deficient mice. Neither the stimulus-response relationship nor paired-pulse facilitation was altered in the mutant mice. In both genotypes, the activation of A1 receptors by 2-chloro-N6-cyclopentyladenosine reduced the field excitatory postsynaptic potential (fEPSP) slope to a similar extent. In wild-type slices, activation or blockade of A2A receptors by 2-[4-(carboxyethyl)phenylethylamino]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine and 4-(2-[7-amino-2-(2-furyl)[1,2,4]-triazolo-[2,3-a][1,3,5]triazin-5-ylamino]ethyl)phenol, respectively, did not modify the synaptic transmission. Moreover, a long lasting pre-activation of these A2A receptors did not influence the A1 receptor-mediated reduction in fEPSP slope. Long term potentiation (LTP) of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionate (AMPA) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission could be elicited in both wild-type and A2A receptor-deficient mice. However, LTP appeared to be quantitatively modulated by the A2A receptor pathway since the level of potentiation was reduced in A2A receptor-deficient mice as well as in slices of wild-type mice in which the A2A receptor pathway was blocked. The involvement of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase was supported by the reduction in potentiation level in slices of wild-type mice treated with adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphorothiotate, 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-Rp isomer, an inhibitor of this enzyme. These data provide evidence that the adenosine acting at the A2A receptor is implicated in events directly or indirectly related to LTP induction in the accumbens whereas it is not involved in the regulation of the basal AMPA receptor-mediated excitatory synaptic transmission.
Estrogen exerts a neuroprotective action in response to a variety of cell stresses. However, to what extent intracellular estrogen receptors are involved in these functions remains to be determined. We have found that SN56 cells, a neuronal-derived cholinergic cell line which produces luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and contains the mRNAs encoding estrogen and progesterone receptors, also express estrogen receptor alpha, as well as the heat shock protein 90. Exposure of these cells to drastic temperature elevation for 1 h immediately increased the intracellular levels of these two proteins, whereas it rapidly reduced the content of estrogen receptor alpha mRNA. In addition, the amount of estrogen receptor alpha-heat shock protein 90 complexes was increased in response to thermal stress. Pre-treatment with geldanamycin, a potent inhibitor of heat shock protein 90, decreased the amount of estrogen receptor alpha, suggesting that its elevation after the heat insult may be related to its association with heat shock protein 90. In contrast, exposure of heat-shocked cells to 17beta-estradiol reduced the number of estrogen receptor alpha-heat shock protein 90 complexes, suggesting that the receptor conserves the affinity for its cognate ligand under these conditions. Therefore, the interaction of the estrogen receptor with heat shock protein 90 may serve to prevent its degradation during the thermal insult, as well as to maintain it in a high-affinity hormone-binding conformation. Since neuroprotective estrogen effects have been described in a variety of cytotoxic situations, these findings may be suggestive of an integrated neuronal response to injury, which includes the protection of available estrogen receptors through their association with heat shock protein 90.
192 immunoglobulin G-saporin (192-sap) is an immunotoxin which targets the cholinergic basal forebrain after injection into either the ventricular system or the parenchyma of the rat brain. When injected by the i.c.v. route, 192-sap kills some cerebellar Purkinje cells in addition to its more extensive killing of the cholinergic basal forebrain. Behaviorally, i.c.v. injections of 192-sap result in impaired performance in a variety of experimental paradigms of learning and memory including a working memory task in the radial maze. The current study examined the contribution, if any, of immunotoxin-induced Purkinje cell loss to impaired performance in the radial maze. To meet this aim, we used i.c.v. injection of another immunotoxin, OX7-saporin (OX7-sap), at a dose that produced Purkinje cell loss of similar extent to that produced by i.c.v. 192-sap. We then compared these OX7-sap-injected rats with 192-sap-injected rats in a radial maze working memory task. We found a working memory impairment only in the 192-sap-injected rats. These data show that moderate Purkinje cell loss alone is insufficient to impair working memory. Furthermore, the data are consistent with the idea that the working memory deficit observed in 192-sap-injected animals is likely due to lesioning of the cholinergic basal forebrain.
Neurons and glia within the hippocampus of aged, spatial learning-impaired Long-Evans rats exhibit uniquely altered gene expression profiles, and we have postulated oxidative stress as the basis for this. To test this hypothesis we quantitated the extent of protein and nucleic acid oxidative damage, evaluated the status of mitochondrial DNA integrity, and examined several signaling entities and molecular indicators frequently associated with oxidative stress and gliosis. Immunoblotting demonstrated elevated heme oxygenase-1 in the aged-impaired hippocampus and immunocytochemistry suggested that heme oxygenase-1 is largely cytosolic and at least partly neuronal in nature. In the aged-impaired group, immunoreactivity to 8-hydroxy-2'-deoxyguanosine, an oxidative nucleic acid adduct, was found to be elevated in the dentate gyrus and in area CA1 of the hippocampal formation. Isolated mitochondrial DNA was found to be significantly damaged in the aged-impaired group. In the aged learning-impaired rats only, proteins in a 65-kDa band were found to contain excessive levels of carbonyl residues. Glial activation was examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry to tumor necrosis factor alpha and by immunocytochemistry with OX-6, which detects activated microglia. White matter in aged brains exhibited a modest up-regulation of tumor necrosis factor alpha mRNA and OX-6 immunoreactivity, but the hippocampal formation expressed tumor necrosis factor alpha mRNA equivalent to young animals and few OX-6-positive microglia. The mRNA for manganese-dependent superoxide dismutase, which is elevated in the aged hippocampus, was found preferentially expressed in neurons. We conclude that aged hippocampal neurons appear to be under oxidative stress and this is more severe in the learning-impaired subjects, suggesting a possible basis for age-induced cognitive decline.
The proto-oncogene B-cell lymphoma protein 2 (BCL-2) and its homologues are important modulators of cellular survival after transient brain ischaemia. In the present study we used western blotting to elucidate if the stimulation of 5-hydroxytryptamine 1A type receptors with their agonist BAY X 3702 results in regulation of BCL-2 family proteins. Treatment with BAY X 3702 resulted in elevated BCL-2 protein level in the ipsilateral cerebral cortex of animals as early as at 6 and 12 h of reperfusion, this effect becoming more pronounced at 24 h. BAY X 3702 administration caused no change in BCL-2-associated protein X content during reperfusion. The effect of BAY X 3702 on the level of death-inhibiting protein BCL-2 in the brain during ischaemia/reperfusion could contribute to the neuroprotective potency of the drug.
We have previously shown that the anticonvulsant drug, phenytoin, increases the frequency and amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents at GABA synapses on principal neurones in the rat entorhinal cortex. This effect is similar to that seen at other GABA synapses following blockade of voltage-gated potassium channels (Kv1.1, 1.2 and 1.6) with alpha-dendrotoxin. In the present study we examined whether dendrotoxins can alter GABA release at synapses in the entorhinal cortex. We recorded spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents using whole cell voltage clamp techniques in slices of rat entorhinal cortex in vitro. alpha-Dendrotoxin evoked an increase in frequency and amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents, an effect that was blocked by prior perfusion with tetrodotoxin. The effect of the toxin did not occlude the increase in spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents seen with phenytoin. Indeed, the effect of the two drugs together was, at least, additive on GABA release. Perfusion with the specific Kv1.1 blocker, dendrotoxin-K had no effect on GABA release. In addition, alpha-dendrotoxin had no effect on frequency or amplitude of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents at glutamate synapses on entorhinal cortex neurones. We conclude that K-channels containing the Kv1.2 and/or 1.6 subunits modulate the release of GABA, but not glutamate in the entorhinal cortex. The modulation of GABA release by phenytoin is unlikely to be due to an effect on these channels.
The influence of thyroid hormones on cortical development was analysed in rat somatosensory cortex. Maternal and foetal hypothyroidism was induced and maintained by methimazole treatment from embryonic day 13 onwards. 5-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) labelling in hypothyroid rats showed that cell positioning during corticogenesis followed an inside-out pattern. The radial neurogenetic gradients were more diffuse at all ages with respect to normal rats due to the inappropriate location of many cells, including those of the subcortical white matter. Most (62%) of the cells in the subcortical white matter of hypothyroid rats were labelled at embryonic day 15. Nissl staining of the primary somatosensory cortex showed blurred cortical layer boundaries and an abnormal barrel cytoarchitecture. Cytochrome oxidase and peanut agglutinin staining showed that the tangential organisation of the posteromedial barrel subfield and its layer IV specificity was not lost in hypothyroid rats. However the temporal pattern of peanut agglutinin labelling was delayed 3-4 days with respect to normal rats. In hypothyroid rats, the total barrelfield tangential area was reduced by 27% with respect to normal. The total tangential barrel area, corresponding to peanut agglutinin-negative labelling, occupied 77% of the barrelfield area and only 66% in hypothyroid rats. This reduction was larger with cytochrome oxidase staining where the total barrel area occupied 69% of the barrelfield area in normal and 46% in hypothyroid rats. Our data stress the importance of maternal and foetal thyroid hormones during development, and demonstrate the irreversible effects that maternal and foetal hypothyroidism may have on the intrinsic organisation and maturation of the neocortex.
The vanilloid (capsaicin) receptor, VR1, is expressed in dorsal root ganglion and mediates the sensory response to vanilloids and other noxious stimuli. There is evidence for VR1 expression in CNS regions as well, but its function in these tissues is unknown. The identification of a rat VR1 5' splice variant and the rat stretch inhibitable channel, which are also expressed in dorsal root ganglia and CNS, raises the possibility that these and/or other VR1 variants may regulate VR1 activity. We have used a quantitative ribonuclease protection assay to characterize the central and peripheral expression of VR1 and VR1 variant RNA in the rat. The data confirm that VR1 is widely expressed in CNS, with highest RNA levels found in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and cerebellum. VR1 RNA expression in dorsal root ganglia is approximately 28 times greater than in any other tissue sample studied. VR1 5' splice variant RNA is expressed at levels 12 times lower than VR1 in dorsal root ganglia, but at similar levels to VR1 in all other tissues examined. A VR1-related RNA expressed at high levels in kidney was detected, and was distinct from VR1 or stretch inhibitable channel. Our results also show that peripheral inflammation does not change VR1 RNA levels in rat dorsal root ganglia. Systemic resiniferatoxin administration, however, decreases VR1 expression in dorsal root ganglia by 65-80%, an effect that persists for at least 2 months. This study demonstrates that VR1 is expressed at high levels in dorsal root ganglia relative to other tissues and that VR1 5' splice variant is expressed at low levels in dorsal root ganglia compared to VR1. VR1 gene expression in dorsal root ganglia is regulated in response to systemic resiniferatoxin but not peripheral inflammation.
Soluble N-ethylmaleimide-sensitive fusion protein (NSF) attachment protein (SNAP) plays an essential role in vesicular transport and the release of neurotransmitters and hormones through associations with NSF and SNAP receptors (SNAREs). Three isoforms (alpha, beta and gamma) of SNAP are expressed in mammals. We have generated isoform-specific antibodies and studied the expression and distribution of these SNAP isoforms in the rat nervous system. Each antibody specifically recognized alpha-, beta- or gamma-SNAP in an isoform-specific manner in immunoblots of brain homogenate. Alpha- and gamma-SNAP were ubiquitously expressed in various tissues, whereas beta-SNAP was expressed only in brain. After subcellular fractionation of brain homogenates, all three isoforms were recovered in both soluble and particulate fractions. Immunohistochemistry revealed that alpha- and beta-SNAP were generally differentially distributed both in synaptic and non-synaptic regions, including brain white matter. The presynaptic location of both alpha- and beta-SNAP was confirmed by immunoelectron microscopy. At the neuromuscular junction, immunoreactive alpha-SNAP was identified in synaptic vesicles, while in the cerebellum, beta-SNAP was present in the presynaptic membranes of basket neuron and mossy fiber terminals. From these results we suggest that both alpha- and beta-SNAP may play an important role in neurotransmitter release as well as in constitutive vesicular transport.
Opioids inhibit nociceptive transmission at the level of the spinal cord, possibly through inhibition of neurotransmitter release by presynaptic mu opioid receptors (MORs) thus preventing the activation of ascending pathways and the perception of pain. Most nociceptive primary afferents are unmyelinated fibers containing peptides such as substance P and/or calcitonin gene-related peptide. However, few terminals contain both substance P and MOR. Recently, we identified new carboxy-terminal MOR splice variants that are localized in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn. We now report the precise cellular distribution of two of these MOR-1 variants, MOR-1C (exon 7/8/9 epitope) and MOR-1D (exon 8/9 epitope), at the ultrastructural level. In the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn, the majority of the labeling of MOR-1C and MOR-1D was found in unmyelinated axons. This distribution contrasts with that of MOR-1 (exon 4 epitope), in which labeling is equally found in dendrites and soma, as well as in axons. The presence of dense core vesicles in many of the MOR-1C-like immunoreactive terminals implies that this splice variant might be involved in presynaptic inhibition of transmitter release from peptide-containing afferents to the dorsal horn. Consistent with this finding, confocal microscopy analyses showed that many MOR-1C profiles in laminae I-II also contained calcitonin gene-related peptide, whereas fewer MOR-1 profiles contained either substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide in this same region. From these findings we suggest that there are differential distributions of MOR-1 splice variants as well as distinct peptide colocalizations in the dorsal horn.
The role of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptors in the spinal cord in the transmission of nociceptive afferents from superficial tissue and muscle was studied by examining the effects of NMDA or non-NMDA receptor antagonists on Fos expression in the spinal dorsal horn. Muscle inflammation was induced by injection of turpentine oil into the gastrocnemius muscle, whereas superficial tissue inflammation was induced by an intraplantar injection of turpentine oil into the hindpaw. The NMDA receptor antagonist DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP-5), the non-NMDA receptor antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) or normal saline were intrathecally administered 15 min before an intramuscular or intraplantar injection of turpentine oil. Muscle inflammation evoked expression of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons staining in neurons that were predominantly distributed in the middle portions of laminae I-II(outer) and the lateral portions of laminae V-VI of the ipsilateral dorsal horn at the spinal L(4)-L(5). DNQX, but not AP-5, significantly reduced the total number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons evoked by muscle inflammation. In contrast, superficial tissue inflammation evoked expression of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons in the medial portions of laminae I-II(outer) and V-VI of the ipsilateral dorsal horn at the spinal L(4)-L(5) that was blocked by AP-5, but not by DNQX. Injection of normal saline did not influence the numbers of Fos-LI neurons. These results indicate that different glutamate receptors in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord may mediate nociceptive input from superficial tissue (particularly skin) and muscle. DNQX receptors may mediate transmission of nociceptive information originating in muscle, while NMDA receptors may preferentially mediate transmission of nociceptive information originating in skin.
The startle reflex is elicited by strong and sudden acoustic, vestibular or trigeminal stimuli. The caudal pontine reticular nucleus, which mediates acoustic startle via the reticulospinal tract, receives further anatomical connections from vestibular and trigeminal nuclei, and can be activated by vestibular and tactile stimuli, suggesting that this pontine reticular structure could mediate vestibular and trigeminal startle. The vestibular nucleus, however, also projects to the spinal cord directly via the vestibulospinal tracts, and therefore may mediate vestibular startle via additional faster routes without a synaptic relay in the hindbrain. In the present study, the timing properties of the vestibular efferent pathways mediating startle-like responses were examined in rats using electrical stimulation techniques. Transient single- or twin-pulse electrical stimulation of the vestibular nucleus evoked bilateral, startle-like responses with short refractory periods. In chloral hydrate-anesthetized rats, hindlimb electromyogram latencies recorded from the anterior biceps femoris muscle were shorter than those for stimulation of the trigeminal nucleus, and similar to those for stimulation of the caudal pontine reticular nucleus or ventromedial medulla. In awake rats, combining vestibular nucleus stimulation with either acoustic stimulation or trigeminal nucleus stimulation enhanced the whole-body startle-like responses and led to strong cross-modal summation without collision effects. In both chloral hydrate-anesthetized and awake rats, combining vestibular nucleus stimulation with ventromedial medulla stimulation produced a symmetrical collision effect, i.e. a loss of summation at the same positive and negative stimulus intervals, indicating a continuous connection between the vestibular nucleus and ventromedial medulla in mediating vestibular startle. By contrast, combining trigeminal nucleus stimulation with ventromedial medulla stimulation resulted in an asymmetric collision effect when the trigeminal nucleus stimulation preceded ventromedial medulla stimulation by 0.5 ms, suggesting that a monosynaptic connection between the trigeminal nucleus and ventromedial medulla mediates trigeminal startle. We propose that the vestibulospinal tracts participate strongly in mediating startle produced by activation of the vestibular nucleus. The convergence of the vestibulospinal tracts with the reticulospinal tract within the spinal cord therefore provides the neural basis of cross-modal summation of startling stimuli.
Previously we demonstrated that glutamate and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) containing neuronal elements are frequently apposed in subnuclei of the rat nucleus tractus solitarii. It is known that glutamate receptors (GluRs) of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA) subtype participate in cardiovascular regulation by the nucleus tractus solitarii and that responses to AMPA receptor activation may be linked to NO. Therefore, in the present study, we further tested the hypothesis that the calcium-permeable subunit GluR1 of AMPA type GluRs and nNOS are colocalized in neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarii. Distribution of GluR1 and nNOS in rat nucleus tractus solitarii was investigated by double fluorescent immunohistochemistry combined with confocal laser scanning microscopy. Numerous GluR1 immunoreactive cells and fibers were present in subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarii. The staining intensity of GluR1 immunoreactive cells varied among subnuclei. Cells in the interstitial subnucleus contained the highest GluR1 staining intensity. A moderate intensity of staining was present in the intermediate, dorsolateral, ventral, and commissural subnuclei. A slightly lower level of GluR1 immunoreactivity was present in cells of the medial subnucleus. Cells in the central subnucleus contained a low level of GluR1 immunoreactivity. The staining intensity of GluR1 immunoreactive fibers also varied among subnuclei. Distribution of nNOS immunoreactivity in the nucleus tractus solitarii and other brain stem areas was the same as in our earlier reports. Superimposition of confocal images of nNOS immunoreactivity and GluR1 immunoreactivity allowed us to identify double-labeled structures. Nearly all neurons that were immunoreactive for nNOS contained GluR1 immunoreactivity, but only a proportion of GluR1 immunoreactive cells contained nNOS immunoreactivity. Double-labeled neurons were present in all subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarii. The percentages of GluR1 immunoreactive cells that also contained nNOS immunoreactivity differed among subnuclei of the nucleus tractus solitarii. Fibers that labeled for nNOS alone, GluR1 alone or both were present among labeled cells in these subnuclei. These data support the hypothesis that GluR1 and nNOS are colocalized in neurons of nucleus tractus solitarii. The demonstration of this anatomical relationship provides further anatomical support for the hypothesis that activation of AMPA receptors on neurons that synthesize NO in the nucleus tractus solitarii contributes to autonomic regulation.
The periaqueductal grey (PAG) region of the brainstem is a known modulator of somatic pain transmission. Migraine is likely to be due to episodic brain dysfunction in pathways involved in the control of pain and other sensory modalities, such as light and sound. To investigate the influence of the PAG on pain transmission from intracranial structures, we examined spinal trigeminal neuronal activity in response to PAG stimulation in a model of trigeminovascular nociception in the cat. Evoked trigeminal neuronal activity in the spinal cord was reversibly inhibited by stimulation of the PAG. The effect was robust with a mean reduction in evoked activity of -61+/-21%. This effect could be seen both ipsilateral and contralateral to the side of PAG stimulation and was well localised to the ventrolateral PAG. These data demonstrate that a role of the PAG is to inhibit afferent trigeminal nociceptive traffic. Considered with neurosurgical and human functional imaging studies, these data support the notion that brainstem dysfunction might lead to disinhibition of trigeminal afferents and be important in the pain process of migraines.
Recent electrophysiological studies demonstrate that the ventral medial prefrontal cortex has a powerful inhibitory influence on 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurones in the dorsal raphe nucleus. Here we utilised a combination of anatomical and electrophysiological methods to characterise the cellular substrate underlying this effect.Anterograde tracing (Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin) using electron microscopy demonstrated a pathway from the ventral medial prefrontal cortex that makes neuronal contacts throughout the dorsal raphe nucleus. These contacts were predominantly asymmetrical synapses adjoining GABA immunoreactive dendrites and spines. In vivo extracellular recordings were made in the dorsal raphe nucleus of the anaesthetised rat from a subpopulation of non-5-HT neurones. These neurones were fast-firing, irregular and with short spike width, properties strongly reminiscent of immunochemically identified GABA interneurones in other brain regions. Recordings of classical 5-HT neurones were also included. Electrical stimulation of the ventral medial prefrontal cortex elicited a rapid onset (16 ms latency), orthodromic excitation of the non-5-HT neurones (13/25 neurones). This stimulation also caused a pronounced inhibition of most 5-HT neurones tested, with a longer latency (30 ms), and this was partially blocked by locally applied bicuculline. These data provide the first evidence that the ventral medial prefrontal cortex influences the activity of large numbers of raphe 5-HT neurones by targeting a local network of GABA neurones. This circuitry predicts that physiological and pathological changes in the ventral medial prefrontal cortex will impact on significant parts of the forebrain 5-HT system.
Cats rendered hemianopic by a unilateral visual cortical ablation can recover the visual orienting response in the hemianopic visual field following disruption of the caudal non-tectotectal containing half of the commissure of the superior colliculus. Ibotenic acid lesions of a small 'critical zone' in the contralateral substantia nigra result in a similar recovery effect. A conceptual framework developed by Wallace et al. (1990) [J. Comp. Neurol. 296, 222-252] proposed that elimination of contralateral substantia nigra 'critical zone' inhibition on the superior colliculus ipsilateral to a visual cortical lesion is responsible for the recovery. This model is insufficient, however, to explain the observation that hemi-decorticate cats with contralateral substantia nigra 'critical zone' lesions which include but extend beyond the 'critical zone' do not demonstrate the recovery. In these cats, subsequent transection of the commissure of the superior colliculus does lead to the recovery. We hypothesize that another projection through the caudal commissure of the superior colliculus, from the pedunculopontine nucleus, is involved in the recovery effect. Visual orienting behavior was recorded before and after ibotenic acid lesions made in the pedunculopontine nucleus region contralateral to a visual cortical ablation in 16 cats. Four cats with lesions in a small rostral region of the contralateral pedunculopontine nucleus recovered the visual orienting response in the previously hemianopic visual field. Contralateral tectal projections from the pedunculopontine nucleus are thought to be cholinergic and terminate as distinct patches in the intermediate gray layers of the superior colliculus. Since this region of the pedunculopontine nucleus also receives GABA-ergic afferents from the substantia nigra, we propose that a subcortical neural circuit including the substantia nigra, pedunculopontine nucleus, and superior colliculus is involved in the recovery of visual orienting.
There is growing evidence that tonic activity of the opioid system may be important in the modulation of affective state. Naloxone produces a conditioned place aversion in rodents, an effect that is centrally mediated. Previous pharmacological data using antagonists with preferential actions at mu-, delta-, and kappa-opioid receptors indicate the importance of the mu-opioid receptor in mediating this effect. We sought to test the mu-opioid receptor selectivity of naloxone aversion using mu-opioid receptor knock-out mice. mu-Opioid receptor knock-out and wild-type mice were tested for naloxone (10 mg/kg, s.c.) aversion using a place conditioning paradigm. As a positive control for associative learning, knock-out mice were tested for conditioned place aversion to a kappa agonist, U50,488H (2 mg/kg, s.c.). Naloxone produced a significant place aversion in wild-type mice, but failed to have any effect in mu-opioid receptor knock-out mice. On the other hand, both knock-out and wild-type mice treated with U50,488H spent significantly less time in the drug-paired chamber compared to their respective vehicle controls. We conclude that the mu-opioid receptor is crucial for the acquisition of naloxone-induced conditioned place aversion. Furthermore, in a separate experiment using C57BL/6 mice, the delta-selective antagonist naltrindole (10 or 30 mg/kg, s.c.) failed to produce conditioned place aversion.Taken together, these data further support the notion that naloxone produces aversion by antagonizing tonic opioid activity at the mu-opioid receptor.
Visceral sensory perception is subjected to modulation by attention or distraction, like other sensory systems. The thalamic reticular nucleus is a key region in selective attention, effecting a change in the mode of thalamocortical transmission. Each major thalamocortical system is connected with a particular sector of the thalamic reticular nucleus. No connections from the thalamic reticular nucleus have been described to the visceral sensory thalamus. We used axonal tracing techniques to study the possible existence of reciprocal connections between the visceral sensory relay in the lateral ventroposterior parvicellular thalamic nucleus, and the reticular nucleus of the thalamus. We also studied the projections from the visceral sensory cortex, located in the granular insular cortex in the rat, to the reticular nucleus of the thalamus. We found a convergent input from both thalamic and cortical sensory visceral regions to the same sector of the reticular nucleus of the thalamus. This visceral sector in turn sent GABAergic feedback connections to the lateral ventroposterior parvicellular thalamic nucleus. In addition, the visceral thalamus received histaminergic projections from the tuberomammillary nucleus, and noradrenergic projections from the locus coeruleus; both nuclei belong to the ascending activating system. Our findings indicate that the visceral sensory thalamocortical pathway is connected to the same subcortical structures that provide attention mechanisms for other thalamocortical systems.
To explore the neuronal signaling mechanisms underlying sleep regulation in the rat, the present study examined continuous intra-third ventricle infusion of N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), a sulphydryl reagent that inhibits G(i/o) protein-coupled receptor-mediated signaling pathways. The diurnal infusion of NEM (0.01-10 micromol/10 h) dose-dependently inhibited both non-rapid eye movement sleep and rapid eye movement sleep. A maximal dose of NEM (10 micromol/10 h) dramatically inhibited day-time sleep (-57% for non-rapid eye movement sleep and -89% for rapid eye movement sleep) with a compensatory increase of sleep during the subsequent night-time (+33% for non-rapid eye movement sleep and +259% for rapid eye movement sleep). The day-time brain temperature was also increased by NEM, demonstrating effects of NEM on both sleep and body temperature levels. Immunostaining of the rat hypothalamus with a monoclonal antibody against the A1 adenosine receptor (A1R) was used to explore the distribution of a sleep-related G(i/o) protein-coupled receptor. Robust A1R-like immunoreactivity was found in the ventromedial preoptic nucleus and the supraoptic nucleus. Fura-2-based Ca(2+) imaging analysis of acute hypothalamic slices further demonstrated that the A1R agonist N(6)-cyclopentyladenosine (CPA; 200 nM) inhibited spontaneous Ca(2+) oscillations and high potassium (80 mM)-induced Ca(2+) flux in the ventromedial preoptic nucleus, while NEM (100-300 microM) and an A1R antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-dipropylxanthine (300 nM) blocked the CPA actions and increased the high potassium-induced Ca(2+) flux. From these results we suggest that NEM-sensitive G protein-coupled receptor(s) may play an important role in the regulation of sleep and body temperature in the rat and one possible mechanism is an A1R-mediated regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) concentrations in the ventromedial preoptic nucleus.
We report the effects of permanently separating the immature forebrain from the brain stem upon sleeping and waking development. Kittens ranging from postnatal 9 to 27 days of age sustained a mesencephalic transection and were maintained for up to 135 days. Prior to postnatal day 40, the electroencephalogram of the isolated forebrain and behavioral sleep-wakefulness of the decerebrate animal showed the immature patterns of normal young kittens. Thereafter, the isolated forebrain showed alternating sleep-wakefulness electrocortical rhythms similar to the corresponding normal patterns of intact, mature cats. Olfactory stimuli generally changed forebrain sleeping into waking activity, and in cats with the section behind the third nerve nuclei, normal correlates of eye movements-pupillary activity with electrocortical rhythms were present. Behind the transection, decerebrate animals showed wakefulness, and after 20 days of age displayed typical behavioral episodes of rapid eye movements sleep and, during these periods, the pontine recordings showed ponto-geniculo-occipital waves, which are markers for this sleep stage, together with muscle atonia and rapid lateral eye movements. Typically, but with remarkable exceptions suggesting humoral interactions, the sleep-waking patterns of the isolated forebrain were dissociated from those of the decerebrate animal. These results were very similar to our previous findings in midbrain-transected adult cats. However, subtle differences suggested greater functional plasticity in the developing versus the adult isolated forebrain. We conclude that behavioral and electroencephalographic patterns of non-rapid eye movement sleep and of rapid eye movement sleep states mature independently in the forebrain and the brain stem, respectively, after these structures are separated early postnatally. In terms of waking, the findings strengthen our concept that in higher mammals the rostral brain can independently support wakefulness/arousal and, hypothetically, perhaps even awareness. Therefore, these basic sleeping-waking functions are intrinsic properties of the forebrain/brain stem and as such can develop autochthonously. These data help our understanding of some normal/borderline sleep-waking dissociations as well as peculiar states of consciousness in long term patients with brain stem lesions.
The hypocretins (orexins) are a newly identified peptide family comprised of two peptides, hypocretin-1 and hypocretin-2. Recent observations suggest an involvement of these peptides in the regulation of behavioral state. For example, these peptides are found in a variety of brain regions associated with the regulation of forebrain neuronal and behavioral activity states. Furthermore, when infused into the lateral ventricles in awake animals, hypocretin-1 elicits increased duration of waking beyond that observed in vehicle-treated animals. Previous studies have been limited to an examination of the sleep-wake effects of hypocretin-1 in awake animals. Currently, the sleep-wake effects of hypocretin-2 and the extent to which hypocretins can initiate waking in the sleeping animal remain unclear. To better characterize the wake-promoting actions of the hypocretins, the current studies examined the sleep-wake effects of varying doses (0.007, 0.07 and 0.7 nmol) of hypocretin-1 and hypocretin-2 when administered into sleeping rats (e.g. remote-controlled infusions). Infusions of hypocretin-1 and hypocretin-2 into the lateral ventricles elicited a short latency (0.7 nmol hypocretin-1; 93+/-30 s from the start of the 120-s infusion) increase in electroencephalographic, electromyographic, and behavioral indices of waking. These infusions also produced substantial decreases in slow-wave and rapid-eye movement sleep. Hypocretin-1 was more potent than hypocretin-2 in these actions. Interestingly, hypocretin-1 infused into the fourth ventricle elicited less robust waking which occurred with a longer latency than infusions into the lateral ventricles. These latter observations suggest a forebrain site of action participates in hypocretin-1-induced waking. Within the forebrain, a variety of basal forebrain structures, including the medial preoptic area, the medial septal area and the substantia innominata, receive a moderate hypocretin innervation. Therefore, additional studies examined the sleep-wake effects of bilateral hypocretin-1 infusions into these basal forebrain structures. Robust increases in waking were observed following infusions into, but not outside, the medial septal area, the medial preoptic area and the substantia innominata. These results indicate a potentially prominent role of hypocretins in sleep-wake regulation via actions within certain basal forebrain structures and are consistent with studies indicating a prominent role of hypocretins in sleep/arousal disorders.
Hyperpolarization-activated cation currents (I(h)) are found in several brain regions including thalamus and hippocampus. Important functions of these currents in promoting synchronized network activity and in determining neuronal membrane properties have been progressively recognized, but the molecular underpinnings of these currents are only emerging. I(h) currents are generated by hyperpolarization-activated, cyclic nucleotide-gated cation channels (HCNs). These channel proteins are encoded by at least four HCN genes, that govern the kinetic and functional properties of the resulting channels. Because of the potential impact of I(h)-mediated coordinated neuronal activity on the maturation of the functional hippocampal network, this study focused on determining the expression of the four members of the HCN gene family throughout postnatal hippocampal development at both the regional and single cell level.The results of these experiments demonstrated that HCNs 1, 2 and 4 are differentially expressed in interneuronal and principal cell populations of the rat hippocampal formation. Expression profiles of each HCN isoform evolve during postnatal development, and patterns observed during early postnatal ages differ significantly from those in mature hippocampus. The onset of HCN expression in interneurons of the hippocampus proper precedes that in the dentate gyrus, suggesting that HCN-mediated pacing activity may be generated in hippocampal interneurons prior to those in the hilus. Taken together, these findings indicate an age-dependent spatiotemporal evolution of specific HCN expression in distinct hippocampal cell populations, and suggest that these channels serve differing and evolving functions in the maturation of coordinated hippocampal activity.
Apomorphine-evoked expression of transcription factor proteins: c-Fos, Fos B, Jun B, and Zif268 (also named Krox-24, NGFI-A, Egr-1), was investigated in rat somatosensory (barrel) cortex. The effect of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801 on their expression was also analyzed. Apomorphine is a dopamine receptor agonist, eliciting motor activity, including enhanced whisking leading to the activation of vibrissae representation in the barrel cortex. Rats had their whiskers clipped on one side of the snout. The Zif268 levels were markedly reduced by this procedure alone. In contrast, apomorphine (5.0 mg/kg) evoked marked c-Fos elevation, less pronounced changes in Jun B and Zif268 and no change in Fos B. The greatest apomorphine-evoked c-Fos accumulation was observed in layers IV and V/VI of non-deprived barrel cortex and was not significantly influenced by MK-801 injection at 0.1 mg/kg. A higher dose of MK-801 (1.0 mg/kg) produced abnormalities in locomotor behavior and diminished c-Fos levels on the non-deprived side to the ones observed in the sensory stimulus-deprived cortex. We conclude that the response of the somatosensory cortex is selective with respect to both the gene activated and its cortical layer localization. Furthermore, sensory stimulation provides a major but not the only component to apomorphine-evoked barrel cortex gene activation.
Impairment of glutamate uptake or the reverse action of its transporters has been suggested as the mechanism responsible for the increased glutamate extracellular levels associated with ischemic neuronal damage. In previous studies we have shown that glutamate uptake inhibition by L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate (PDC) in the rat striatum and hippocampus in vivo does not induce neuronal death despite the notable increase in the extracellular levels of glutamate and aspartate. However, PDC intracerebral administration leads to neuronal death in rats chronically injected with the mitochondrial toxin 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP), an inhibitor of succinate dehydrogenase (SDH). In the present study we have determined the time course of inhibition of SDH activity in the striatum of rats acutely injected with a single dose of 3-NP (20 mg/kg), and studied its relation to PDC neurotoxicity. PDC induced larger lesions when administered during maximum inhibition of SDH activity while smaller lesions were found when it was injected during recovery of enzyme activity. We also studied the neuroprotective effect of different energy substrates such as creatine, pyruvate, and the ketone bodies beta-hydroxybutyrate and acetoacetate in this experimental model. Our results show partial protection with all compounds except for beta-hydroxybutyrate that showed no protection, while MK-801 completely prevented PDC-induced neuronal damage. We believe that the present results might be of relevance for the understanding of the mechanisms responsible for ischemic neuronal death and its prevention.
Whether or not neuron death plays a major role in pathophysiology during hydrocephalus is not well known. The goals of this study were to determine if neural degeneration occurred during hydrocephalus, and to determine if neuron tolerance developed during this pathophysiologic procedure.Neural damage as visualized by a sensitive staining technique, silver impregnation, was observed in three experimental groups: (1) adult hydrocephalic rats induced by kaolin injection into the cisterna magna, (2) adult rats with chronic hydrocephalus for 10 weeks subjected to acute forebrain ischemia induced by four-vessel occlusion, and (3) adult rats without hydrocephalus subjected to acute forebrain ischemia. The magnitude of hydrocephalus was also evaluated during this time. In mild or moderate hydrocephalus, little cell death was found. In severe hydrocephalus, axon and neuropil degeneration was extensively distributed, but cell death was still rarely observed. Although some neuron degeneration was found after acute forebrain ischemia in hydrocephalic rats, the extensive cell death in cortical layers III and V, and in hippocampal areas CA1 and CA4 that is commonly observed in the ischemic brain without hydrocephalus, was not seen. This study suggests that neuron death was not a major pathological change in the brain during hydrocephalus, with cerebral ventricles being enlarged during the development of hydrocephalus. Less neuron death in hydrocephalic rats after acute forebrain ischemia suggests that neuronal tolerance to ischemia occurs during hydrocephalus.
The amygdala has been implicated in the mediation of emotional and species-specific social behavior (Kling et al., 1970; Kling and Brothers, 1992; Kluver and Bucy, 1939; Rosvold et al., 1954). Humans with bilateral amygdala damage are impaired in judging negative emotion in facial expressions and making accurate judgements of trustworthiness (Adolphs et al., 1998, 1994). Amygdala dysfunction has also been implicated in human disorders ranging from social anxiety (Birbaumer et al., 1998) to depression (Drevets, 2000) to autism (Bachevalier, 1994; Baron-Cohen et al., 2000; Bauman and Kemper, 1993). We produced selective amygdala lesions in 2-week-old macaque monkeys who were returned to their mothers for rearing. At 6-8 months of age, the lesioned animals demonstrated less fear of novel objects such as rubber snakes than age-matched controls. However, they displayed substantially more fear behavior than controls during dyadic social interactions. These results suggest that neonatal amygdala lesions dissociate a system that mediates social fear from one that mediates fear of inanimate objects. Furthermore, much of the age-appropriate repertoire of social behavior was present in amygdala-lesioned infants indicating that these lesions do not produce autistic-like behavior in monkeys. Finally, amygdala lesions early in development have different effects on social behavior than lesions produced in adulthood.
Excitotoxicity, which is mediated by the excessive activation of glutamate receptors, has been implicated in the pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). There is substantial information about the distribution and function of ionotropic glutamate receptors in the spinal cord, although the role of metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) is poorly understood in this region of the brain, particularly under pathological conditions. We used immunocytochemistry to study the general distribution of group I and group II mGluR immunoreactivity in the human spinal cord, as well as the cell-specific expression of these receptors. We also investigated whether mGluR expression was altered in the spinal cord of patients with sporadic and familial ALS. Immunocytochemical analysis of control human spinal cord demonstrated that mGluR1alpha and mGluR5 (group I mGluRs) were highly represented in neuronal cells throughout the spinal cord. mGluR1alpha showed the highest relative level of expression in ventral horn neurons (laminae VIII and IX), whereas intense mGluR5 immunoreactivity was observed within the dorsal horn (superficial laminae I and II). Group II mGluRs (mGluR2/3) immunoreactivity was mainly concentrated in the inner part of the lamina II. With respect to specific neuronal populations, mGluR2/3 and mGluR5 appeared to be most frequently expressed in calbindin-containing and calretinin-containing cells, respectively. In control spinal cord only sparse astrocytes showed a weak to moderate mGluR immunoreactivity. Regional differences in immunoreactivity were apparent in ALS compared to control. In particular, mGluR expression was increased in reactive glial cells in both gray (ventral horn) and white matter of ALS spinal cord. Upregulation of mGluRs in reactive astrocytes may represent a critical mechanism for modulation of glial function and changes in glial-neuronal communication in the course of neurodegenerative diseases.
Spinal motor neurons undergo experience-dependent development during a critical period in early postnatal life. It has been suggested that the repertoire of glutamate receptor subunits differs between young and mature motor neurons and contributes to this activity-dependent development. In the present study we examined the expression patterns of N-methyl-D-aspartate- and kainate-type glutamate receptor subunits during the postnatal maturation of the spinal cord. Young motor neurons express much higher levels of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit NR1 than do adult motor neurons. Although there are eight potential splice variants of NR1, only a subgroup is expressed by motor neurons. With respect to NR2 receptor subunits, young motor neurons express NR2A and C, while adult motor neurons express only NR2A. Young motor neurons express kainate receptor subunits GluR5, 6 and KA2 but we are unable to detect these or any other kainate receptor subunits in the adult spinal cord. Other spinal cord regions display a distinct pattern of developmental regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate and kainate receptor subunit expression in comparison to motor neurons. Our findings indicate a precise spatio-temporal regulation of individual subunit expression in the developing spinal cord. Specific combinations of subunits in developing neurons influence their excitable properties and could participate in the emergence of adult neuronal form and function.
The present study aimed to determine if orphanin FQ, an endogenous ligand for the opioid receptor like-1 receptor, produces gender-specific effects in the modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-evoked responses of trigeminal nociceptive neurons, and in the NMDA-induced nociceptive behavior. Single-unit extracellular recordings were made from nociceptive-specific and wide dynamic range neurons in the superficial and deeper dorsal horn of the medulla (trigeminal nucleus caudalis) in anesthetized (1.5 g/kg urethane) rats. In the proestrous female, orphanin FQ applied microiontophoretically produced facilitation of the NMDA-evoked responses in 50% (16/32) of nociceptive neurons, inhibition in 31% (10/32), and biphasic effects in 19% (6/32). In contrast, in the male, it inhibited the responses in 86% (18/21), and facilitated the responses in 14% (4/21). In ovariectomized animals, orphanin FQ inhibited the responses in 75% (9/12) of nociceptive neurons, facilitated the responses in 17% (2/12) and produced biphasic effects in 8% (1/12). In contrast, in estradiol-treated ovariectomized rats, it facilitated the responses in 46% (5/11), inhibited the responses in 36% (4/11) and produced biphasic effects in 18% (2/11). For behavioral studies, NMDA-induced scratching behavior was used to assess the effects of orphanin FQ. Twenty-eight male, ovariectomized and estradiol-treated ovariectomized rats were microinjected with NMDA (2 nmol in 10 microl) alone through a cannula implanted in the medullary region, while another 27 rats were microinjected with orphanin FQ (10 nmol in 10 microl) 10 min prior to giving NMDA. Orphanin FQ reduced the NMDA-induced nociceptive scratching behavior by 92% in the male, and by 96% in ovariectomized rats. In contrast, in estradiol-treated ovariectomized animals, orphanin FQ facilitated the NMDA-induced scratching behavior by 210%. We conclude from these studies that orphanin FQ is primarily pronociceptive in the female and primarily antinociceptive in the male. Furthermore, we suggest that estrogen is involved in generating the gender-specific effects of orphanin FQ.
The selective and potent aminopeptidase N inhibitor [125I]RB 129 has been used for the radioautographic localization of this enzyme in rat brain, spinal cord and intestine. Brain microvessels and intestine brush-border cells were shown to present a high concentration of aminopeptidase N. Moreover, a labeling of various brain structures was observed. A very high level of binding occurred in the meninges, choroid plexus, pineal gland, paraventricular nucleus and pituitary gland. Moderate to high labeling was also observed in the cortex, caudate-putamen, subthalamic nucleus, central periaqueductal gray, thalamus, as well as in the dorsal and ventral horn of the spinal cord, which are known to contain a high concentration of enkephalins, opioid receptors and neutral endopeptidase. This co-localization confirms the physiological implication of aminopeptidase N in the inactivation of enkephalins accounting for the requirement of dual inhibition of neutral endopeptidase and aminopeptidase N to observe highly significant morphine-like effects induced by the protected endogenous opioid peptides. Aminopeptidase N was also visualized in moderate to high levels in other brain structures such as the hippocampus, nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra, hypothalamus (dorsomedial and ventromedial nuclei), raphe nucleus, pontine nucleus, inferior olive, and in high concentration in the granular layer of cerebellum. In summary, aminopeptidase N has been visualized for the first time in numerous brain areas using the selective inhibitor [125I]RB 129. This iodinated probe could allow the ex vivo and in vivo localization of aminopeptidase N in various tissues to be investigated and may also be used to evaluate quantitative changes in aminopeptidase N expression in pathological situations. Aminopeptidase N, which preferably removes NH2-terminal neutral amino acids from peptides, has probably a host of substrates. Nevertheless, a certain in vivo selectivity could be achieved by the presence of the enzyme in structures where the peptide effector and its receptors are also co-localized.
Using a technique to identify substrates of the peptide processing enzyme carboxypeptidase E (CPE), several novel peptides were detected in the brain and pituitary of Cpe(fat)/Cpe(fat) mice and found to be derived from a single precursor, termed proSAAS. In order to gain further information regarding the potential physiological roles of these peptides, we have examined the distribution of two proSAAS-derived peptides, ARPVKEPRSLSAASAPLAETSTPLRL (SAAS) and LENSSPQAPARRLLPP (LEN), in rat neuroendocrine tissues using immunohistochemistry. Both peptides are detected throughout the brain, with the highest concentrations of SAAS peptide in the hypothalamus. In the hippocampus, both peptides are co-localized with prohormone convertase 1 in the dentate gyrus and CA1-3 region. In cerebellum, SAAS peptide is co-localized with prohormone convertase 1 in Purkinje and granular cells, whereas LEN is much more abundant in the Purkinje cells relative to the granular cells. Similarly, SAAS and prohormone convertase 1 are co-localized in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, while LEN is mainly restricted to fibers of the white matter. In the pituitary, SAAS, LEN, and prohormone convertase 1 are detected in all three lobes. In the pancreas, SAAS, LEN, and prohormone convertase 1 are only detected in the islets, although the peptides are enriched in the peripheral cells (alpha and/or delta) while prohormone convertase 1 is only expressed in the inner cells (beta). Both SAAS and LEN are present in the adrenal medulla along with prohormone convertase 1. Taken together, these data are consistent with the proposed role for proSAAS as an endogenous inhibitor of prohormone convertase 1 in many, but not all cell types. However, the broader localization of the peptides allows for the possibility that they perform additional functions.
We determined whether chronic neuropathy changes response properties of neurons in the rostroventromedial medulla of rats, and whether (d-Tyr)L(Me-Phe)QPQRF-amide, a neuropeptide FF analogue, in the periaqueductal gray produces changes in responses of rostroventromedial medullary neurons that might underlie its antiallodynic effect described earlier. Single unit recordings of medullary neurons were performed in lightly anesthetized neuropathic and control animals. Spontaneous activity and the responses to noxious thermal and mechanical stimulation of the hind paw were determined with and without administration of (d-Tyr)L(Me-Phe)QPQRF-amide. The neurons were classified into three groups: ON-neurons increased, OFF-neurons decreased, and NEUTRAL-neurons did not change their discharge rate prior to a limb withdrawal induced by noxious stimulation of the skin. Spontaneous activity and heat-evoked responses of ON-neurons were not different between neuropathic and control animals, whereas their mechanically evoked responses were reduced in neuropathy. Response properties of OFF-neurons were not different between neuropathic and control animals. Spontaneous activity of NEUTRAL-neurons was not different between neuropathic and control animals. (d-Tyr)L(Me-Phe)QPQRF-amide in the periaqueductal gray had no significant effect on evoked responses or spontaneous activity of ON- or OFF-neurons, independent of the experimental group. However, (d-Tyr)L(Me-Phe)QPQRF-amide produced a significant attenuation of spontaneous activity of NEUTRAL-neurons in neuropathic animals. In a behavioral study performed in unanesthetized animals it was found that intrathecal administration of methysergide, a serotonin antagonist, selectively attenuated neuropathic symptoms. Also, light pentobarbitone anesthesia markedly attenuated, but did not abolish, behaviorally determined neuropathic symptoms. From these results we suggest that NEUTRAL-neurons of the rostroventromedial medulla may have a role in neuropathy and they may be involved in attenuation of mechanical hypersensitivity by (d-Tyr)L(Me-Phe)QPQRF-amide in the periaqueductal gray. It is proposed that in neuropathy the synaptic effects of descending impulses from medullary NEUTRAL-neurons on their axonal targets in the spinal cord are changed so that this contributes to mechanical hypersensitivity, due to mechanisms that are at least partly serotoninergic.
Hotfoot is a mutant mouse with an ataxic phenotype which has been shown to be due to a mutation in the Grid2 gene. In this paper, we compare molecular, morphological, electrophysiological and behavioral features of two Grid2 alleles: Grid2(ho-4J) and Grid2(ho-Nancy). We first show that these two mutations are deletions in the open reading frame of the gene and that no GRID2 protein is detectable in extracts of mutant cerebella, suggesting that the two alleles are null-like mutations. Morphological and electrophysiological analyses reveal no obvious differences between the two strains: both strains showed the naked Purkinje dendritic spines and mismatch between the length of the presynaptic active zone and postsynaptic differentiation characteristic of the hotfoot mutation; and the same low level (20%) of multiple climbing fiber innervation of Purkinje cells was found in both strains. Only differences in motor behavior were found between the two strains. The Grid2(ho-4J) mouse shows more severe ataxia that the Grid2(ho-Nancy) mouse and, although both strains show a clear capacity to improve their performance of a motor task with training, the Grid2(ho-4J) performance remains very poor whereas Grid2(ho-Nancy) mice approach control levels. The only difference between the two strains is their genetic background. Our results show that the genetic background must be taken into account when analyzing sensorimotor performances of mutant mice.
Using confocal laser scanning microscopy and immunohistochemistry, this study shows the complete morphological development of GABAergic synaptic contacts between Purkinje cells and neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei of the mouse. Firstly, presynaptic varicosities visualized with antibodies against synaptophysin, synapsin or glutamic acid decarboxylase, were detected when the postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors were not yet aggregated in the membrane but had a diffuse cytoplasmic distribution, which indicated a lead in maturation of presynaptic terminals over target cells. Secondly, receptor aggregates developed suddenly after an initial week of diffuse expression and these clusters matured into more numerous and larger synaptic aggregates. During this postsynaptic maturation, the presynaptic varicosities develop into numerous and well-defined spots. As soon as both pre- and postsynaptic clusters were detectable, these sites are always colocalized. We therefore consider the aggregation of postsynaptic receptor during development as a landmark of synapse formation. Our observations are consistent with a developmental model in which the presynaptic neuron differentiates its axon before the target neuron expresses the mature form of its receptors on the membrane. The presynaptic neuron can therefore instruct the target neuron about the distribution and aggregation of the postsynaptic receptors at the synapse.
The regulation of neurotransmitter receptors during synapse formation has been studied extensively at the neuromuscular junction, but little is known about the development of excitatory neurotransmitter receptors during synaptogenesis in central synapses. In this study we show qualitatively and quantitatively that a receptor undergoes changes in localisation on the surface of rat Purkinje cells during development in association with its excitatory synapses. The presence of mGluR1alpha at parallel and climbing fibre synapses on developing Purkinje cells was studied using high-resolution immunoelectron microscopy. Immunoreactivity for mGluR1alpha was detected from embryonic day 18 in Purkinje cells, and showed dramatic changes in its localisation with age. At early postnatal ages (P0 and P3), mGluR1alpha was found both in somata and stem dendrites but was not usually associated with synaptic contacts. At P7, mGluR1alpha became concentrated in somatic spines associated with climbing fibres and in the growing dendritic arborisation even before innervation by parallel fibres. During the second and third postnatal week, when spines and parallel fibre synapses were generated, mGluR1alpha became progressively concentrated in the molecular layer, particularly in the synaptic specialisations. As a result, during the fourth postnatal week, the pattern and level of mGluR1alpha expression became similar to the adult and mGluR1alpha appeared in high density in perisynaptic sites. Our results indicate that mGluR1alpha is present in the developing Purkinje cells prior to their innervation by climbing and parallel fibres and demonstrate that this receptor undergoes a dynamic and specific regulation during postnatal development in association with the establishment of synaptic inputs to Purkinje cell.
In mammals, a number of anatomical and functional changes occur in the circadian timing system with aging. In certain species, aging can be modified by various factors which induce a number of pathological changes. In a small primate, the gray mouse lemur (Microcebus murinus), long-term acceleration of seasonal rhythms by exposing the animals to a shortened photoperiodic regime (up to 2.5 times the natural photoperiodic regime) alters longevity, based on survival curves and morphological changes. This provides a model for challenging the idea that modifications of the circadian pacemaker are related to chronological (years) versus biological (photoperiodic cycles) age. To assess the effect of aging and accelerated aging on the circadian pacemaker of this primate, we measured body weight variations, the daily rhythm in urine 6-sulfatoxymelatonin and the light-induced expression of the immediate early gene (Fos) in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of mouse lemurs that had been exposed to different photoperiodic cycles. Urine samples were collected throughout the day and urine 6-sulfatoxymelatonin levels were measured by radioimmunoassay. Light-induced Fos expression in the suprachiasmatic nucleus was studied by exposing the animals to a 15-min monochromatic pulse of light (500 nm) at saturating or sub-saturating levels of irradiance (10(11) or 10(14) photons/cm(2)/s) during the dark phase. The classical pattern of 6-sulfatoxymelatonin excretion was significantly altered in aged mouse lemurs which failed to show a nocturnal peak. Fos expression following exposure to low levels of irradiance was reduced by 88% in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of aged mouse lemurs. Exposure to higher irradiance levels showed similar results, with a reduction of 66% in Fos expression in the aged animals. Animals subjected to artificially accelerated aging demonstrated the same alterations in melatonin production and Fos response to light as animals that had been maintained in a routine photoperiodic cycle. Our data indicate that there are dramatic changes in melatonin production and in the cellular response to photic input in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of aged mouse lemurs, and that these alterations depend on the number of expressed seasonal cycles rather than on a fixed chronological age. These results provide new insights into the mechanisms underlying artificial accelerated aging at the level of the molecular mechanisms of the biological clock.
The ATP-induced increase in the cytosolic Ca(2+) concentration ([Ca]i) and current in acutely dissociated ventromedial hypothalamic rats neurons were investigated using fura-2 microfluorometry and the nystatin-perforated patch recording method, respectively. The ATP-induced [Ca]i increase was mimicked by dimethyl-thio-ATP and ATPgammaS, and was inhibited by P2 purinoreceptor antagonists. The ATP-induced [Ca]i increase was markedly reduced by removal of external Na(+) or Ca(2+), and by addition of various Ca(2+) channel antagonists. ATP induced a transient inward current exhibiting a strong inward rectification at membrane potentials more positive than -20 mV. The ATP-induced current at a holding potential of -70 mV was concentration-dependent with a half-maximum effective concentration of 26 microM. Increasing the external Ca(2+) concentration to 10 mM shifted the dose-response relationship to the right. ATP induced only a small current and a small increase in [Ca]i, even at 10 mM Ca(2+), when external Na(+) was removed, suggesting the relatively low permeability to Ca(2+) of purinoceptor channels. These results suggest that ATP activates non-selective cation channels by acting on P2X purinoceptors on dissociated ventromedial hypothalamic neurons, which in turn increases [Ca]i by increasing Ca(2+) influx through voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels.
Activation of 5-hydroxytryptamine(2A) (5-HT(2A)) receptors by hallucinogenic drugs is thought to mediate many psychotomimetic effects including changes in affect, cognition and perception. Conversely, blockade of 5-HT(2A) receptors may mediate therapeutic effects of many atypical antidepressant and antipsychotic drugs. The purpose of the present study was to determine the source of subcortical glutamatergic afferents, which would project widely throughout the anterior-posterior axis of the rat brain to the apical dendrites of layer V pyramidal cells of the medial prefrontal cortex, from which serotonin induces transmitter release via activation of 5-HT(2A) receptors. Fiber-sparing chemical lesions of the medial thalamus selectively decreased the frequency of serotonin-induced excitatory postsynaptic currents recorded from layer V pyramidal cells in the prelimbic region of the medial prefrontal cortex by 60%. In contrast, large bilateral lesions of the amygdala did not alter the serotonin response. These thalamic lesions significantly decreased the amount of binding to either mu-opioid or metabotropic glutamate 2/3 receptors in the prelimbic region of the medial prefrontal cortex as expected from previous evidence that these agonists for these receptors suppress serotonin-induced excitatory postsynaptic currents by a presynaptic mechanism. Surprisingly, the amount of specific binding to cortical 5-HT(2A) receptors was significantly increased by the medial thalamic lesions. Thus, these experiments demonstrate that activation of cortical 5-HT(2A) receptors modulates transmitter release from thalamocortical terminals. Unexpectedly, lesioning the thalamocortical terminals also alters 5-HT(2A) receptor binding in the prefrontal cortex. These findings are of interest with respect to understanding therapeutic effects of antidepressant/antipsychotic drugs and the known behavioral effects of thalamic lesions in humans.
The globus pallidus plays an important role in basal ganglia circuitry, representing the first relay nucleus of the 'indirect pathway' of striatal efferents. In contrast to the well-characterized actions of dopamine on striatal neurons, the functional role of the dopamine innervation of globus pallidus is less well understood. Previous research showed that systemic administration of either a dopamine D2 receptor antagonist or combined dopamine D1 and D2 receptor agonists induces Fos, the protein product of the immediate early gene c-fos, in neurons of globus pallidus [Ruskin and Marshall (1997) Neuroscience 81, 79-92]. To determine whether the ability of the D2 receptor antagonist, sulpiride, to induce Fos in rat pallidal neurons is mediated by D2-like receptors in striatum or globus pallidus, intrastriatal or intrapallidal sulpiride infusions were conducted. The diffusion of intrastriatal sulpiride was estimated by measuring this antagonist's competition for N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ)-induced D2 receptor inactivation. The phenotype of the striatal neurons expressing Fos after intrastriatal infusion was assessed by combining Fos immunocytochemistry with D2 receptor mRNA in situ hybridization. Intrastriatal infusions of (-)-sulpiride (10-200 ng) dose-dependently increased the number of striatal cells expressing Fos; and the Fos-immunoreactive striatal cells were D2 receptor mRNA-expressing, the same population in which systemic D2 receptor antagonists induce Fos. Intrastriatal infusions of high (5 microg), but not low (10-200 ng), (-)-sulpiride doses also induced Fos in globus pallidus cells but the sulpiride appeared to spread to the globus pallidus. Direct intrapallidal infusions of (-)-sulpiride (50-100 ng) dose-dependently induced Fos in globus pallidus with minimal influence on striatum or other basal ganglia structures. Using sensitive in situ hybridization conditions, prominent labeling of D2 receptor mRNA was evident in globus pallidus. D2 receptor mRNA was densest in a lateral 200 microm wide band that follows the curvature of the pallidal/striatal boundary. Cellular analysis revealed silver clusters associated with D2 receptor mRNA labeling over globus pallidus neurons that were immunoreactive for neuron-specific nuclear protein. These results strongly suggest that the dopaminergic innervation of globus pallidus, acting through D2-like receptors internal to this structure, can control gene expression in pallidal neurons.
Destruction of the nigro-striatal pathway in Parkinson's disease and treatment with L-DOPA lead to persistent alterations in basal ganglia output pathways that are poorly characterised. Differential display mRNA analysis was used to study the effects of 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesions of the medial forebrain bundle on gene expression in the rat striatum. One up-regulated cDNA identified in two independent groups of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned animals was cloned and sequence analysis showed 97% homology to secretogranin II. Differential up-regulation of secretogranin II following 6-hydroxydopamine lesioning was confirmed in a further group of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats using TaqMan real time quantitative reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction. Following chronic L-DOPA treatment of 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, secretogranin II mRNA was further up-regulated to a similar degree to that observed for preproenkephalin A mRNA expression. Immunohistochemical analysis confirmed the increase in secretogranin II peptide levels in striatal neurones in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats following chronic L-DOPA treatment. The increase in secretogranin II mRNA occurring following destruction of the nigro-striatal pathway and chronic L-DOPA treatment may result in an increase in secretoneurin levels, which could be important for the regulation of striatal output pathways.
Long-term potentiation of the hippocampal-septal pathway was examined by intracellular recording techniques. High frequency stimulation (two 100-Hz 1-s trains with a 20-s interval between them) of the hippocampal CA3 area resulted in a transient depolarization in rat lateral septal nucleus neurons. High frequency stimulation was followed by a facilitation of fast and slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, lasting for more than 2 h, but not by a long-lasting increase in the excitatory postsynaptic potential in the normal solution. Long-term potentiation (&gt;2 h) of the excitatory postsynaptic potential did not appear in 74% of neurons tested, even when the fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential was blocked by bicuculline (30 microM), a GABA(A) receptor antagonist. High frequency stimulation produced long-term potentiation of the excitatory postsynaptic potential in the Mg(2+)-free solution containing bicuculline. When the fast and slow inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were blocked by GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptor antagonists (bicuculline and CGP 55845A respectively), high frequency stimulation produced a large and sustained depolarization followed by long-term potentiation of the excitatory postsynaptic potential. However, the excitatory postsynaptic potential was not enhanced by administration of these drugs after termination of high frequency stimulation. Pretreatment with 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate, a NMDA receptor antagonist, resulted in loss of long-term potentiation in both sets of experiments. Paired-pulse stimulation of the hippocampal CA3 region with interstimulus intervals between 200 and 800 ms depressed the second excitatory postsynaptic potential in the presence of bicuculline. CGP 35348, a GABA(B) receptor antagonist, reversed the depression of excitatory postsynaptic potentials to facilitation. These data suggest that high frequency stimulation of hippocampal CA3 neurons enhances the efficacy of GABAergic inhibitory circuits which, in turn, depress the ability of lateral septal nucleus neurons to express long-term potentiation.
The role of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors in the induction/expression of long-term potentiation has been investigated in the medial perforant path of the outer (infrapyramidal) blade of the rat dentate gyrus in vitro. Activation of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors by perfusion of the selective agonist LY354740 did not induce long-term potentiation or long-term depression in control. However, LY354740, applied following the induction of long-term potentiation by high frequency stimulation, resulted in additional long-term potentiation. LY354740 was only found to cause additional long-term potentiation if the pre-existing high frequency stimulation-induced long-term potentiation was sub-maximal. Although activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors was not required for induction of high frequency stimulation-induced long-term potentiation, activation of both group I and group II metabotropic glutamate receptors was required during high frequency stimulation-induced long-term potentiation in order for subsequent application of LY354740 to result in additional long-term potentiation. Thus, the long-term potentiation caused by application of LY354740 following high frequency-induced long-term potentiation was prevented if the high frequency stimulation was given in the presence of (S)-alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine or the selective group I or group II metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists 1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid or (2S)-alpha-ethylglutamic acid respectively. The long-term potentiation caused by LY354740 was also dependent upon activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors during the high frequency stimulation, being blocked if high frequency stimulation was given in the presence of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid. The long-term potentiation resulting from activation of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors could be due either to the enhancement of the expression level of the high frequency stimulation-induced long-term potentiation, or alternatively, to a direct novel induction of long-term potentiation. In either theory, the long-term potentiation resulting from activation of group II metabotropic glutamate receptors is dependent upon prestimulation of group I and group II metabotropic glutamate receptors and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors during the 'preconditioning high frequency stimulation'.
The role of Orphanin-FQ/nociceptin in synaptic plasticity was assessed by its potency in modulating kindling epileptogenesis in vivo, and feed-forward inhibition in hippocampal recordings in vitro. In addition, a specific rabbit antiserum against this peptide was obtained and the immunohistochemical distribution of nociceptin was determined in rat brain slices. After the establishment of kindling epilepsy, by daily electrical stimulation of the piriform cortex, the i.c.v. injection of nociceptin, 20 min before the kindling stimulation, was not able to block the generation of the generalized seizures, nor to alter their duration. However, the i.c.v. injection of nociceptin, 20 min before each stimulation along the kindling process, depressed its development in a dose-dependent manner. This effect was specific since the nociceptin antagonist [Phe1psi(CH2-NH)Gly2]NC(1-13)NH2, but not the broad-spectrum opiate antagonist, naloxone, was able to completely block nociceptin actions. The inhibitory role of nociceptin was assessed by in vitro recordings from entorhinal cortex-hippocampal slices. By single pulses applied over the Schaffer collaterals, we found that synaptic transmission was facilitated onto CA1, but using a paired-pulse protocol, we found that nociceptin potentiated feed-forward inhibition. The immunohistochemical data show that nociceptin is expressed in limbic cortical regions, including the piriform cortex and the hippocampus. Our results demonstrate that nociceptin exerts a modulatory role in limbic excitability and suggest that it provides an inhibitory control in the development of epilepsy by possibly inhibiting the spread of excitation through the system, by favoring feed-forward inhibition.
The intermediate and medial hyperstriatum ventrale (IMHV) is a forebrain region in the domestic chick that is a site of information storage for the learning process of imprinting. We enquired whether imprinting is associated with learning-related increases in calcium-dependent, potassium-stimulated release of neurotransmitter amino acids from the IMHV. Chicks were hatched and reared in darkness until 15-30 h after hatching. They then either remained in darkness or were trained for 2 h by exposure to an imprinting stimulus. One hour later, the chicks were given a preference test and a preference score was calculated from the results of this test, as a measure of imprinting. Chicks were killed 2 h after training. Slices from the left and right IMHV of trained and untrained chicks were superfused with Krebs' solution either with or without calcium and the superfusate assayed for arginine, aspartate, citrulline, GABA, glutamate, glycine and taurine using high-performance liquid chromatography. For calcium-containing superfusates from the left IMHV, preference score was significantly correlated with potassium-stimulated release of (i) GABA (r=0.51, 23 d.f., P=0.008) and (ii) taurine (r=0.77, 23 d.f., P&lt;0.0001). There was no significant difference between the mean values of trained and untrained chicks for either compound. However, examination of the variance of the data indicated that release of both GABA and taurine increased as a result of learning. No significant correlation between preference score and release was found for any of the amino acids from the right IMHV, nor for control tissue from the left IMHV superfused with calcium-free solution. These results demonstrate that the learning process of imprinting is associated with increases in releasable pools of GABA and taurine and/or membrane excitability in the left IMHV.
Thermocoagulation of pial blood vessels overlying the cerebral cortex induces an ischemic degeneration of the cortex. We have previously shown with anatomical tracing techniques that thermocoagulatory lesions of the sensorimotor cortex trigger a robust axonal sprouting of contralateral cortical neurons into the denervated striatum. Similar sprouting was not observed after acute aspiration lesions of the same cortical region. We have now examined immunostaining for the growth-associated protein (GAP)-43 at the ultrastructural level after both types of lesions. A modest increase in growth cone-like structures was observed just below the corpus callosum after both lesions. However, GAP-43-positive growth cone-like structures were markedly increased in the denervated dorsolateral striatum only after thermocoagulatory lesions. In contrast, no significant increase in growth cone immunostaining was found in the dorsolateral striatum after aspiration lesions, confirming the absence of axonal sprouting in the dorsolateral striatum in this condition. Corticostriatal inputs make asymmetric synapses with dendritic spines of striatal neurons. As expected, the density of asymmetric synapses was markedly decreased in the dorsolateral striatum after aspiration lesions. However, it was not different from control after thermocoagulatory lesions that removed the same cortical area. The density of symmetric synapses was decreased after both types of lesions at 16 but not 42 days post-surgery. These data reveal that robust axonal and synaptic remodeling can occur in the dorsolateral striatum of adult rats after ischemic lesions of the cerebral cortex and further demonstrate marked differences in the degree of anatomical plasticity induced by two different types of cortical lesions.
Treatment with insulin-like growth factor-1 has been demonstrated to reduce the extent of cortical infarction 5 days after hypoxic-ischemic brain injury. As neuronal death can be progressive and long lasting after initial injury, the present study examined the long-term effects of insulin-like growth factor-1 on late neuronal loss 20 days after hypoxic-ischemic injury, together with evaluating neurobehavioral outcome as assumed by somatosensory function. Unilateral brain injury was induced in adult rats by carotid artery ligation followed by 10 min of hypoxia (6% O2). A single dose of insulin-like growth factor-1 (50 microg) was administered intracerebroventricularly via a stereotaxically pre-fixed cannula 2 h after injury. A bilateral tactile stimulation test was used to examine the degree of somatosensory function at 3, 5, 10 and 20 days after the hypoxia in both insulin-like growth factor-1- (n=12) and its vehicle- (n=12) treated rats, along with sham-operated rats (n=9). Cortical infarction and percentage of selective neuronal loss in the cerebral cortex were examined 20 days after the hypoxic-ischemic injury in both treatment groups. Hypoxic-ischemic injury resulted in a significant delay in the time taken to contact the patch over the period examined (left/right ratio 5.1+/-0.79), particularly at 3 days (7.0+/-2.8) after the hypoxia, compared to sham-operated rats (1.1+/-0.9, P&lt;0.05). The overall effect of insulin-like growth factor-1 in reducing the time taken to contact the patch was significant (P=0.03, 2.6+/-0.79) compared to the vehicle group. There was a trend towards a reduction of cortical infarction after insulin-like growth factor-1 treatment (P=0.058), however insulin-like growth factor-1 significantly reduced the percentage of selective neuronal loss (P=0.027) 20 days following the hypoxia. From these data we suggest that insulin-like growth factor-1 improves somatosensory function by reducing both the extent of cortical infarction and ongoing progressive neuronal death during brain recovery from hypoxic-ischemic injury.
To address the influence of oxidative stress and defense capacities in the effects of transient hypoxia in the immature brain, the time course of reactive oxygen species generation was monitored by flow cytometry using dihydrorhodamine 123 and 2',7'-dichlorofluorescein-diacetate in cultured neurons issued from the fetal rat forebrain and subjected to hypoxia/reoxygenation (6 h/96 h). Parallel transcriptional and activity changes of superoxide dismutases, glutathione peroxidase and catalase were analyzed, in line with cell outcome. The study confirmed hypoxia-induced delayed apoptotic death, and depicted increased mitochondrial and cytosolic productions of free radicals (+30%) occurring over the 48-h period after the restoration of oxygen supply, with sequential stimulations of superoxide dismutases. Whereas catalase mRNA levels and activity were augmented by cell reoxygenation, glutathione peroxidase activity was transiently repressed (-24%), along with reduced glutathione reductase activity (-27%) and intracellular glutathione depletion (-19%). Coupled with the neuroprotective effects of the glutathione precursor N-acetyl-cysteine (50 microM), these data suggest that hypoxia/reoxygenation-induced production of reactive oxygen species can overwhelm glutathione-dependent antioxidant capacity, and thus may contribute to the resulting neuronal apoptosis.
This study addresses the issue of whether cholinergic varicosities in the cerebral cortex establish 'classical synapses' or whether they communicate with their targets non-synaptically by 'volume transmission'. Most recent studies in the neocortex have suggested that acetylcholine acts non-synaptically, however in the present study we provide ultrastructural evidence that suggests synaptic mechanisms prevail. This conclusion is based upon our ultrastructural observations that cholinergic boutons--as revealed by immunoreactivity for the specific cholinergic market, vesicular acetylcholine transporter--establish a high percentage of classical synapses in layer V of the rat parietal cortex. Furthermore, the combination of this approach with the intracellular labeling of large pyramidal neurons on slice preparations revealed significant incidences of cholinergic contacts abutting preferentially on dendritic shafts. Finally, we have gathered information suggesting that cholinergic boutons undergo atrophy with aging which could be related to the well-known cholinergic and cognitive decline. These results illustrate that the cholinergic terminations in the neocortex establish proper synaptic connections and that they experience important age-dependent atrophy.
Electrophysiological recordings were made from single sensory mechanothermal nociceptive afferent fibres in dissected nerve filaments of the parafibular nerve innervating the scaly skin of the lower leg of the chicken. Two classes of mechanothermal nociceptors were identified consisting of 34 C fibres (conduction velocities 0.45-1.5 m/s, mean 1.08) and nine A-delta fibres (3-15 m/s, mean 6.34). The C fibre afferents had receptive fields which were circular or elliptical in shape and ranged in size from 1 mm in diameter to 4 x 3 mm. Thresholds to mechanical stimulation in the C fibre afferents ranged from 0.3 to 33 g (median 1.5 g) and thermal thresholds were in the range 39-61 degrees C (median 49.4 degrees C). Stimulus-response curves to thermal and/or mechanical stimulation were recorded from 28 C fibre afferents and subjected to a linear regression analysis to determine whether they were best fitted by a linear, log or power function. The results were variable and no single function provided the best fit for all the responses. Of the fibres tested with both stimulus modalities (n=17), only 12 fibres showed the same best fit for both stimuli; in the others the best fit regression lines differed between stimuli. The response of the A-delta fibres to mechanical and thermal stimulation was very similar to the C fibres but the small number of A-delta fibres precluded any detailed statistical analysis. Comparison of the physiological properties of the C fibres in the leg with those previously identified in the beak showed that those in the leg had significantly lower thermal thresholds, but higher mechanical thresholds. The possible functional significance of these differences is discussed. These findings are also discussed in a comparative context to identify similarities and differences between mechanothermal nociceptors in birds and other vertebrates, relating these to their possible evolutionary and functional significance.
The cholinergic neurons which originate in the mesopontine tegmentum and innervate the midbrain ventral tegmental area have been proposed to play a key role in intracranial self-stimulation reward. This mesopontine area also contains GABA neurons. Detailed information is still lacking, however, about the relationship of cholinergic and GABAergic neurons in this region to self-stimulation reward. Therefore, using double immunostaining for Fos as a marker of neuronal activity and choline acetyltransferase as a marker of cholinergic neurons, or for Fos and GABA, we investigated whether self-stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle induces Fos expression within cholinergic and GABAergic neurons in two regions of the mesopontine tegmentum, i.e., pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus. Self-stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle for 1 h induced a large increase in the number of cells expressing Fos in both the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus and laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, when compared to control brains. However, the self-stimulation-induced expression of Fos was restricted mostly to GABA-, but not choline acetyltransferase-, immunostained cells. We also examined, using microdialysis, whether self-stimulation increases acetylcholine efflux in the ventral tegmental area, a terminal region of the mesopontine tegmentum cholinergic pathway. One hour of self-stimulation significantly increased acetylcholine efflux from this terminal area. These results indicate that intracranial self-stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle may increase acetylcholine release without affecting expression of Fos in cholinergic neurons, while the same stimulation may induce Fos expression in GABAergic neurons of the mesopontine tegmentum. GABAergic as well as cholinergic neurons in this area appear to be activated by self-stimulation reward in the medial forebrain bundle.
The distribution of the purine receptor P2X(6) subtype was studied in the rat hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system at the electron microscope level. Receptors were visualised with ExtrAvidin peroxidase conjugate and immunogold-silver pre-embedding immunocytochemistry using a polyclonal antibody against an intracellular domain of the receptor. Application of ExtrAvidin labelling revealed P2X(6) receptors in subpopulations of: (i) neurosecretory cell bodies, neurosecretory and non-neurosecretory axons and dendrites of neurones in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei; and (ii) pituicytes and neurosecretory axons of the neurohypophysis. Some of the neurosecretory granules observed in the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei neurone cell bodies, dendrites and axons as well as those in neurohypophysial axons were also positive for the P2X(6) receptors. In the paraventricular nucleus, some axons and dendrites of non-neurosecretory neurones positive for P2X(6) receptors formed synapses between themselves. Using the immunogold-silver method, the electron-dense particles labelling P2X(6) receptors were found in neurosecretory cell bodies of the supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei, in relation to the cytoplasm, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi complex and neurosecretory granules. The particles indicative of P2X(6) receptors were also located in neurosecretory and non-neurosecretory axons including axonal buttons making synapses with P2X(6)-negative dendrites. In the neurohypophysis, the electron-dense particles were localised in a subpopulation of pituicytes and neurosecretory axons. In neurohypophysial axons, particles were at times seen over the membrane of some neurosecretory granules (immunogold label) or microvesicles (immunoperoxidase label). We speculate that the P2X(6) receptors at the neurohypophysial level may be implicated not only in hormone release from the axon terminals, but also in membrane recycling of the granular vesicles and microvesicles.
Projections to the amygdala from various cortical and subcortical areas terminate in different nuclei. In the present study we examined long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission in the lateral or the basal amygdaloid nuclei by theta burst stimulation of thalamic vs. cortical sensory projections in the anesthetized rat. Although both the medial geniculate nucleus and the dorsal perirhinal cortex have direct projections to lateral nucleus, only the thalamic stimulation induced long-term potentiation of field potentials recorded in the lateral nucleus. In contrast, cortical (ventral perirhinal cortex) but not thalamic stimulation induced long-term potentiation in the basal nucleus. Since the thalamic pathway is believed to process simple/unimodal stimulus features, and the perirhinal cortex complex/polymodal sensory representations, the dissociation of long-term potentiation in lateral and basal nuclei suggests that the basal nucleus may serve as an amygdaloid sensory interface for complex stimulus information similar to the role of the lateral nucleus in relation to relatively simple representations. Thus plasticity of simple and complex representations may involve different amygdala inputs and circuits.
Huntington's disease is a progressive, inherited neurodegenerative disorder characterized by the loss of subsets of neurons primarily in the striatum. In this study, we assessed the neuroprotective effect of lithium against striatal lesion formation in a rat model of Huntington's disease in which quinolinic acid was unilaterally infused into the striatum. For this purpose, we used a dopamine receptor autoradiography and glutamic acid decarboxylase mRNA in situ hybridization analysis, methods previously shown to be adequate for quantitative analysis of the excitotoxin-induced striatal lesion size. Here we demonstrated that subcutaneous injections of LiCl for 16 days prior to quinolinic acid infusion considerably reduced the size of quinolinic acid-induced striatal lesion. Furthermore, these lithium pre-treatments also decreased the number of striatal neurons labeled with the terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling assay. Immunohistochemistry and western blotting demonstrated that lithium-elicited neuroprotection was associated with an increase in Bcl-2 protein levels. Our results raise the possibility that lithium may be considered as a neuroprotective agent in treatment of neurodegenerative diseases such as Huntington's disease.
1-Methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) is widely used to induce an animal model of Parkinsonism. The conventional mouse model, which usually involves acute or subacute injections of MPTP, results in a significant but reversible loss of dopaminergic functions. We have developed an alternative mouse model, in which co-administration of MPTP with probenecid results in the chronic loss of striatal dopamine for at least 6 months after cessation of treatment. In the present study, we compare the neurochemical, morphological and behavioral changes that occur in this alternative, chronic model with those in the conventional, subacute model. In the chronic model, we demonstrate an almost 80% loss of striatal dopamine and dopamine uptake 6 months after withdrawal from treatment. The neurochemical signs match unbiased stereological measures that demonstrate gradual loss of substantia nigra neurons. Rotarod performance further substantiates these findings by showing a progressive decline in motor performance. Based on the comparisons made in this study in mice, the chronic MPTP/probenecid model shows considerable improvements over the conventional, subacute MPTP model. The sustained alterations in the nigrostriatal pathway resemble the cardinal signs of human Parkinson's disease and suggest that this chronic mouse model is potentially useful to study the pathophysiology and mechanisms of Parkinsonism. It should also prove useful for the development of neuroprotection strategies.
Medium spiny neurons were recorded from striatal slices obtained from mice lacking the group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) subtype 1 or subtype 5. In wild-type animals, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced membrane depolarization/inward currents were potentiated in the presence of both the group I mGluR agonist 3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (3,5-DHPG) and the mGluR5 selective agonist (RS)-2-chloro-5-hydroxyphenylglycine (CHPG). Likewise, in mGluR1 knockout mice, both 3,5-DHPG and CHPG were able to potentiate NMDA responses. Conversely, in neurons recorded from mGluR5-deficient mice, the enhancement of NMDA responses by both 3,5-DHPG and CHPG was absent. Pharmacological analysis performed from rat slices confirmed the data obtained with mice. In the presence of the competitive mGluR1 antagonist LY367385, the NMDA responses were potentiated in the presence of CHPG, whereas the CHPG-induced enhancement was not observed in slices treated with the non-competitive mGluR5 antagonist 2-methyl-6-(phenylethynyl)-pyridine. As in wild-type mice, in neither of the mGluR1- and mGluR5-deficient mice did (2S,1'R,2'R,3'R)-2-(2,3-dicarboxylcyclopropyl)-glycine (1 microM), nor L-serine-O-phosphate (30 microM) (agonists for group II and III mGluRs, respectively) affect the NMDA-evoked responses. In striatal medium spiny neurons, NMDA responses are potentiated by endogenous acetylcholine via M1-like muscarinic receptors. Since the enhancement of NMDA responses by 3,5-DHPG and by M1-like muscarinic agonists was shown to share common post-receptor mechanisms, we verified whether the muscarinic potentiation of NMDA responses was affected in these group I mGluR-deficient mice. Both in mGluR1 and mGluR5 knockout animals, in the presence of either muscarine or the M1-like muscarinic receptor agonist McN-A-343, the positive modulation of the NMDA-induced membrane depolarization persisted.These results confirm the permissive role of group I mGluRs on NMDA responses in striatal neurons and reveal that this functional interplay occurs exclusively through the mGluR5 subtype. The NMDA-mGluR5 interaction might play an important modulatory role in the final excitatory drive from corticostriatal afferents and suggests that drugs acting at mGluR5 might prove useful for the treatment of movement disorders involving the striatum.
Neuronal calcium sensor-1 (NCS-1), the mammalian homologue of frequenin, is a member of a highly conserved family of neuron-specific calcium-binding proteins which has been implicated in exocytosis and in multiple calcium-signalling pathways, suggesting a potential involvement in mechanisms of neuronal plasticity. Here, using in situ hybridization, we report an increased induction of the mRNA encoding NCS-1 in dentate granule cells following the induction of long-term potentiation in the awake rat. We show that NCS-1 mRNA levels are increased 1 and 3 h after long-term potentiation in an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent manner, returning to baseline expression levels by 6 h. Electroconvulsive stimulation also induced NCS-1 mRNA transcription in the dentate gyrus, but at the different time of 6 h post-seizure, returning to baseline by 12 h. These results show that regulated expression of the NCS-1 gene is part of the transcriptional response associated with activity-dependent neuronal plasticity in vivo and suggest a molecular mechanism capable of mediating a functional change in synapse sensitivity to calcium and calcium-signalling pathways after long-term potentiation.
A major characteristic feature of Alzheimer's disease is the formation of compact, extracellular deposits of beta-amyloid (senile plaques). These deposits are surrounded by reactive astrocytes, microglia and dystrophic neurites. Mutations in three genes have been implicated in early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease. However, inflammatory changes and astrogliosis are also believed to play a role in Alzheimer's pathology. What is unclear is the extent to which these factors initiate or contribute to the disease progression. Previous rat studies demonstrated that heterotopic transplantation of foetal cortical tissue onto the midbrain of neonatal hosts resulted in sustained glial reactivity for many months. Similar changes were not seen in cortex-to-cortex grafts. Using this model of chronic cortical gliosis, we have now measured reactive changes in the levels of the key Alzheimer's disease proteins, namely the amyloid precursor protein, apolipoprotein E and presenilin-1. These changes were visualised immunohistochemically and were quantified by western blot analysis. We report here that chronic cortical gliosis in the rat results in a sustained increase in the levels of apolipoprotein E and total amyloid precursor protein. Reactive astrocytes in heterotopic cortical grafts were immunopositive for both of these proteins. Using a panel of amyloid precursor protein antibodies we demonstrate that chronic reactive gliosis is associated with alternative cleavage of the peptide. No significant changes in apolipoprotein E or amyloid precursor protein expression were seen in non-gliotic cortex-to-cortex transplants. Compared to host cortex, the levels of both N-terminal and C-terminal fragments of presenilin-1 were significantly lower in gliotic heterotopic grafts.The changes described here largely mirror those seen in the cerebral cortex of humans with Alzheimer's disease and are consistent with the proposal that astrogliosis may be an important factor in the pathogenesis of this disease.
The selective 5-HT(1A) receptor agonist Repinotan HCl (BAY x3702) has been reported to attenuate cortical damage and improve functional performance in experimental models of cerebral ischemia and acute subdural hematoma. Using a clinically relevant contusion model of traumatic brain injury, we tested the hypothesis that a 4-h continuous infusion of Repinotan HCl (10 microg/kg/h i.v.) commencing 5 min post-injury would ameliorate functional outcome and attenuate histopathology. Forty isoflurane-anesthetized male adult rats were randomly assigned to receive either a controlled cortical impact (2.7 mm tissue deformation, 4 m/s) or sham injury (Injury/Vehicle=10, Injury/MK-801=10, Injury/Repinotan HCl=10, Sham/Vehicle=10), then tested for vestibulomotor function on post-operative days 1-5 and for spatial learning on days 14-18. Neither Repinotan HCl nor the non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK-801, which served as a positive control, improved vestibulomotor function on beam balance and beam walk tasks relative to the Injury/Vehicle group, but both did significantly attenuate spatial learning and memory deficits on a water maze task. Repinotan HCl also reduced hippocampal CA(1) and CA(3) neuronal loss, as well as cortical tissue damage, compared to the Injury/Vehicle group at 4 weeks post-trauma. No significant difference in histological outcome was revealed between the Repinotan HCl- and MK-801-treated groups.These findings extend the therapeutic efficacy of Repinotan HCl to a contusion model of experimental brain injury and demonstrate for the first time that 5-HT(1A) receptor agonists confer neuroprotection and attenuate spatial learning deficits following controlled cortical impact injury. This treatment strategy may be beneficial in a clinical context where memory impairments are common following human traumatic brain injury.
Novelty-seeking personality traits have been implicated in substance abuse and psychiatric disorders in humans. Novelty-seeking behaviors are also observed in rats, and individual rats exhibit substantial differences in expression of these behaviors. Thus, some rats exhibit low reactivity to novelty and high anxiety-like behavior and are termed low responders, while others are hyperresponsive to novelty and exhibit low anxiety-like behavior and are termed high responders. While we and others had shown differences in patterns of gene expression in high and low responding animals at rest, no studies have described their brain activation following an anxiety test. We report here that a 5-min exposure to an anxiogenic stressor induced distinct patterns of c-fos expression in the brains of high and low responding rats. When compared to low responders, high responding rats showed low expression of c-fos mRNA in the CA1 area of the hippocampus, but high c-fos mRNA levels in the olfactory area, the orbital cortex, the cingulate cortex, the dorsal striatum and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Given that c-fos is a trans-acting factor, we suggest that the short- and long-term consequences of the exposure to the anxiogenic stressor may also be quantitatively and anatomically different in these two groups of animals. Thus, these c-fos results demonstrate how experience may further exaggerate individual differences. Animals that differ in emotional reactivity not only exhibit basal differences in gene expression, but also react to novelty with different molecular responses, further increasing the neuronal differences between them.
The expression of R-cadherin and N-cadherin was mapped in the postnatal forebrain of the mouse by immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. Results show that the two molecules are expressed in specific and restricted patterns in numerous brain nuclei, gray matter areas and cortical layers that are widely distributed throughout the mouse forebrain at postnatal day 1. The expression pattern of R-cadherin is clearly distinct from that of N-cadherin, but overlap is observed in many areas. In many cortical areas, the two cadherins have a laminar-specific distribution that varies from region to region. In addition, immunohistochemical data revealed expression of R-cadherin protein and N-cadherin protein in the neuropil of many brain regions as well as in the axons that travel in fiber tracts such as the olfactory tract, the anterior commissure, the corpus callosum, the stria terminalis and the fornix. Often, subsets of axons within the same fiber tract differentially express R-cadherin and N-cadherin, with partial overlap of expression. The targets of the cadherin-immunoreactive fiber bundles often contain neuropil as well as cell bodies of neurons that also express the same type(s) of cadherin, suggesting that R-cadherin and N-cadherin may be involved in target recognition and the establishment of connections. Specifically, the expression of R-cadherin and N-cadherin is related to the maturation of thalamocortical sensory pathways, corticofugal pathways, and pathways associated with the hippocampal complex, the piriform cortex, and the amygdala. It is also related to the development of the cell groups associated with these pathways.Together, the results from the present study indicate the possibility that the selective adhesion of neural structures that express the same type(s) of cadherin contributes to the formation of gray matter areas, neural circuits and functional connections in the postnatal forebrain of the mouse.
The metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) have distinct distribution patterns in the CNS but subtypes within group I or group III mGluRs share similar ultrastructural localization relative to neurotransmitter release sites: group I mGluRs are concentrated in an annulus surrounding the edge of the postsynaptic density, whereas group III mGluRs are concentrated in the presynaptic active zone. One of the group II subtypes, mGluR2, is expressed in both pre- and postsynaptic elements, having no close association with synapses. In order to determine if such a distribution is common to another group II subtype, mGluR3, an antibody was raised against a carboxy-terminus of mGluR3 and used for light and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry in the mouse CNS. The antibody reacted strongly with mGluR3, but it also reacted, though only weakly, with mGluR2. Therefore, to examine mGluR3-selective distribution, we used mGluR2-deficient mice as well as wild-type mice. Strong immunoreactivity for mGluR3 was found in the cerebral cortex, striatum, dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, olfactory tubercle, lateral septal nucleus, lateral and basolateral amygdaloid nuclei, and nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract. Pre-embedding immunoperoxidase and immunogold methods revealed mGluR3 labeling in both presynaptic and postsynaptic elements, and also in glial profiles. Double labeling revealed that the vast majority of mGluR3 in presynaptic elements is not closely associated with glutamate and GABA release sites in the striatum and thalamus, respectively. However, in the spines of the dentate granule cells, the highest receptor density was found in perisynaptic sites (20% of immunogold particles within 60 nm from the edge of postsynaptic membrane specialization) followed by a decreasing receptor density away from the synapses (to approximately 5% of particles per 60 nm). Furthermore, 19% of immunogold particles were located in asymmetrical postsynaptic specialization, indicating an association of mGluR3 to glutamatergic synapses. The present results indicate that the localization of mGluR3 is rather similar to that of group I mGluRs in the postsynaptic elements, suggesting a unique functional role of mGluR3 in glutamatergic neurotransmission in the CNS.
The opioid receptor-like 1 (ORL1) receptor shares a high degree of sequence homology with the classical mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptors and a functional mutual opposition between these receptors has been suggested. To further address this possible interaction we have used mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptor knockout mice to determine autoradiographically if there are any changes in the number or distribution of the ORL1 receptor, labelled with [(3)H]nociceptin, in the brains of mice deficient in each of the opioid receptors. An up-regulation of ORL1 expression was observed across all brain regions in delta-knockouts with cortical regions typically showing a 15-30% increase in binding that was most marked in heterozygous mice. In contrast, ORL1 receptor expression was down-regulated in virtually all brain structures in heterozygous kappa-knockouts although the magnitude of this change was not as great as for the delta-knockouts. No significant alterations in ORL1 receptor expression were observed across brain regions in mu-receptor knockout mice and there were no qualitative differences in ORL1 receptor expression in any groups. These data suggest there are interactions between the ORL1 system and the classical opioid receptors and that the interactions are receptor-specific. The greater differences observed in heterozygous mice suggest that these interactions might be most relevant when there is only partial loss of receptor function.
GABA(B) receptors are G-protein-coupled receptors mediating the slow onset and prolonged synaptic actions of GABA in the CNS. The recent cloning of two genes, GABA(B1) and GABA(B2), has revealed a novel requirement for GABA(B) receptor signalling. Studies have demonstrated that the two receptor subunits associate as a GABA(B1)/GABA(B2) heterodimer to form a functional GABA(B) receptor. In this study we have developed polyclonal antisera specific to two splice variants of the GABA(B1) subunit, GABA(B1a) and GABA(B1b), as well as an antiserum to the GABA(B2) subunit. Using affinity-purified antibodies derived from these antisera we have mapped out the distribution profile of each subunit in rat brain, spinal cord and dorsal root ganglion. In brain the highest areas of GABA(B1a), GABA(B1b) and GABA(B2) subunit expression were found in neocortex, hippocampus, thalamus, cerebellum and habenula. In spinal cord, GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) subunits were expressed in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn, as well as in motor neurones in the deeper layers of the ventral horn. GABA(B) receptor subunit immunoreactivity in dorsal root ganglion suggested that expression of GABA(B1b) was restricted to the large diameter neurones, in contrast to GABA(B1a) and GABA(B2) subunits which were expressed in both large and small diameter neurones. Although expression levels of GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) subunits varied we found no areas in which GABA(B1) was expressed in the absence of GABA(B2). This suggests that most, if not all, GABA(B1) immunoreactivity may represent functional GABA(B) receptors. Although our data are in general agreement with functional studies, some discrepancies in GABA(B1) subunit expression occurred with respect to other immunohistochemical studies. Overall our data suggest that GABA(B) receptors are widely expressed throughout the brain and spinal cord, and that GABA(B1a) and GABA(B1b) subunits can associate with GABA(B2) to form both pre- and post-synaptic receptors.
Sympathetic preganglionic neurones located in the intermediolateral cell column (IML) are subject to inputs descending from higher brain regions, as well as strong influences from local interneurones. Since interneurones in the IML have been rarely studied directly we examined their electrophysiological and anatomical properties. Whole cell patch clamp recordings were made from neurones in the IML of 250 microM slices of the thoracic spinal cord of the rat at room temperature. Action potential durations of interneurones (4.2+/-0.1 ms) were strikingly shorter than those of sympathetic preganglionic neurones (9.4+/-0.2 ms) due to a more rapid repolarisation phase. Low concentrations of tetraethylammonium chloride (TEA) (0.5 mM) or 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) (30 microM) affected interneurones but not sympathetic preganglionic neurones by prolonging the action potential repolarisation as well as decreasing both the afterhypolarisation amplitude and firing frequency. Following recordings, neurones sensitive to TEA and 4-AP were confirmed histologically as interneurones with axons that ramified extensively in the spinal cord, including the IML and other autonomic regions. In contrast, all cells that were insensitive to TEA and 4-AP were confirmed as sympathetic preganglionic neurones. Both electrophysiological and morphological data are therefore consistent with the presence of the voltage-gated potassium channel subunit Kv3.1 in interneurones, but not sympathetic preganglionic neurones. Testing this proposal immunohistochemically revealed that Kv3.1b was localised in low numbers of neurones within the IML but in higher numbers of neurones on the periphery of the IML. Kv3.1b-expressing neurones were not sympathetic preganglionic neurones since they were not retrogradely labelled following intraperitoneal injections of Fluorogold. Since Kv3.2 plays a similar role to Kv3.1 we also tested for the presence of Kv3.2 using immunohistochemistry, but failed to detect it in neuronal somata in the spinal cord. These studies provide electrophysiological and morphological data on interneurones in the IML and indicate that the channels containing the Kv3.1 subunit are important in setting the firing pattern of these neurones.
The pyloric motor system, in the crustacean stomatogastric ganglion, produces a continuously adaptive behavior. Each cell type in the neural circuit possesses a distinct yet dynamic electrical phenotype that is essential for normal network function. We previously demonstrated that the transient potassium current (I(A)) in the different component neurons is unique and modulatable, despite the fact that the shal gene encodes the alpha-subunits that mediate I(A) in every cell. We now examine the hypothesis that alternate splicing of shal is responsible for pyloric I(A) diversity. We found that alternate splicing generates at least 14 isoforms. Nine of the isoforms were expressed in Xenopus oocytes and each produced a transient potassium current with highly variable properties. While the voltage dependence and inactivation kinetics of I(A) vary significantly between pyloric cell types, there are few significant differences between different shal isoforms expressed in oocytes. Pyloric I(A) diversity cannot be reproduced in oocytes by any combination of shal splice variants. While the function of alternate splicing of shal is not yet understood, our studies show that it does not by itself explain the biophysical diversity of I(A) seen in pyloric neurons.
Intracellular stimulation of single propriospinal axons evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in lumbar motoneurons. Mean EPSP amplitudes differed by two orders of magnitude when measured in different connections. After analyzing the distribution of mean amplitudes of 47 single-fiber EPSPs, two populations of responses could be defined: (1) those with mean amplitudes between 0.1 and 1.2 mV (mean+/-S.D.: 0.48+/-0.30 mV, 34 pairs), which is in the range of values typical for single-fiber EPSPs evoked by stimulation of supraspinal fibers and primary muscle afferents, (2) those with mean amplitudes between 1.6 and 8 mV (4.2+/-2.0 mV, 13 pairs). Both populations of responses had similarly short latencies and rise times and responded similarly to paired-pulse stimulation, consistent with monosynaptic transmission. However, the high-efficacy connections had significantly smaller coefficients of variation of EPSPs, as well as increased quantal content and quantal size. Tetanic stimulation gradually depressed the amplitude of large EPSPs by 81-86%, but did not affect small EPSPs. Recovery of large EPSPs was exponential with a time constant of 3-5.6 min. During post-tetanic depression the amplitude ratio between the test and conditioned EPSPs evoked by paired-pulse stimulation was not changed but the coefficient of variation was increased, suggesting that the depression was due to depletion of synaptic vesicles available for release.Intracellular labeling of seven electrophysiologically studied propriospinal axon-motoneuron pairs revealed that the number of axon varicosities establishing close appositions with dendrites of the labeled motoneuron was higher for connections where large-amplitude EPSPs were recorded. These varicosities were more often located on proximal dendrites of motoneurons than those of low-efficacy connections. In addition, the number of boutons in highly effective connections was several times lower than the maximal number of available quanta estimated from physiological data, implying that the large EPSPs may be generated by multivesicular release from presynaptic boutons. We conclude that the efficacy and related mode of use-dependent modulation of propriospinal connections is determined by a number of factors, including the number and position of synaptic contacts and the number of active zones or vesicles available for release.
While nicotine is known to act at neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) to facilitate neurotransmitter release, the mechanisms underlying this action are poorly understood. Some of its effects are known to be mediated by presynaptic receptors. In the mouse vas deferens nicotine (10-30 microM) transiently increased the force of neurogenic contraction by 135+/-25%, increased the amplitude of excitatory junction potentials by 74+/-6% and increased the frequency of spontaneous excitatory junction potentials in four out of six preparations. Confocal microscopy and the calcium indicator Oregon Green 488 BAPTA-1 dextran were used to measure calcium concentration changes in the nerve terminals. Nicotine did not affect the action potential-evoked calcium transient but instead triggered small, random fluctuations (&quot;calcium spikes&quot;) in intra-varicosity calcium concentrations at an average frequency of 0.09+/-0.02 Hz. These were insensitive to tetrodotoxin at a concentration that blocked action-potential evoked calcium transients (300 nM). They were abolished by the nAChR blocker hexamethonium (100 microM) and by both ryanodine (100 microM) and caffeine (3 mM), agents that modify calcium release from intracellular stores. We propose a novel mechanism whereby nicotine's action at nAChRs triggers calcium-induced calcium release from a ryanodine-sensitive calcium store in nerve terminals. This primes neurotransmitter release mechanisms and enhances both spontaneous and action potential-evoked neurotransmitter release.
Vestibular compensation, the neuronal process underlying behavioral recovery from vestibular dysfunction produced by unilateral labyrinthectomy, is attributed to functional reorganization of neuronal circuits in the brainstem and cerebellum. Climbing fibers originating from the inferior olive are suggested to play a crucial role in this compensatory process. To assess the possible contribution of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to the function of climbing fibers during vestibular compensation, we investigated the BDNF mRNA expression in the rat inferior olive after unilateral labyrinthectomy by quantitative in situ hybridization. We found several induction patterns depending on the subregions of the inferior olive 6 h after unilateral labyrinthectomy. First, in the dorsal cap and the ventrolateral outgrowth, the expression levels increased on the side contralateral to the lesion and decreased on the ipsilateral side. Second, in the beta nucleus, C subnucleus of the medial accessory olive, and A/B subnuclei of the medial accessory olive, we detected an increase in the mRNA expression level on the side contralateral to the lesion, but no changes in the expression level on the ipsilateral side. In the beta nucleus, where the strongest induction was observed, the mRNA expression level increased nearly five-fold. Third, in the dorsomedial cell column, the mRNA expression levels increased on both sides. Finally, we did not detect significant changes in mRNA expression levels in the other subregions of the inferior olive, the dorsal accessory olive, principal olive and rostral medial accessory olive. The changes in BDNF mRNA expression reverted to control levels by 72 h after the labyrinthectomy. The inferior olive subregions that showed changes in BDNF mRNA expression levels send climbing fibers to the cerebellar cortical regions that, in turn, project to the vestibular nuclei. Therefore, BDNF induced in these subregions could contribute to the functional reorganization of the olivo-cerebellar system for vestibular control.
Corticotropin-releasing factor(CRF)-immunoreactive terminals form synaptic specializations with locus coeruleus (LC) dendrites in rat brain. Within these terminals, CRF-immunoreactive dense core vesicles are colocalized with non-labeled dense core vesicles and clear vesicles, implicating other neuromodulators in the actions of CRF on LC neurons. Excitatory (glutamate) and inhibitory (GABA) amino acid afferents to the LC, have been identified which regulate noradrenergic responses to sensory stimuli. This study was designed to determine whether these amino acid neurotransmitters are colocalized with CRF in terminals within the LC/peri-LC region in the rat. Sections through the LC region that were dually labeled using immunohistochemical techniques to visualize either CRF and glutamate or CRF and GABA were examined using electron microscopy. Numerous terminals that contained immunolabeling for both CRF and glutamate (e.g. 30% of 106 CRF-immunoreactive terminals and 13% of 232 glutamate-immunolabeled terminals) were observed in the peri-LC. Additionally, single labeled CRF and glutamate terminals were often apposed to one another or found to converge on common dendritic targets. In contrast, relatively few terminals exhibited immunolabeling for both GABA and CRF (5% of 317 CRF-immunoreactive terminals). However, evidence for a postsynaptic effect of CRF on GABA-containing profiles included synapses between CRF axon terminals and GABA-labeled dendrites (10% of 317 CRF-labeled terminals), as well as appositions between CRF- and GABA-labeled terminals. These results indicate that CRF is preferentially colocalized with glutamate in the rostrolateral LC region and may impact on glutamate neurotransmission in the LC via presynaptic or postsynaptic actions. They argue against colocalization of CRF with GABA, although CRF may modulate GABA release via postsynaptic effects in the peri-LC region.
The nigro-collicular pathway that links the basal ganglia to the sensorimotor layers of superior colliculus plays a crucial role in promoting orienting behaviors. This connection originating in the pars reticulata and lateralis of the substantia nigra has been shown in rat and cat to be topographically organized. In rat, a functional compartmentalization of the substantia nigra has also been shown reflecting that of the striatum. In light of this, we reinvestigated the topographical arrangement of the nigro-collicular pathway by examining the innervation of each nigral functional zone. We performed small injections of either biocytin or wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase restricted to identified somatic, visual and auditory nigral zones. Frontally cut sections showed that innervations provided by the three main nigral zones form a mosaic of complementary domains stratified from the stratum opticum to the ventral part of the intermediate collicular layers, with the somatic afferents sandwiched between the visual and the auditory ones. When reconstructed from semi-horizontal sections, nigral innervations organized in the form of a honeycomb-like array composed of 100 cylindrical modules covering three-quarters of the collicular surface. Such a modular architecture is reminiscent of the acetylcholinesterase lattice we previously described in rat intermediate collicular layers. In the enzyme lattice, the surroundings of the cylindrical modules are composed of a mosaic of dense and diffuse enzyme subdomains. Thus, we compared the distribution of the overall nigral projection and of its constituent channels with the acetylcholinesterase lattice. The procedure combined axonal labelling with histochemistry on single sections for acetylcholinesterase activity. The results demonstrate that the overall nigral projection overlaps the acetylcholinesterase lattice and its constituent channels converge with either the dense or the diffuse enzyme subdomains. The stereometric arrangement of the nigro-collicular pathway is suggestive of an architecture promoting the selection of collicular motor programs for different classes of orienting behavior.
The maternal behaviors shown by a rat that has given birth are not shown by a virgin female rat when she is first presented with young. This absence of maternal behavior in virgins has been attributed to the activity of a neural circuit that inhibits maternal behavior in nulliparae. The medial amygdala and regions of the medial hypothalamus such as the anterior and ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei have previously been shown to inhibit maternal behavior, in that lesions to these regions promote maternal responding. Furthermore, we have recently shown that these and other regions, such as the principal bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the ventral lateral septum, and the dorsal premammillary nucleus, show higher pup-induced Fos-immunoreactivity in non-maternal rats exposed to pups than during the performance of maternal behavior, indicating that they too could be involved in preventing maternal responsiveness. The current study tested whether the medial amygdala projects to the anterior/ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei in a neural circuit that inhibits maternal behavior, as well as to see what other brain regions could participate in this circuit. Bilateral excitotoxic lesions of the medial amygdala, or of the anterior/ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei, promoted maternal behavior. Unilateral medial amygdala lesions caused a reduction of pup-induced Fos-immunoreactivity in the anterior/ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei in non-maternal rats ipsilateral to the lesion, as well as in the principal bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, ventral lateral septum, and dorsal premammillary nucleus. Finally, unilateral medial amygdala lesions paired with contralateral anterior/ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei lesions promoted maternal behavior, although ipsilateral lesion placements were also effective.Together, these results indicate that the medial amygdala projects to the anterior/ventromedial hypothalamic nuclei in a neural circuit that inhibits maternal behavior, and that the principal bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, ventral lateral septum, and dorsal premammillary nucleus could also be involved in this circuit.
Stimulation of the medial geniculate body in an auditory thalamocortical slice elicits a short-latency current sink in the middle cortical layers, as would be expected following activation of thalamocortical relay neurons. However, corticothalamic neurons can have axon collaterals that project to the middle layers, thus, a middle-layer current sink could also result from antidromic activation of corticothalamic neurons and their axon collaterals. The likelihood of thalamic stimulation activating corticothalamic neurons would be reduced substantially if the corticothalamic pathway was not well preserved in the slice, and/or if the threshold for antidromic activation was significantly higher than for orthodromic activation. To determine the prevalence and threshold of antidromic activation, we recorded intracellularly from day 14-17 mouse brain slices containing infragranular cortical neurons while stimulating the medial geniculate or thalamocortical pathway. Antidromic spikes were confirmed by spike collision and characterized according to spike latency &quot;jitter&quot; and the ability to follow a high-frequency (100 Hz) stimulus train. The ability to follow a 100-Hz tetanus was a reliable indicator of antidromic activation, but both antidromic and orthodromic spikes could have low jitter. Thalamic stimulation produced antidromic activation in two of 69 infragranular cortical neurons (&lt;3%), indicating the presence of antidromic activity, but implying a limited corticothalamic connection in the slice. Antidromic spikes in 13 additional neurons were obtained by stimulating axons in the thalamocortical pathway. The antidromic threshold averaged 214+/-40.6 microA (range 6-475 microA), over seven times the orthodromic threshold for medial geniculate-evoked responses in layer IV extracellular (28+/-5.4 microA) or intracellular (27+/-5.6 microA) recordings. We conclude that medial geniculate stimulation activates relatively few corticothalamic neurons. Conversely, low-intensity thalamic stimulation strongly activates thalamocortical neurons. Thus, at low-stimulus intensities, the auditory thalamocortical slice can be used to probe mechanisms of thalamocortical function with limited antidromic activation of corticothalamic neurons.
The subthalamic nucleus-globus pallidus network plays a central role in basal ganglia function and dysfunction. To determine whether the relationship between activity in this network and the principal afferent of the basal ganglia, the cortex, is altered in a model of Parkinson's disease, we recorded unit activity in the subthalamic nucleus-globus pallidus network together with cortical electroencephalogram in control and 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats under urethane anaesthesia. Subthalamic nucleus neurones in control and 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned animals exhibited low-frequency oscillatory activity, which was tightly correlated with cortical slow-wave activity (approximately 1 Hz). The principal effect of dopamine depletion was that subthalamic nucleus neurones discharged more intensely (233% of control) and globus pallidus neurones developed low-frequency oscillatory firing patterns, without changes in mean firing rate. Ipsilateral cortical ablation largely abolished low-frequency oscillatory activity in the subthalamic nucleus and globus pallidus. These data suggest that abnormal low-frequency oscillatory activity in the subthalamic nucleus-globus pallidus network in the dopamine-depleted state is generated by the inappropriate processing of rhythmic cortical input. A component (15-20%) of the network still oscillated following cortical ablation in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned animals, implying that intrinsic properties may also pattern activity when dopamine levels are reduced. The response of the network to global activation was altered by 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. Subthalamic nucleus neurones were excited to a greater extent than in control animals and the majority of globus pallidus neurones were inhibited, in contrast to the excitation elicited in control animals. Inhibitory responses of globus pallidus neurones were abolished by cortical ablation, suggesting that the indirect pathway is augmented abnormally during activation of the dopamine-depleted brain. Taken together, these results demonstrate that both the rate and pattern of activity of subthalamic nucleus and globus pallidus neurones are altered profoundly by chronic dopamine depletion. Furthermore, the relative contribution of rate and pattern to aberrant information coding is intimately related to the state of activation of the cerebral cortex.
Metabotropic glutamate receptor 1 (mGluR1) is a G-protein-coupled receptor and is expressed in the medium spiny projection neurons of mouse striatum. To define the role of mGluR1 in actions of psychostimulant, we compared both motor behavior and striatal neuropeptide mRNA expression between mGluR1 mutant and wild-type control mice after a single injection of amphetamine. We found that acute amphetamine injection increased motor activity in both mutant and control mice in a dose-dependent manner (1, 4, and 12 mg/kg, i.p.). However, the overall motor responses of mGluR1 -/- mice to all three doses of amphetamine were significantly greater than those of wild-type +/+ mice. Amphetamine also induced a dose-dependent elevation of preprodynorphin mRNA in the dorsal and ventral striatum of mutant and wild-type mice as revealed by quantitative in situ hybridization. In contrast to behavioral responses, the induction of dynorphin mRNA in both the dorsal and ventral striatum of mutant mice was significantly less than that of wild-type mice in response to the two higher doses of amphetamine. In addition, amphetamine elevated basal levels of substance P mRNA in the dorsal and ventral striatum of mGluR1 mutant mice to a similar level as that of wild-type mice. There were no differences in basal levels and distribution patterns of the two mRNAs between the two genotypes of mice treated with saline. These results demonstrate a clear augmented behavioral response of mGluR1 knockout mice to acute amphetamine exposure that is closely correlated with reduced dynorphin mRNA induction in the same mice. It appears that an intact mGluR1 is specifically critical for full dynorphin induction, and impaired mobilization of inhibitory dynorphin system as a result of lacking mGluR1 may contribute to an augmentation of motor stimulation in response to acute administration of psychostimulant.
A brief exposure of hippocampal slices to L-quisqualic acid sensitizes CA1 pyramidal neurons 30-250-fold to depolarization by two classes of excitatory amino acid analogues: (1) those whose depolarizing effects are rapidly terminated following washout, e.g. L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutanoic acid (L-AP4) and L-2-amino-6-phosphonohexanoic acid (L-AP6) and (2) those whose depolarizing effects persist following washout, e.g. L-aspartate-beta-hydroxamate (L-AbetaH). This process has been termed quisqualate sensitization. In this study we directly examine the role of amino acid transport systems in the induction of quisqualate sensitization. We report that L-quisqualate is a low-affinity substrate (K(M)=0.54 mM) for a high capacity (V(max)=0.9 nmol (mg protein)(-1) min(-1)) Na(+)-dependent transport system(s) and a high-affinity substrate (K(M)=0.033 mM) for a low-capacity (V(max)=0.051 nmol (mg protein)(-1) min(-1)) transporter with properties similar to the cystine/glutamate exchange carrier, System x(c-). We present evidence that suggests that System x(c-) participates in quisqualate sensitization. First, simultaneous application of L-quisqualate and inhibitors of System x(c-), but not inhibitors of Na(+)-dependent glutamate transporters, prevents the subsequent sensitization of hippocampal neurons to phosphonates or L-AbetaH. Second, L-quisqualic acid only sensitizes hippocampal neurons to other substrates of System x(c-), including cystine. Third, immunocytochemical analysis of L-quisqualate uptake demonstrates that only inhibitors of System x(c-) inhibit the highly concentrative uptake of L-quisqualate into a widely dispersed group of GABAergic hippocampal interneurons. We conclude that quisqualate sensitization is a direct consequence of the unique interaction of various excitatory amino acids, namely L-quisqualate, cystine, and phosphonates, with the exchange carrier, System x(c-). Therefore, the results of this study have important implications for the mechanism by which L-quisqualate, and other substrates of this transporter which are also excitatory amino acid agonists (such as glutamate and beta-N-oxalyl-L-alpha,beta-diaminopropionic acid, beta-L-ODAP) may trigger neurotoxicity.
Studies with animal seizure models have indicated that changes in temporal and spatial expression of voltage-gated sodium channels may be important in the pathology of epilepsy. Here, by using in situ hybridisation with previously characterised subtype-selective oligonucleotide probes [Whitaker et al. (2000) J. Comp. Neurol. 422, 123-139], we have compared the cellular expression of all four brain alpha-subunit sodium channel mRNAs in &quot;normal&quot; and epileptic hippocampi from humans. Neuronal cell loss was observed in all regions of the hippocampus of diseased patients, indicating that sclerosis had occurred. Losses of up to 40% compared to post-mortem controls were observed which were statistically significant in all regions studied (dentate gyrus, hilus, and CA1-3). To assess mRNA levels of the different alpha-subtypes in specific subregions, control and diseased tissue sections were hybridised to subtype-specific probes. To quantify any changes in expression while allowing for cell loss, the sections were processed for liquid emulsion autoradiography and grain counts were performed on populations of individual neurones in different subregions. No significant differences were found in the expression of type I and VI mRNAs. In contrast, a significant down-regulation of type II mRNA was observed in the epileptic tissue in the remaining pyramidal cells of CA3 (71+/-7% of control, P&lt;0.01), CA2 (81+/-8% of control, P&lt;0.05) and CA1 (72+/-6% of control, P&lt;0.05) compared with control tissue. Additionally, a significant up-regulation in type III mRNA in epileptic CA4 pyramidal cells (145+/-7% of control, P&lt;0.05) was observed. It is not clear whether these changes play a causal role in human epilepsy or whether they are secondary to seizures or drug treatment; further studies are necessary to investigate these alternatives. However, it is likely that such changes would affect the intrinsic excitability of hippocampal neurones.
Apoptotic protease-activating factor-1 (Apaf-1), dATP, and procaspase-9 form a multimeric complex that triggers programmed cell death through the activation of caspases upon release of cytochrome c from the mitochondria into the cytosol. Although cell death pathways exist that can bypass the requirement for cytochrome c release and caspase activation, several gene knockout studies have shown that the cytochrome c-mediated apoptotic pathway is critical for neural development. Specifically, the number of neuronal progenitor cells is abnormally increased in Apaf-1-, caspase-9-, caspase-3-deficient mice. However, the role of the cytochrome c cell death pathway for apoptosis of postmitotic, differentiated neurons in the developing brain has not been investigated in vivo. In this study we investigated embryonic neuronal cell death caused by trophic factor deprivation or lack of neurotransmitter release by analyzing Apaf-1/tyrosine kinase receptor A (TrkA) and Apaf-1/Munc-18 double mutant mice. Histological analysis of the double mutants' brains (including cell counting and terminal (TdT)-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL) staining) reveals that neuronal cell death caused by these stimuli can proceed independent of Apaf-1. We propose that a switch between apoptotic programs (and their respective proteins) characterizes the transition of a neuronal precursor cell from the progenitor pool to the postmitotic population of differentiated neurons.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus contains a biological clock that drives circadian rhythms in vivo and in vitro. It has been suggested that the suprachiasmatic nucleus is a primary target of the aging process, because age-related changes in behavioral rhythms are mirrored in alterations in circadian pacemaker function. Using long-term, single-cell recording, we assessed the effect of age on firing-rate patterns of individual suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons of young adult (2-4 months) and middle-aged (9-11 months) C3H mice. Individual suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons from adult mice maintained in culture for at least one week exhibited robust circadian rhythms in spontaneous activity that were similar in the free-running period (23.7+/-0.3 h mean+/-S.E.M.) to recordings from neurons dispersed from neonatal tissue, and showed evidence of entrainment to prior light cycles by exhibiting peak activity, in vitro, approximately 4.0+/-0.3 h (mean+/-S.E.M.) after the time of expected light onset. Aging led to a decreased amplitude of impulse activity in dispersed suprachiasmatic nucleus neurons and increased variability in the circadian waveform. From these results we suggest that age-related deterioration in circadian clock function occurs at the level of individual cells, which may account for some of the age-related deficits observed in the expression of behavioral rhythmicity.
The transcription factor Fos is implicated in neuronal signaling in the suprachiasmatic nucleus, the mammalian circadian clock (Ikonomov and Stoynev, 1994; Klein et al., 1991; Kornhauser et al., 1996). Fos is expressed in two different regions within the suprachiasmatic nucleus. In the ventrolateral, retinorecipient, core region (Leak et al., 1999; Moga and Moore, 1997), Fos is induced by light and expression is closely linked, both temporally and functionally, to clock resetting and entrainment of circadian rhythms (Aronin et al., 1990; Beaul and Amir, 1999; Hastings et al., 1995; Kornhauser et al., 1996; Kornhauser et al., 1990; Rea, 1989, 1998; Rusak et al., 1990; Wollnik et al., 1995). In the dorsomedial shell region (Leak et al., 1999), Fos expression is rhythmic (Guido et al., 1999a,b; Rusak et al., 1992; Sumova and Illnerova, 1998; Sumova et al., 1998). Expression is high during the subjective day when photic sensitivity of the core is minimal, and low in the subjective night, when photic sensitivity of the core is maximal. Although it has been shown that the pattern of Fos expression in the shell tracks the photoperiod (Sumova et al., 2000), nothing is known about whether light influences the expression of Fos in the shell region or about the role of Fos expression in the shell in clock resetting and entrainment. In the present study we found that, in rats maintained in constant darkness, brief exposure to light in the early subjective day or night induced Fos in the core, as expected, and acutely suppressed the levels of Fos immunoreactivity in the shell region. Similar changes in Fos expression in the core and shell regions were seen after exposure to a brief entraining light. Light exposure in the mid-subjective day or night differentially affected Fos expression in the core, as previously shown, but had no effect on Fos expression in the shell region. The finding that Fos expression in the shell region of the suprachiasmatic nucleus is suppressed by light at dawn and dusk suggests a critical role for the shell in photic entrainment of circadian rhythms in nocturnal rodents.
Early physiological and pharmacological studies of crayfish and squid giant nerve fibers suggested that glutamate released from the axon during action potential generation initiates metabolic and electrical responses of periaxonal glia. However, more recent investigations in our laboratories suggest that N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG) may be the released agent active at the glial cell membrane. The investigation described in this paper focused on NAAG metabolism and release, and its contribution to the appearance of glutamate extracellularly. Axoplasm and periaxonal glial cell cytoplasm collected from medial giant nerve fibers (MGNFs) incubated with radiolabeled L-glutamate contained radiolabeled glutamate, glutamine, NAAG, aspartate, and GABA. Total radiolabel release was not altered by electrical stimulation of nerve cord loaded with [(14)C]glutamate by bath application or loaded with [(14)C]glutamate, [(3)H]-D-aspartate or [(3)H]NAAG by axonal injection. However, when radiolabeled glutamate was used for bath loading, radiolabel distribution among glutamate and its metabolic products in the superfusate was changed by stimulation. NAAG was the largest fraction, accounting for approximately 50% of the total recovered radiolabel in control conditions. The stimulated increase in radioactive NAAG in the superfusate coincided with its virtual clearance from the medial giant axon (MGA). A small, stimulation-induced increase in radiolabeled glutamate in the superfusate was detected only when a glutamate uptake inhibitor was present. The increase in [(3)H]glutamate in the superfusion solution of nerve incubated with [(3)H]NAAG was reduced when beta-NAAG, a competitive glutamate carboxypeptidase II (GCP II) inhibitor, was present.Overall, these results suggest that glutamate is metabolized to NAAG in the giant axon and its periaxonal glia and that, upon stimulation, NAAG is released from the axon and converted in part to glutamate by GCP II. A quisqualate- and beta-NAAG-sensitive GCP II activity was detected in nerve cord homogenates. These results, together with those in the accompanying paper demonstrating that NAAG can activate a glial electrophysiological response comparable to that initiated by glutamate, implicate NAAG as a probable mediator of interactions between the MGA and its periaxonal glia.
Glial cell hyperpolarization previously has been reported to be induced by high frequency stimulation or glutamate. We now report that it also is produced by the glutamate-containing dipeptide N-acetylaspartylglutamate (NAAG), by its non-hydrolyzable analog beta-NAAG, and by NAAG in the presence of 2-(phosphonomethyl)-pentanedioic acid (2-PMPA), a potent inhibitor of the NAAG degradative enzyme glutamate carboxypeptidase II. The results indicate that NAAG mimics the effect of nerve fiber stimulation on the glia. Although glutamate has a similar effect, the other presumed product of NAAG hydrolysis, N-acetylaspartate, is without effect on glial cell membrane potential, as is aspartylglutamate (in the presence of 2-PMPA). The hyperpolarization induced by stimulation, glutamate, NAAG, beta-NAAG, or NAAG plus 2-PMPA is completely blocked by the Group II metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist (S)-alpha-ethylglutamate but is not altered by antagonists of Group I or III metabotropic glutamate receptors. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist MK801 reduces but does not eliminate the hyperpolarization generated by glutamate, NAAG or stimulation. These results, in combination with those of the preceding paper, are consistent with the premise that NAAG could be the primary axon-to-glia signaling agent. When the unstimulated nerve fiber is treated with cysteate, a glutamate reuptake blocker, there is a small hyperpolarization of the glial cell that can be substantially reduced by pretreatment with 2-PMPA before addition of cysteate. A similar effect of cysteate is seen during a 50 Hz/5 s stimulation. From these results we suggest that glutamate derived from NAAG hydrolysis appears in the periaxonal space under the conditions of these experiments and may contribute to the glial hyperpolarization.
Taste buds are constituted of several kinds of cells which have distinct characteristics and play different roles. In this study, we have established an in vitro culture system by optimizing the method for isolating the cells and by selecting culture media and reagents effective for cell viability and adhesion. As a result, the taste bud cells were adhesive and viable for over 3 days when cultured onto Matrigel-coated dishes in medium based on keratinocyte growth medium. The cells retained molecular markers for both the cytoskeleton and intracellular signaling such as cytokeratin 8 and phospholipase Cbeta2. In addition, three intracellular signaling molecules, gustducin, phospholipase Cbeta2, and inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor type 3, are expressed in the same correlation as those in vivo, although the ratio of signaling molecule-positive cells vs. total cells was somewhat lower in the culture than in vivo. Next, we tried several methods to introduce foreign genes into the cells, and obtained a greater than 90% efficiency of introduction using an adenovirus vector. Finally, we show that an exogenously expressed myc-tagged alpha1A-adrenoceptor sorts into the plasma membrane, and transduces a ligand-dependent signal resulting in intracellular [Ca(2+)] increase in about half of the infected cells. These results suggest that taste bud cells after 3 days of culture retain characteristic molecular markers, and may prove useful for describing the molecular and physiological features of taste bud cells, and that these cells can be further manipulated by adenovirus-mediated gene introduction.
Intracerebral neural xenografts elicit a host immune response that results in their rapid rejection. This forms a key barrier to the therapeutic use of xenogeneic tissue transplantation for conditions such as Parkinson's disease. The current study sought to provide insight into the cellular components of donor cell suspensions that are important in stimulating the host rejection response and thereby to suggest rational manipulations of xenogeneic donor tissue that might ultimately enhance its clinical utility. The neural stem cell mitogens, epidermal growth factor and fibroblast growth factor-2, have been used to isolate and expand populations of primordial neural precursor cells from the embryonic pig brain. The immune response elicited by these cells on transplantation into the non-immunosuppressed rat has been fully characterised. In the first experiments, expanded neural precursors were grafted into the hemi-parkinsonian, non-immunosuppressed Sprague-Dawley rat and graft status and host response examined 10, 21, 35 and 60 days post-transplantation. While equivalent primary tissue grafts were completely eliminated at 35 days, grafts of expanded neural precursors with healthy neurofilament-positive projections were present at all time-points, and two large grafts remained even at 60 days. Some grafts appeared to elicit minimal host immune responses at the time-points they were examined, although most did appear to be undergoing a rejection process since a co-ordinated response involving host cytotoxic T-lymphocytes, microglia/macrophages, immunoglobulin M and complement could be demonstrated to varying degrees. Subsequent experiments went on to demonstrate further that expanded precursor populations and primary tissue suspensions differed in their immunogenic profile. Firstly, when primary tissue was injected intraperitoneally into immunocompetent rats a vigorous primary humoral response was generated. No such response was detected following injection of expanded neural precursors. Secondly, flow cytometric analysis revealed small but significant levels of class II porcine major histocompatibility complex expression in primary cell suspensions but no such expression in expanded precursor populations.The results of this study therefore demonstrate that the immunogenicity of porcine neural cell suspensions used for intracerebral grafting is reduced when neural stem cell mitogens are used to expand precursor cells. The implications of these findings in the development of novel xenogeneic cellular therapies for neurodegenerative conditions such as Parkinson's disease are discussed.
Hormonal regulation in development and maintenance of synaptic transmission involves examination of both the presynaptic and postsynaptic components and a system in which the hormones can be controlled. We used the ecdysoneless heat-sensitive mutation (l(3)ecd(1)/l(3)ecd(1)) of Drosophila to provide the ability to regulate endogenous ecdysone production at various larval stages. In conjunction, we used the neuromuscular junctions of Drosophila since they offer the advantage of assessable preparations for both morphological and physiological measures. The growth in the Ib and Is motor nerve terminals and the corresponding muscle 6 in segment 4 of the larval Drosophila throughout the third instar stage in the presence of normal and a much reduced endogenous ecdysone level was investigated. Muscle 6 and the motor nerve terminals parallel in growth throughout the third instar. The nerve terminals increase in length and varicosity number, thus providing an increase in the number of synaptic release sites. The ecdysoneless larvae also show an increase in muscle size, however the Is and Ib motor nerve terminals do not mature to the extent of the wild-type ecdysone producing flies. The motor nerve terminal length is shorter with fewer numbers of varicosities per terminal. In spite of a shorter nerve terminal and fewer varicosities, with an increasing muscle fiber, the compound excitatory junctional potentials of Ib and Is in the ecdysoneless flies are larger, which is suggestive of synaptic structural modification. This study demonstrates ecdysone's role in modifying nerve terminal development and neuromuscular junction function.
The release of [(3)H]acetylcholine evoked by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) and its inhibition mediated by GABA(A) and glycine receptors were studied in superfused cultured rat embryo spinal cord motoneurons prelabeled with [(3)H]choline. AMPA elicited tritium release, possibly representing [(3)H]acetylcholine release in a concentration-dependent manner. The release was external Ca(2+)-dependent and was sensitive to Cd(2+) ions, omega-conotoxin GVIA and omega-conotoxin MVIIC, but not to nifedipine, suggesting the involvement of N-, P/Q-, but not L-type Ca(2+) channels. The AMPA effect was insensitive to tetrodotoxin. The glutamate receptors involved are AMPA type since the AMPA-evoked [(3)H]acetylcholine release was blocked by LY303070 and was potentiated by the antidesensitizing agent cyclothiazide. Muscimol inhibited completely the AMPA effect on [(3)H]acetylcholine release; muscimol was potentiated by diazepam and antagonized by SR95531, indicating the involvement of benzodiazepine-sensitive GABA(A) receptors. Glycine, acting at strychnine-sensitive receptors, also inhibited the effect of AMPA, but only in part. The inhibitory effects of muscimol and glycine are additive. We conclude that glutamate can act at AMPA receptors sited on spinal motoneurons to evoke release of acetylcholine. GABA and glycine, possibly released as cotransmitters from spinal interneurons, inhibit glutamate-evoked acetylcholine release by activating GABA(A) and glycine receptors on motoneurons.
GABAergic neurons play an important role in the generation of primary afferent depolarization, which results in presynaptic inhibition and, if large enough, triggers dorsal root reflexes. Recent electrophysiological studies by our group have suggested that increased excitation of spinal GABAergic neurons by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and non-NMDA receptors following intradermal injection of capsaicin results in the generation of DRRs that contribute to neurogenic inflammation. The present study was to determine if changes in the expression of Fos protein occur in GABAergic neurons in the lumbosacral spinal cord following injection of capsaicin into the glabrous skin of one hind paw of anesthetized rats and if pretreatment with an NMDA receptor antagonist, D-(-)-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP7) or a non-NMDA receptor antagonist, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) blocks Fos expression in these neurons. The experiments used western blots and immunofluorescence double labeling staining following capsaicin or vehicle injection. Western blots showed that Fos protein was increased on the ipsilateral side in spinal cord tissue 0.5 h after capsaicin injection. Pretreatment with AP7 or CNQX caused a decrease in capsaicin-induced Fos expression. Immunofluorescence double labeling showed that the proportion of Fos-positive GABAergic neuronal profiles was significantly increased following capsaicin injection (48.8+/-4.8%) compared to the vehicle injection (23.8+/-5.1%) in superficial laminae on the ipsilateral side in lumbosacral spinal cord (P&lt;0.05). However, when the spinal cord was pretreated with AP7 (5 microg) or CNQX (0.2 microg), only 9.1+/-0.6% or 7.1+/-0.8% of GABA-immunoreactive neuronal profiles were stained for Fos following capsaicin injection. The blockade of the capsaicin-evoked Fos staining was dose-dependent. These findings suggest that GABAergic neurons take part in dorsal horn circuits that modulate nociceptive information and that the function of GABAergic neurons following capsaicin injection is partially mediated by NMDA and non-NMDA receptors.
Voltage-dependent Na-currents were studied, using whole cell voltage clamp, in acutely dissociated, large (mostly Abeta-fiber type) cutaneous afferent dorsal root ganglia neurons (L(4) and L(5)) from the adult rat. Cells were dissociated 14-17 days after axotomy. Control and axotomized neurons were identified via the retrograde marker hydroxy-stilbamide (fluorogold) which was injected into the lateral and plantar region of the skin of the foot and were studied using whole cell patch clamp techniques within 12-20 h of dissociation and plating. Cells were dissociated 14-17 days after injury. Both control and axotomized neurons displayed complex Na-currents composed of components with distinct kinetic and pharmacological properties. The large (48-50 microm diameter) control cutaneous afferent neurons, many of which likely give rise to myelinated Abeta-fibers, exhibited Na-currents with both slow and fast inactivating kinetics. The fast inactivating current in large cutaneous afferent dorsal root ganglion neurons was tetrodotoxin-sensitive and recovered from inactivation approximately four-fold faster at -60 mV (P&lt;0.001) and approximately six-fold faster at -70 mV (P&lt;0.001) than the tetrodotoxin-sensitive current in small (&lt;30 microm diameter) neurons. Further, while the tetrodotoxin-sensitive currents in smaller dorsal root ganglion neurons (mainly C-fiber type) reprime approximately four-fold faster following peripheral axotomy, repriming of the fast inactivating current in larger cutaneous afferent neurons was not significantly altered following axotomy. However, while 77% of control large neurons were observed to express the slower inactivating, tetrodotoxin-resistant current, only 45% of these large neurons did after axotomy. These results indicate that large adult cutaneous afferent dorsal root ganglion neurons (Abeta-type) express tetrodotoxin-sensitive Na-currents, which have much faster repriming than Na-currents in small (C-type) neurons, both before, and after axotomy. Like small neurons, the majority of large neurons downregulate the tetrodotoxin-resistant current following sciatic nerve section.
We have examined the distribution of dopamine neurons expressing alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptor subunits (glutamate receptors 1, 2/3 and 4) in the A8-A15 regions of the rat brain using double immunofluorescence. The distribution of glutamate receptor 1- or 2/3-like immunoreactive neurons completely overlapped that of tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive neurons in dopamine cell groups in the retrorubral field (A8), the substantia nigra (A9), the ventral tegmental area and the nucleus raphe linealis (A10), and the rostral hypothalamic periventricular nucleus (A14, A15). In the caudal hypothalamic periventricular nucleus (A11), arcuate nucleus (A12) and zona incerta (A13), the distribution was partially overlapping. Neurons double-labeled for tyrosine hydroxylase and glutamate receptor 1 or 2/3 immunoreactivities were, however, exclusively found in certain dopamine cell regions: in areas A14-A15, 85-88% of tyrosine hydroxylase-containing neurons expressed glutamate receptor 1 and 22-25% expressed glutamate receptor 2/3, while in areas A8-A10, 20-43% expressed glutamate receptor 1 and 63-84% expressed glutamate receptor 2/3. In contrast, the double-labeled neurons were hardly detected in the A11-A13 regions. No tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons displayed glutamate receptor 4 immunoreactivity, though a partially overlapping distribution of tyrosine hydroxylase- and glutamate receptor 4-immunopositive neurons was also seen in regions A8-10, A11 and A13. The present study has demonstrated the morphological evidence for direct modulation of dopamine neurons via AMPA receptors in rat mesencephalon and hypothalamus. This distribution may provide the basis for a selective dopamine neuron loss in neurodegenerative disorders, such as Parkinson's disease.
Stressor or cytokine treatments, such as interleukin-1beta, promote time-dependent alterations of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal functioning, including increased arginine vasopressin stores within corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) terminals in the external zone of the median eminence. Likewise, we have previously shown that the proinflammatory cytokine, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), provoked a time-dependent sensitization of neuroendocrine and brain monoamine activity. To further explore the protracted consequences of TNF-alpha, the present investigation determined whether the cytokine sensitized activity of neuroendocrine regulatory brain regions, as assessed by c-fos expression, and had protracted consequences on amygdaloid CRH, as well as hypothalamic corticotropin secretagogues. Indeed, immunoreactivity for arginine vasopressin and corticotropin-releasing hormone, and their colocalization within cell terminals of the median eminence, varied over time following an initial 4.0-microg tumor necrosis factor-alpha treatment, peaking after 7 days and normalizing within 28 days. Within the central amygdala, a sensitization effect was evident as reflected by increased CRH immunoreactivity, but this effect required re-exposure to the cytokine, unlike the median eminence changes that simply evolved with the passage of time. As well, tumor necrosis factor-alpha provoked a marked sensitization of c-fos staining within the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, supraoptic nucleus and the central amygdala. From these data we suggest that tumor necrosis factor-alpha influences responsivity of stressor-reactive brain regions and has protracted effects on central neuropeptide expression within the hypothalamus and central amygdala, although the time course for the effects vary across brain regions. Evidently, exposure to tumor necrosis factor-alpha may promote neuroplasticity of brain circuits involved in mediating neuroendocrine, sickness or inflammatory responses. It is suggested that such a sensitization may influence the response to immunological and traumatic insults and may thus be relevant to behavioral pathology.
The nucleus accumbens, as part of the mesolimbic dopaminergic reward pathway, mediates both addiction to and withdrawal from substances of abuse. In addition, activity of substances of abuse such as opioids in the nucleus accumbens has been implicated in pain modulation. Because nucleus accumbens nicotinic receptors are important in nicotine addiction and because nicotinic activity can interact with opioid action, we investigated the contribution of nucleus accumbens nicotinic receptors to opioid-mediated analgesia/antinociception. The response of the nociceptive jaw-opening reflex to opioids was studied in the rat, both before and during chronic nicotine exposure. In nicotine-naive rats, intra-accumbens injection of the nicotinic receptor antagonist mecamylamine blocked antinociception produced by either systemic morphine, intra-accumbens co-administration of a mu- and a delta-opioid receptor agonist, or noxious stimulation (i.e., subdermal capsaicin in the hindpaw); intra-accumbens mecamylamine alone had no effect. The antinociceptive effect of either morphine or noxious stimulation was unchanged during nicotine tolerance; however, intra-accumbens mecamylamine lost its ability to block antinociception produced by either treatment. Intra-accumbens mecamylamine by itself precipitated significant hyperalgesia in nicotine-tolerant rats which could be suppressed by noxious stimulation as well as by morphine. These results indicate that nucleus accumbens nicotinic receptors play an important role in both opioid- and noxious stimulus-induced antinociception in nicotine-naive rats. This role was attenuated in the nicotine-dependent state. The suppression of withdrawal hyperalgesia by noxious stimulation suggests that pain can ameliorate the symptoms of withdrawal, thus suggesting a possible mechanism for pain-seeking behavior.
We have recently shown that the expression of the nerve growth factor-inducible gene B (NGFI-B, or Nur77), a transcription factor belonging to the large ligand-activated nuclear receptor family, is modulated by antipsychotic drugs in the rat forebrain. In the present work, we have investigated the impact of antipsychotic drugs on a series of transcription factors also belonging to the nuclear receptor family. The receptors investigated include retinoid X receptor (RXR), thyroid hormone receptor (TR), retinoic acid receptor (RAR), RAR-related orphan receptor (RZR) and Rev-erb receptor isoforms in addition to the NGFI-B transcript. We have used in situ hybridization to monitor their mRNA levels after acute and chronic antipsychotic drug administration. RZRbeta and NGFI-B mRNA levels are down-regulated after chronic haloperidol or clozapine treatment in the primary somatosensory cortex. The TRbeta1 isoform mainly expressed in the cingulate cortex is modulated only after chronic clozapine treatment, whereas TRalpha isoform mRNAs are modulated by both antipsychotics in the cingulate cortex and nucleus accumbens shell; two brain areas associated with limbic functions. The RXRgamma1 isoform, mostly expressed in the dorsolateral portion of the striatum is modestly affected by antipsychotics. Modulation of the expression of transcription factors belonging to the ligand-activated nuclear receptor family by antipsychotics represents an additional molecular event in the mechanism of action of these drugs. We suggest that modification of the pattern of transcription factor expression may play a role in long-term cellular responses to these drugs.
The involvement of the basal forebrain cholinergic system has been extensively investigated in instrumental learning but little is known of its participation in social memory, especially in the memorization of individual traits of a conspecific. The present study tested in sheep its contribution to both instrumental learning and individual offspring recognition. Six weeks before parturition, ewes received injections of a specific cholinergic immunotoxin (ME20.4 IgG-saporin) into the lateral ventricles (150 microg) and in some cases additional immunotoxin injections into the nucleus basalis (11 microg/side). After 3 weeks of recovery, ewes were trained on a classical instrumental visual discrimination task known to be sensitive to cholinergic deficits. The formation of memory of offspring was assessed through both olfactory and visual/auditory recognition tasks. Olfactory recognition was tested by presenting at suckling successively an alien and the familiar lamb at 2 and 4 h after parturition. Visual/auditory recognition of the lamb was performed using a non-olfactory discrimination test between the familiar and an alien lamb after 12 h of mother-young contact. The lesion extent was assessed by counting choline acetyltransferase-immunopositive neurons in the basal forebrain and measuring the density of acetylcholinesterase fibers in different target areas. Results showed that immunotoxic lesions delayed acquisition of the instrumental visual discrimination. Moreover, olfactory recognition of the lamb was severely impaired while visual/auditory lamb recognition was marginally altered. There was no evidence for sensorimotor or motivational deficits. Importantly, impairment was observed in animals for which loss of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and their efferent fibers was higher than 75%, while striatal cholinergic neurons and Purkinje cells were unaffected. This study provides evidence that the basal forebrain cholinergic system contributes not only to instrumental but also to social learning. In addition, the cholinergic modulation seems of importance for processing visual and olfactory modalities. However, since only extensive lesions affect performance, this indicates that the basal forebrain cholinergic system possesses substantial reserve capacity to sustain cognitive functions.
Field recordings of responses to activation of corticostriatal afferents were made in coronally sectioned rat brain slices. Each recording site was categorized according to its medial to lateral and rostral to caudal position to investigate anatomical differences in synaptic plasticity. Individual responses were highly variable exhibiting extremes of tetanus induced depression and potentiation. Consequently, averaging masked the capacity of these synapses to express long-term forms of plasticity. Block of GABA(A) inhibition and elimination of dopaminergic input with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions both acted to increase the expression of potentiation, but again considerable variability was observed. Separation of recordings into medial and lateral groups revealed clear anatomical trends which contributed to the variability observed in the total sample. Paired-pulse, post-tetanic and long-term potentiation was greater in medial than in lateral groups in normal artificial cerebral spinal fluid. Similar tendencies were seen after block of GABA(A) receptors with bicuculline. 6-Hydroxydopamine lesions in combination with bicuculline treatment reduced medial to lateral differences. Factoring in medial to lateral trends revealed block of GABA(A) receptor mediated inhibition had its greatest effect on medial corticostriatal responses and 6-hydroxydopamine lesions had their greatest effect on lateral responses. From these data we suggest anatomical variation in striatal circuitry may underlie regional differences in synaptic plasticity evoked by corticostriatal activation.
The aim of the present study was to analyze the effect of chemical hypoxia (cyanide) on the membrane potential of hippocampal CA1 neurons and to elucidate the reason for previously found differences in the reaction to hypoxia in these cells. Recordings were performed in brain slices from 8-19-day-old rats with whole-cell patch clamp on cells identified with near-infrared video microscopy. Cyanide (0.1-2.0 mM) caused different responses depending on the resting potential of the cells: hyperpolarization (or an initial depolarization followed by hyperpolarization) was generally seen in cells with less negative resting potential (-56+/-6.1 mV), and depolarization in cells with more negative resting potential (-62+/-3.4 mV). After 10 min in cyanide the membrane potential in all cells had reached approximately the same level (-62+/-5.8 mV), the direction and size of the voltage response having an inverse linear relation to the resting potential (k=-0.98, r=0.71). The direction of the cyanide response was not reversed by current injection (depolarization by 12 mV) in cells with more negative resting potential (-60+/-2.8 mV). Wash out of cyanide caused hyperpolarization in 70% of the cells. Presence of ouabain (2 microM) resulted in pronounced depolarization during cyanide perfusion, and potentiated the hyperpolarization during wash out indicating that this part of the effect is not dependent on a reactivation of the Na/K pump. In conclusion, chemical hypoxia with cyanide changes the membrane potential in CA1 cells in size and direction depending on the original resting potential of the cells. The present findings suggested that cyanide activated not only K+ channels but in addition increased a Na+ current which has a more positive equilibrium potential.
In various chemoconvulsant models of human temporal lobe epilepsy, the induction of epileptogenesis by a prolonged period of continuous seizure activity is accompanied by significant changes in hippocampal structure. These changes include an increase in neurogenesis within the proliferative subgranular zone (SGZ) of the dentate gyrus and induction of mossy fiber sprouting in mature dentate granule cells. As dentate granule cell neurogenesis and axon outgrowth are also hallmarks of hippocampal development, we hypothesized that molecules involved in normal development may also play a role in similar changes associated with epileptogenesis. To begin to test this hypothesis, we have analyzed the expression patterns of multiple members of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) family of transcription factors in both normal and epileptic adult rats. bHLH protein expression has been found recently in dentate granule cells at specific developmental stages, and analysis of developmental models suggests specific neural differentiation functions for these molecules. We show that mRNA expression of all seven bHLH family members examined in this study, as well as the divergent homeobox protein Prox1, is present in the adult. Patterns of expression varied considerably between family members, ranging from the limited expression of Mash1 in the neurogenic SGZ of the dentate gyrus to the scattered, widespread profile of Hes5 throughout the dentate gyrus and the hippocampus proper. Moreover, these varied profiles of expression were differentially regulated following status epilepticus, with some increasing (Mash1, Id2), some falling (Hes5, Prox1), and others remaining mostly unchanged (NeuroD/BETA2, NeuroD2/NDRF, Id3, Rath2/Nex1). While the function of these molecules in the adult brain remains to be characterized, our findings support the idea that molecules controlling cell-fate decisions in the developing dentate gyrus are also operative during seizure-induced neurogenesis and plasticity.
Treatment of cultured hippocampal neurons with the mitochondrial uncoupler carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone (CCCP) in the absence of glucose mimics ischemic energy depletion and induces formation of Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) clusters, spherical structures with diameters of 75-175 nm [Dosemeci et al., J. Neurosci. 20 (2000) 3076-3084]. The demonstration that CaMKII clustering occurs in the intact, adult rat brain upon interruption of blood flow indicates that clustering is not confined to cell cultures. Application of N-methyl-D-aspartate (250 microM, 15 min) to hippocampal cultures also induces cluster formation, suggesting a role for Ca(2+). Indeed, intracellular Ca(2+) monitored with Fluo3-AM by confocal microscopy reaches a sustained high level within 5 min of CCCP treatment. The appearance of immunolabeled CaMKII clusters, detected by electron microscopy, follows the onset of the sustained increase in intracellular Ca(2+). Moreover, CaMKII does not cluster when the rise in intracellular Ca(2+) is prevented by the omission of extracellular Ca(2+) during CCCP treatment, confirming that clustering is Ca(2+)-dependent. A lag period of 1-2 min between the onset of high intracellular Ca(2+) levels and the formation of CaMKII clusters suggests that a sustained increase in Ca(2+) level is necessary for the clustering. CaMKII clusters disappear within 2 h of returning the cultures to normal incubation conditions, at which time no significant cell death is detected. These results indicate that pathological conditions that promote sustained episodes of Ca(2+) overload result in a transitory clustering of CaMKII into spherical structures. CaMKII clustering may represent a cellular defense mechanism to sequester a portion of the CaMKII pool, thereby preventing excessive protein phosphorylation.
GABAergic interneurons have been shown to be a major target of cholinergic inputs to the hippocampus. Because these interneurons project to pyramidal neurons as well as other interneurons, activation of the cholinergic system is likely to produce a complex modulation of local inhibitory activity. To better understand the role of post-synaptic alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors in the hippocampus, we have characterized the effects of nicotinic agents on local interneurons of the rat CA1 stratum oriens in terms of activation, desensitization, and region of axonal termination. Fast application of acetylcholine onto stratum oriens interneurons during whole-cell recordings from hippocampal slices activated the majority of cells tested, and these responses were mediated almost entirely by alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. Anatomical reconstructions showed no clear relationship between the acetylcholine responsivity of interneurons and the regions to which their axons project. Currents mediated by alpha7 receptors declined markedly during repetitive activation in the theta rhythm range (4-12 Hz) when activated by either pressure application or synaptic release of acetylcholine. However, the decay of alpha7 receptor-mediated currents was unaffected by treatment with the cholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine (10 nM-10 microM), suggesting that hydrolysis of acetylcholine is not a rate-limiting step in the termination of these responses. From these findings we suggest that nicotinic receptor activity in this region has an extensive and complex impact on local inhibitory circuits that is mediated by activation of several classes of intrinsic GABAergic cells. In addition, desensitization of the alpha7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor is likely to contribute to the decay of individual responses to pressure application of agonist, and may also act in a cumulative fashion to impair the ability of these receptors to support repetitive activity during trains of activation. If applicable to alpha7 receptor responses in vivo, we suggest it may be difficult to enhance these responses for therapeutic purposes with cholinesterase inhibitors.
The involvement of the forebrain cholinergic system in arousal, learning and memory has been well established. Other neurotransmitters such as GABA and glutamate may be involved in the mechanisms of memory by modulating the forebrain cholinergic pathways. We studied the activity of cortical and hippocampal cholinergic, GABAergic and glutamatergic systems during novelty and habituation in the rat using microdialysis. After establishing basal release of the neurotransmitters, the animals were transferred to a novel environment and allowed to explore it twice consecutively for 30 min (60 min apart; exploration I and II). The motor activity was monitored. Samples were collected throughout the experiment and the release of acetylcholine (ACh), GABA and glutamate was measured. During the two consecutive explorations of the arena, cortical and hippocampal, ACh release showed a significant tetrodotoxin-dependent increase which was higher during exploration I than II. The effect was more pronounced and longer-lasting in the hippocampus than in the cortex. Cortical GABA release increased significantly only during exploration II, while hippocampal GABA release did not increase during either exploration. Motor activity was higher during the first 10 min of exploration I and II and then gradually decreased during the further 20 min. Both cortical and hippocampal ACh release were positively correlated with motor activity during exploration II, but not during I. During exploration II, cortical GABA release was inversely correlated, while hippocampal GABA release was positively correlated to motor activity. No change in cortical and hippocampal glutamate release was observed. In summary, ACh released by the animal placed in a novel environment seems to have two components, one related to motor activity and one related to attention, anxiety and fear. This second component disappears in the familiar environment, where ACh release is directly related to motor activity. The negative relationship between cortical GABA levels and motor activity may indicate that cortical GABAergic activity is involved in habituation.
Gene expression for glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) family ligands and receptors was analyzed with in situ hybridization after two focal ischemic insults of different severities. Focal ischemia was induced in rats by either 30 min or 2 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO), causing damage to the striatum only, or involving also the parietal cortex, respectively. We found modest, transient elevation of GDNF mRNA in the dentate granule cell layer. In addition, the number of GDNF mRNA-expressing cells increased in the cortex and striatum after 2 h or 30 min of MCAO, respectively. No changes of neurturin or persephin mRNA expression were detected. Both c-Ret and GFRalpha1 mRNA levels were markedly increased in the ipsilateral cortex outside the ischemic lesion at 6-24 h after the 2-h insult, whereas GFRalpha2 expression was decreased in cortical areas both within and outside the lesion. Similar increases of c-Ret and GFRalpha1 mRNA levels were detected in the striatum, and to a lesser extent, in the cortex following 30 min of MCAO. The 2-h insult also gave rise to transient increases of c-Ret and GFRalpha1 mRNA in hippocampal subregions. Thirty minutes and 2 h of MCAO lead to elevated c-Ret, and GFRalpha1 or GFRalpha2 mRNA expression, respectively, in the ipsilateral ventroposterolateral thalamic nucleus. Both insults induced increased levels of GFRalpha1 mRNA in the subventricular zone of the lateral ventricle. Our data indicate major changes of GDNF family signaling in the forebrain, regulated mainly through altered receptor levels, in the post-ischemic phase. These changes could enhance neuroprotective and neuroregenerative responses both to endogenous and exogenous GDNF ligands.
Cocaine administration alters glutamate function within several brain regions. Using quantitative electron microscopic immunocytochemistry, the present study investigated the effect of repeated intermittent cocaine (resulting in behavioral sensitization) or acute cocaine administration on the density of glutamate immunogold labeling within nerve terminals. Rats were treated daily with saline or cocaine for 7 days. Following a 14-day withdrawal animals were challenged with saline or cocaine. On the challenge day, most (75%) animals that received cocaine repeatedly showed a heightened locomotor response to cocaine compared to the first day of cocaine administration, and were considered behaviorally sensitized.Three days after the challenge, glutamate immunogold labeling was quantified in nerve terminals making asymmetrical synaptic contacts within the core and shell of the nucleus accumbens, ventral tegmental area and medial prefrontal cortex. There was a decrease in such labeling in the nucleus accumbens in the group receiving acute cocaine. Locomotor activity was positively correlated with glutamate immunolabeling within nerve terminals in the nucleus accumbens core only for the cocaine-sensitized group. Nerve terminal glutamate immunolabeling in the nucleus accumbens core, but not the shell, was increased in the non-sensitized compared to the cocaine-sensitized group. In the ventral tegmental area, glutamate immunolabeling was significantly higher in the cocaine-sensitized compared to the acute cocaine group. In the prefrontal cortex, there were no significant differences in glutamate immunogold labeling between treatment groups. This study indicates that acute cocaine administration significantly decreases nerve terminal glutamate immunoreactivity in the nucleus accumbens. We suggest that sensitization results in differential changes in the nucleus accumbens core versus the shell, and may alter presynaptic mechanisms regulating glutamate release or re-uptake in the core.
Administration of cocaine to pregnant rabbits produces robust and long-lasting anatomical alterations in the dopamine-rich anterior cingulate cortex of offspring. These effects include increased length and decreased bundling of layer III and V pyramidal neuron dendrites, increases in parvalbumin expression in the dendrites of interneurons, and increases in detectable GABAergic neurons. We have now examined multiple cortical regions with varying degrees of catecholaminergic innervation to investigate regional variations in the ability of prenatal cocaine exposure to elicit these permanent changes. All regions containing a high density of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers, indicative of prominent dopaminergic input, exhibited alterations in GABA and parvalbumin expression by interneurons and microtubule-associated protein-2 labeling of apical dendrites of pyramidal neurons. These regions included the medial prefrontal, entorhinal, and piriform cortices. In contrast, primary somatosensory, auditory and motor cortices exhibited little tyrosine hydroxylase staining and no measurable cocaine-induced changes in cortical structure. From these data we suggest that the presence of dopaminergic afferents contributes to the marked specificity of the altered development of excitatory pyramidal neurons and inhibitory interneurons induced by low dose i.v. administration of cocaine in utero.
Psychoactive effects of cannabinoids are thought to be mediated, at least in part, by suppression of both glutamate and GABA release via CB1 cannabinoid receptor. Two types of cannabinoid receptor (CB1 and CB2) have been cloned so far. The CB1 receptors are abundantly expressed in the nervous system, whereas CB2 receptors are limited to lymphoid organs (Matsuda et al., 1990; Munro et al., 1993). Immunocytochemical and electrophysiological studies revealed that in the hippocampus CB1 receptors are expressed on axon terminals of GABAergic inhibitory interneurons (Tsou et al., 1999; Katona et al., 1999) and activation of these receptors decreases GABA release (Hjos et al., 2000). Other physiological studies pointed out the involvement of CB1 receptors in the modulation of hippocampal glutamatergic synaptic transmission and long-term potentiation (Stella et al., 1997; Misner and Sullivan, 1999), but anatomical studies could not confirm the existence of CB1 receptors on glutamatergic terminals. Here we examined cannabinoid actions on both glutamatergic and GABAergic synaptic transmission in the hippocampus of wild type (CB1+/+) and CB1 receptor knockout mice (CB1-/-). The synthetic cannabinoid agonist WIN55,212-2 reduced the amplitudes of excitatory postsynaptic currents in both wild type and CB1-/- mice, while inhibitory postsynaptic currents were decreased only in wild type mice, but not in CB1-/- animals. Our findings are consistent with a CB1 cannabinoid receptor-dependent modulation of GABAergic postsynaptic currents, but a novel cannabinoid-sensitive receptor must be responsible for the inhibition of glutamatergic neurotransmission.
Multiple sclerosis is an inflammatory, demyelinating disease of the CNS. Metallothioneins-I+II are antioxidant proteins induced in the CNS by immobilisation stress, trauma or degenerative diseases which have been postulated to play a neuroprotective role, while the CNS isoform metallothionein-III has been related to Alzheimer's disease. We have analysed metallothioneins-I-III expression in the CNS of mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis. Moreover, we have examined the putative role of interferon-gamma, a pro-inflammatory cytokine, in the control of metallothioneins expression during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis in interferon-gamma receptor knockout mice with two different genetic backgrounds: 129/Sv and C57BL/6x129/Sv. Mice with experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis showed a significant induction of metallothioneins-I+II in the spinal cord white matter, and to a lower extent in the brain. Interferon-gamma receptor knockout mice suffered from a more severe experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, and interestingly showed a higher metallothioneins-I+II induction in both white and grey matter of the spinal cord and in the brain. In contrast to the metallothioneins-I+II isoforms, metallothionein-III expression remained essentially unaltered during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis; interferon-gamma receptor knockout mice showed an altered metallothionein-III expression (a slight increase in the spinal cord white matter) only in the C57BL/6x129/Sv background. Metallothioneins-I+II proteins were prominent in areas of induced cellular infiltrates. Reactive astrocytes and activated monocytes/macrophages were the sources of metallothioneins-I+II proteins. From these results we suggest that metallothioneins-I+II but not metallothionein-III may play an important role during experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis, and indicate that the pro-inflammatory cytokine interferon-gamma is unlikely an important factor in this response.
In the present study, we analysed changes in the expression, subcellular distribution and phosphorylation state of the microtubule-associated protein tau and other cytoskeletal proteins after neurone-specific activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) in the CNS in vivo. We used transgenic mice with a neurone-specific expression of activated ras protein (p21H-ras(Val12), synapsin I promoter) that is associated with an augmented activity of the MAPK. Chronic activation of MAPK cascade influenced tau protein phosphorylation, localisation and dendritic morphology. While the amount of tau protein was elevated by 9%, phospho-epitopes detected by the monoclonal antibodies AT270, 12E8 and SMI34 were increased by about 21%, 40% and 59% respectively. Steady-state levels of tau mRNA were not affected. Thus, the increase in tau protein was most likely due to stabilisation of tau protein by augmented phosphorylation. While in wild-type animals tau protein was preferentially localised in axons, a prominent immunoreactivity was found in the somatodendritic compartment of transgenic mice. This subcellular translocation typically seen in pyramidal neurones was associated with an increase in the dendritic calibre by about 30% and is paralleled by an increase in tubulin of 19%. We were unable to obtain any morphological indication of neurodegenerative processes in these animals. We suggest that the moderate increase in tau protein and phosphorylation may be part of the neuroprotective mechanism. However, further studies on aged transgenic mice will be necessary to establish potential effects on neuronal viability.
Alterations in the phosphorylation state of the microtubule-associated protein tau have been associated with the pathogenesis of neurofibrillary degeneration as well as with a neuroprotective action against apoptotic cell death. Mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPK) phosphorylate tau protein in vitro but the pathophysiological significance of this tau phosphorylation and its effects on neuronal viability is far from clear. Moreover, an in vivo model of activation of MAPK, a key candidate for in vivo tau phosphorylation, is still lacking. The aim of the present study and the accompanying paper was to establish an animal model of stimulated MAPK and to analyse the consequences on tau phosphorylation and the neuronal cytoskeleton. We took advantage of transgenic mice with neurone-specific expression of activated ras protein (p21H-ras(Val12)). The expression of the transgene in these animals is forced to a subset of neurones by the use of the synapsin I promoter. Activity of B-raf was elevated by 37%, while activity of MAPK (ERK1/ERK2) was increased by 25% associated with a subcellular redistribution from the cytoplasmic to the nuclear compartment. Kinases downstream of MAPK such as p90rsk and glycogen synthase kinase 3beta were only marginally affected. Activity of p70S6 kinase was unaltered. The present model might be useful to study the effects of activation of the MAPK cascade on tau phosphorylation and its cell biological sequelae.
The germinative ventricular zone of embryonic brain contains neural lineage progenitor cells that give rise to neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes. The ability to generate neurons persists at adulthood in restricted brain areas. During development, many growth factors exert their effects by interacting with tyrosine kinase receptors and activate the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase and the Ras/MAP kinase pathways. By its ability to modulate these pathways, the recently identified Src homology 2 domain-containing inositol polyphosphate 5-phosphatase 2, SHIP2, has the potential to regulate neuronal development. Using in situ hybridization technique with multiple synthetic oligonucleotides, we demonstrated that SHIP2 mRNA was highly expressed in the ventricular zone at early embryonic stages and subventricular zones at latter stages of brain and spinal cord and in the sympathetic chain. No significant expression was seen in differentiated fields. This restricted expression was maintained from embryonic day 11.5 to birth. In the periphery, large expression was detected in muscle and kidney and moderate expression in thyroid, pituitary gland, digestive system and bone. In the adult brain, SHIP2 was mainly restricted in structures containing neural stem cells such as the anterior subventricular zone, the rostral migratory stream and the olfactory tubercle. SHIP2 was also detected in the choroid plexuses and the granular layer of the cerebellum. The specificity of SHIP2 expression in neural stem cells was further demonstrated by (i) the dramatic increase in SHIP2 mRNA signal in neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM)-deficient mice, which present an accumulation of progenitor cells in the anterior subventricular zone and the rostral migratory stream, (ii) the abundant expression of 160-kDa SHIP2 by western blotting in proliferating neurospheres in culture and its downregulation in non-proliferating differentiated neurospheres. In conclusion, the close correlation between the pattern of SHIP2 expression in the brain and the proliferative and early differentiative events suggests that the phosphatase SHIP2 may have important roles in neural development.
Oxidative stress has been associated with the development of blood-brain barrier disruption and cellular injury after ischemia. The cytosolic antioxidant, copper/zinc superoxide dismutase, has been shown to protect against blood-brain barrier disruption and infarction after cerebral ischemia-reperfusion. However, it is not clear whether copper/zinc superoxide dismutase can protect against evolving ischemic lesions after thromboembolic cortical ischemia. In this study, the photothrombotic ischemia model, which is physiologically similar to thromboembolic stroke, was used to develop cortical ischemia. Blood-brain barrier disruption and oxidative cellular damage were investigated in transgenic mice that overexpress copper/zinc superoxide dismutase and in littermate wild-type mice after photothrombotic ischemia, which was induced by both injection of erythrosin B (30 mg/kg) and irradiation using a helium neon laser for 3 min. Free radical production, particularly superoxide, was increased in the lesioned cortex as early as 4 h after ischemia using hydroethidine in situ detection. The transgenic mice showed a prominent decrease in oxidative stress compared with the wild-type mice. Blood-brain barrier disruption, evidenced by quantitation of Evans Blue leakage, occurred 1 h after ischemia and gradually increased up to 24 h. Compared with the wild-type mice, the transgenic mice showed less blood-brain barrier disruption, a decrease in oxidative DNA damage using 8-hydroxyguanosine immunohistochemistry, a subsequent decrease in DNA fragmentation using the in situ nick-end labeling technique, and decreased infarct volume after ischemia. From these results we suggest that superoxide anion radical is an important factor in blood-brain barrier disruption and oxidative cellular injury, and that copper/zinc superoxide dismutase could protect against the evolving infarction after thromboembolic cortical ischemia.
The BALB/c mouse model of Niemann-Pick type C disease exhibits similar neuropathological features to the human condition, including cerebral atrophy, demyelination of the corpus callosum, and degeneration of cerebellar Purkinje cells. The gene defect in Niemann-Pick C disease causes cholesterol to accumulate within the lysosomal compartment of neurons and glial cells. In order to determine whether cholesterol accumulation through the low-density lipoprotein receptor pathway plays an important role in the degenerative process, Niemann-Pick C mice were crossed with low-density lipoprotein receptor knockout mice. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether degeneration of neurons and glial cells is reduced in Niemann-Pick C animals lacking the low-density lipoprotein receptor. Using stereological counting methods, Purkinje cells were counted in the cerebellum and glial cell bodies were counted in the corpus callosum in mice at 3, 7.5 and 11 weeks of age. In the Niemann-Pick C animals, compared to wild-type control mice, there were 48% fewer glial cells at 3 weeks of age, and by 11 weeks of age there were 63% fewer glial cells. Purkinje cells were decreased in number by 13% at 3 weeks of age, and by 11 weeks of age there was a 96% loss. In the Niemann-Pick C animals lacking low-density lipoprotein receptors, there was no difference in the magnitude of glial cell or Purkinje cell loss compared to the Niemann-Pick C animals. These data indicate that both neurons and glia are vulnerable to degeneration in the Niemann-Pick C mouse, but that blocking the accumulation of cholesterol through the low-density lipoprotein receptor pathway does not alter the degenerative phenotype of Niemann-Pick C disease.
Phosphorylation of C-termini of receptor subunits is thought to play a significant role in modulation of N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor function. To investigate whether the C-terminus of the NR2A subunit is involved in determining the sensitivity of NMDA receptors to ethanol we compared the effects of ethanol in vitro on NMDA-mediated field excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSPs) in the CA1 and dentate gyrus (DG) of adult male NR2A(DeltaC/DeltaC) mice lacking the C-terminus of NR2A subunit and in their parental strain C57Bl/6. We also tested the in vivo effects of a hypnotic dose of ethanol in C57Bl/6 and NR2A(DeltaC/DeltaC) mice and their F2 offspring. Ifenprodil (10 microM) was used to distinguish between the NR2A and NR2B components of NMDA fEPSPs. Ethanol (100 mM) in the presence of ifenprodil inhibited the CA1 NR2A-mediated component of NMDA fEPSPs two times more in NR2A(DeltaC/DeltaC) than in C57Bl/6. Ethanol inhibition of the CA1 NR2B-mediated component was five to seven times lower in NR2A(DeltaC/DeltaC) than in C57Bl/6. In the DG ethanol had similar effects in the two strains. In vivo administration of ethanol (4 g/kg) induced sedation of similar duration in both strains of mice. A second administration of ethanol 7 days after the initial injection revealed an increased ethanol sensitivity of NR2A(DeltaC/DeltaC) and F2(DeltaC/DeltaC) mice including a shortened time to loss of righting reflex and an increased sleep time. The sensitization of NR2A(DeltaC/DeltaC) mice to alcohol was not accompanied by an altered ethanol sensitivity of NMDA fEPSPs recorded in vitro. Our data are consistent with the inhibitory action of ethanol on NMDA receptors being mediated by a site other than the intracellular C-terminus of the NR2A subunit. The altered sensitivities to ethanol of both NR2A- and NR2B-mediated responses in the CA1 of NR2A(DeltaC/DeltaC) imply that NR2A- and NR2B subunit-containing NMDA receptors may be linked by a common target of ethanol.
Interleukin 1beta induced both nitric oxide synthase 2 (NOS-2) and cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2) gene expression in dorsal root ganglion explant culture with increased NOS-2 and COX-2 activities, and corresponding increases in the production of nitric oxide and prostaglandin E(2). The proinflammatory cytokine also increased 8-isoprostaglandin F(2alpha) concentration, an index of oxidant stress-mediated production of lipid hydroperoxides/reactive oxygen species. The signaling mechanisms by which interleukin 1beta regulates NOS-2 and COX-2 genes remain obscure. Reactive oxygen species play an important role in inflammatory processes as mediators of injury, and potentially as intracellular signaling molecules in interleukin 1beta-mediated regulation of gene expression. The effects of antioxidants that act by different mechanisms on interleukin 1beta-mediated NOS-2 and COX-2 gene expression were studied in rat dorsal root ganglion explants. The oxidant scavenger pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate abolished interleukin 1beta-induced NOS-2 mRNA accumulation and decreased nitric oxide production in a concentration-dependent manner, thus indicating that this antioxidant decreased either the transcription of NOS-2 gene or the stability of NOS-2 mRNA. In contrast, pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate significantly inhibited COX-2 gene expression at the posttranscriptional level, since pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate did not affect interleukin 1beta-induced COX-2 mRNA transcripts but inhibited COX-2 protein expression and prostaglandin E(2) production. Rotenone, another antioxidant that attenuates reactive oxygen species production by inhibiting the mitochondrial electron transport system, failed to inhibit interleukin 1beta-induced NOS-2 and COX-2 mRNA-encoding transcripts. However, rotenone inhibited NOS-2 and COX-2 proteins and associated nitric oxide and prostaglandin E(2) production, respectively, suggesting a posttranscriptional target for interleukin 1beta-mediated regulation of NOS-2 and COX-2 gene expression. Furthermore, both pyrrolidine dithiocarbamate and rotenone also decreased interleukin 1beta-induced 8-isoprostaglandin F(2alpha) production. These results indicate that not only transcriptional regulation, but also posttranscriptional events are involved in a redox-sensitive regulation of interleukin 1beta-induced NOS-2 and COX-2 gene expression in the dorsal root ganglia. Overall, interleukin 1beta-induced oxidant stress appears to regulate NOS-2 and COX-2 gene expression primarily at the level of protein translation. By implicating reactive oxygen species production in interleukin-1beta receptor-activated molecular signaling in the dorsal root ganglia, our data suggest a possible novel target for intervention in cytokine-mediated inflammatory processes.
The goal of the present study is to determine the relationship of metabotropic glutamate receptors 2/3 (mGluR2/3) to dorsal root ganglion cells, peripheral primary afferent fibers in digital nerves and central primary afferent fibers in the spinal cord. We demonstrate that approximately 40% of L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglion cells contain mGluR2/3-like immunoreactivity. These mGluR2/3-positive cells are small in diameter (23 microm) and 76% stain for the isolectin Griffonia simplicifolia (I-B4), while 67% of I-B4 cells have mGluR2/3-like immunoreactivity. Electron microscopic analyses of mGluR2/3-like immunoreactivity in axons in digital nerves indicate that 32% of unmyelinated and 28% of myelinated axons are labeled. In the lumbar dorsal horn, mGluR2/3-like immunoreactivity is localized preferentially in lamina IIi with lighter staining in laminae III and IV. The dense mGluR2/3-like immunoreactivity in lamina IIi is consistent with the localization of these receptors in I-B4-labeled dorsal root ganglion cells. Elimination of primary afferent input following unilateral dorsal rhizotomies significantly decreases the mGluR2/3-like immunoreactivity density in the dorsal horn although some residual staining does remain, suggesting that many but not all of these receptors are located on primary afferent processes. The finding that mGluR2/3s are located on peripheral sensory axons suggests that they are involved in peripheral sensory transduction and can modulate transmission of sensory input before it reaches the spinal cord. This offers the possibility of altering sensory input, particularly noxious input, at a site that would avoid CNS side effects. Since many but not all of these receptors are located on primary afferent terminals, these receptors may also influence primary afferent transmission in the dorsal horn through presynaptic mechanisms and glutamatergic transmission in general through both presynaptic and postsynaptic mechanisms. Since these receptors are concentrated in lamina IIi and also largely co-localized with I-B4, they may have considerable influence on nociceptive processing by what are considered to be non-peptidergic primary afferent neurons.
Recent work from our laboratory and others supports a role for heme oxygenase in nociception and pain of several etiologies including inflammatory, incisional and neuropathic. Since it has been observed that heme oxygenase inhibitors reduce formalin-induced pain behaviors in mice and rats, we attempted to determine if this analgesic effect was reflected in a reduction in formalin-induced spinal cord Fos expression, an index of neuronal activation. To perform these studies, it was necessary to first examine the cytoarchitecture of the mouse lumbar spinal cord so that histological sections from known segmental levels could be chosen, and Fos-positive nuclei could be assigned to established dorsal horn laminae. After documenting the segmental and laminar distribution of Fos-positive nuclei following a 5% formalin injection, we went on to determine that the heme oxygenase inhibitor tin-protoporphyrin or morphine reduced this Fos expression as analyzed using confocal fluorescence microscopy. It was also observed that mice lacking expression of heme oxygenase type 2, an isozyme of heme oxygenase found in high abundance in the spinal cord, had lowered Fos expression after the formalin injection. Additional confocal microscopy studies demonstrated widespread expression of heme oxygenase type 2 in spinal cord neuron cell bodies. Double-labeling experiments showed that a high percentage of Fos-positive nuclei identified after administration of formalin were located within heme oxygenase type 2-positive cell profiles. Our studies support the hypothesis that heme oxygenase type 2 plays a role in formalin-induced nociception. Furthermore, from these results we suggest that the heme oxygenase type 2 located in spinal cord dorsal horn neurons participates in this nociceptive pathway.
The ultrastructural localization of zinc transporter-3, glutamate decarboxylase and zinc ions in zinc-enriched terminals in the mouse spinal cord was studied by zinc transporter-3 and glutamate decarboxylase immunohistochemistry and zinc selenium autometallography, respectively. The distribution of zinc selenium autometallographic silver grains, and zinc transporter-3 and glutamate decarboxylase immunohistochemical puncta in both ventral and dorsal horns as seen in the light microscope corresponded to their presence in the synaptic vesicles of zinc-enriched terminals at ultrastructural levels. The densest populations of zinc-enriched terminals were seen in dorsal horn laminae I, III and IV, whereas the deeper laminae V and VI contained fewer terminals. At ultrastructural levels, zinc-enriched terminals primarily formed symmetrical synapses on perikarya and dendrites. Only relatively few asymmetrical synapses were observed on zinc-enriched terminals. In general, the biggest zinc-enriched terminals contacted neuronal somata and large dendritic elements, while medium-sized and small terminals made contacts on small dendrites. The ventral horn was primarily populated by big and medium-sized zinc-enriched terminals, whereas the dorsal horn was dominated by medium-sized and small zinc-enriched terminals. The presence of boutons with flat synaptic vesicles with zinc ions and symmetric synaptic contacts suggests the presence of inhibitory zinc-enriched terminals in the mammalian spinal cord, and this was confirmed by the finding that zinc ions and glutamate decarboxylase are co-localized in these terminals. The pattern of zinc-enriched boutons in both dorsal and ventral horns is compatible with evidence suggesting that zinc may be involved in both sensory transmission and motor control.
The pro-opiomelanocortin-derived peptides and the melanocortin receptors are implicated in various functions within the CNS including the regulation of food intake. In the present study, we used in situ hybridization, with specific 35S-labelled ovine riboprobes to map the expression of melanocortin receptor-3 (MC3-R) and -4 (MC4-R) mRNA in the diencephalon and brainstem of normal female sheep. Furthermore, we examined the effect of long-term alterations in energy balance on the distribution and expression of MC3-R and MC4-R mRNA in food-restricted and ad libitum-fed ovariectomized female sheep. The distribution of melanocortin receptors generally resembled that of the rat. A high number of MC3-R-labelled cells were seen in the ventral division of the lateral septum and the medial preoptic area. In the hypothalamus, a moderate number of MC3-R-labelled cells was observed in the lateral hypothalamic area while other nuclear groups had low to intermediate numbers of MC3-R-labelled cells. The distribution of MC4-R mRNA was generally similar to that of MC3-R mRNA in the septal/preoptic and hypothalamic regions, with a high number of labelled cells present in the intermediate division of the lateral septum. Within the hypothalamus, no MC4-R mRNA expression was observed in the arcuate nucleus. There was more widespread distribution of moderate to low numbers of MC4-R mRNA-expressing cells in the brainstem compared to that of MC3-R mRNA. Unlike findings in the rat, only a low number of cells expressed melanocortin receptor mRNA in the ovine hypothalamic nuclei associated with feeding behavior. The number of melanocortin receptor-labelled cells and the level of expression (silver grains/cell) in the hypothalamic feeding centers was similar in food-restricted and ad libitum-fed animals. These findings suggest that long-term alterations in metabolic status do not change the melanocortin receptor mRNA distribution and/or expression in the sheep hypothalamus.
In urethane-anesthetized rats with body temperature maintained at 39-40 degrees C, electrical stimulation of raphe magnus/pallidus/parapyramidal region within 0.5 mm of the ventral medullary surface reduced arterial blood flow to the tail cutaneous bed (measured with a chronically implanted Doppler ultrasonic flowmeter) from 28+/-5 to 6+/-1 cm/s (P&lt;0.01), without changing mesenteric arterial blood flow, and with only small, variable changes in arterial pressure. Injection of bicuculline (50 pmol in 50 nl) at the same site reduced tail flow from 19+/-2 to 3+/-1 cm/s (P&lt;0.01), again without significantly changing mesenteric flow, but with a moderate increase in arterial pressure. When the rat was cooled to reduce basal tail blood flow, injection of muscimol (1 nmol in 100 nl) or GABA (100 nmol in 100 nl) into the raphe site restored tail blood flow to 93+/-4% of the pre-cooling level. These recordings are the first reported direct measurements of rat tail blood flow changes elicited by alteration of neuronal function in the brainstem. The rostral medullary raphe controls the tail cutaneous vascular bed in a relatively selective manner. Our findings add to evidence that raphe magnus/pallidus/parapyramidal neurons are involved in regulating cutaneous blood flow in response to changes in body temperature in the rat.
Corticotropin-releasing hormone plays a critical role in mediating the stress response. Brain circuits hypothesized to mediate stress include the thalamus, which plays a pivotal role in distributing sensory information to cortical and subcortical structures. In situ hybridization revealed neurons containing corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA in the posterior thalamic nuclear group and the central medial nucleus of the thalamus, which interfaces with the ventral posteromedial nucleus (parvicellular part). These regions are of interest because they process somatosensory and visceral information. In the first experiment, the effect of acute stress on thalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA levels was assessed. Rats restrained for 1 h and killed 1 h later were found to have increased corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA in the posterior thalamic nuclear group. The time course of these changes was examined in a second experiment in which rats were killed immediately or 3 h after restraint. While no changes occurred in the thalamus immediately after restraint, 3 h after restraint, increases in corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA occurred in both the posterior thalamic nuclear group and the central medial-ventral posteromedial nucleus (parvicellular part) of the thalamus. A different pattern of activation was observed in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus with increased corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA immediately after restraint, but not 1 or 3 h later. In addition to the stress-induced changes, a prominent decrease in baseline thalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA was observed from 1000 to 1300 h. These results show that the thalamus contains corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA that increases after restraint stress, indicating a role for thalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone systems in the stress response. Stress-induced changes in thalamic corticotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA expression appears to be regulated differently than that in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, and may be influenced by diurnal mechanisms.
The role of basal forebrain corticopetal cholinergic projections in attentional functions has been extensively investigated. For example, 192 IgG-saporin-induced loss of cortical cholinergic inputs was repeatedly demonstrated to result in a selective impairment in the ability of rats to detect signals in a task designed to assess sustained attention performance. The loss of cortical cholinergic inputs correlated highly with the decrease in the hit rate. Little is known about the functions of basal forebrain non-cholinergic neurons, particularly corticopetal GABAergic neurons, largely because of the absence of specific research tools to manipulate selectively this projection. As basal forebrain lesions produced with ibotenic acid were previously observed to potently destroy non-cholinergic, particularly GABAergic neurons while producing only moderate decreases in the density of cortical cholinergic inputs, the present experiment examined the effects of such lesions on sustained attention performance and then compared these effects with the immunohistochemical and attentional consequences of selective cholinotoxic lesions produced by intra-basal forebrain infusions of 192 IgG-saporin. In contrast to the selective decrease in hits previously observed in 192 IgG-saporin-lesioned animals, the attentional performance of ibotenic acid-lesioned animals was characterized by a selective increase in the relative number of false alarms, that is 'claims' for signals in non-signal trials. Analyses of the response latencies suggested that this effect of ibotenic acid was due to impairments in the animals' ability to switch from the processing of the response rules for signal trials to those for non-signal trials. As expected, 192 IgG-saporin did not affect the number of basal forebrain parvalbumin-positive neurons, that are presumably GABAergic, but decreased cortical acetylcholinesterase-positive fiber density by over 80%. Conversely, in ibotenic acid-lesioned animals, basal forebrain parvalbumin-positive cells were decreased by 60% but cortical acetylcholinesterase-positive fiber density was only moderately reduced (less than 25%). These data form the basis for the development of the hypothesis that basal forebrain GABAergic neurons mediate executive aspects of attentional task performance. Such a function may be mediated in parallel via basal forebrain GABAergic projections to the cortex and the subthalamic nucleus.
The genetically hypothyroid mouse, Tshr(hyt), has a single point mutation resulting in a defective thyroid-stimulating hormone receptor, and therefore a non-functional thyroid gland. This is an autosomal recessive disorder and affected mice have been reported to have a number of somatic and behavioral deficits. This study reports a pronounced, spontaneous, asymmetrical circling behavior in the Tshr(hyt) mouse. The spontaneous circling behavior appeared in about 25% of the homozygous animals, in both males and females. The circling usually appeared by postnatal day 35 and continued throughout the lifespan of the animal. The circling was in one direction only, either clockwise or counterclockwise, with the directional preference being almost absolute. A stereological analysis of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive neurons in the substantia nigra and adjacent ventral tegmental area of circling homozygous mice, non-circling homozygous mice and heterozygous mice revealed that the circlers had significantly fewer (40% reduction) midbrain dopamine neurons than those animals that did not circle. There was not an association between the direction of the circling and an asymmetry in the number of dopamine neurons in the midbrains of these mice. There was no difference in the number of dopamine neurons in the midbrain of the homozygous non-circlers and the heterozygous mice. These studies indicate that about 25% of genetically hypothyroid mice demonstrated a spontaneous, perseverative, unilateral circling behavior that was associated with a significant reduction in the number of their midbrain dopamine neurons. Thus congenitally hypothyroid mice are at risk for a reduction in the number of nigral dopamine neurons and an associated repetitive movement disorder.
The substantia nigra pars reticulata is a primary output nucleus of the basal ganglia motor circuit and is controlled by a fine balance between excitatory and inhibitory inputs. The major excitatory input to GABAergic neurons in the substantia nigra arises from glutamatergic neurons in the subthalamic nucleus, whereas inhibitory inputs arise mainly from the striatum and the globus pallidus. Anatomical studies revealed that metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are highly expressed throughout the basal ganglia. Interestingly, mRNA for group I mGluRs are abundant in neurons of the subthalamic nucleus and the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Thus, it is possible that group I mGluRs play a role in the modulation of glutamatergic synaptic transmission at excitatory subthalamonigral synapses. To test this hypothesis, we investigated the effects of group I mGluR activation on excitatory synaptic transmission in putative GABAergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata using the whole cell patch clamp recording approach in slices of rat midbrain. We report that activation of group I mGluRs by the selective agonist (R,S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (100 microM) decreases synaptic transmission at excitatory synapses in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. This effect is selectively mediated by presynaptic activation of the group I mGluR subtype, mGluR1. Consistent with these data, electron microscopic immunocytochemical studies demonstrate the localization of mGluR1a at presynaptic sites in the rat substantia nigra pars reticulata. From this finding that group I mGluRs modulate the major excitatory inputs to GABAergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata we suggest that these receptors may play an important role in basal ganglia functions. Studying this effect, therefore, provides new insights into the modulatory role of glutamate in basal ganglia output nuclei in physiological and pathophysiological conditions.
Recent anatomical studies revealed that the entopeduncular nucleus of the rat receives GABAergic inputs from both the neostriatum and the globus pallidus. The present study was undertaken to reveal the physiological features of these inputs using the intracellular recording method in rat brain slice preparations. Most of the entopeduncular nucleus neurons generated repetitive firing without spike accommodation with intracellular current stimulation and thus were classified as Type-I. A small number of neurons were classified as Type-II since they generated spikes with pronounced accommodation. Most of the Type-I, but none of Type-II, entopeduncular nucleus neurons exhibited monosynaptic GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) after stimulation of the neostriatum and the globus pallidus. Neostriatal stimulation induced long latency IPSPs while pallidal stimulation induced long latency IPSPs compounded with short latency IPSPs. The IPSPs were mediated by GABA(A) receptors. The unitary IPSPs to striatal stimulation were small while those to pallidal stimulation were large in amplitude and able to reset ongoing rhythmic firing. The short latency IPSPs induced by pallidal stimulation reversed at a somatic membrane potential that was a few millivolts more depolarized than the long latency IPSPs, suggesting that the striatal inputs were evoked in more distal portions of the neurons than the pallidal inputs. Repetitive activation of these inputs resulted in a poor amplitude summation but a prolongation of the duration of the IPSPs. The results of the present study indicate that the pallidal projection to the entopeduncular nucleus is physiologically significant and that the neostriatum and the globus pallidus play important roles in controlling the activity of the entopeduncular nucleus, although in different ways.
It has been suggested that dopamine in nucleus accumbens is involved in the process of enabling organisms to overcome work-related response costs. One way of controlling work costs with operant schedules is to use fixed ratio schedules with different ratio requirements. In the present study, the effects of nucleus accumbens dopamine depletions were investigated using six schedules: fixed ratio 5, 20, 50, 100, 200, and 300. In the first three schedules the food reinforcement consisted of one 45 mg food pellet per ratio completed. In the remaining schedules the food reinforcement per ratio completed was increased to two pellets for fixed ratio 100, four pellets for fixed ratio 200, and six pellets for fixed ratio 300. All rats were trained extensively prior to surgery, and rats were able to maintain high levels of responding on all schedules up to the fixed ratio 300. After training, rats were injected with either ascorbate vehicle or 6-hydroxydopamine into the nucleus accumbens. Rats were tested post-surgically on each of the schedules, with 3 days of testing per schedule. Rats with nucleus accumbens dopamine depletions exhibited behavioral deficits that were highly dependent upon the ratio value. There were small and transient effects of dopamine depletion on fixed ratio 5 lever pressing, but as the ratio value got larger the impairment became greater. On the fixed ratio 20 and 50 schedules, response rates were partially reduced in dopamine-depleted rats. Responding on the fixed ratio 200 and 300 schedules was severely impaired, and on the last day of fixed ratio 300 testing no dopamine-depleted rats obtained a single reinforcer. These data are consistent with previous reports that accumbens dopamine depletions enhance 'ratio strain', making rats more sensitive to high ratio values. The induction of ratio strain by dopamine depletions does not appear to be related to a loss of appetite, and seems to be relatively independent of the baseline rate of responding and the overall density of food reinforcement across the session. We conclude that dopamine in nucleus accumbens may be important for enabling rats to overcome behavioral constraints such as work-related response costs, and may be critical for the behavioral organization and conditioning processes that enable animals to emit large numbers of responses in the absence of primary reinforcement.
Up-regulation of endogenous neurotrophic factors may protect against apoptosis during ageing. Recent studies showed that the expression of several neurotrophic factors increased with age in specific regions of the rat brain. Previously, we showed that removal of trophic adrenal steroids by adrenalectomy induced apoptosis in the dentate gyrus of adult rats, which was accompanied by increased expression of transforming growth factor-beta1 (TGF-beta1) messenger RNA. In this study, we compared the relative densities of apoptotic cells in the dentate gyrus with TGF-beta1 messenger RNA expression in virgin male Fischer 344 rats ranging from 2 to 26 months of age across three treatment groups: adrenalectomy, adrenalectomy with corticosterone replacement, or sham operation. Seven days after adrenalectomy an increase in the density of apoptotic cells was observed in rats of all age groups compared with sham-operated and corticosterone-treated groups. By in situ hybridisation, the glial messenger RNAs, TGF-beta1 and glial fibrillary acidic protein as a marker of ageing, increased following adrenalectomy in the dentate gyrus in rats of all ages compared with control groups. Interestingly, within adrenalectomy groups, both the number and density of apoptotic cells decreased significantly by 6-8 months with a further decrease at 24-26 months of age. Furthermore, the amount of apoptosis corresponded to changes in TGF-beta1 expression, notably in: (i) adrenalectomised rats showing a significant inverse correlation and (ii) 24-26-month-old rats with the lowest induced apoptosis showing increased expression at the time of adrenalectomy. These studies show that resistance to adrenalectomy-induced apoptosis in the dentate gyrus is associated with increases in TGF-beta1 messenger RNA expression. Furthermore, the endogenous up-regulation of neurotrophic factors, such as the increase in TGF-beta1 expression in the oldest rats, suggests that the aged brain may have compensatory mechanisms, which protect against apoptosis.
Inside-out membrane patches excised from rat hippocampal neurons were used to test if ion channels could be formed by fragment 31-35 of amyloid beta-protein. The results showed: (1) after application of fragment 31-35 of amyloid beta-protein (5 microM) to either the inner or outer side of the patches, spontaneous currents could be recorded from those patches that had previously been 'silent'; (2) the fragment 31-35-induced conductance was cation-selective with a permeability ratio of P(Cs)/P(Cl)=23; (3) different levels of conductance, ranging from 25 to 500 pS, could be recorded in different patches, and in some cases, different conductances and spontaneous transitions among them could be recorded in a single patch; and (4) application of ZnCl(2) (1 mM) to the inner side of the patches reversibly blocked the newly formed channel activity; a similar effect was observed after application of CdCl(2) (1 mM). These results show that fragment 31-35 of amyloid beta-protein can insert into membrane patches from both sides and form cation-selective, Zn(2+)- and Cd(2+)-sensitive ion channels. It is proposed that fragment 31-35 in amyloid beta-protein might be the shortest active sequence known to date to form ion channels across neuronal membranes.
In the present study cell formation was studied in the human hippocampal formation from the 24th gestational week until the end of the first postnatal year. Proliferating cells were detected with the monoclonal antibody MIB-1. The cytoarchitectonic layers of Ammon's horn are formed before the 24th gestational week. In harmony with this observation, cell proliferation in the hippocampal ventricular zone is minimal after the 24th week. In addition, local cell multiplication in Ammon's horn is occasional and the proliferating cells are glial or endothelial cells. In contrast, cell formation continues in the hilar region of the dentate gyrus even after birth. Immature cells accumulate in the hilus, and at the border between the hilus and the granule cell layer throughout the first eight postnatal months. The subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus becomes a cell sparse area at about the 11th postnatal month, indicating that immature cells from the hilus have already migrated to the granule cell layer and differentiated into granule cells. There is an increase in glial cell proliferation both in Ammon's horn and the dentate gyrus at the 11.5th postnatal month suggesting the onset of myelination by the end of the first year. Our findings indicate that most pyramidal neurons of Ammon's horn are generated in the first half of pregnancy and no pyramidal neurons are formed after the 24th gestational week. In contrast, granule cells of the dentate gyrus proliferate in a decreasing rate during the second half of pregnancy and after birth. Proliferating neuronal precursors occur in a low percentage in the dentate gyrus of 3-, 5- and 11.5-month-old children.
Three structurally distinct groups of antagonists were used to test the hypothesis that integrin adhesion receptors play an essential role in consolidating (stabilizing) long term potentiation of the Schaffer collaterals in rat hippocampus. Comparisons were made of percent potentiation at antagonist-treated versus control sites within CA1 stratum radiatum of the same hippocampal slice. Function blocking antibodies against the alpha5 subunit of the fibronectin receptor had no effect on baseline responses or initial potentiation but resulted in a &gt;30% reduction, relative to within-slice control long term potentiation, 45 min later. Larger reductions were recorded in separate experiments continued for 4 h after the induction of potentiation. Alpha(v) and alpha2 subunit antibodies did not reliably affect the stabilization of potentiation. An antagonist peptide with preference for beta1 integrins produced a slowly developing decline of the type seen with alpha5 antibodies. A cyclic peptide antagonist reduced potentiation within 10 min of induction and caused an almost 40% decrease over 45 min. Two disintegrins (snake toxins that potently block integrins) were very effective in preventing the consolidation of long term potentiation: echistatin reduced potentiation by &gt;70%, while triflavin caused approximately 50% decrease. The suppressing effects of echistatin were concentration-dependent, obtained with treatment after induction, and much more rapid than the effects of antibodies. Rapid declines in potentiation were particularly evident when the two disintegrins were applied together. These results indicate that hippocampal fibronectin receptors (alpha5/beta1 integrin) contribute importantly to a slowly developing phase of long term potentiation consolidation. They also suggest that other integrins are critical to aspects of consolidation occurring in the first few minutes after induction.
Field potential and extracellular [K(+)] ([K(+)](o)) recordings were made in the human neocortex in an in vitro slice preparation to study the synchronous activity that occurs in the presence of 4-aminopyridine (50 microM) and ionotropic excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists. Under these experimental conditions, negative or negative-positive field potentials accompanied by rises in [K(+)](o) (up to 4.1 mM from a baseline of 3.25 mM) occurred spontaneously at intervals of 3-27 s. Both field potentials and [K(+)](o) elevations were largest at approximately 1000 microm from the pia. Similar events were induced by neocortical electrical stimuli. Application of medium containing low [Ca(2+)]/high [Mg(2+)] (n=3 slices), antagonism of the GABA(A) receptor (n=7) or mu-opioid receptor activation (n=4) abolished these events. Hence, they represented network, GABA-mediated potentials mainly reflecting the activation of type A receptors following GABA release from interneurons. The GABA(B) receptor agonist baclofen (10-100 microM, n=11) reduced and abolished the GABA-mediated potentials (ID(50)=18 microM). Baclofen effects were antagonized by the GABA(B) receptor antagonist CGP 35348 (0.1-1 mM, n=6; ID(50)=0.19 mM). CGP 38345 application to control medium increased the amplitude of the GABA-mediated potentials and the concomitant [K(+)](o) rises without modifying their rate of occurrence. The GABA-mediated potentials were not influenced by the broad-spectrum metabotropic glutamate agonist (+/-)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (100 microM, n=10), but decreased in rate with the group I receptor agonist (S)-3,5-dihydroxyphenylglycine (10-100 microM, n=9). Our data indicate that human neocortical networks challenged with 4-aminopyridine generate glutamatergic-independent, GABA-mediated potentials that are modulated by mu-opioid and GABA(B) receptors presumably located on interneuron terminals. These events are associated with [K(+)](o) elevations that may contribute to interneuron synchronization in the absence of ionotropic excitatory synaptic transmission.
Cell genesis in the adult brain of zebrafish, with specific reference to the olfactory bulbs, was examined using bromodeoxyuridine immunocytochemistry. Mature fish were exposed to a 1% solution of the thymidine analog 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine for 1 h and then killed after short (4-h) or long (3-4-week) survival periods. A monoclonal antibody to bromodeoxyuridine allowed visualization of cells that incorporated the drug during the S phase of mitosis. Four hours after administration of the drug, antibody-labeled cells were found almost exclusively in the proliferative zones around the ventricles and in the cerebellum. Very few labeled nuclei were seen in other locations in the brain, indicating that cell genesis occurs in discrete regions in adults. The few labeled profiles in the olfactory bulbs were located in the olfactory nerve layer; these profiles had the morphology of glial nuclei and did not stain with a neuronal marker, the Hu antibody. After longer survival times, labeled cells were present throughout the layers of the olfactory bulb, and many of the immunoreactive profiles in the internal cell layer were also labeled with the Hu antibody, indicating that they are likely adult-formed interneurons. Thus, neurogenesis continues in the olfactory bulb of adult zebrafish. Understanding the process of the generation of new neurons in the brain of adult animals can lead to important insights into neural regeneration and adult plasticity.
The action of bradykinin on neurons acutely isolated from airway parasympathetic ganglia of rats and its mechanism were investigated using the nystatin-perforated patch-clamp recording technique. Under current clamp conditions, an application of 0.1 microM bradykinin onto rat airway ganglion neurons induced a depolarization which was accompanied by the action potential firing. Bradykinin elicited inward currents with decreasing the membrane conductance when a ganglion neuron was held at a holding potential of -40 mV. The half-maximum effective concentration was 8.9 nM. The bradykinin response was mimicked by a B(2) receptor agonist, [Hyp(3)]-bradykinin, and was inhibited by HOE-140, a B(2) antagonist, suggesting the contribution of B(2) receptors. The bradykinin-induced inward current reversed at the K(+) equilibrium potential, which shifted 56.5 mV with a 10-fold change in extracellular K(+) concentration. The application of 10(-3) M Ba(2+) induced the inward current, and bradykinin failed to evoke a further inward current in the presence of Ba(2+). Bradykinin also reduced the amplitude of M-current deactivation induced by a hyperpolarizing step from a holding potential of -25 mV to -50 mV with a half-maximum effective concentration of 16 nM. Pretreatment with pertussis toxin had no effect on the bradykinin-induced inhibition of the M-current. From these results we suggest that bradykinin may be able to depolarize the airway parasympathetic ganglion neurons of rats associated with an inhibition of M-type K(+) channels through the B(2) type of bradykinin receptors.
Neurotrophin-4 acts as a potent survival factor for subpopulations of motoneurons. To investigate its effect on Schwann cell sheath and axonal proteins during peripheral nerve regeneration, sciatic nerves in adult rats were transected and repaired, and fibrin glue containing neurotrophin-4 injected around the repair site. At 5, 15, 30 and 60 days after repair, 5-mm nerve segments distal to the repair were collected, and western blotting was used to measure myelin-associated glycoprotein, myelin basic protein and low-molecular-weight neurofilament protein. In control groups these dramatically declined at 5 and 15 days then increased from 30 and 60 days. However, in the neurotrophin-4 group there was a significant increase (to several times basal values) in myelin-associated glycoprotein and myelin basic protein at 5-15 days. The relatively small increases (&lt;7%) in Schwann cell numbers suggest that this is mainly due to increased synthesis per cell. The neurotrophin-4 group also showed a small but significant increase at 15 days in low-molecular-weight neurofilament protein, which however remained much lower than basal. We conclude that neurotrophin-4 regulates the expression of myelin-associated glycoprotein, myelin basic protein, and to a lesser extent low-molecular-weight neurofilament protein, during peripheral nerve regeneration.
Nerve injury often leads to chronic, sometimes excruciating, pain. The mechanisms contributing to this syndrome include neurochemical plasticity in neurons involved in the earliest stages of pain transmission. Endomorphin-2 (Tyr-Pro-Phe-Phe-NH(2)) is an endogenous morphine-like substance that binds to the mu-opioid receptor with high affinity and selectivity. Endomorphin-2-like immunoreactivity (LI) is present in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn in the spinal cord and in primary afferents, suggesting a role for this peptide in pain transmission. To determine whether spinal endomorphin-2-LI is altered in an animal model of chronic pain, the left sciatic nerve of Swiss Webster and ICR mice was ligated in a modified Seltzer model of nerve injury. Changes in endomorphin-2-LI were assessed by immunocytochemistry at 2, 4 and 14 days after nerve injury. The side of the spinal cord ipsilateral to the nerve injury exhibited a dramatic decrease in endomorphin-2-LI relative to the contralateral side and to control animals. The change was restricted to the medial dorsal horn in the lumbar segments innervated by the sciatic nerve. Substance P-LI showed a small decrease, while calcitonin gene-related peptide-LI was unchanged. Both thermal hyperalgesia, as evidenced by significantly decreased paw withdrawal latencies, and decreased endomorphin-2-LI were observed within 2 days of injury and were most pronounced at 2 weeks after injury. The decrease in endomorphin-2-LI during the development of chronic pain is consistent with the loss of an inhibitory influence on pain transmission. These results provide the first evidence that reduction of an endogenous opioid in primary afferents is associated with injury-induced chronic pain.
Neurons are one of the most polarized cells and often the nerve terminals may be located long distances from the cell body, thus signal transduction in neurons unlike other cells may need to be conducted over large distances. The mitogen-activated protein/extracellular signal-regulated kinases (MAP kinases or ERKs) regulate a diverse array of functions and in neurons, the ERK signalling pathways appear to have an important role in activity-dependent regulation of neuronal function. Using the ligated rat sciatic nerve as an experimental model we previously showed that the ERK1/2, MAP/ERK kinase (MEK1/2) and the p110 catalytic subunit of PI3-kinase are transported in the rat sciatic nerve. We have extended these findings to determine if these proteins are transported in the active state using antibodies that specifically detect the active form of ERK1/2, MEK1/2 and AKT which is activated downstream of PI3-kinase. We show significant accumulation of active ERK1 on the proximal and distal sides of a nerve ligation after 16 h. Active ERK2 also appeared to be accumulating at the ligature, however this did not reach statistical significance. In contrast there was not any significant accumulation of active MEK1/2 or active AKT. A component of both active ERK1 and active ERK2 is present in between the two ligations suggesting they are also present in the surrounding Schwann cells and are activated in response to nerve injury. Taken together our results suggest that a component of the accumulation of active ERK1 on the distal and proximal side of the nerve ligations results from transport in the anterograde and retrograde direction in the rat sciatic nerve.
To investigate the nerve growth factor requirement of developing oro-facial somatosensory afferents, we have studied the survival of sensory fibers subserving nociception, mechanoreception or proprioception in receptor tyrosine kinase (trkA) knockout mice using immunohistochemistry. trkA receptor null mutant mice lack nerve fibers in tooth pulp, including sympathetic fibers, and showed only sparse innervation of the periodontal ligament. Ruffini endings were formed definitively in the periodontal ligament of the trkA knockout mice, although calcitonin gene-related peptide- and substance P-immunoreactive fibers were reduced in number or had disappeared completely. trkA gene deletion had also no obvious effect on the formation of Meissner corpuscles in the palate. In the vibrissal follicle, however, some mechanoreceptive afferents were sensitive for trkA gene deletion, confirming a previous report [Fundin et al. (1997) Dev. Biol. 190, 94-116]. Moreover, calretinin-positive fibers innervating longitudinal lanceolate endings were completely lost in trkA knockout mice, as were the calretinin-containing parent cells in the trigeminal ganglion.These results indicate that trkA is indispensable for developing nociceptive neurons innervating oral tissues, but not for developing mechanoreceptive neurons innervating oral tissues (Ruffini endings and Meissner corpuscles), and that calretinin-containing, trkA dependent neurons in the trigeminal ganglion normally participate in mechanoreception through longitudinal lanceolate endings of the vibrissal follicle.
The hypothesis that corticocerebellar responsiveness is modified by the behavioral state was tested in freely moving rats by evaluating the responses of extracellularly recorded Purkinje cells located in the cerebellar posterior vermis to microiontophoretically applied glutamate (8-80 nA for 3-5 s every 30-32 s) during the spontaneous sleep-waking cycle. Rats were chronically implanted for polygraphic recordings so that responses of Purkinje cells to glutamate could be related to the states of quiet waking, slow-wave sleep and paradoxical sleep. Analysis on a population of 33 neurons subjected to alternate periods of sleep and waking showed that the mean response to glutamate was significantly reduced to 75+/-18% during slow-wave sleep with respect to waking. This effect occurred independently on changes of basal firing rate which in sleep was slightly, although significantly, reduced to 94+/-12%. Independence of glutamate response modulation from changes of baseline firing was also observed in a different data set obtained from 19 Purkinje cells which were recorded during a continuous slow-wave sleep period that allowed several consecutive drug applications. In this condition responses to glutamate progressively decreased as sleep proceeded while spontaneous activity remained stable after a slight decrease at the transition from waking to sleep. Spectral analysis performed on the electroencephalogram signal, in particular on epochs centered around each glutamate pulse, revealed that for both data sets the reduction of neuronal responsiveness was related to the intensity of slow-wave sleep and more precisely to the delta and slow oscillation (0.6-4.2 Hz) content of the power spectrum of the electroencephalogram. Spontaneous and glutamate-evoked activity were also evaluated in 23 Purkinje cells during transition from slow-wave sleep to paradoxical sleep. In particular, during paradoxical sleep spontaneous activity became irregular so that for 44 out of 90 glutamate responses quantification was unreliable. The remaining 46 responses were characterized by high variability in amplitude even within the same episode of paradoxical sleep. With respect to the preceding slow-wave sleep values, 17/46 responses increased, 14/46 decreased and 15/46 remained within the 15% limit, giving a mean value of 132%. These data indicate that Purkinje cell response to glutamate is modulated during the spontaneous sleep-waking cycle. We speculate that this modulation depends upon the action of the neuromodulatory systems which diffusely project to the cerebellum, whose function would be to adapt the performance of the cerebellar circuits to changes of the animal state. On the other hand, the phasic changes in amplitude of Purkinje cell response during paradoxical sleep could be due to the interaction between the effects of glutamate application and those exerted by endogenous signals possibly related to the phasic events of this sleep stage.
The rodent pineal gland is the end point of several peripheral and central fibers innervating the superficial and deep parts of the gland. Up to now, only the sympathetic transmitter norepinephrine is thought to regulate melatonin synthesis, although numerous biochemical experiments have reported in vitro effects of various transmitters on melatonin synthesis. To find out whether there is non-noradrenergic regulation of in vivo pineal metabolism, the mRNA encoding the enzyme arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase was studied using the highly sensitive technique of in situ hybridization. The existence of a marked nocturnal increase of arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase mRNA in the superficial pineal gland was confirmed. Interestingly and for the first time, a similar daily variation was observed in the deep pineal. After removal of superior cervical ganglia, the daily rhythm in arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase mRNA was abolished in both the superficial and deep pineal indicating that the rhythm is driven by sympathetic input in the entire pineal complex. Interestingly, the remaining arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase mRNA level in the pineal of day- and night-time ganglionectomized rats was significantly higher than in the pineal of day-time intact animals. These data reveal a sympathetic-dependent day-time inhibition of arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase gene expression. In addition, the day-time pineal arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase mRNA expression in ganglionectomized rats persisted after adrenal gland removal but was reduced by 50% after propranolol injection. These results indicate that arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase mRNA in ganglionectomized rats is not induced by circulating catecholamines and may be caused by both a centrally originated norepinephrine, as already suggested, and other non-adrenergic transmitter(s). In conclusion, this work shows that norepinephrine drives the nocturnal increase of arylalkylamine N-acetyltransferase gene expression both in the superficial and deep pineal and strongly suggests that other neurotransmitters are involved in day-time inhibition and night-time stimulation of pineal metabolism.
Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis activation is a hallmark of the stress response. In the case of physical stressors, there is considerable evidence that medullary catecholamine neurones are critical to the activation of the paraventricular nucleus corticotropin-releasing factor cells that constitute the apex of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. In contrast, it has been thought that hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses to emotional stressors do not involve brainstem neurones. To investigate this issue we have mapped patterns of restraint-induced neuronal c-fos expression in intact animals and in animals prepared with either paraventricular nucleus-directed injections of a retrograde tracer, lesions of paraventricular nucleus catecholamine terminals, or lesions of the medulla corresponding to the A1 or A2 noradrenergic cell groups. Restraint-induced patterns of neuronal activation within the medulla of intact animals were very similar to those previously reported in response to physical stressors, including the fact that most stressor-responsive, paraventricular nucleus-projecting cells were certainly catecholaminergic and probably noradrenergic. Despite this, the destruction of paraventricular nucleus catecholamine terminals with 6-hydroxydopamine did not alter corticotropin-releasing factor cell responses to restraint. However, animals with ibotenic acid lesions encompassing either the A1 or A2 noradrenergic cell groups displayed significantly suppressed corticotropin-releasing factor cell responses to restraint. Notably, these medullary lesions also suppressed neuronal responses in the medial amygdala, an area that is now considered critical to hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis responses to emotional stressors and that is also known to display a significant increase in noradrenaline turnover during restraint. We conclude that medullary neurones influence corticotropin-releasing factor cell responses to emotional stressors via a multisynaptic pathway that may involve a noradrenergic input to the medial amygdala. These results overturn the idea that hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis response to emotional stressors can occur independently of the brainstem.
Copulation in male hamsters is stimulated by exposure to vaginal secretions of conspecifics. These pheromones also stimulate fos expression in neural areas that regulate copulation including: the medial nucleus of the amygdala, the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and the preoptic area. The pheromones in vaginal secretions are detected by both the main and accessory olfactory systems. However, the accessory system plays the greater role in the regulation of mating behavior and has direct connections with the medial nucleus of the amygdala and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. The goal of the present study was to determine which system mediates the effect of pheromones on the stimulation of more central areas by deafferenting these systems in experienced male hamsters before exposure to vaginal secretions. Destruction of the receptors in the main olfactory system with zinc sulfate eliminated the increase in fos immunoreactivity in the amygdala, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and preoptic area following exposure to sexually stimulating pheromones. Deafferentation of the accessory olfactory system by removing the vomeronasal organ had no effect on pheromone-induced fos expression in these areas. We conclude that neurons expressing fos following exposure to vaginal secretions are stimulated via the main olfactory system and are not associated with the expression of copulatory behavior.
The basolateral amygdala contains subpopulations of non-pyramidal neurons that express the calcium-binding proteins parvalbumin, calbindin-D28k (calbindin) or calretinin. Although little is known about the exact functions of these proteins, they have provided useful markers of specific neuronal subpopulations in studies of the neuronal circuitry of the cerebral cortex and other brain regions. The purpose of the present study was to investigate whether basolateral amygdalar non-pyramidal neurons containing parvalbumin, calbindin, or calretinin exhibit immunoreactivity for GABA, and to determine if calretinin is colocalized with parvalbumin or calbindin in the rat basolateral amygdala. Pyramidal neurons were distinguished from non-pyramidal neurons on the basis of staining intensity. Using immunofluorescence confocal laser scanning microscopy, as well as the 'mirror technique' on immunoperoxidase-stained sections, it was found that there was virtually no colocalization of calretinin with parvalbumin or calbindin, but that the great majority of basolateral amygdalar non-pyramidal neurons containing parvalbumin, calbindin, or calretinin exhibited GABA immunoreactivity. Calbindin-positive neurons constituted almost 60% of the GABA-containing population in both subdivisions of the basolateral nucleus and more than 40% of the GABA-containing population in the lateral nucleus. Parvalbumin-positive neurons constituted 19-43% of GABA-immunoreactive neurons in the basolateral amygdala, depending on the nucleus. Calretinin-positive non-pyramidal neurons constituted about 20% of the GABA-positive neuronal population in each nucleus of the basolateral amygdala. These findings indicate that non-pyramidal neurons containing parvalbumin, calbindin, or calretinin comprise the majority of GABA-containing neurons in the basolateral amygdala, and that the calretinin subpopulation is distinct from non-pyramidal subpopulations containing parvalbumin and calbindin. These separate neuronal populations may play unique roles in the inhibitory circuitry of the amygdala.
It has been hypothesized that dopamine(D1) and serotonin(2) receptors become sensitized to agonist-mediated regulation of gene expression following loss of dopaminergic innervation to the striatum. We have previously demonstrated that the combined administration of dopamine(D1) and serotonin(2) receptor agonists to dopamine-depleted adult rats induced preprotachykinin mRNA expression within the periventricular rostral striatum to levels which were significantly different than what could be elicited by either agonist alone. In the present study, we have determined that this phenomenon is revealed only after dopamine depletion. In addition, it is targeted primarily to tachykinin producing neurons of the dorsomedial striatum and is dependent on both dopamine(D1) and serotonin(2) receptor activation. Preprotachykinin mRNA levels in the intact striatum were unaltered 4 h following an i.p. injection of either SKF-38393 (1 mg/kg, dopamine(D1) partial agonist) or (+/-)-1-(4-Iodo-2,5-dimethoxyphenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI 1 mg/kg, serotonin(2) agonist). However, the combined application of both agonists increased (+44%) preprotachykinin message levels, but these changes were restricted to the dorsomedial striatum. In adult animals depleted of dopamine as neonates, striatal preprotachykinin mRNA expression was reduced by approximately 50%. From this lowered level of basal expression, DOI or SKF-38393 raised preprotachykinin mRNA levels within the dorsomedial, but not the dorsolateral striatum. Furthermore, co-stimulation of dopamine(D1) and serotonin(2) receptors produced a nearly four-fold induction of preprotachykinin message levels in the dorsomedial striatum that was significantly greater than either agonist alone. Application of both agonists also elevated preprotachykinin mRNA expression within the dorsolateral striatum, but to a lesser extent. All increases in preprotachykinin mRNA resulting from co-application of SKF-38393 and DOI were prevented by pretreatment with either SCH-23390 (1 mg/kg, dopamine(D1) antagonist) or ritanserin (1 mg/kg, serotonin(2) antagonist). Alternately, preproenkephalin mRNA expression was unaffected by dopamine(D1) receptor stimulation, but was slightly elevated by DOI or both agonists together (42-58%) in intact animals. However, neither agonist treatment in this experiment significantly altered preproenkephalin mRNA expression in the dopamine-depleted striatum which was elevated in response to dopamine lesion alone. Dopamine depletion appears to promote a synergistic interaction between dopamine(D1) and serotonin(2) receptors that leads to enhanced expression of striatal preprotachykinin mRNA levels. The localization of this phenomenon to tachykinin neurons of the direct striatonigral pathway specifically within the dorsomedial regions of the rostral striatum may be relevant to the problem of dyskinetic behaviors which arise during the pharmacological treatment of movement disorders.
Huperzine A, a nootropic alkaloid isolated from a Chinese herb, has been proposed as one of the most promising agents to treat Alzheimer's disease. Recently, the agent was found to inhibit the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in rat cerebral cortex in addition to causing an inhibitory effect on acetylcholinesterase. In the present study, the mechanisms underlying NMDA receptor inhibition were investigated using whole-cell voltage-clamp recording in CA1 pyramidal neurons acutely dissociated from rat hippocampus. Huperzine A reversibly inhibited the NMDA-induced current (IC(50)=126 microM, Hill coefficient=0.92), whereas it had no effect on the current induced by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate or kainate. The effect was non-competitive, and showed neither 'voltage-dependency', nor 'use-dependency'. The IC(50) values of huperzine A were neither altered by changing the concentrations of glycine (2-0.2 microM) and pH (7.4-6.7) in the external solution, nor by addition of Zn(2+) (5 microM) and dithiothreitol (5 mM) to the external solution. However, addition of spermine (200 microM) to the external solution caused a parallel shift to the right of the huperzine A concentration-response curve. From these we suggest that huperzine A acts as a non-competitive antagonist of the NMDA receptors, via a competitive interaction with one of the polyamine binding sites. The potential relevance of NMDA receptor antagonist activity of huperzine A to the treatment of Alzheimer's disease is discussed.
Apolipoprotein E isoforms may have differential effects on a number of pathological processes underlying Alzheimer's disease. Recent studies suggest that the amount, rather than the type, of apolipoprotein E may also be an important determinant for Alzheimer's disease. Therefore, understanding the regulated synthesis of apolipoprotein E is important for determining its role in Alzheimer's disease. We show here that in rat primary hippocampal astrocyte cultures, dibutyryl-cAMP increased apolipoprotein E secretion with time in a dose-dependent manner (to 177% at 48 h) and that retinoic acid potentiated this effect (to 298% at 48 h). Dibutyryl-cAMP also gave a rapid, albeit transient, increase of apolipoprotein E mRNA expression (to 200% at 1 h). In contrast, the protein kinase C activator phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate decreased both apolipoprotein E secretion (to 59% at 48 h) and mRNA expression (to 22% at 1 h). Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate also reversed the effects of dibutyryl-cAMP. Apolipoprotein E secretion was also modulated by receptor agonists for the adenylyl cyclase/cAMP pathway. Isoproterenol (50 nM, a beta-adrenoceptor agonist) enhanced, while clonidine (250 nM, an alpha2-adrenoceptor agonist) decreased, secreted apolipoprotein E. We also analysed the effects of agonists for the phospholipase C/protein kinase C pathway. Arterenol (1 microM, an alpha1-adrenoceptor agonist) and serotonin (2.5 microM) enhanced, whereas carbachol (10 microM, an acetylcholine muscarinic receptor agonist) decreased secreted apolipoprotein E. The effects of these non-selective receptor agonists were modest, probably due to effects on different signalling pathways. Arterenol also potentiated the isoproterenol-mediated increase. We also show that phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate and dibutyryl-cAMP have opposite effects on nerve growth factor, as compared to apolipoprotein E, secretion, suggesting that the results obtained were unlikely to be due to a general effect on protein synthesis. We conclude that astrocyte apolipoprotein E production can be regulated by factors that affect cAMP intracellular concentration or activate protein kinase C. Alterations in these signalling pathways in Alzheimer's disease brain may have consequences for apolipoprotein E secretion in this disorder.
The Cdc2/cyclin B kinase is a critical regulator of mitosis that is normally absent from terminally differentiated neurons of adult brain. However, unscheduled expression and activation of Cdc2/cyclin B has been seen in neurons undergoing degeneration in Alzheimer's disease. The presence of this mitotic kinase correlates with accumulation of mitotic phosphoepitopes in protein components of the hallmark neurofibrillary tangles. Of importance to the pathogenic mechanism of Alzheimer's disease is the striking appearance of Cdc2/cyclin B and mitotic phosphoepitopes prior to neurofibrillary tangle formation, which has suggested that a misappropriate mitotic cascade initiates and mediates the neurodegenerative process. To explain the atypical activation of Cdc2/cyclin B in degenerating neurons we have investigated the enzyme responsible for Cdc2/cyclin B activation in mitotic cells, i.e. the Cdc25B tyrosine phosphatase, in Alzheimer's disease brain. Although the enzyme appeared abundant in affected neurons, it was also evident in unaffected neurons of Alzheimer's disease and control brain. Thus, we have found, surprisingly, that Cdc25B is a normal constituent of adult brain neurons, with detectable basal levels of activity. In Alzheimer's disease the levels and activity of the enzyme are elevated, and the active enzyme predominates in the cytoplasmic compartment of neurons. Consistent with these M phase-type changes, Cdc25B displays increased immunoreactivity towards the MPM-2 mitotic phosphoepitope antibody. We propose that aberrant expression of Cdc2/cyclin B in Alzheimer's disease leads to potentiation of mitotic activation mediated by constitutive neuronal Cdc25B activity. As a result, various downstream indices of mitotic events are generated, eventually culminating in neurodegeneration. Our data also suggest that Cdc25B is functional in normal post-mitotic neurons lacking the mitotic Cdc2/cyclin B, but it does not appear to influence the activity of Cdk5, a Cdc2-like kinase that is particularly enriched in brain.
Integrins are heterodimeric cell surface receptors composed of different alpha and beta subunits that mediate cell-cell and cell-extracellular matrix interactions. They have been implicated in the regulation of neuronal migration, differentiation, process outgrowth, and plasticity. The alpha8 integrin subunit associates exclusively with the beta1 subunit to form a receptor (alpha8beta1) for fibronectin, vitronectin, tenascin, and osteopontin. In a previous study, we demonstrated that hippocampal dentate hilar neurons are immunoreactive for alpha8. The present study identifies the major types of alpha8-immunoreactive hilar neurons and characterizes the effects of kainic acid-induced seizures on alpha8-immunoreactivity in these cells. Examination of the hilus in normal rats revealed alpha8-immunoreactivity in the somatodendritic compartments of large hilar neurons identified as mossy cells, including a subset of dendritic thorny excrescences that were contacted by large mossy fiber terminals. alpha8-immunoreactivity also was found in approximately 71% of somatostatin-containing hilar cells. Kainic acid-induced seizures dramatically and rapidly altered the levels and distribution of alpha8-immunoreactivity in hilar neurons. After 1.5 h of seizures, alpha8-immunoreactivity in their dendrites was reduced greatly. One day after kainic acid treatment, labeling was diminished throughout the somatodendritic compartments of most hilar cells. This decrease appeared to be transient, since alpha8 labeling returned to normal levels in surviving hilar neurons within 2 weeks of treatment. In addition, many alpha8-immunoreactive hilar neurons, particularly in caudal dentate regions, were lost 3-5 weeks after kainic acid treatment. Our findings suggest that alpha8beta1 may mediate adhesive interactions of the dendritic processes of mossy cells and somatostatin-containing hilar neurons with other cellular elements or with extracellular matrix components. They also suggest that alpha8 may be susceptible to activity-dependent proteolysis that could modulate its function in the somatodendritic compartment of these cells.
Inherited forms of ataxia and absence seizures in mice have been linked to defects in voltage-dependent calcium channel subunits. However, a correlation between the sites of neuronal dysfunction and the impact of the primary lesion upon calcium channel subunit expression or function has not been clearly established. For example, the mutation in stargazer mice has pleiotropic consequences including synaptic alterations in cerebellar granule cells, hippocampal CA3/mossy fibers, and cortical neurons in layer V that, presumably, lead to ataxia and seizures. Genetic analysis of stargazer mice determined that the defective gene encodes a protein expressed in brain (gamma2) with limited homology to the skeletal muscle L-type calcium channel gamma1 subunit. Although additional gamma isoforms have been subsequently identified primarily in neural tissue, little was known about the proteins they encode. Therefore, this study explored the distribution and biochemical properties of gamma2 and other gamma isoforms in wild-type and stargazer brain. We cloned human gamma2, gamma3, and gamma4 isoforms, produced specific anti-peptide antibodies to gamma isoforms and characterized both heterologously expressed and endogenous gamma. We identified regional specificity in the expression of gamma isoforms by western analysis and immunohistochemistry. We report for the first time that the mutation in the stargazer gene resulted in the loss of gamma2 protein. Furthermore, no compensatory changes in the expression of gamma3 or gamma4 protein were evident in stargazer brain. In contrast to other voltage-dependent calcium channel subunits, gamma immunostaining was striking in that it was primarily detected in regions highly enriched in excitatory glutamatergic synapses and faintly detected in cell bodies, suggesting a role for gamma in synaptic functions. Sites of known synaptic dysfunction in stargazer (the hippocampal CA3 region, dentate gyrus, and cerebellar molecular layer) were revealed as relying primarily upon gamma2, as total gamma isoform expression was dramatically decreased in these regions. Electron microscopy localized anti-gamma antibody immunostaining to dendritic structures of hippocampal mossy fiber synapses, with enrichment at postsynaptic densities. To assess the association of native gamma with voltage-dependent calcium channel or alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunits, gamma isoforms (gamma2, gamma3 and gamma4) were detergent solubilized from mouse forebrain. Antibodies against a highly conserved C-terminal epitope present in gamma2, gamma3 and gamma4 immunoprecipitated voltage-dependent calcium channel subunits (alpha1B), providing the first in vivo evidence that gamma and voltage-dependent calcium channels form stable complexes. Furthermore, both anti-gamma2 antibodies and anti-alpha1B antibodies independently immunoprecipitated the AMPA receptor subunit, GluR1, from mouse forebrain homogenates. In summary, loss of gamma2 immunoreactivity in stargazer is precisely localized so as to contribute to previously characterized synaptic defects. The data in this paper provide compelling evidence that gamma isoforms form complexes in vivo with voltage-dependent calcium channels as well as AMPA receptors, are selectively and differentially expressed in neuronal processes, and localize primarily to dendritic structures in the hippocampal mossy fiber region.
Gap junctions, which serve as intercellular channels providing direct cytoplasmic continuity and ionic current flow between adjacent cells, are constituted by connexin proteins. Using an in vitro model of bicuculline-induced epileptiform activity, we asked whether increased connexin levels occur during epileptiform activity in the intact whole hippocampus, freshly isolated from young (15-day-old) mouse brain. Exposure to bicuculline (10 microM), for 2-10 h, induced persistent changes in electrical activities that included enhanced spontaneous field activity (4 h), an epileptiform response to single electrical stimulation (6 h), and spontaneous epileptiform activity (6 h). These electrophysiological changes were not reversed by up to 60 min perfusion with normal artificial cerebrospinal fluid, but were greatly depressed by the gap junction uncoupler, carbenoxolone (120 microM, 10 min). Data from RNase protection assay and immunoblotting showed that among several detected gap junctions, only connexin 32 was affected. After 2-6 h exposure to bicuculline, the connexin 32 mRNA expression was upregulated to 2-3-fold control (P &lt; 0.01), and its protein level was significantly elevated the following 6 h (P &lt; 0.01), at which time electrophysiologically measured evidence of clearly epileptiform activity was apparent. In addition, the transcription factor, c-fos protein, but not the cAMP response element-binding protein, was also found to be increased at the early stage of bicuculline exposure (2 h) compared to control (P &lt; 0.05).Thus, we have found that exposing the acutely isolated hippocampus to bicuculline, induced increased c-fos protein, followed by increased connexin 32 transcript and protein, and concurrently, persistent epileptiform activity that was depressed by carbenoxolone.
The transition from brief interictal to prolonged seizure, or 'ictal', activity is a crucial event in epilepsy. In vitro slice models can mimic many phenomena observed in the electroencephalogram of patients, including transition from interictal to ictaform or seizure-like activity. In field potential recordings, three discharge types can be distinguished: (1) primary discharges making up the typical interictal burst, (2) secondary bursts, lasting several hundred milliseconds, and (3) tertiary discharges lasting for seconds, constituting the ictal series of bursts. The roles of chemical synapses in these classes of burst have been explored in detail. Here we test the hypothesis that gap junctions are necessary for the generation of secondary bursts. In rat hippocampal slices, epileptiform activity was induced by exposure to 0-Mg(2+). Epileptiform discharges started in the CA3 subfield, and generally consisted of primary discharges followed by 4-13 secondary bursts. Three drugs that block gap junctions, halothane (5-10 mM), carbenoxolone (100 microM) and octanol (0.2-1.0 mM), abolished the secondary discharges, but left the primary bursts intact. The gap junction opener trimethylamine (10 mM) reversibly induced secondary and tertiary discharges. None of these agents altered intrinsic or synaptic properties of CA3 pyramidal cells at the doses used. Surgically isolating the CA3 subfield made secondary discharges disappear, and trimethylamine under these conditions was able to restore them.We conclude that gap junctions can contribute to the prolongation of epileptiform discharges.
Recent studies have shown that cyclosporin A, a specific antagonist of calcineurin, a phosphatase, ameliorates neuronal cell death in the CA1 sector of the hippocampus after forebrain ischemia in animal models. The mechanism of this neuroprotective effect, however, has not yet been established. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a member of the neurotrophins, is one of the potent survival and developmental factors whose expression is regulated by cyclic AMP-response element-binding protein (CREB). Activation of CREB is dependent on its phosphorylation at Ser(133), and calcineurin has been reported to dephosphorylate CREB via protein phosphatase 1. Based on these observations, we attempted to investigate how cyclosporin A treatment would affect the changes of phosphorylated CREB (pCREB), BDNF and its receptor tyrosine kinase B (TrkB) after forebrain ischemia in rats. Phosphorylation of CREB was kept augmented throughout the time course examined in cyclosporin A-treated animals, while it ceased without cyclosporin A. Reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction revealed prolonged maintenance of BDNF mRNA expression in the CA1 sector of cyclosporin A-treated animals. The protein expression of BDNF and TrkB appeared to be up-regulated in cyclosporin A-treated animals, whereas it was transiently up-regulated but decreased to the marginal level of expression without cyclosporin A.From these results we suggest that cyclosporin A induces pCREB by an inhibition of calcineurin, resulting in the induction of BDNF. The mechanisms by which cyclosporin A protects the CA1 region from neuronal cell death in forebrain ischemia may involve the interaction of pCREB, BDNF and TrkB.
The calcium binding proteins parvalbumin and calbindin are thought to differentially regulate physiological functions and often show complementary distributions in the CNS. Our goal was to determine parvalbumin and calbindin distributions in the different subdivisions of mouse auditory thalamus and auditory cortex. Following fixation, FVB mouse brains (postnatal days 38-80) were sectioned along coronal and horizontal planes, then processed for parvalbumin and calbindin immunohistochemistry (antibodies: parvalbumin pa-235, calbindin-d-28k cl-300). Strong complementary differences in calcium binding protein distributions were found in mouse auditory thalamus. The ventral division of the medial geniculate, which is the principal relay to primary auditory cortex, exhibited dense parvalbumin but weak calbindin immunoreactivity. In contrast, most of the 'secondary' auditory thalamic regions surrounding the ventral division showed strong calbindin and lighter parvalbumin levels. Thus, the mouse auditory thalamus is composed of a parvalbumin positive 'core' surrounded by a calbindin positive 'shell'. Parvalbumin immunoreactivity was also more prominent in the primary auditory cortex than in the secondary belt auditory cortex. Calbindin immunoreactivity in auditory cortex was less clearly divided along primary/secondary lines, especially in supragranular layers. However, within infragranular layers, there was heavier staining in belt areas than in primary auditory cortex. In auditory thalamus, parvalbumin labeling was largely confined to the neuropil, whereas calbindin labeling involved somata and neuropil. In auditory cortex, somata and neuropil were positive for both proteins.In summary, the calcium binding proteins parvalbumin and calbindin were found to be differentially distributed within the primary and non-primary regions of mouse auditory forebrain. These differences in protein distribution may contribute to the distinct types of physiological responses that occur in the primary vs. non-primary areas.
Alcoholism and alcohol abuse create costly social and economic problems in many nations. Recent studies indicate that alcohol exposure during adolescence may convey unique risks for subsequent neurocognitive deficits and problem drinking. Although GABA(A) receptor function is one of the principle neurochemical targets of ethanol action in the adult brain, little is known about the effects of alcohol on this system during adolescence. Adolescent (30-day-old) and adult (90-day-old) male rats were intermittently exposed to ethanol for 1 month. At various times after the end of the exposure period, synaptoneurosomes were prepared from their cerebral cortices. GABA(A) receptor-mediated 36Cl(-) influx was measured in the absence and presence of the neurosteroid 3alpha,21-dihydroxy-5alpha-pregnan-20-one (THDOC). In tissue from ethanol-exposed animals, sensitization to the potentiating effects of the neurosteroid was apparent 5 and 12 days after ethanol withdrawal. This sensitization was more apparent at the low concentrations of THDOC in animals pretreated with ethanol as adolescents. Sensitization to the potentiating effects of a neurosteroid is an enduring phenomenon, persistent long after the acute phase of ethanol withdrawal, and may be indicative of long-term changes in GABA(A) receptor function. Enhanced neurosteroid sensitization in animals pretreated as adolescents is consistent with the notion that adolescence is a period of unique sensitivity to the effects of ethanol. This uniqueness may now be extended to the chronic effects of ethanol.
