
One hundred patients with definite multiple sclerosis, who were randomly selected from a multiple sclerosis unit in London, were examined in order to study the prevalence, subtypes, clinical features and associated disability of tremor in this population. There were 35 males and 65 females with an average age of 47 years and an average disease duration of 18.8 years. The mean tremor duration was 13 years, with a median latency of 11 years from disease onset to appearance of tremor. Tremor was reported in 37 patients but was detected in 58. Tremor affected the arms (56%), legs (10%), head (9%) and trunk (7%). There were no examples of face, tongue or jaw tremor. All the patients had action tremor, either postural or kinetic (including intention). Rest, Holmes' ('rubral') and primary orthostatic tremors were not encountered. Tremor severity ranged from minimal in 27%, to mild in 16% and moderate or severe in 15% of cases. Tremor severity correlated with the degree of dysarthria, dysmetria and dysdiadochokinesia but not with grip strength. In order to determine the clinical characteristics of these tremors, the action tremors of the upper limbs were subclassified according to the predominant site and state of tremulous activity. Of the 50 patients with tremor in the right arm, 32% had distal postural tremor, 36% had distal postural and kinetic tremor, 16% had proximal postural and kinetic tremor; 4% had proximal and distal postural and kinetic tremor and 12% isolated intention tremor. Twenty-seven percent of the overall study population had tremor-related disability and 10% had incapacitating tremor. Patients with abnormal tremor (severity grade &gt;1/10) were more likely than those without tremor to be wheelchair dependent and have a worse Expanded Disability Systems Score, but Barthel activities of daily living indices and cognitive scores were comparable in the two groups.
We used in situ hybridization techniques to study the distribution of neurones synthesizing somatostatin mRNA and neuropeptide Y mRNA in the hilar region of the hippocampal formation of patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. In the dentate gyrus, somatostatin mRNA- and neuropeptide Y mRNA-synthesizing neurones were found to be exclusively located within the hilar region. Unlike animal models, no ectopic expression of either peptide was found in principal cells. The numbers of hilar interneurones expressing somatostatin mRNA and neuropeptide Y mRNA were compared with the degree of hilar cell loss determined by immunohistochemistry against neuronal nuclear antigen. The numbers of somatostatin and neuropeptide Y mRNA-synthesizing neurones varied considerably between patients, but both were found to be highly correlated to the total number of neuronal nuclear antigen-immunoreactive hilar neurones. These results suggest that loss of somatostatin and neuropeptide Y interneurones occurs in proportion to overall hilar cell loss, and therefore the hypothesis of a selective loss of these interneurones in temporal lobe epilepsy seems unlikely.
Age-related changes in famous face incongruity detection were examined in middle-aged (mean = 50.6) and young (mean = 24.8) subjects. Behavioral and ERP responses were recorded while subjects, after a presentation of a &quot;prime face&quot; (a famous person with the eyes masked), had to decide whether the following &quot;test face&quot; was completed with its authentic eyes (congruent) or with other eyes (incongruent). The principal effects of advancing age were (1) behavioral difficulties in discriminating between incongruent and congruent faces; (2) a reduced N400 effect due to N400 enhancement for both congruent and incongruent faces; (3) a latency increase of both N400 and P600 components. ERPs to primes (face encoding) were not affected by aging. These results are interpreted in terms of early signs of aging.
Children with specific language impairment (SLI) often have a family history of language disorder. In this study, ERPs in response to a visual semantic priming task were recorded in parents of children with SLI. Despite equal performance, the ERPs displayed differences in language processing: larger N400 amplitudes indicated that the parents, especially the fathers, were less primed by the preceding context. Difference waveforms showed that the fathers of SLI children, contrary to controls, had less differentiated responses to congruent versus incongruent sentences. We propose that the N400 observations may be residual markers of past language deficiencies in the fathers. No differences in the N400 effect were found in the mothers of SLI children.
In this article, we review the molecular pathology of muscular dystrophies caused by defects of proteins located within or near cell membranes. These disorders include Bethlem myopathy, merosinopathy, dystrophinopathy, sarcoglycanopathies, integrinopathy, dysferlinopathy and caveolinopathy. We refer to these diseases collectively as sarcolemmopathy. Here, we describe the biological functions of these proteins in the context of muscular contractions and their roles in the infrastructure of muscle; defects of muscle infrastructures cause those diseases. As an example, in dystrophinopathy, cell membranes have mechanical defects due to the absence of dystrophin. Cracks of the cell membrane induced by muscle contraction may allow the influx and efflux of substances that trigger muscle cell degeneration. However, such cracks may be resealed on relaxation. In addition, dystrophinopathy causes secondary defects of various dystrophin-associated proteins suggesting that defects in cell signaling participate in the pathologic process. With regard to other sarcolemmopathies, we discuss pathological mechanisms based on available data.
Clinical stroke is mostly of thromboembolic origin, in which the magnitude of brain damage resulting from arterial occlusions depends on the degree and duration of the concomitant ischemia. To facilitate more controllable and reproducible study of stroke-related pathophysiological mechanisms, a photothrombotic ring stroke model was initially developed in adult rats. The ring interior zone comprises an anatomically well confined cortical region-at-risk which is gradually encroached by progressive hypoperfusion, thus mimicking the situation (albeit in inverse fashion) of an ischemic penumbra or stroke-in-evolution. Modification of this model using a thinner ring irradiation beam resulted in late spontaneous reperfusion in the cortical region-at-risk and a remarkable morphological tissue recovery in this ostensibly critically injured region. On the other hand, doubling the thin irradiating beam intensity facilitates a complementary situation in which lack of reperfusion in the region-at-risk after stroke induction leads to tissue pannecrosis. The dual photothrombotic ring stroke model, effectuated either with or without reperfusion and thereby tissue recovery or pannecrosis, may be well suited for the study of events related to postischemic survival or cell death in the penumbra region. To popularize the photothrombotic ring stroke model, we present a detailed protocol of how this model is induced in either version as well as protocols for transcardial carbon black perfusion and laser-Doppler flowmetry experiments.
The purpose of this method is to establish a single motor unit recording technique to study the differential activation of corticospinal volleys by various types of transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS). TMS is performed with various coil orientations over the hand or leg motor areas and surface EMG, and single motor unit recordings are made either from the studied hand or leg muscle. Transcranial electrical stimulation (TES) is also performed over the motor cortex as well as at the foramen magnum level to determine the latency of D waves. The intensity of stimulation is set just above the motor threshold for each type of stimulation. This method makes it possible to activate some I volleys (especially I1 and I3 waves) preferentially, if not selectively, from the hand and leg motor areas. The obtained results accord well with recent epidural recording studies, which lends support to the validity of this method.
Three behavioral paradigms are presented for the study of the mechanism of action of antidepressant treatments and for the screening of new antidepressant drugs. The first model (acute escape deficit) exploits the decreased ability of a rat exposed to an unavoidable stress to avoid a noxious stimulus, and it allows us to evaluate the preventive activity of a treatment on the development of escape deficit. The second paradigm (chronic escape deficit) begins as acute escape deficit, that is then indefinitely sustained by the repeated administration of mild stressors; this model allows us to evaluate the efficacy of a treatment to revert the escape deficit. The third is a model of anhedonia based on the finding that exposure to repeated unavoidable stress prevents the acquisition of an appetitive behavior induced and maintained by a highly palatable food (vanilla sugar) in rats fed ad libitum; this paradigm assesses the efficacy of a treatment to restore an animal's motivation. A long-term (2 to 3 week) treatment with classical antidepressants, such as imipramine or fluoxetine, resulted in a clear-cut preventive and/or revertant activity in the three models.
Excitotoxins, such as kainic acid (KA), have been shown to produce neuronal degeneration in the adult rat brain. While preweanling rats have been shown to be relatively resistant to the neurotoxicity of lower doses of KA, the presence of neuronal loss at higher doses (of KA) has only begun to be investigated in such animals. A reliable method of producing neuronal loss in preweanling rats is to administer nmol concentrations of KA via intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injections on postnatal day 7 (P7). Using a three-dimensional, non-biased cell counting technique, we have shown that neuronal loss is observed in the CA3 subfield of the hippocampal formation at P45 and P75. Further, immunohistochemical studies of markers for cell death may be useful to examine the types of cellular processes associated with such neuronal loss. Data from our own experiments suggest the activation of immediate-early genes in the neuronal loss produced by KA administration at P7. This developmental animal model of neuronal loss may be useful in studying neurodevelopmental disorders where the onset of symptoms or cognitive deficits is thought to follow an early developmental insult.
The psychological construct 'sustained attention' describes a fundamental component of attention characterized by the subject's readiness to detect rarely and unpredictably occurring signals over prolonged periods of time. Human imaging studies have demonstrated that activation of frontal and parietal cortical areas, mostly in the right hemisphere, are associated with sustained attention performance. Animal neuroscientific research has focused on cortical afferent systems, particularly on the cholinergic inputs originating in the basal forebrain, as crucial components of the neuronal network mediating sustained attentional performance. Sustained attention performance-associated activation of the basal forebrain corticopetal cholinergic system is conceptualized as a component of the 'top-down' processes initiated by activation of the 'anterior attention system' and designed to mediate knowledge-driven detection and selection of target stimuli. Activated cortical cholinergic inputs facilitate these processes, particularly under taxing attentional conditions, by enhancing cortical sensory and sensory-associational information processing, including the filtering of noise and distractors. Collectively, the findings from human and animal studies provide the basis for a relatively precise description of the neuronal circuits mediating sustained attention, and the dissociation between these circuits and those mediating the 'arousal' components of attention.
Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis responsiveness differs physiologically and pharmacologically between the sexes (sexual diergism). Central nicotinic receptors modulate this endocrine axis. Previous studies have established that nicotine (NIC) stimulates the HPA axis; however, only male animals have been used. We have demonstrated that plasma arginine vasopressin (AVP) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) concentrations showed greater responsiveness in male than in female rats pretreated with scopolamine (SCOP), a muscarinic antagonist, followed by physostigmine (PHYSO), an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor. These results suggest that the SCOP + PHYSO effects may have resulted from an indirect nicotinic effect caused by increased synaptic acetylcholine with simultaneous muscarinic antagonism. In the present study, we investigated nicotinic cholinergic influences on HPA axis activity in male and female rats by administering NIC (0, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, or 0.5 mg/kg) and determining plasma AVP, ACTH, and corticosterone (CORT) responses. Male rats had a significantly greater, dose-related AVP response to NIC than did females. In contrast, female rats had significantly greater, dose-related ACTH and CORT responses to NIC than did males. Hormone responses following NIC were similar to hormone responses following SCOP + PHYSO. These results suggest nicotinic receptors influence the HPA axis differentially in male and female rats.
Previous pharmacological studies have reported that striatal dopamine efflux is negatively modulated not only by presynaptic D2 dopamine autoreceptors but also by striatal D1 dopamine receptors. The present experiments employed in vivo microdialysis to further examine the ability of widely used benzazepine-class D1 agonists to modulate striatal dopamine efflux. In the present study, both the partial D1 agonist (+/-)-SKF 38393 (10 microM) and the full D1 agonist (+/-)-SKF 82958 (10 and 100 microM) significantly reduced striatal dopamine efflux during intrastriatal application. Intrastriatal application of the less active enantiomer, S(-)-SKF 38393 (10 microM) did not decrease striatal dopamine suggesting a selective receptor-mediated mode of action of (+/-)-SKF 38393. Additional experiments were conducted with the full D1 agonist (+/-)-SKF 82958 in order to characterize the receptor(s) mediating the observed decrease in dopamine efflux. Neither local application of the D1 antagonist R(+)-SCH 23390 (100 microM) nor local application of the selective D2 antagonist raclopride (5 microM) blocked the ability of (+/-)-SKF 82958 (10 microM) to decrease striatal dopamine efflux. However, intrastriatal application of the less selective D2 antagonist haloperidol (1 microM) did prevent the decrease in striatal dopamine efflux observed during intrastriatal (+/-)-SKF 82958 application. The present data suggest that the ability of intrastriatally applied benzazepine-class D1 agonists to decrease striatal dopamine efflux is receptor-mediated, but this action apparently is not mediated at D1 or D2 receptors. There is therefore no indication for an intrastriatal population of D1 receptors capable of modulating dopamine efflux.
The pituitary intermediate lobe (IL) in mammals is an area of uniform endocrine cells which synthesize and release specific peptide products of the proopiomelanocortin gene. The lobe receives direct synaptic connections onto the endocrine cells from hypothalamic dopaminergic neurons. This review updates information on the dopaminergic as well as the gamma-aminobutyric acid inhibitory neuroregulation for the IL. It also provides a discussion of stimulatory molecules which are likely to affect peptide release, particularly the neurotransmitter serotonin, which may be present via uptake into the dopaminergic nerve terminals. Other stimulatory molecules discussed which are likely to significantly affect peptide secretion are norepinephrine, corticotropin-releasing factor, and several opiate peptides. A new direction of study involves the potential interaction of neurotrophic factors, which are present in all areas of the pituitary, and may be suggested to have a supportive role for the neural elements of the IL. The endocrine cells of the IL and their direct hypothalamic innervation are considered to be an easily accessed peripheral model for study of both neural-endocrine and neurotrophic-target cell interactions.
The present study investigates the processes involved in the recovery from temporarily ambiguous garden-path sentences. Event-related brain potentials (ERP) were recorded while subjects read German subject-object ambiguous relative and complement clauses. As both clause types are initially analyzed as subject-first structures, object-first structures require a revision which is more difficult for complement than for relative clauses. The hypothesis is tested that the revision process consists of two sub-processes, namely diagnosis and actual reanalysis. Applying a spatio-temporal principal component analysis to the ERP data, distinct positive sub-components presumably reflecting different sub-processes could be identified in the time range of the P300 and P600. It will be argued that the P600 is not a monolithic component, and that different sub-processes may be involved at varying time points depending on the type of garden-path sentence.
This study examined auditory ERP responses to syntactic phrase structure violations occurring either in sentences containing regular words or in sentences in which content words had been replaced by pseudowords while retaining morphological markers (so-called jabberwocky sentences). Syntactic violations were found to elicit an early anterior negativity followed by a P600 for both types of sentences, suggesting that the syntactic processes in question are independent of the presence of lexical-semantic information. In syntactically correct sentences, content words in regular sentences elicited an N400 component while their pseudoword place-holders in jabberwocky sentences did not. By contrast, in syntactically incorrect sentences neither sentence type showed an N400 for the word creating the syntactic violation, indicating that the detection of a syntactic error at an early stage blocks semantic integration processes in regular sentences. We discuss these results and findings from related studies in the light of a timing hypothesis of syntactic and semantic information processing and propose that syntactic information extracted particularly early can affect semantic processes while syntactic information extracted relatively late cannot.
Recently, we have proposed a new concept for analyzing EEG/MEG data (Uhl et al. 1998), which leads to a dynamical systems based modeling (DSBM) of neurophysiological data. We report the application of this approach to four different classes of simulated noisy data sets, to investigate the impact of DSBM-filtering on source localization. An improvement is demonstrated of up to above 50% of the distance between simulated and estimated dipole positions compared to principal component filtered and unfiltered data. On a noise level on which two underlying dipoles cannot be resolved from the unfiltered data, DSBM allows for an extraction of the two sources.
Evidence for the brain's derivation of explicit expectancies in an ongoing sensory context has been well established by studies of the P300 and processing negativity (PN) components of the event-related potential (ERP). &quot;Emitted potentials&quot; generated in the absence of sensory input by unexpected stimulus omissions also exhibit a P300 component and provide another perspective on patterns of brain activity related to the processing of expectancies. The studies described herein extend earlier emitted potential findings in several aspects. First, high-density (128-channel) EEG recordings are used for topographical mapping of emitted potentials. Second, the primary focus is on emitted potential components preceding the P300, i.e. those components that are more likely to resemble ERP components associated with sensory processing. Third, the dependence of emitted potentials on attention is assessed. Fourth, subjects' knowledge of the structure of an auditory stimulus sequence is modulated so that emitted potentials can be compared between conditions that are identical in physical aspects but differ in terms of subjects' expectations regarding the sequence structure. Finally, a novel task is used to elicit emitted potentials, in which subjects explicitly imagine the continuations of simple melodies. In this task, subjects mentally complete melodic fragments in the appropriate tempo, even though they know with absolute certainty that no sensory stimulus will occur. Emitted potentials were elicited only when subjects actively formed expectations or images. The topographies of the initial portion of the emitted potentials were significantly correlated with the N100 topography elicited by corresponding acoustic stimuli, but uncorrelated with the topographies of corresponding silence control periods.


In contrast to the autoprocessing of caspase-9, little is known about the biological significance of caspase-9 processing by caspase-3 via a feedback loop in vivo. We prepared antisera against mouse caspase-9 cleavage sites so that only the activated form of mouse caspase-9 was recognized. Using these antisera and caspase-9- and caspase-3-deficient mouse embryonic fibroblasts, we demonstrated that mouse caspase-9 is initially autoprocessed at D(353) and D(368) at low levels during staurosporine-induced apoptosis, whereupon the D(368) and D(168) sites are preferentially processed over D(353) by activated caspase-3 as part of a feedback amplification loop. Ac-DEVD-MCA (caspase-3-like) and Ac-LEHD-MCA (caspase-9-like) cleavage activities clearly showed that caspase-9 autoprocessing was necessary for the activation of caspase-3, whereas full activation of caspase-3 and caspase-9 was achieved only through the feedback amplification loop. This feedback amplification loop also played a predominant role during programmed cell death of dorsal root ganglia neurons at mouse embryonic day 11.5.
The mammalian olfactory system has the unique property in the permanent turnover of the olfactory sensory neurons under normal conditions and following injury. This implies that the topographical map of the epithelium-to-bulb connections generated during ontogenesis has to be maintained despite neuron renewal in order to insure olfactory information processing. One way to investigate this issue has been to disrupt the peripheral connections and analyze how neural connections may be reestablished as well as how animals may perform in olfactory-mediated tasks. This review surveys the main data pertaining to both morphological and functional recoveries taking place in the peripheral olfactory system following olfactory bulb deafferentation. Conclusions from these studies are enlightened by recent data from molecular biology.

The primary aim of this study was to estimate the prevalence of cold-induced headache and to test if it is associated with migraine. Women attending a population-based mammography screening programme were asked to participate in the study. Fifty-one of 669 women (7.6%) experienced a headache after ingesting 150 ml of ice-cold water through a straw. Women who had experienced one or more migraine attacks in the last year (active migraine) were twice as likely to experience a headache from ingesting the cold water as women who had never suffered from migraine. Ninety-five women who had experienced their most recent migraine attack more than 1 year ago (inactive migraine) were not at increased risk. The prevalence of active and inactive migraine was 19.4 and 14.2%, respectively. Headache caused by drinking cold water is common in women. The results indicate that active migraine facilitates the perception of forehead pain induced by a cold palatal stimulus.
Several studies suggest that patients with migraine respond physiologically to stress differently from controls, yet experimental data are scarce. In order to evaluate the reactivity to stress in migraine, we recorded the quantitative electroencephalogram (qEEG) during non-noxious and noxious ischaemic arm stress in two groups of healthy controls and compared the results with the effects of non-noxious ischaemic arm stress in a group of patients with migraine. In the controls, non-noxious mild stress did not produce any qEEG change but noxious stress induced a significant decrease of the alpha power. By contrast, in migraine patients the non-noxious mild stress was sufficient to induce a significant decrease of the alpha power in all brain regions. The results of our study show that migraine sufferers display a lower threshold to physical stress and confirm previous studies indicating that migraine is a disease characterized by a state of altered neuronal excitability.
Functional measures have consistently shown prefrontal abnormalities in schizophrenia. However, structural magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) findings of prefrontal volume reduction have been less consistent. In this study, we evaluated prefrontal gray matter volume in first episode (first hospitalized) patients diagnosed with schizophrenia, compared with first episode patients diagnosed with affective psychosis and normal comparison subjects, to determine the presence in and specificity of prefrontal abnormalities to schizophrenia. Prefrontal gray and white matter volumes were measured from first episode patients with schizophrenia (n = 17), and from gender and parental socio-economic status-matched subjects with affective (mainly manic) psychosis (n = 17) and normal comparison subjects (n = 17), age-matched within a narrow age range (18--29 years). Total (left and right) prefrontal gray matter volume was significantly reduced in first episode schizophrenia compared with first episode affective psychosis and comparison subjects. Follow-up analyses indicated significant left prefrontal gray matter volume reduction and trend level reduction on the right. Schizophrenia patients showed 9.2% reduction on the left and 7.7% reduction on the right compared with comparison subjects. White matter volumes did not differ among groups. These data suggest that prefrontal cortical gray matter volume reduction is selectively present at first hospitalization in schizophrenia but not affective psychosis.
The functions of the basal ganglia are achieved through excitation of striatal output neurons (SONs) by converging cortical glutamergic afferents. We assessed the relationship between different patterns of activity in cortico-striatal (C-S) cells and the electrical behavior of SONs in vivo. Intracellular activities of rat C-S neurons in the orofacial motor cortex and of SONs, located in the projection field of this cortical region, were recorded under different anesthetics, which generate various temporal patterns of cortical activity. A surface electroencephalogram (EEG) of the orofacial motor cortex was simultaneously performed with intracellular recordings and EEG waves were used as correlates of a coherent synaptic activity in cortical neurons. Under barbiturate anesthesia C-S neurons showed rhythmic (5--7 Hz) supra-threshold depolarizations in phase with large amplitude EEG waves. The correlative activity of SONs was characterized by large amplitude oscillation-like synaptic depolarizations that could trigger action potentials. Under ketamine-xylazine anesthesia C-S neurons exhibited a step-like behavior consisting of depolarizing plateaus (up states), leading to multiple spike discharges, interrupted by hyperpolarizing periods (down states). The related activity of SONs was step-like membrane potential fluctuations with firing confined to the early part of the striatal up state. In C-S neurons and SONs up states coincided with slow recurrent EEG waves (approximately 1 Hz). Finally, under neurolept-analgesia an apparently disorganized EEG activity was associated with a lack of rhythmic discharge in C-S neurons. This uncorrelated activity in C-S neurons resulted in an absence of spontaneous firing as well as of large amplitude synaptic depolarizations in SONs. In the present study we demonstrate that SONs shape their input-output relationship by filtering out uncorrelated synaptic activity and that a minimal synchronization in the cortico-striatal afferents is required to produce significant synaptic depolarization in SONs.
Mental calculation is a complex cognitive operation that is composed of a set of distinct functional processes. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we mapped brain activity in healthy subjects performing arithmetical tasks and control tasks evoking a comparable load on visuo-constructive, linguistic, attentional and mnemonic functions. During calculation, as well as non-mathematical tasks, similar cortical networks consisting of bilateral prefrontal, premotor and parietal regions were activated, suggesting that most of these cortical areas do not exclusively represent modules for calculation but support more general cognitive operations that are instrumental but not specific to mental arithmetic. Significant differences between calculation and the non-mathematical tasks were found in parietal sub-regions, where non-arithmetic number or letter substitution tasks preferentially activated the superior parietal lobules whereas calculation predominantly elicited activation of the left dorsal angular gyrus and the medial parietal cortices. We interpret the latter activations to reflect sub-processes of mental calculation that are related to the processing of numerical representations during exact calculation and to arithmetical fact retrieval. Finally, we found that more complex calculation tasks involving the application of calculation rules increased activity in left inferior frontal areas that are known to subserve linguistic and working memory functions. Taken together, these findings help to embed the specific cognitive operation of calculation into a neural framework that provides the required set of instrumental components. This result may further inform the cognitive modeling of calculation and adds to the understanding of neuropsychological deficit patterns in patients.
The construction of the nervous system is regulated by genetic and environmental factors. In this article, we have highlighted some of the important molecules and genes that contribute to early stages of CNS development. Future research in the neurosciences will address how genetic and environmental factors interact with each other during brain development and in the mature nervous system.
The authors undertook this study to determine the effects of age, gender, and heart rate (HR) on the results of cardiac autonomic function tests for measuring heart rate variability (HRV) in a large sample of healthy subjects (n = 309). Conventional tests (deep breathing, maximum/minimum 30:15 ratio), and a standardized 5-minute resting study, including spectral analysis of HR, were used. The main findings included (1) the indices of all tests, except for the ratio of the low- (LF) to high-frequency (HF) spectral power (LF/HF ratio) and HR itself, are inversely related to age in both sexes; (2) the 5-minute spectral bands (except for the LF/HF ratio), the variation coefficient, expiratory-inspiratory ratio during deep breathing, and the maximum/minimum 30:15 ratio are independent of HR; (3) women up to the age of 55 years have a higher resting HR compared with men; (4) young and middle-aged women show a significantly lower LF power and LF/HF ratio compared with age-matched men, whereas no significant gender differences are observed in the absolute HF power. The authors computed age- and gender-dependent normal values for each of the HRV indices studied here and discuss the clinical consequences arising from gender differences in HRV.
Transplanted human fetal dopamine neurons can reinnervate the striatum in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD). Recent findings using positron emission tomography indicate that the grafts are functionally integrated and restore dopamine release in the patient's striatum. The grafts can exhibit long-term survival without immunological rejection and despite an ongoing disease process and continuous antiparkinsonian drug treatment. In the most successful cases, patients have been able to withdraw L-dopa treatment after transplantation and resume an independent life. About two-thirds of grafted patients have shown clinically useful, partial recovery of motor function. The major obstacle for the further development of this cell replacement strategy is that large amounts of human fetal mesencephalic tissue are needed for therapeutic effects. Stem cells hold promise as a virtually unlimited source of self-renewing progenitors for transplantation. The possibility to generate dopamine neurons from such cells is now being explored using different approaches. However, so far the generated neurons have survived poorly after transplantation in animals.
This article describes a new method for 3D QEEG tomography in the frequency domain. A variant of Statistical Parametric Mapping is presented for source log spectra. Sources are estimated by means of a Discrete Spline EEG inverse solution known as Variable Resolution Electromagnetic Tomography (VARETA). Anatomical constraints are incorporated by the use of the Montreal Neurological Institute (MNI) probabilistic brain atlas. Efficient methods are developed for frequency domain VARETA in order to estimate the source spectra for the set of 10(3)-10(5) voxels that comprise an EEG/MEG inverse solution. High resolution source Z spectra are then defined with respect to the age dependent mean and standard deviations of each voxel, which are summarized as regression equations calculated from the Cuban EEG normative database. The statistical issues involved are addressed by the use of extreme value statistics. Examples are shown that illustrate the potential clinical utility of the methods herein developed.
1. In order to further characterize the adenosine binding sites that we previously purified and termed P3 purinergic receptor-like protein (P3LP), a reliable binding assay method was developed using [3H]-5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine (NECA) as a radioligand and the newly developed high-affinity selective ligand 9-(6,7-dideoxy-beta-D-allo-hept-5-ynofuranosyl) adenine (HAK2701) as a selective displacer. 2. Using this assay method, it was found that rat brain membranes possess high- and low-affinity [3H]-NECA binding sites. The high-affinity binding site showed KD and Bmax values of 19.7+/-2.5 nmol/L and 0.192+/-0.05 pmol/mg protein, respectively, and the KD value for the low-affinity binding site was 4260+/-330 nmol/L. The KD value for the high-affinity site agreed well with that of the [3H]-NECA binding site determined with the partially purified P3LP preparation described previously. 3. The distribution of P3LP in rat tissues was determined using the [3H]-NECA binding method described above. The highest level of P3LP was in the cerebellum followed by the olfactory bulb and the spinal cord. 4. The order of the affinity for various purinergic or related compounds to P3LP in rat brain preparations was also determined by the [3H]-NECA binding method to be HAK2701 &gt; NECA = adenosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) &gt; cAMP = beta,gamma-methyleneadenosine 5'-triphosphate &gt; diadenosine tetraphosphate &gt; alpha,beta-methyleneadenosine 5'-triphosphate &gt; 5'-deoxy-5'-methylthioadenosine &gt; N6-cyclopentyladenosine. 5. These studies reveal that the [3H]-NECA binding assay in combination with HAK2701 is successful in the characterization of P3LP, especially the membrane-bound form.


Most 'theories of consciousness' are based on vague speculations about the properties of conscious experience. We aim to provide a more solid basis for a science of consciousness. We argue that a theory of consciousness should provide an account of the very processes that allow us to acquire and use information about our own mental states - the processes underlying introspection. This can be achieved through the construction of information-processing models that can account for 'Type-C' processes. Type-C processes can be specified experimentally by identifying paradigms in which awareness of the stimulus is necessary for an intentional action. The Shallice (1988b) framework is put forward as providing an initial account of Type-C processes, which can relate perceptual consciousness to consciously performed actions. Further, we suggest that this framework may be refined through the investigation of the functions of prefrontal cortex. The formulation of our approach requires us to consider fundamental conceptual and methodological issues associated with consciousness. The most significant of these issues concerns the scientific use of introspective evidence. We outline and justify a conservative methodological approach to the use of introspective evidence, with attention to the difficulties historically associated with its use in psychology.
In the first part of this article we summarize a theoretical framework and a set of hypotheses aimed at accounting for consciousness in neurobiological terms. The basic form of consciousness, core consciousness is placed in the context of life regulation; it is seen as yet another level of biological processing aimed at ensuring the homeostatic balance of a living organism; and the representation of the current organism state within somato-sensing structures is seen as critical to its development. Core consciousness is conceived as the imaged relationship of the interaction between an object and the changed organism state it causes. In the second part of the article we discuss the functional neuroanatomy of nuclei in the brainstem reticular formation because they constitute the basic set of somato-sensing structures necessary for core consciousness and its core self to emerge. The close relationship between the mechanisms underlying cortical activation and the bioregulatory mechanisms outlined here is entirely compatible with the classical idea that the reticular formation modulates the electrophysiological activity of the cerebral cortex. However, in the perspective presented here, that modulation is placed in the setting of the organism's homeostatic regulation.
We review recent evidence from studies of patients with unilateral neglect and/or extinction, who suffer from a loss of awareness for stimuli towards the affected side of space. We contrast their deficit with the effects of damage to primary sensory areas, noting that such areas can remain structurally intact in neglect, with lesions typically centred on the right inferior parietal lobe. In keeping with preservation of initial sensory pathways, many recent studies have shown that considerable residual processing can still take place for neglected or extinguished stimuli, yet without reaching the patient's awareness. This ranges from preserved visual grouping processes through to activation of identity, semantics and emotional significance. Similarly to 'preattentive' processing in normals, such residual processing can modulate what will enter the patient's awareness. Recent studies have used measures such as ERPs and fMRI to determine the neural correlates of conscious versus unconscious perception in the patients, which in turn can be related to the anatomy of their lesions. We relate the patient findings to neurophysiological data from areas in the monkey parietal lobe, which indicate that these serve as cross-modal and sensorimotor interfaces highlighting currently relevant locations as targets for intentional action. We speculate on the special role such brain regions may play in perceptual awareness, seeking to explain how damage to a system which appears primarily to code space could eliminate awareness even for non-spatial stimulus properties at affected locations. This may relate to the extreme nature of 'winner-takes-all' functions within the parietal lobe, and their correspondingly strong influence on other brain areas.
This introductory chapter attempts to clarify the philosophical, empirical, and theoretical bases on which a cognitive neuroscience approach to consciousness can be founded. We isolate three major empirical observations that any theory of consciousness should incorporate, namely (1) a considerable amount of processing is possible without consciousness, (2) attention is a prerequisite of consciousness, and (3) consciousness is required for some specific cognitive tasks, including those that require durable information maintenance, novel combinations of operations, or the spontaneous generation of intentional behavior. We then propose a theoretical framework that synthesizes those facts: the hypothesis of a global neuronal workspace. This framework postulates that, at any given time, many modular cerebral networks are active in parallel and process information in an unconscious manner. An information becomes conscious, however, if the neural population that represents it is mobilized by top-down attentional amplification into a brain-scale state of coherent activity that involves many neurons distributed throughout the brain. The long-distance connectivity of these 'workspace neurons' can, when they are active for a minimal duration, make the information available to a variety of processes including perceptual categorization, long-term memorization, evaluation, and intentional action. We postulate that this global availability of information through the workspace is what we subjectively experience as a conscious state. A complete theory of consciousness should explain why some cognitive and cerebral representations can be permanently or temporarily inaccessible to consciousness, what is the range of possible conscious contents, how they map onto specific cerebral circuits, and whether a generic neuronal mechanism underlies all of them. We confront the workspace model with those issues and identify novel experimental predictions. Neurophysiological, anatomical, and brain-imaging data strongly argue for a major role of prefrontal cortex, anterior cingulate, and the areas that connect to them, in creating the postulated brain-scale workspace.
This study investigated the ward atmosphere of a psychiatric work rehabilitation unit and its relationships to clients' satisfaction with the unit and client motivation, operationalised as proneness to set personal goals for their rehabilitation. The Community-oriented Programs Environment Scale was used and 52 clients participated. Their report of the ward atmosphere was in accordance with recommended levels on 5 sub-scales out of 10. A regression analysis revealed that optimal levels of order-and-organization and support were of importance for satisfaction with the unit. An optimal level of support was associated with a high rating of personal goals. This study added two therapeutically interesting factors-satisfaction and motivation-to the flora of factors that have been related to perceptions of the ward atmosphere.
Over the last decade, knowledge of invertebrate serotonin receptors has expanded greatly. The first 5-HT receptor from Drosophila was cloned 10 years ago, and subsequently, 11 additional receptor genes have been cloned from Drosophila, molluscs (Lymnaea and Aplysia) and nematodes (Caenorhabditis and Ascaris). Information has also accumulated from physiological and biochemical studies that have used vertebrate serotonergic ligands to characterize endogenous invertebrate receptors. Although the endogenous receptors are often classified according to mammalian-based categories, in many cases the pharmacological properties of vertebrate and invertebrate receptors differ significantly and the actual identity of the latter is questionable. By providing information on the gene structure and amino acid sequence, molecular cloning studies offer a more definitive way to identify and classify invertebrate 5-HT receptors. This review summarizes information on the pharmacological and transductional properties of cloned invertebrate 5-HT receptors, and considers recent studies of endogenous receptors in the light of this new data.



Recent studies have begun to elucidate the roles played in social cognition by specific neural structures, genes, and neurotransmitter systems. Cortical regions in the temporal lobe participate in perceiving socially relevant stimuli, whereas the amygdala, right somatosensory cortices, orbitofrontal cortices, and cingulate cortices all participate in linking perception of such stimuli to motivation, emotion, and cognition. Open questions remain about the domain-specificity of social cognition, about its overlap with emotion and with communication, and about the methods best suited for its investigation.
Over the past seven years, the main advances in our understanding of infant development have involved the application of cognitive neuroscience methods such as neuroimaging and computer modelling. Results obtained using these methods have illuminated further the complex interactions between nature and nurture that underlie early postnatal development.
The immediacy and directness of our visual experience belies the complexity of the underlying neural mechanisms, which remain incompletely understood. Recent neuroimaging studies suggest that activity in ventral visual cortex is necessary but not sufficient for visual awareness. Experiments in both patients and normal subjects indicate that parietal and frontal areas make an important contribution to visual awareness, suggesting that reciprocal interactions between dorsal frontoparietal areas and ventral visual cortex may provide a fundamental neural substrate for conscious visual experience.

The promise of genetics has been partly realized in our understanding of human brain development as this relates to disorders of gyral formation. Cerebral gyral dysplasias are disorders of brain formation that result in phenotypes with the common feature of abnormal cerebral gyri. This review emphasizes the recent progress made in understanding the human lissencephalies and related disorders. LIS1 heterozygous loss-of-function deletions and point mutations, as well as Doublecortin mutations in males, lead to a very similar phenotype, termed type 1 lissencephaly. Additionally, Doublecortin mutations in females lead to a more variable subcortical band heterotopia. Given the similarities between the lissencephaly phenotypes that result from aberrations in these genes, it is important to review the genetics of these disorders. In order to begin to understand the cell biology of the LIS1 protein and the Doublecortin protein, potentially interacting pathways need to be emphasized. Another human genetic disorder with an interestingly similar phenotype has a mouse correlate that has been well characterized. This surprising finding may lead to further understanding of LIS1 protein and of Doublecortin protein. Furthermore, mouse modeling of the aforementioned human disorders now holds promise for enabling us finally to understand the formation of the most complex organ that nature has produced - the human brain.
The underlying mechanism of migraine and pain has been unraveled recently with the advent of neuroimaging. In this article mechanism of migraine aura and the pain of migraine are discussed. In addition, interictal studies demonstrating hyperexcitability in migraine are reviewed.
Multiple factors are involved in the development and regulation of sensory innervation in skin. The findings we report here suggest that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF)-mediated inhibition may play an important role in determining the pattern of sensory innervation in avian skin. In birds, cutaneous innervation is restricted to dermis, where axons form a ring of innervation around the base of each feather. Here we show that both BDNF message and protein are more abundant in avian epidermis than dermis when innervation is being established; the BDNF in dermis is localized to feather buds. In vitro, BDNF caused growth cones of NGF-dependent dorsal root ganglion neurons to collapse. Similarly, outgrowth of neurites toward BDNF-secreting fibroblasts was inhibited. The inhibitory effects of BDNF appear to be mediated by the low-affinity p75 neurotrophin receptor, rather than a trk receptor. Thus, the distribution of BDNF in embryonic avian skin and the inhibitory effects of BDNF on cutaneous neurites in vitro suggest that BDNF may be important in restricting axons from entering the epidermis and the core of feather buds during development in vivo.
In this study of 118 children (median age 5.1 years; range 6 months to 17 years) with ischaemic stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA), 22 children (19%) were homozygous for the thermolabile variant of the methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase allele (t-MTHFR), compared with nine of 78 (12%) of a reference population (p=0.18, OR 1.76, 95% CI 0.76 to 4.04). Of those with cerebrovascular disease (CVD), 17 of 84 were homozygous for the t-MTHFR allele (p=0.13 compared with the reference population (OR 1.95, 95% CI 0.81 to 4.65). There was a significant (p&lt;0.025) increment of plasma total homocysteine concentration in homozygotes for the t-MTHFR allele compared with heterozygotes, negatives for the t-MTHFR allele, and control children with no history of stroke. In four of 12 homozygotes for the t-MTHFR allele, plasma homocysteine levels were raised, compared with three of 38 of those who were negative or heterozygous (p=0.047; OR 5.8, 95% CI 1.1 to 31.2). Homozygotes for the t-MTHFR allele were significantly more likely to have a recurrent event than those who were negative or heterozygous (Cox regression p=0.031, hazard ratio 2.18, 95% CI 1.08 to 4.42). These data suggest that homozygosity for the t-MTHFR allele is associated with raised homocysteine levels in children and is a risk factor for primary and secondary stroke and TIA.
Many Hox proteins are thought to require Pbx and Meis co-factors to specify cell identity during embryogenesis. Here we demonstrate that Meis3 synergizes with Pbx4 and Hoxb1b in promoting hindbrain fates in the zebrafish. We find that Hoxb1b and Pbx4 act together to induce ectopic hoxb1a expression in rhombomere 2 of the hindbrain. In contrast, Hoxb1b and Pbx4 acting together with Meis3 induce hoxb1a, hoxb2, krox20 and valentino expression rostrally and cause extensive transformation of forebrain and midbrain fates to hindbrain fates, including differentiation of excess rhombomere 4-specific Mauthner neurons. This synergistic effect requires that Hoxb1b and Meis3 have intact Pbx-interaction domains, suggesting that their in vivo activity is dependent on binding to Pbx4. In the case of Meis3, binding to Pbx4 is also required for nuclear access. Our results are consistent with Hoxb1b and Meis3 interacting with Pbx4 to form complexes that regulate hindbrain development during zebrafish embryogenesis.
Recent advances in neuroscience and genetics have enabled a better understanding of genetically influenced differences in ethanol (&quot;alcohol&quot;)-related responses and differential vulnerability to alcohol dependence at the cellular and molecular levels. Heritability studies reveal that the role of genetic factors in alcoholism is largely substance-specific, with the exception of nicotine. One focus of genetic research in alcoholism is the study of functional polymorphisms influencing alcohol metabolism, such as the aldehyde dehydrogenase type 2 Glu487Lys and alcohol dehydrogenase type 2 His47Arg polymorphisms, which affect vulnerability to alcoholism via pharmacokinetic mechanisms, and cross-population studies have begun to reveal important gene-environment interactions. The other focus is on functional genetic variants of proteins involved in the neuronal response to alcohol, including alcohol sensitivity, reward, tolerance, and withdrawal. Studies on the roles of GABA(A) alpha6-amino acid substitutions in rodents in alcohol and benzodiazepine sensitivity, and potential roles in human alcohol and benzodiazepine sensitivity are reviewed. These studies, together with recently developed knowledge on a GABA(A) receptor gene cluster at a quantitative trait loci for alcohol withdrawal on mouse chromosome 11, indicate that research investigation of variation at GABA(A) neurotransmission is a promising area in the pharmacodynamics of alcohol and in differential susceptibility to alcoholism. Genes for proteins involved in alcohol-mediated reward include genes for transporters and receptors for dopamine, serotonin, opioids, and GABA. These genes and their functional variants also represent important targets for understanding alcohol's effects in humans. Identification of genes for alcoholism vulnerability is important in the near future, not only for prevention, but also for development and targeting treatments.

Biological effects of vasopressin (VP) are mediated by four different receptors, two of which (the V1a and the oxytocin receptors) have been well characterized in the rodent brain, suggesting that these are the main receptors responsible for the central effects of VP. However, transcripts of the V1b VP receptor (V1bR) have been detected throughout the rat brain by RT-PCR and in situ hybridization, indicating that the V1bR adds to the population of central VP receptors. Because there are no specific ligands for the V1bR, the receptor protein itself has been difficult to visualize. In the present study, the distribution of the V1bR protein was investigated in the rat forebrain, midbrain, hindbrain, and cerebellum by immunohistochemistry using an antiserum raised against a synthetic fragment of the carboxylterminal of the rat V1bR protein. Immunohistochemistry revealed the presence of the V1bR in pituitary corticotrophs as expected. In naive, untreated rats, fiber networks containing V1bR-immunoreactivity were mainly concentrated in the hypothalamus, amygdala, cerebellum, and particularly in those areas with a leaky blood brain barrier or close to the circumventricular organs (medial habenula, subfornical organ, organum vasculosum laminae terminalis, median eminence, and nuclei lining to the third and fourth ventricles). A strikingly dense network was present in the external zone of the median eminence. Colchicine treatment was required to reveal the localization of V1bR-immunoreactive cell bodies. V1bR-containing cell bodies and associated protrusions were mainly located in the hippocampus, caudate putamen, cortex, thalamus, olfactory bulb, and cerebellum. These results demonstrate the widespread distribution of the V1bR protein in the rat brain over multiple, functionally distinct neuronal systems. These data suggest that the V1bR mediates different physiological functions of VP in the brain.
The sst2 somatostatin receptor mediates the inhibitory effects of somatostatin on secretive and proliferative processes. We previously showed that sst2 is one of the major subtypes expressed in the rat pituitary, and its messenger RNA level is up-regulated by chronic treatment with estrogen. To investigate the molecular mechanisms regulating sst2 gene expression, we cloned the upstream region (9.5 kb) from the translation initiation codon of the rat sst2 gene. It contained a single intron (5.0 kb) at the 5'-untranslated region, lacked TATA and CCAAT boxes, and had multiple transcriptional start sites. Transient transfection analysis with deleted mutants of a luciferase reporter construct showed that the promoter activity was regulated negatively and positively in the distal and proximal promoter regions, respectively. The promoter activity of each construct was more efficient in GH(3) pituitary cells than in nonpituitary cells. The construct (-77/+172/luc) containing a cAMP response element (CRE; -54/-47) provided maximum promoter activity, but a further 5'-deleted construct dramatically reduced the activity. Competitive gel shift and supershift assays indicated that Sp2 and Sp3 were bound to an Sp1 site (-40/-31), and activating transcription factor-2 and c-Jun were bound to a CRE site. Both Sp1 and CRE sites were essential for the full promoter activity. Overexpression of the pituitary homeoprotein Pitx1 activated the promoter activity of the -4066/+172/luc construct, and mapping analysis indicated the existence of two Pitx1 response sites, including the CRE site. Estrogen also increased the promoter activity of -77/+172/luc in GH(3) cells or in HeLa cells overexpressing both the estrogen receptor and c-Jun. These studies demonstrated the nature of the rat sst2 gene and the functional importance of both Sp1 and CRE sites in regulating sst2 gene expression and suggest that the CRE site mediates, at least partly, the promoter activity activated by Pitx1 or estrogen.


Here we studied the effects of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) in a rat model that represents the symptomatic stages of Parkinson's disease. GDNF was infused starting 2 weeks after an intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion in order to halt the ongoing degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. GDNF or vehicle was infused in the striatum or the lateral ventricle via an osmotic minipump over a total 4-week period (2-6 weeks postlesion). Motor function was evaluated by the stepping, paw reaching and drug-induced motor asymmetry tests before the pump infusion was initiated, and was repeated once during (5 weeks postlesion) and twice after the withdrawal of the minipumps (7 and 11 weeks postlesion). We found that within two weeks following the lesion approximately 40% of the nigral TH-positive neurons were lost. In the vehicle infusion groups there was an additional 20% cell loss between 2 and 12 weeks after the lesion. This latter cell loss occurred mainly in the caudal part of the SN whereas the cell loss in the rostral SN was almost complete within the first two weeks. Ventricular GDNF infusion completely blocked the late degenerating neurons in the caudal SN and had long lasting behavioural effects on the stepping test and amphetamine rotation, extending to 6 weeks after withdrawal of the factor. Striatal infusion affected the motor behaviour transiently during the infusion period but the motor performance of these animals returned to baseline upon cessation of the GDNF delivery, and the delayed nigral cell loss was marginally affected. We conclude that intraventricular GDNF can successfully block the already initiated degenerative process in the substantia nigra, and that the effects achieved via the striatal route, when GDNF is given acutely after the lesion, diminish as the fibre terminal degeneration proceeds.
The hyperpolarization-activated cationic current (I(h)) was characterized and its maturation studied on phrenic motoneurons (PMNs), from reduced preparations of foetal (E18 and E21) and newborn (P0-P3) rats, using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. In voltage-clamp mode, 2-s hyperpolarizing steps (5-mV, -50 to -110 mV) elicited a noninactivating inward current, blocked by external application of Cs+ or ZD 7288. At -110 mV, Ih current density averaged 0.67 +/- 0.41 pA/pF at E18, reached a transient peak at E21 (1.38 +/- 0.11 pA/pF) and decreased at P0-P3 (0.77 +/- 0.22 pA/pF). V1/2 was similar at E18 and E21 (-79 mV) but was significantly hyperpolarized at P0-P3 (-90 mV). The time constant of activation was voltage-dependent, and significantly faster at E21. Reversal potential was similar at all ages when estimated by extrapolation or tail current procedures. It was positively shifted by 25 +/- 6 mV when external potassium was raised from 3 to 10 m M, suggesting a similar sensitivity to K+ from E18 to P0-3. Cs(+) or ZD 7288 applications on PMNs at rest in current-clamp mode, in a partitioned chamber, induced a 10 +/- 2 mV hyperpolarization at E18 and E21, and an 8 +/- 2 mV hyperpolarization at P0-3. The area of the central respiratory drive potential or current was increased by 33 and 31%, respectively, at E21, but was not significantly modified at E18 and P0-3. Our data suggest a critical period during the perinatal maturation of Ih during which it is transiently upregulated and attenuates the influence of the central respiratory drive on PMNs just prior to birth.
Concentrations of somatostatin and corticotrophin releasing hormone (CRH), measured in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) have been reported to be low in suicidal patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). Often have MDD patients in general, high CSF-CRH and low CSF-somatostatin concentrations, which both seem to normalise with clinical recovery. The present study was designed to look for CSF-CRH and CSF-somatostatin alterations along with clinical changes in patients studied repeatedly after a suicide attempt. Sixteen patients with different diagnoses, initially inpatients after a suicide attempt (baseline), participated. Lumbar punctures and ratings according to the Suicidal Assessment Scale (SUAS) and the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) were performed while patients were drug-free (baseline) and after a median of 7 (5 to 9) months. At follow up MADRS- and SUAS-scores were significantly decreased (P&lt;0.05), whereas CSF-somatostatin was significantly increased (P=0.013) and CSF-CRH had not changed significantly. Thus, the patients showed long-lasting low CSF-CRH concentrations, in spite of changed CSF-somatostatin concentrations and clinical amelioration.

The purpose was to assess personality traits in subjects with a DSM-IV diagnosis of social phobia. Thirty-two subjects were administered the Structured Clinical Interview for DSM-IV for Axes I and II disorders (SCID I and II). Personality traits were assessed by means of the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP). Current and lifetime axis I co-morbidity was diagnosed in 28% and 53% of the subjects, respectively. In total, 59% had at least one personality disorder and 47% were diagnosed with an avoidant personality disorder. The social phobics scored significantly higher than a Swedish normative sample on the KSP measuring anxiety proneness, irritability, detachment, and indirect aggression but lower on the scales for socialisation and social desirability. The presence as compared to absence of avoidant personality disorder in the social phobics was associated with significantly higher psychic anxiety and inhibition of aggression. In addition, symptom severity was higher in social phobics with an avoidant personality disorder. Generally, the results support the view that social phobia and avoidant personality disorder reflect different aspects of a social anxiety spectrum.
The phytoestrogen coumestrol has estrogenic actions on peripheral reproductive tissues. Yet in the brain this compound has both estrogenic and anti-estrogenic effects. We used estrogen receptor alpha knockout mice (ERalphaKO) to determine whether coumestrol has estrogenic actions in mice and also if these effects are mediated by the classic ERalpha. Female wild-type (WT) and ERalphaKO mice were ovariectomized and treated with estradiol (E2), dietary coumestrol, both, or neither compound. Ten days later the animals were sacrificed, blood was collected, and brain tissues were perfused. Fixed brains were sectioned and immunocytochemistry was employed to quantify progesterone receptors (PR) in the medial preoptic (POA) and ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus (VMN). Plasma was assayed for luteinizing hormone (LH). Estrogen treatment induced PR immunoreactivity in both regions in brains of WT females. In ERalphaKO mice, lower levels of PR were induced. The stimulatory effects of E2 on PR were attenuated in the POA by cotreatment with coumestrol, and the same trend was noted in the VMN. WT ovariectomized females treated with E2 had low levels of LH, while LH was high in untreated females and even higher in ovariectomized females treated with coumestrol. ERalphaKO females in all treatment groups had high levels of LH. Taken together, the results show that coumestrol has anti-estrogenic actions in the brain and pituitary and that ERalpha mediates these effects.
Covert attention can be directed spatially in several different sensory modalities (e.g. vision and touch). Recent psychological experiments indicate the existence of crossmodal links in spatial attention, but their neural basis in humans remains underspecified. We used positron emission tomography (PET) to assess the role of stimulus modality in the activity of brain regions involved in different rates of spatial attention shifting. A 2 x 2 factorial design manipulated the rate (high versus low) of spatial attention shifts between left and right hemifields, plus the sensory modality (vision versus touch) of stimulation. Two brain regions showed activations related to attentional shift-rate, independent of the stimulated modality: these were the right frontopolar gyrus, and the right posterior superior temporal sulcus (STS). The anterior area showed higher blood flow with the high rate of shifts in spatial attention, while the posterior area showed higher flow during the low rate conditions, where attention was sustained for longer on one side. No area showed a significant rate effect in one modality without an effect in the second modality. These results demonstrate multimodal roles for the activated brain regions in relation to the rate of spatial attention shifting, plus right-hemisphere dominance for this. They also suggest that anterior and posterior regions of the spatial-attention network play different roles in attention shifting.
To better understand the mechanisms of human adaptation to rotating environments, we exposed 19 healthy subjects and 8 vestibular-deficient subjects (&quot;abnormal&quot;; four bilateral and four unilateral lesions) to an interaural centripetal acceleration of 1 g (resultant 45 degrees roll-tilt of 1.4 g) on a 0.8-m-radius centrifuge for periods of 90 min. The subjects sat upright (body z-axis parallel to centrifuge rotation axis) in the dark with head stationary, except during 4 min of every 10 min, when they performed head saccades toward visual targets switched on at 3- to 5-s intervals at random locations (within +/- 30 degrees) in the earth-horizontal plane. Eight of the normal subjects also performed the head saccade protocol in a stationary chair adjusted to a static roll-tilt angle of 45 degrees for 90 min (reproducing the change in orientation but not the magnitude of the gravitoinertial force on the centrifuge). Eye movements, including voluntary saccades directed along perceived earth- and head-referenced planes, were recorded before, during, and immediately after centrifugation. Postural center of pressure (COP) and multisegment body kinematics were also gathered before and within 10 min after centrifugation. Normal subjects overestimated roll-tilt during centrifugation and revealed errors in perception of head-vertical provided by directed saccades. Errors in this perceptual response tended to increase with time and became significant after approximately 30 min. Motion-sickness symptoms caused approximately 25% of normal subjects to limit their head movements during centrifugation and led three normal subjects to stop the test early. Immediately after centrifugation, subjects reported feeling tilted 10 degrees in the opposite direction, which was in agreement with the direction of their earth-referenced directed saccades. Postural COP, segmental body motion amplitude, and hip-sway frequency increased significantly after centrifugation. These postural effects were short-lived, however, with a recovery time of several postural test trials (minutes). There were also asymmetries in the direction of postcentrifugation COP and head tilt which depended on the subject's orientation during the centrifugation adaptation period (left ear or right ear out). The amount of total head movements during centrifugation correlated poorly or inversely with postcentrifugation postural stability, and the most unstable subject made no head movements. There was no decrease in postural stability after static tilt, although these subjects also reported a perceived tilt briefly after return to upright, and they also had COP asymmetries. Abnormal subjects underestimated roll-tilt during centrifugation, and their directed saccades revealed permanent spatial distortions. Bilateral abnormal subjects started out with poor postural control, but showed no postural decrements after centrifugation, while unilateral abnormal subjects had varying degrees of postural decrement, both in their everyday function and as a result of experiencing the centrifugation. In addition, three unilateral, abnormal subjects, who rode twice in opposite orientations, revealed a consistent orthogonal pattern of COP offsets after centrifugation. These results suggest that both orientation and magnitude of the gravitoinertial vector are used by the central nervous system for calibration of multiple orientation systems. A change in the background gravitoinertial force (otolith input) can rapidly initiate postural and perceptual adaptation in several sensorimotor systems, independent of a structured visual surround.
The individual properties of visual objects, like form or color, are represented in different areas in our visual cortex. In order to perceive one coherent object, its features have to be bound together. This was found to be achieved in cat and monkey brains by temporal correlation of the firing rates of neurons which code the same object. This firing rate is predominantly observed in the gamma frequency range (approx. 30-80 Hz, mainly around 40 Hz). In addition, it has been shown in humans that stimuli which flicker at gamma frequencies are processed faster by our brains than when they flicker at different frequencies. These effects could be due to neural oscillators, which preferably oscillate at certain frequencies, so-called resonance frequencies. It is also known that neurons in visual cortex respond to flickering stimuli at the frequency of the flickering light. If neural oscillators exist with resonance frequencies, they should respond more strongly to stimulation with their resonance frequency. We performed an experiment, where ten human subjects were presented flickering light at frequencies from 1 to 100 Hz in 1-Hz steps. The event-related potentials exhibited steady-state oscillations at all frequencies up to at least 90 Hz. Interestingly, the steady-state potentials exhibited clear resonance phenomena around 10, 20, 40 and 80 Hz. This could be a potential neural basis for gamma oscillations in binding experiments. The pattern of results resembles that of multiunit activity and local field potentials in cat visual cortex.
During the 1998 Neurolab mission (STS-90), four astronauts were exposed to interaural centripetal accelerations (Gy centrifugation) of 0.5 g and 1 g during rotation on a centrifuge, both on Earth and during orbital space flight. Subjects were oriented either left-ear out or right-ear out, facing or back to motion. Binocular eye movements were measured in three dimensions using a video technique. On Earth, tangential centrifugation that produces 1 g of interaural linear acceleration combines with gravity to tilt the gravitoinertial acceleration (GIA) vector 45 degrees in the roll plane relative to the head vertical, generating a summed vector of 1.4 g. Before flight, this elicited mean ocular counterrolling (OCR) of 5.7 degrees. Due to the relative absence of gravity during flight, there was no linear acceleration along the dorsoventral axis of the head. As a result, during in-flight centrifugation, gravitoinertial acceleration was strictly aligned with the centripetal acceleration along the interaural axis. There was a small but significant decrease (mean 10%) in the magnitude of OCR in space (5.1 degrees). The magnitude of OCR during postflight 1 g centrifugation was not significantly different from preflight OCR (5.9 degrees). Findings were similar for 0.5 g centrifugation, but the OCR magnitude was approximately 60% of that induced by centrifugation at 1 g. OCR during pre- and postflight static tilt was not significantly different and was always less than OCR elicited by centrifugation of Earth for an equivalent interaural linear acceleration. In contrast, there was no difference between the OCR generated by in-flight centrifugation and by static tilt on Earth at equivalent interaural linear accelerations. These data support the following conclusions: (1) OCR is generated predominantly in response to interaural linear acceleration; (2) the increased OCR during centrifugation on Earth is a response to the head dorsoventral 1 g linear acceleration component, which was absent in microgravity. The dorsoventral linear acceleration could have activated either the otoliths or body-tilt receptors that responded to the larger GIA magnitude (1.4 g), to generate the increased OCR during centrifugation on Earth. A striking finding was that magnitude of OCR was maintained throughout and after flight. This is in contrast to most previous postflight OCR studies, which have generally registered decreases in OCR. We postulate that intermittent exposure to artificial gravity, in the form of the centripetal acceleration experienced during centrifugation, acted as a countermeasure to deconditioning of this otolith-ocular orienting reflex during the 16-day mission.
To evaluate their functional roles during prehension, single-unit recordings were made in the hand area of primary somatosensory areas 3b, 1 and 2 (S-I) and posterior parietal areas 5 and 7 (PPC) of the same animal. Response profiles of mean firing rate during performance of a multistage reach, grasp, and lift task were analyzed to determine the period(s) of peak firing and to measure statistically significant rises or falls in rate compared with baseline. We used the peak firing stage(s) to subdivide the population into classes tuned to single actions or two successive stages, or into multiaction groups that had sustained facilitation (BT) or inhibition (GI) during hand-object interactions. Four times as many neurons fired at peak rates during acquisition stages (approach, contact, grasp) than upon release, and their firing rates were higher. Grasping evoked the strongest responses, as grasp-tuned neurons had the highest peak rates in the population; BT, contact-grasp, and grasp-lift cells also fired maximally in the grasp stage. Grasping also coincided with maximal inhibition of GI cells, as well as of neurons tuned to approach or relaxation of grasp. Holding evoked the lowest mean rates, and had the fewest tuned cells. S-I and PPC showed significant differences in behaviors evoking peak firing as well as facilitation and inhibition; these correlated with input modalities in each area. Hand contact with the object and positioning of the fingers for grasp was the most strongly represented behavior in anterior S-I, where 61% received tactile inputs from glabrous skin. Nearly 60% were facilitated at contact, 38% fired at peak rates, and 10% were inhibited; release of grasp evoked peak firing in only 5% of 3b-1 neurons. In posterior S-I, where proportions of tactile and deep inputs were similar, positioning and grasping elicited peak responses in 38% and 31%, respectively; 80% were facilitated or inhibited during grasping. During lift and hold, inhibition rose to 43%, while excitation declined under 10%. PPC had the highest proportions firing at peak rates during hand preshaping before contact (28%) and had the most facilitated responses (38%) in this stage. Only 10% fired at peak rates during grasping. During later manipulatory actions, proportions of facilitated and inhibited responses in PPC were similar to those in posterior S-I. The data support models in which PPC plans hand movements during prehension rather than guiding their execution. Sensory monitoring of hand-object interaction occurs in S-I, where cells sense specific hand behaviors, signal stage completion, enable error correction, and may update grasp programs formulated in PPC. The results are discussed in relation to those obtained from lesion studies in humans.
Reaction time (RT) is known to be longer for simultaneous bimanual responses than for unimanual ones. This phenomenon is called &quot;bilateral deficit&quot;. To identify the mechanisms subserving the bilateral deficit, brain electrical activity was examined, with a source derivation method, in 12 right-handed subjects, during the preparation and execution periods of a RT task. The responses were either unilateral or bilateral index finger flexion, performed either in a simple RT condition, with 20% catch trials, or in a choice RT condition. A deficit was observed in RT for the bilateral response for the right-index finger movement. In cerebral electrical activities, no evidence of a correlate of a bilateral deficit was found during the preparatory period. Conversely, during the execution period, an EEG correlate of the bilateral deficit was found. For the right hand, the activation of the sensorimotor area directly involved in the voluntary control was weaker for bilateral than for unilateral contralateral responses. The reasons for such a bilateral command weakness are discussed in the context of our RT task. First, the constraint of synchronisation included in the bilateral response might require an interhemispheric information transmission that resulted in a braking effect. Second, given that an ipsilateral inhibition is present in case of choice between the two hands of one particular unimanual response, and given that this ipsilateral inhibition is also present in case of simple unimanual trials, we hypothesise that a mutual transcallosal inhibitory effect also persists in the bilateral response.
The frontal cortex (FrC) and cingulate cortex (CgC) are critical sites for normal cognitive function, as well as cognitive dysfunction in schizophrenia. Thus, modulation of synaptic transmission within these cortical areas may, in part, account for the therapeutic actions of antipsychotic drugs such as haloperidol and clozapine. FosB and DeltaFosB are immediate-early gene (IEG) products sensitive to changes in response to chronic neuroleptic drug administration. We quantitatively examine whether there are light microscopic regional and/or laminar variations in FosB or DeltaFosB in the FrC or CgC of normal adult rats, or animals receiving 6 months administration of either drinking water clozapine, or depot haloperidol. Only animals receiving chronic haloperidol developed vacuous chewing movements, the equivalent of tardive dyskinesia in humans. In control animals, the deep and superficial layers of the FrC showed a higher area density of FosB, but not DeltaFosB immunoreactive cells than the medial layers of FrC or any of the CgC layers. In animals receiving clozapine, but not haloperidol there was increase in the area density of FosB immunoreactive neurons in all FrC layers, but the major increase occurs in medial layers. These findings suggest that FosB expression identifies those FrC neurons that are most active during normal waking behaviors and are further activated following chronic administration of atypical neuroleptics without motor side effects. The results also indicate that the actions of clozapine are attributed in large part to modulation of the output of frontal cortical pyramidal neurons residing in the medial layers.
C6-R is a cell line derived from C6 glioma cells that exhibits key properties of radial glia including the ability to support neuronal migration in culture. To explore its potential use in promoting neuronal migration in vivo, we analyzed the behavior of C6-R cells in the intact and injured adult rat CNS. At 6-11 days postimplantation at the splenium of the corpus callosum, green fluorescent protein-labeled C6-R cells were observed primarily in either the corpus callosum or the hippocampus in the brain, and in the spinal cord they migrated more extensively in the white matter than in the grey matter. To determine whether C6-R cells retain their ability to promote neuronal migration in vivo, they were coinjected with labeled neurons into adult brain. When rat embryonic neurons were coimplanted with C6-R cells, the neurons and C6-R cells comigrated through a much larger volume than neurons alone or neurons coimplanted with fibroblasts. In brains preinjured with ibotenic acid, C6-R cells as well as coimplanted neurons distributed widely within the lesion site and migrated into adjacent brain tissue, while transplants with neurons alone were restricted primarily to the lesion site. The results suggest that radial glial cell lines can serve as a scaffold for neuronal migration that may facilitate development of experimental models for neural transplantation and regeneration.
Control of cell proliferation and cell survival is critical during development of the vertebrate central nervous system (CNS). Much of the cell death seen during early stages of CNS development occurs through apoptosis; however, the factors that induce this early apoptosis are not clearly understood. Gangliosides, sialylated glycosphingolipids, are expressed in the CNS and have been proposed to regulate cell growth and differentiation. Here we show that the simple ganglioside GM3 selectively inhibits the proliferation of and induces apoptosis of actively dividing astrocyte precursors and other neural progenitors. The inhibition of astrocyte precursor proliferation by GM3 appears to be mediated in part by the cyclin-dependent kinase (Cdk) inhibitor p27(Kip1). During neonatal development there is extensive cell proliferation and little apoptosis in the ventricular and subventricular zones of the CNS. This proliferation was dramatically inhibited and the degree of apoptosis dramatically increased following intraventricular administration of GM3. These data suggest that GM3, a simple ganglioside, may regulate cell proliferation and death in the CNS and as such may have potential for brain tumor therapy.
The secondary loss of neurons and glia over the first 24 h after spinal cord injury (SCI) contributes to the permanent functional deficits that are the unfortunate consequence of SCI. The progression of this acute secondary cell death in specific neuronal and glial populations has not previously been investigated in a quantitative manner. We used a well-characterized model of SCI to analyze the loss of ventral motoneurons (VMN) and ventral funicular astrocytes and oligodendrocytes at 15 min and 4, 8, and 24 h after an incomplete midthoracic contusion injury in the rat. We found that both the length of lesion and the length of spinal cord devoid of VMN increased in a time-dependent manner. The extent of VMN loss at specified distances rostral and caudal to the injury epicenter progressed symmetrically with time. Neuronal loss was accompanied by a loss of glial cells in ventral white matter that was significant at the epicenter by 4 h after injury. Oligodendrocyte loss followed the same temporal pattern as that of VMN while astrocyte loss was delayed. This information on the temporal-spatial pattern of cell loss can be used to investigate mechanisms involved in secondary injury of neurons and glia after SCI.
The neuron-specific RNA-binding protein HuD binds to a U-rich regulatory element of the 3' untranslated region (3' UTR) of the GAP-43 mRNA and stabilizes the mRNA. We have previously shown that overexpression of HuD in PC12 cells increases GAP-43 protein expression and induces the spontaneous formation of multiple neurites (K. D. Anderson et al. 2000. J. Neurochem. 75: 1103-1114). In this study, we examined the effects of HuD overexpression on the initial stages of neurite outgrowth and on GAP-43 gene expression using two in vitro systems: E19 rat cortical neurons and retinoic acid (RA)-induced embryonic stem (ES) cells. Normal neurite outgrowth of cortical neurons in vitro occurs over a 3-day period with a concomitant increase in GAP-43 and HuD expression. Cortical cells were infected with a replication-deficient HSV-1 vector containing the HuD cDNA in the sense orientation (HSV-HuD). Overexpression of HuD accelerated the formation of neurites. Immunocytochemical analysis showed that excess HuD resulted in a threefold increase in the number of GAP-43-positive cells undergoing morphological differentiation after 24 h of treatment. Using in situ hybridization, we found that the increased HuD expression resulted in a twofold increase in the levels of GAP-43 mRNA. Similarly, overexpression of HuD in RA-induced embryonic stem cells was found to increase the number of GAP-43-positive cells undergoing process outgrowth. In conclusion, our results demonstrate that HuD functions in the initiation of neurite outgrowth in a manner due, at least in part, to its regulation of GAP-43 expression.


The alpha(2)-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine stimulates growth hormone (GH) release in both animals and humans. It has been used to test for GH deficiency in children, to assess central alpha(2)-adrenoceptor function in adults and to determine the pathophysiological basis and to confirm diagnosis in neurological diseases with autonomic failure. The dose and mode of administration, however, may be important, as in some studies in adults oral clonidine has minimal effects on GH. We report our experience following intravenous (i.v.) clonidine (2 microg/kg) in 98 normal adults on the neuroendocrine (GH, insulin, glucose and catecholamine) and cardiovascular (blood pressure) responses. In males between 25 and 89 years and females between 25 and 64 years there was a significant rise in GH secretion (P &lt; 0.05) after clonidine. Males showed an age-sensitive secretory pattern, with the greatest response between 25 and 35 years (P &lt; 0.02). Younger males (&lt; 45 years) had significantly higher peak GH levels post-clonidine than younger females &lt; 45 years (P &lt; 0.03). No sex-related change was observed in older subjects (&lt; 45 years). Clonidine caused a significant fall in plasma noradrenalin and adrenalin in all age-sex groups (P&lt; 0.001). There were no significant changes in glucose or insulin. There were no effects of age on the fall in blood pressure induced by clonidine. In conclusion, i.v. clonidine stimulated GH in all age groups and there was a marked sexually dimorphic pattern in adults &lt; 45 years. The results overall suggest that i.v. clonidine-GH testing provides a reliable method for investigation of central alpha(2)-adrenergic function in adult humans.
Histological and immunohistochemical analyses of head and respiratory structures in bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) tadpoles were undertaken to address the hypothesis that the bronchial columella (BC) is the primary sound conduction pathway in these larval anurans. In postembryonic tadpoles, the BC is composed of fibroblasts surrounded by a Type I collagen matrix, with Type II collagen located in basement membranes at the distal ends. It provides a highly flexible tendon-like attachment between the round window and the membranous sac of the primary bronchus of the ipsilateral lung. As the animals approach metamorphic climax stages, the fibroblasts decrease in number and the BC becomes almost exclusively collagenous. During metamorphic climax, the BC degenerates and is completely resorbed by the time the animal becomes a postmetamorphic froglet. At all larval stages examined, the BC is structurally and immunohistochemically different from both the opercularis muscle of tadpoles and the tympanic columella (stapes homolog) of postmetamorphic animals. These observations suggest that the BC may not be rigid enough to provide an effective coupling between the lungs and the round window. An alternative hypothesis for the function of the BC, based on its structure, is presented.

Brain tumors comprise a broad spectrum of biological and clinical entities making it unlikely for any single therapeutic approach to be universally applicable. In particular, malignant glioblastoma multiforme have defied all current therapeutic modalities. Gene therapy offers the potential to augment current neurosurgical, radiation and drug treatments with little increase in morbidity. Many therapeutic transgenes have shown efficacy in experimental models, including generation of toxic compounds, enzymatic activation of pro-drugs, expression of tumor suppressor or apoptotic proteins, inhibition of angiogenesis and enhancement of immune responses to tumor antigens. Vectors have been used as gene delivery vehicles and as cytotoxic agents in their own right by selective replication and lysis of tumor cells, thereby also generating vectors on-site. Brain tumors appear to offer some &quot;Achilles' heels&quot; in that they are usually contained within the brain and represent a unique dividing cell population there. However, the heterogeneous and invasive characteristics of these tumor cells, as well as sequestration of tumor antigens within a relatively immune privileged location present serious problems for effective therapy. This review will focus on current transgene/vector strategies, including novel therapeutic genes, combinational therapies and new delivery modalities, the latter of which appears to be the rate limiting factor for gene therapy of brain tumors in humans.
The effect of acute administration of 50% standardised ethanolic extract of Indian Hypericum perforatum (IHp) was studied on the rat brain concentrations of monoamines and their metabolites in five different brain regions, viz. hypothalamus, hippocampus, striatum, pons-medulla and frontal cortex by a HPLC technique. IHp extract was administered at the doses of 50 and 200 mg/kg, p.o. and the brain monoamines were assayed after 30 min of the treatment. IHp treatment significantly decreased the levels of serotonin (5-HT) and its metabolite 5-hydroxy indole acetic acid (5-HIAA) and 5-HT turnover in all the brain regions assayed. On the other hand, IHp treatment significantly augmented the levels of norepinephrine (NE) and its metabolite methylhydroxy phenyl glycol (MHPG) and NE turnover in all the brain regions studied. Similarly, the levels of dopamine (DA) were also significantly augmented in the hypothalamus, striatum and frontal cortex. Likewise, the levels of dihydroxyphenyl acetic acid (DOPAC), the major metabolite of DA, were also increased in these brain areas. Pharmacological studies with IHp extract have shown two major behavioural actions, namely, anxiolytic and antidepressant effects. The present findings tend to rationalise these observations, reduced 5-HT activity being consonant with anxiolytic and increased NA and DA activity being consonant with antidepressant action.
The chemokine cCAF (&amp;cmacr;hicken &amp;Cmacr;hemotactic and Angiogenic &amp;Fmacr;actor), is the product of the 9E3/CEF4 gene. Its name reflects the biological properties of the protein: chemotactic and angiogenic. This CXC chemokine is highly homologous to human IL-8, both at the protein and gene level. Molecular modeling based on the known structure of IL-8 shows that the structure of cCAF is very similar to that of other CXC chemokines. Regulation of expression occurs both at the transcriptional and post-transcriptional levels. The cCAF protein is secreted very rapidly as a 9kDa molecule and can be cleaved in the N-terminus after secretion to produce a smaller form ( approximately 7kDa) that binds to ECM molecules. Plasmin, an enzyme present in the early stages of wound healing and in tumor stroma, cleaves the 9kDa to the 7kDa form. The biological properties of this chemokine and its patterns of expression in vivo strongly suggest that cCAF plays important roles in traumatic and pathological conditions.

Experiments in chick embryos using classical transplantation techniques introduced by Viktor Hamburger are reviewed; these demonstrated that chick-limb innervating motoneurons become specified by extrinsic signals prior to axon outgrowth and that they selectively grow to appropriate muscles by actively responding to guidance cues within the limb. More recent experiments reveal that fast/slow and flexor/extensor subclasses of motoneurons are distinct by E4-5 and that they exhibit patterned spontaneous activity while still growing to their targets. These observations are then related to the combinatorial code of LIM transcription factor expression, which has been hypothesized to specify motoneuron subtypes.
This chapter addresses the influential contributions Viktor Hamburger has made to our understanding of embryonic motor behavior. With his classic review, published in 1963, Viktor Hamburger opened up the field of embryonic motor behavior, which had lain almost completely dormant for many years. He focused his observations and experimental studies on the spontaneously generated embryonic movements rather than on reflex responses. As a result, he and his colleagues firmly established the central generation of embryonic motility as a basic component of embryonic behavior in chicks. These studies were also extended to rat fetuses, showing that similar principles apply to mammalian fetuses. All of us who have followed after him owe Viktor Hamburger an enormous debt of gratitude for his pioneering work.

Human atria contain the opiate alkaloids morphine and morphine 6 glucuronide as determined by high performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrochemical detection. This method found endogenous morphine and morphine 6 glucuronide at 106.28+/-61.58 and 48.32+/-24.63 (+/- SD) ng/gm wet weight, respectively. Identification of these opiates was confirmed by nano electrospray ionization double quadrupole orthogonal acceleration time of flight mass spectrometry. Furthermore, human saphenous vein fragments did not contain morphine as determined by these methods. Fragmentation from a selected precursor ion by collision-induced dissociation of endogenous morphine 6 glucuronide (462.14 da) yields morphine (286.14 Da) obtained from the heart tissues and with the authentic material, further demonstrating the presence of endogenous morphine. Thus, vascular tissues appear to contain endogenous opiate alkaloids.
The authors begin by drawing attention to the problem of the transition from the biological to the psychic, noting that Freud himself, with his background in the neurosciences, grappled with it throughout his career. Certain recent paradigms more commonly applied to the natural sciences, such as in particular chaos and complexity theory, can in their view prove fruitful in psychoanalysis too, and it is shown how these notions are inherent in some of Freud's conceptions. The unconscious is stated to operate like a neural network, performing the kind of parallel processing used in the computing of highly complex situations, whereas the conscious mind is sequential. Dreams, in the authors' opinion, are organisers of the mind, imparting order to the turbulence of the underlying wishes and unconscious fantasies and structuring them through the dream work. Through dreams, the structured linearity of conscious thought can emerge out of the non-linear chaos of the drives. The dream's navel can be seen as the chaotic link, or interface, between the unconscious wish, which constitutes an attractor, and the conscious thought. The attractor may be visualised as having an hourglass or clepsydra shape, the narrow section being the dream's navel, and, being the same at any scale of observation, has the property of fractality.
The purpose of this study was to measure listeners' abilities to detect brief changes in interaural temporal disparities (ITDs) or interaural intensitive disparities (IIDs) conveyed by bursts of noise (probes) temporally and symmetrically flanked by segments of diotic or uncorrelated noise. Thresholds were measured using a four-interval, two-alternative, forced-choice adaptive task and the total duration of the bursts of noise was either 20, 40, or 100 ms. Probes were temporally centered within each burst and the durations of the probes ranged from 2 to 100 ms, depending upon the duration of the (longer) total burst of noise within which they were embedded. The results indicate that, for a given total duration of noise, there is a rapid decrease in threshold ITD or threshold IID as the duration of the probe is increased so that it occupies a larger portion of the total burst of noise. Mathematical analyses revealed that both threshold ITDs and threshold IIDs could be well accounted for by assuming that the listener processes both types of binaural cues via a single, symmetric, double-exponential temporal window. Interestingly, the shapes of the temporal windows that fit the data obtained from the human listeners resemble the shapes of the temporal windows derived by Wagner [H. Wagner, J. Comp. Physiol. A 169, 281-289 (1991)], who studied the barn owl. The time constants and relative weightings yielded temporal window functions that heavily emphasize information occurring within the very temporal center of the window. This temporal window function was found to be generalizable in the sense that it also accounts for classic data reported by Grantham and Wightman [D.W. Gratham and F.L. Wightman, J. Acoust. Soc. Am. 63, 511-523 (1978)] concerning sensitivity to dynamically changing interaural disparities.

It is widely accepted that Abeta plays a pivotal role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) [27]. Attention has been focused mainly on how extracellular Abeta exerts its effects on neuronal cells [7,11,16,32]. However, neuronal degeneration from an accumulation of intracellular Abetax-42 (iAbeta42) occurs in presenilin 1 (PS1) mutant mice without extracellular Abeta deposits [5]. In the present study, intracellular deposits of iAbeta42 are correlated with apoptotic cell death in AD and PS-1 familial AD (PS1 FAD) brains by means of triple staining with antibodies to Abeta, TUNEL, and staining with Hoechst 33342. Neurons simultaneously positive for iAbeta42 and the TUNEL assay were significantly more abundant in AD brains than in controls. The number of apoptotic neurons with intracellular neurofibrillary tangles (iNFTs) was insignificant. Our results indicate that intraneuronal deposition of a neurotoxic form of Abeta seems to be an early event in the neurodegeneration of AD.
The nuclei of the olivary complex are involved in regulating motor movements and in motor learning. Aging is characterized by a progressive accumulation of lipofuscin while the number of olivary neurons is unchanged. It is not known whether neuronal loss occurs in the olivary nucleus during Alzheimer's disease (AD). The aim of this study was to estimate the total number of neurons in the principal olivary nucleus (PO) in AD and control brains using an optimized design for sampling and an unbiased stereological method called the optical fractionator. This study was based on 13 control (mean age =57 y, range 17-95 y) and 16 AD brains (mean age = 86 y, range 67-93 y). Using paraffin-embedded, Nissl-stained sections for quantification, we found a significant difference between the mean values (mean+/-SD) of the AD group vs. aged-matched controls (4.3x10^5+/-1.1 vs. 6.53x10^5+/-1.39 p&lt;0,003). There was no significant difference between younger controls vs. older controls (7.1x10^5+/-1.5 vs. 6.5x10^5+/-1.4 p=0.76). While there was no neuronal loss in normal aging, in AD the PO is characterized by a significant neuronal loss up to 34%. can occur in regions devoid of neurofibrillary changes.
This study examined the effects of aging on the hemispheric asymmetry of event-related potentials (ERPs) evoked by morphosyntactic anomalies in a competing speech paradigm. The experimental groups consisted of children, young adults, and elderly persons. The ERPs were recorded from 32 scalp sites while participants listened to a continuous narrative presented quasidichotically via loudspeakers. Participants responded when they heard an anomalous word embedded within a popular fairy tale. Anomalous words evoked a robust positivity in the 700- to 900-msec latency range in all participants. Comparison of area measures from waveforms at the lateral frontal, frontotemporal, temporal, temporoparietal, and parietal electrode sites revealed asymmetry in hemispheric positivity. In children and young adults, asymmetry peaked in the 600- to 800-msec range and favored the left hemisphere in both target-right and target-left conditions. In seniors, however, asymmetry peaked at 1100 msec, favored the left hemisphere in the target-right condition, and favored the right hemisphere in the target-left condition. These results support the concept that aging affects hemispheric asymmetry during linguistic processing.

Lower extremity osteotomy is a common procedure for managing deformity and unicompartmental gonarthrosis. One consideration not typically addressed is how the osteotomy will affect the leg length of the extremity. This article presents a numerical analysis of apparent leg-length change before and after osteotomy surgery. It also compares the differences resulting from the 3 different major types of osteotomies (closing wedge, opening wedge, and dome). Three different preoperative planning methods and a fourth intraoperative technique were studied. Using different methods of preoperative planning with the same osteotomy technique resulted in leg-length changes of 0.5 to 3 mm. Differences &gt; 7 degrees in lower extremity alignment may result depending on the planning method used. When comparing osteotomy techniques, 2 cm in leg-length difference was calculated.
Studies have identified structural abnormalities in areas of the autistic brain, with a pattern suggesting that a neurodevelopmental anomaly took place. Neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM), which is involved in development of the central nervous system, was previously shown to be decreased in the serum of autistic individuals. In the present study, we measured NCAM protein in the sera from controls, patients with autism, siblings of autistic patients, and individuals with other neurologic disorders, but found no significant differences. We also measured NCAM protein in autistic postmortem brain samples and found the longest isoform, NCAM-180, to be significantly decreased. In addition, we investigated the mRNA expression of NCAM in these brain samples using cDNA microarrays and RT-PCR. Results show that NCAM mRNA levels are not altered in autism.
The impact of norepinephrine (NE) and its metabolite, 3-methoxy4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), on circulating prolactin (PRL) was evaluated in the paraventricular region of the hypothalamus as a function of photoperiod and integrity of the pineal gland. In Experiment 1, whole tissue content of NE and MHPG was assessed in male and female hamsters that had been pinealectomized or sham-pinealectomized and exposed to long or short photoperiods for 5 weeks. The results revealed a marginal effect of photoperiod in males, but no overall effects of surgery. Because analysis of whole tissue content can be complicated by concurrent changes in synthesis and storage rates, Experiment 2 was conducted using microdialysis to assess extracellular levels of NE and MHPG in female hamsters. Pinealectomy completely prevented the short-day-induced suppression of luteinizing hormone, but it only partially prevented the effects of short days on PRL. Furthermore, both NE and MHPG levels were significantly elevated in short-day-exposed pinealectomized and sham-operated animals. These results suggest that NE release within the paraventricular nucleus inhibits the circulating PRL levels and is one mechanism by which direct photic information can influence the neuroendocrine axis independently of the pineal melatonin signal.
The mechanisms and role of nerve cell death after traumatic brain injury (TBI) are not fully understood. The authors investigated the effect of pretreatment with the oxygen free radical spin trap alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl-nitrone (PBN) on the number of neurons undergoing apoptosis after TBI in rats. Apoptotic cells were identified by the TUNEL method combined with the nuclear stain, Hoechst 33258, and immunohistochemistry for the active form of caspase-3. Numerous neurons became positive for activated caspase 3 and TUNEL in the cortex at 24 hours after injury, suggesting ongoing biochemical apoptosis. In PBN-treated rats, a significantly greater number of cells were found to be TUNEL positive at 24 hours compared with controls. However, PBN treatment resulted in a reduced cortical lesion volume and improved behavioral outcome two weeks after injury. The authors conclude that a treatment producing an increase in DNA fragmentation in the early phase may be compatible with an overall beneficial effect on outcome after TBI. This should be considered in the screening process for future neuroprotective remedies.
After a stroke many neurons in the ischemic brain tissue die by a process called apoptosis, a form of cell death that may be preventable. The specific molecular cascades that mediate ischemic neuronal death are not well understood. The authors recently identified prostate apoptosis response-4 (Par-4) as a protein that participates in the death of cultured hippocampal neurons induced by trophic factor withdrawal and exposure to glutamate. Here, the authors show that Par-4 levels increase in vulnerable populations of hippocampal and striatal neurons in rats after transient forebrain ischemia; Par-4 levels increased within 6 hours of reperfusion and remained elevated in neurons undergoing apoptosis 3 days later. After transient focal ischemia in mice, Par-4 levels were increased 6 to 12 hours after reperfusion in the infarcted cortex and the striatum, and activation of caspase-8 occurred with a similar time course. Par-4 immunoreactivity was localized predominantly in cortical neurons at the border of the infarct area. A Par-4 antisense oligonucleotide protected cultured hippocampal neurons against apoptosis induced by chemical hypoxia and significantly reduced focal ischemic damage in mice. The current data suggest that early up-regulation of Par-4 plays a pivotal role in ischemic neuronal death in animal models of stroke and cardiac arrest.
In spite of extensive data supporting the short-term efficacy and safety of stimulant medications in the treatment of children with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), only limited information is available on the long-term effects of these drugs. On one hand, it is unclear whether treatment of ADHD with amphetamine-like stimulant medications for extended periods of time during child development can carry negative consequences, as manifested by an increase in use of illicit drugs, higher incidence of mania, psychosis, or other manifestations of psychopathology. On the other hand, it is not known whether the beneficial effects of stimulants extend beyond acute symptomatic relief and affect important outcome variables, such as later psychopathology, educational achievement, antisocial behavior, and social or occupational status. Data from naturalistic follow-up of clinical samples are limited by lack of appropriate controls and self-selection biases that are difficult to determine and control. These studies have reached conflicting conclusions, although most of them found no lasting negative effects of chronic stimulant treatment. Studies in animals, mainly in rodents, indicate that repeated exposure to stimulants leads to behavioral sensitization to the psychomotor effects of these medications. Extrapolation of these data to therapeutic use in humans is difficult given interspecies differences and the relatively high doses and parenteral route of administration usually employed in animals. This report is based on the proceedings of a workshop organized by the National Institute of Mental Health in December 1999 to discuss possible research approaches to studying the long-term effects of stimulants in children with ADHD. Both clinical and basic neuroscience data are reviewed, and opportunities for future research are highlighted.
Although several studies exist which have examined static functional neuroimaging following traumatic brain injury (TBI), controlled cognitive activation studies of episodic memory in this population have not been published. The present investigation studied verbal recall using [O-15]-water positron emission tomography (PET) in 5 individuals who sustained severe TBI (M GCS=6.8; M years post-injury=3.18), and 4 non-injured control participants. Statistical image analysis demonstrated changes in frontoparietal regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in both groups, but there were interesting differences between groups and across conditions. Frontal lobe rCBF changes in TBI patients were reduced during free recall but enhanced during recognition, when compared to controls. Changes in cerebellar rCBF were observed in the control group during free recall, but not in the TBI sample. In both groups, bifrontal rCBF increases were noted on recognition tasks. The present findings provide evidence of alterations in specific substrates involved in verbal recall following brain injury.


The purpose of this study was to prospectively examine the occurrence and severity of sexual dysfunction symptoms in depressed patients before and after 6 months of treatment with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. The study was part of a randomized, double-blind, controlled trial of sertraline or citalopram in patients with a DSM-III-R major depressive disorder treated by general practitioners. Three hundred eight patients (221 women and 87 men) were assessed at baseline and after 6 months of treatment by means of the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale and five items from the Utvalg for Kliniske Undersogelser (UKU) Side Effect Scale covering different aspects of sexual functioning. As measured by the UKU Side Effect Scale, sexual desire and mean total score significantly improved in women, and sexual desire improved in men. Men reported no change in orgasmic dysfunction, erectile dysfunction, or mean total score, but there was a trend toward worsening of ejaculatory dysfunction. However, in the subgroup of women who reported no sexual problems at baseline, 11.8% reported decreased sexual desire, and 14.3% reported orgasmic dysfunction at week 24. The corresponding figures in the same subgroup of men were 16.7% and 18.9%, respectively, and as many as 25% experienced ejaculatory dysfunction after 24 weeks. There were no statistically significant differences between sertraline and citalopram in the magnitude or frequency of adverse sexual side effects.
The purpose of this experiment was to compare, in three tasks of attention, the impairment caused by lorazepam (1 and 2.5 mg) administered to young volunteers with the impairment that results from aging. Performance on digit cancellation (DC), digit-symbol substitution (DSS), and Paced Auditory Serial Addition Task (PASAT) was significantly impaired by lorazepam (2.5 mg) and was significantly worse in the middle-aged group (mean +/- SEM, aged 58.9+/-0.8 years) compared with the younger, IQ-matched group (20.7+/-0.2 years). However, there were interesting differences in the extent of impairments among the three tests. In the DC test, lorazepam (2.5 mg) produced a significantly greater impairment than was seen in either the middle-aged men or middle-aged women. However, in the DSS test, the middle-aged women were significantly more impaired than either the middle-aged men or the young volunteers tested after lorazepam (2.5 mg). In the PASAT, both the lorazepam (2.5 mg) group and the middle-aged women were more impaired than the middle-aged men. These results raise the important possibility of gender differences in age-related decline of attentional processes.
Motor impairment has frequently been described in Asperger syndrome (AS), a pervasive developmental disorder included in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, 4th Edition (DSM-IV). Previous research focusing on this motor dysfunction has yielded inconsistent results, and the &quot;clumsiness&quot; observed clinically remains poorly defined. To clarify further the issue of motor impairment, we compared a group of 10 children and young adults who met DSM-IV criteria for AS with a control group with no neurological impairment. Subjects were matched on age, sex, socioeconomic status, and Verbal IQ. A broad battery of motoric tests was administered. Subjects with AS were found to perform more poorly than controls on tests of apraxia, one-leg balance with eyes closed, tandem gait, and repetitive finger-thumb apposition. No significant differences were found on tests of finger tapping, grooved pegboard, trail making, or visual-motor integration. The pattern of impairments suggests that a proprioceptive deficit may underlie the incoordination observed in AS and that these individuals may be overreliant on visual input to maintain balance and position in space.
Visual spatial attention has been likened to a &quot;spotlight&quot; that selectively facilitates the perceptual processing of events at covertly attended locations. However, if participants have advance knowledge of the likely location of an impending target and the likely response it will require, facilitation in response performance does not occur for targets at the expected (or attended) location that require an unexpected response. Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded during a discrimination task in which the most likely target location and target response were simultaneously cued prior to target onset. The ERPs showed evidence of enhanced perceptual-level processing for all targets at attended locations. These results suggest that the lack of response facilitation for unexpected targets at attended locations is likely due to postperceptual processes that are activated by the inclusion of nonspatial stimulus expectancies, response expectancies, or both.
Single and alternating hand tapping were compared to test the hypothesis that coordination during rhythmic movements is mediated by the control of specific time intervals. In Experiment 1, an auditory metronome was used to indicate a set of timing patterns in which a 1-s interval was divided into 2 subintervals. Performance, measured in terms of the deviation from the target patterns and variability, was similar under conditions in which the finger taps were made with 1 hand or alternated between the 2 hands. In Experiment 2, the modality of the metronome (auditory or visual) was found to influence the manner in which the produced intervals deviated from the target patterns. These results challenge the notion that bimanual coordination emerges from coupling constraints intrinsic to the 2-hand system. They are in accord with a framework that emphasizes the control of specific time intervals to form a series of well-defined motor events.
The aim of this study was to examine the impact of the apolipoprotein E (APOE) epsilon4 allele on semiquantitative regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in Alzheimer's disease. Single photon emission computed tomography technetium (SPECT) with (99m)Tc d,l-hexamethyl propylenamine oxine was used to determine rCBF in 41 consecutive patients (18 males/23 females) with probable Alzheimer's disease according to the National Institute of Neurological and Communicative Disorders and Stroke-Alzheimer's Disease and Related Disorders Association criteria (mean age 71.0 years; range 54-85). The mean Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score was 20.4 (range 10-30). After normalization of CBF to mean blood flow in the cerebellum, values for rCBF in several cortical regions of interest, side-to-side asymmetry indices, and anterior-posterior ratios were calculated. Determination of the APOE genotype from blood samples was performed using restriction enzyme polymerase chain reaction technique. Multivariate regression analyses and the Wilcoxon rank-sum test for unpaired data (Mann-Whitney) were used for statistical analysis. The patients comprised 27APOE epsilon4-positive and 14APOE epsilon4-negative individuals. Five patients were APOE epsilon4 homozygotes. APOE epsilon4-positive patients had significantly reduced rCBF in the right frontal and left occipital lobes. On nonparametric analysis, the most prominent differences between epsilon4-negative and epsilon4-positive patients were demonstrated in subregions representing the frontal association cortex (Mann-Whitney, P &lt; .01). Age-stratified analysis suggested that these findings could be demonstrated predominantly in the elderly patients. The results of this study suggest that the APOE genotype in itself may have an impact on the pattern of rCBF deficits in Alzheimer's disease. The more pronounced reduction of rCBF in frontal association cortex observed in elderly APOE epsilon4-positive patients might predict clinical progression.

Advances in functional imaging technology and cognitive neuropsychology have resulted in paradigms in which participants can perform cognitive tasks during functional image acquisition. We will discuss the application of two approaches (oxygen-15 positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging) that have recently been used to examine components of learning and memory following traumatic brain injury (TBI). Activated functional brain imaging findings that we will discuss may suggest possible functional reallocation and reorganization of brain substrates involved in verbal learning and memory following brain injury. The findings also are clearly in line with other research that indicates a prominent role for the frontal lobes in learning and memory functioning, and support the concept of distributed neural networks for memory-related functions, cognitive load, and the potential for examining brain re-organization after injury.
Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) offers a unique non-invasive approach for assessing the metabolic status of the brain in vivo and is particularly suited to studying traumatic brain injury (TBI). In particular, MRS provides a noninvasive means for quantifying such neurochemicals as N-acetylaspartate (NAA), creatine, phosphocreatine, choline, lactate, myo-inositol, glutamine, glutamate, adenosine triphosphate (ATP), and inorganic phosphate in humans following TBI and in animal models. Many of these chemicals have been shown to be perturbed following TBI. NAA, a marker of neuronal integrity, has been shown to be reduced following TBI, reflecting diffuse axonal injury or metabolic depression, and concentrations of NAA predict cognitive outcome. Elevation of choline-containing compounds indicates membrane breakdown or inflammation or both. MRS can also detect alterations in high energy phosphates reflecting the energetic abnormalities seen after TBI. Accordingly, MRS may be useful to monitor cellular response to therapeutic interventions in TBI.
Our knowledge of mitochondrial disorders has expanded enormously through advances in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) research during the last decade. This has also provided information about the complicated genotype-phenotype relationship based on distinct characteristics of mtDNA itself. These include multicopy, vulnerability to the mutation, and cytoplasmic inheritance. There are complications of heteroplasmy, tissue/cell specificity, accumulation of mutations and material inheritance.
This review article describes the effect of bulk motion on diffusion-weighted imaging experiments, and examines methods for correcting the resulting artifacts. The emphasis throughout the article is on two-dimensional imaging of the brain. The effects of translational and rotational motion on the MR signal are described, and the literature concerning pulsatile brain motion is examined. Methods for ameliorating motion effects are divided into three generic categories. The first is methods that should be intrinsically insensitive to macroscopic motion. These include motion-compensated diffusion-weighting schemes, single-shot EPI, projection reconstruction, and line scanning. Of these, only single-shot EPI and projection reconstruction methods can obtain high-quality images without compromising on sensitivity. The second category of methods is those that can be made insensitive to bulk motion. The methods examined here are FLASH and RARE. It is shown that for both sequences motion insensitivity is in general attained only at the cost of a 50% reduction in sensitivity. The final set of methods examined are those that correct for motion, primarily navigator echoes. The properties and limitations of the navigator echo approach are presented, as are those of methods which attempt to correct the acquired data by minimizing image artifacts. The review concludes with a short summary in which the current status of diffusion imaging in the presence of bulk motion is examined.
ATP caused a dose-dependent, receptor-mediated increase in the release of glutamate and aspartate from cultured astrocytes. Using calcium imaging in combination HPLC we found that the increase in intracellular calcium coincided with an increase in glutamate and aspartate release. Competitive antagonists of P(2) receptors blocked the response to ATP. The increase in intracellular calcium and release of glutamate evoked by ATP were not abolished in low Ca(2+)-EGTA saline, suggesting the involvement of intracellular calcium stores. Pre-treatment of glial cultures with an intracellular Ca(2+) chelator abolished the stimulatory effects of ATP. Thapsigargin (1 microM), an inhibitor of Ca(2+)-ATPase from the Ca(2+) pump of internal stores, significantly reduced the calcium transients and the release of aspartate and glutamate evoked by ATP. U73122 (10 microM, a phospholipase C inhibitor, attenuated the ATP-stimulatory effect on calcium transients and blocked ATP-evoked glutamate release in astrocytes. Replacement of extracellular sodium with choline failed to influence ATP-induced glutamate release. Furthermore, inhibition of the glutamate transporters p-chloromercuri-phenylsulfonic acid and Ltrans-pyrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate failed to impair the ability of ATP to stimulate glutamate release from astrocytes. However, an anion transport inhibitor, furosemide, and a potent Cl(-) channel blocker, 5-nitro-2(3-phenylpropylamino)-benzoate, reduced ATP-induced glutamate release. These results suggest that ATP stimulates excitatory amino acid release from astrocytes via a calcium-dependent anion-transport sensitive mechanism.
The acute and long-term effects of the local perfusion of 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA) and the interaction with the mitochondrial inhibitor malonate (MAL) were examined in the rat striatum. MDMA, MAL or the combination of MAL with MDMA was reverse dialyzed into the striatum for 8 h via a microdialysis probe while extracellular dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) were measured. One week later, tissue immediately surrounding the probe was assayed for DA and 5-HT tissue content. Local perfusion of MDMA increased DA and 5-HT release but did not produce long-term depletion of DA or 5-HT in tissue. Malonate also increased both DA and 5-HT release but, in contrast to MDMA, produced only long-term depletion of DA. The combined perfusion of MDMA/MAL synergistically increased the release of DA and 5-HT and produced long-term depletion of both DA and 5-HT in tissue. These results support the conclusion that DA, compared with 5-HT, neurons are more susceptible to mitochondrial inhibition. Moreover, MDMA, which does not normally produce DA depletion in the rat, exacerbated MAL-induced DA depletions. The effect of MDMA in combination with MAL to produce 5-HT depletion suggests a role for bio-energetic stress in MDMA-induced toxicity to 5-HT neurons. Overall, these results highlight the importance of energy balance to the function of DA and 5-HT neurons and to the toxic effects of MDMA.
The protein tyrosine kinase Src is known to regulate NMDA receptors in native neurons. While NR2A, NR2B and NR2D are known to be phosphorylated on tyrosine residues, the exact sites have remained unidentified. Immunoprecipitation of NMDA receptor subunits followed by western blotting was used to analyze the state of tyrosine phosphorylation of recombinant NMDA receptor subunits expressed in HEK293 cells. Using antiphosphotyrosine antibody PY20, we find that on expression in HEK cells, v-Src and Fyn cause detectable tyrosine phosphorylation only of NR2A. Because a stronger signal was produced by the constitutively active v-Src, the general region of v-Src phosphorylation was delimited by expression of a series of truncation mutants of NR2A. Site-directed mutagenesis on candidate sites within the likely region allowed identification of three sites, Y1292, Y1325, and Y1387 that account for a significant fraction of the total PY20 signal. Two of these sites, Y1292 and Y1387, were suggested to control current modulation by Src in previous studies of HEK cells expressing NR1/NR2A. One of these sites, Y1325, has not yet been evaluated for effects on receptor current. A unique tyrosine site, Y1267, was shown not to be a site of detectable phosphorylation, in accordance with its Src-independent regulation of receptor currents.
The glutamate analog (+/-) threo-3-methylglutamate (T3MG) has recently been reported to inhibit the EAAT2 but not EAAT1 subtype of high-affinity, Na(+)-dependent excitatory amino acid transporter (EAAT). We have examined the effects of T3MG on glutamate-elicited currents mediated by EAATs 1-4 expressed in Xenopus oocytes and on the transport of radiolabeled substrate in mammalian cell lines expressing EAATs 1-3. T3MG was found to be an inhibitor of EAAT2 and EAAT4 but a weak inhibitor of EAAT1 and EAAT3. T3MG competitively inhibited uptake of D-[(3)H]-aspartate into both cortical and cerebellar synaptosomes with a similar potency, consistent with its inhibitory activity on the cloned EAAT2 and EAAT4 subtypes. In addition, T3MG produced substrate-like currents in oocytes expressing EAAT4 but not EAAT2. However, T3MG was unable to elicit heteroexchange of preloaded D-[(3)H]-aspartate in cerebellar synaptosomes, inconsistent with the behavior of a substrate inhibitor. Finally, T3MG acts as a poor ionotropic glutamate receptor agonist in cultured hippocampal neurons: concentrations greater than 100 microM T3MG were required to elicit significant NMDA receptor-mediated currents. Thus, T3MG represents a pharmacological tool for the study of not only the predominant EAAT2 subtype but also the EAAT4 subtype highly expressed in cerebellum.
There are at least three subtypes of cloned metabotropic P2 receptors linked to intracellular Ca(2+) rises in rat brain cells, namely, P2Y(1), P2Y(2) and P2Y(4). In this study we explore the subtypes of the metabotropic P2 receptors seen in freshly isolated astrocytes (FIAs) from P8-P25 rats. We found by single cell RT-PCR that in process-bearing FIAs from hippocampi of P8-P12 rats, 31% of the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) mRNA (+) cells expressed P2Y(1) mRNA while only 5% of the cells tested expressed P2Y(2) mRNA. The expression of P2Y(1) receptor mRNA was not changed in FIAs from the hippocampi of P18-P25 rats, but 38% of the GFAP mRNA (+) cells in the P18-P25 age group then showed P2Y(2) mRNA. We also studied whether the mRNA was expressing functional receptor protein by measuring Ca(2+) responses to specific agonists for P2Y(1) and P2Y(2). We found that similar proportions of GFAP mRNA (+) FIAs responded to ATP or UTP as showed mRNAs for P2Y (1) and P2Y(2,) respectively. Total tissue RNA from P9 and P24 rat hippocampus showed a 2.8-fold increase in P2Y(2) mRNA levels from P9 to P24 with a decrease in P2Y(1) mRNA. Thus, this study shows a marked up-regulation of mRNA for P2Y(2) from 9 to 24 days in rat hippocampus, and some of this increase is likely due to the protoplasmic astrocytes which is being translated into functional receptor protein in these cells.
No G(i)-linked P2Y receptors have been cloned to date but the presence of such receptors is thought to be restricted to platelets and certain clonal cell lines. Using the functional approach of [(35)S]guanosine 5'-[gamma-thio]-triphosphate autoradiography, we uncovered the widespread presence of such receptors in the CNS. Under conditions in which the prominent signal due to tonic adenosine receptor activity is masked, ADP and ATP stimulated G-protein activity in multiple grey and white matter regions. Localization in the grey matter suggests inhibitory auto-/heteroreceptor function. In the white matter, activated G proteins appeared as 'hot spots' (presumed oligodendrocyte progenitors) with scattered distribution along the main fibre tracts. Responses to ATP were diminished under conditions that inhibited degradation, suggesting that prior conversion to ADP explained agonist action. Uracil nucleotides were ineffective but 2-methylthio-ADP activated G proteins approximately 500-fold more potently than ADP, although both were similarly degraded. Throughout the brain, ADP-dependent G-protein activity was reversed by 2-hexylthio-AdoOC(O)Asp(2), a non-phosphate ATP analogue, whereas selective P2Y(1) receptor antagonists proved ineffective. A similar receptor was also disclosed from the adrenal medulla. These data witness a hitherto unrecognized abundance of G(i/o)-linked ADP receptors in the nervous system. Biochemical and pharmacological behaviour suggests striking similarities to the elusive platelet P2Y(ADP) receptor.
L-655,708 is a ligand for the benzodiazepine site of the gamma-aminobutyric acid type A (GABA(A)) receptor that exhibits a 100-fold higher affinity for alpha5-containing receptors compared with alpha1-containing receptors. Molecular biology approaches have been used to determine which residues in the alpha5 subunit are responsible for this selectivity. Two amino acids have been identified, alpha5Thr208 and alpha5Ile215, each of which individually confer approximately 10-fold binding selectivity for the ligand and which together account for the 100-fold higher affinity of this ligand at alpha5-containing receptors. L-655,708 is a partial inverse agonist at the GABA(A) receptor which exhibited no functional selectivity between alpha1- and alpha5-containing receptors and showed no change in efficacy at receptors containing alpha1 subunits where amino acids at both of the sites had been altered to their alpha5 counterparts (alpha1Ser205-Thr,Val212-Ile). In addition to determining the binding selectivity of L-655,708, these amino acid residues also influence the binding affinities of a number of other benzodiazepine (BZ) site ligands. They are thus important elements of the BZ site of the GABA(A) receptor, and further delineate a region just N-terminal to the first transmembrane domain of the receptor alpha subunit that contributes to this binding site.
The etiology of Parkinson's disease is still unknown, though current investigations support the notion of the pivotal involvement of oxidative stress in the process of neurodegeneration in the substantia nigra (SN). In the present study, we investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying cellular response to a challenge by dopamine, one of the local oxidative stressors in the SN. Based on studies showing that nuclear factor kappa B (NF-kappaB) is activated by oxidative stress, we studied the involvement of NF-kappaB in the toxicity of PC12 cells following dopamine exposure. We found that dopamine (0.1-0.5 m M) treatment increased the phosphorylation of the IkappaB protein, the inhibitory subunit of NF-kappaB in the cytoplasm. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated the presence of NF-kappaB-p65 protein in the nuclear fraction and its disappearance from the cytoplasmic fraction after 2 h of dopamine exposure. Dopamine-induced NF-kappaB activation was also evidenced by electromobility shift assay using radioactive labeled NF-kappaB consensus DNA sequence. Cell-permeable NF-kappaB inhibitor SN-50 rescued the cells from dopamine-induced apoptosis and showed the importance of NF-kappaB activation to the induction of apoptosis. Furthermore, flow cytometry assay demonstrated a higher level of translocated NF-kappaB-p65 in the apoptotic nuclei than in the unaffected nuclei. In conclusion, our findings suggest that NF-kappaB activation is essential to dopamine-induced apoptosis in PC12 cells and it may be involved in nigral neurodegeneration in patients with Parkinson's disease.
Neurotransmitter receptors in vivo are linked to intracellular adaptor proteins and signalling molecules driving downstream pathways. Methods for physical isolation are essential to answer fundamental questions about the size, structure and composition of in vivo complexes and complement the widely used yeast 2-hybrid method. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) binds postsynaptic density 95 (PSD-95) protein; both are required for synaptic plasticity and learning and participate in other important pathophysiological functions. Here we describe the development and optimization of novel methods for large-scale isolation of NMDAR--PSD-95 complexes from mouse brain including immunoaffinity, immunoprecipitation, ligand-affinity and immobilized PSD-95 binding peptides. Short PDZ binding peptides modelled on NMDAR subunits were shown to isolate NMDAR complexes. Gel filtration indicated the native NMDAR--PSD-95 complexes were 2000 kDa, and sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) revealed a complexity suggesting a huge network of both structural components and signalling enzymes. These methods can be used to define the structure of the complexes at different synapses and in mice carrying gene mutations as well as new tools for drug discovery.
ARPP-16 and ARPP-19 are closely related cAMP-regulated phosphoproteins that were initially discovered in mammalian brain as in vitro substrates for protein kinase A (PKA). ARPP-16 is enriched in dopamine-responsive medium spiny neurons in the striatum, while ARPP-19 is ubiquitously expressed. ARPP-19 is highly homologous to alpha-endosulfine and database searches allowed the identification of novel related proteins in D. melanogaster, C. elegans, S. mansoni and yeast genomes. Using isoform-specific antibodies, we now show that ARPP-19 is composed of at least two differentially expressed isoforms (termed ARPP-19 and ARPP-19e/endosulfine). All ARPP-16/19 family members contain a conserved consensus site for phosphorylation by PKA (RKPSLVA in mammalian ARPP-16 and ARPP-19), and this site was shown to be efficiently phosphorylated in vitro by PKA. An antibody that specifically recognized the phosphorylated form of ARPP-16/19/19e was used to examine the phosphorylation of ARPP-16/19 family members in intact cells. In striatal slices, the phosphorylation of ARPP-16 was increased in response to activation of D(1)-type dopamine receptors, and decreased in response to activation of D(2)-type dopamine receptors. In non-neuronal cells, ARPP-19 was highly phosphorylated in response to activation of PKA. These results establish that ARPP-16/19 proteins constitute a family of PKA-dependent intracellular messengers that function in all cells. The high levels of ARPP-16 in striatal neurons and its bi-directional regulation by dopamine suggest a specific role in dopamine-dependent signal transduction. The conservation of this protein family through evolution suggests that it subserves an important cellular function that is regulated by PKA.
The tumor suppressor protein p53 is essential for neuronal death in several experimental settings and may participate in human neurodegenerative disorders. Based upon recent studies characterizing chemical inhibitors of p53 in preclinical studies in the cancer therapy field, we synthesized the compound pifithrin-alpha and evaluated its potential neuroprotective properties in experimental models relevant to the pathogenesis of stroke and neurodegenerative disorders. Pifithrin-alpha protected neurons against apoptosis induced by DNA-damaging agents, amyloid beta-peptide and glutamate. Protection by pifithrin-alpha was correlated with decreased p53 DNA-binding activity, decreased expression of the p53 target gene BAX and suppression of mitochondrial dysfunction and caspase activation. Mice given pifithrin-alpha exhibited increased resistance of cortical and striatal neurons to focal ischemic injury and of hippocampal neurons to excitotoxic damage. These preclinical studies demonstrate the efficacy of a p53 inhibitor in models of stroke and neurodegenerative disorders, and suggest that drugs that inhibit p53 may reduce the extent of brain damage in related human neurodegenerative conditions.
In order to obtain insight into the aetiology and pathogenesis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), high-density gene discovery arrays (GDA human version 1.2) containing 18 400 non-redundant EST cDNAs pooled from different tissue libraries have been used to monitor gene expression in lumbar spinal cord from ALS cases compared with controls. Quantitative filter analysis revealed differential expression of cDNAs normalized to internal standards. These candidates have been further investigated and their expression in spinal cord characterized in a panel of ALS and control subjects. Significant differential expression was obtained for 14 genes, 13 being elevated (up to six-fold) and one decreased (by 80%) in ALS. Amongst those elevated in ALS were thioredoxin and glial fibrilary acid protein, which have already been shown to be up-regulated in ALS, thus supporting the reliability of this approach. The other differentially regulated transcripts confirmed in the expression studies represent potential candidates in ALS pathogenesis being involved in antioxidant systems, neuroinflammation, the regulation of motor neurone function, lipid metabolism, protease inhibition and protection against apoptosis. The use of the GDA system has greatly facilitated the screening and retrieval of sequence information and has generated useful information on the cascade of molecular events occurring in ALS and potentially may highlight new candidates playing a role in the aetiology and progression of this disease.
Previous studies have suggested that the localization of the NMDA receptor NR1 subunit may be determined by the splice variant form of NR1 present. Functional studies have also supported selective targeting of NR2A and NR2B to synaptic and extrasynaptic populations, respectively. We set out to determine whether rat cortical and cerebellar NR1 splice variants and NR2 subunits are differentially localized to the postsynaptic density. Using western blot techniques, we measured the percentage of NR1 containing each cassette and the enrichment of the different cassettes and other proteins in the preparations. The results indicate that: (1) no single cassette of NR1 is differentially enriched in the postsynaptic densities and (2) the NR2A and NR2B subunits are similarly enriched at the synapse. The enrichment profiles of postsynaptic density-associated proteins demonstrated similar enrichment levels for postsynaptic density (PSD)-95, the NMDA receptor subunits, chapsyn-110, and the CaMKII alpha subunit. However, synaptophysin, SAP-102, and the GABA(A) receptor beta subunit exhibited lower enrichment levels compared to PSD-95. Additionally, cerebellar but not cortical PSDs exhibited significantly lower enrichment of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) GluR1. Thus, although postsynaptic densities are highly enriched in synaptic proteins, there appears to be no selective incorporation of specific NR1 splice variants or NR2 subunits into this structure.
Previously we found that some cyclopentenone prostaglandin derivatives promoted neurite outgrowth from PC12 cells and dorsal root ganglia explants in the presence of nerve growth factor; and so we referred to them as neurite outgrowth-promoting prostaglandins (NEPPs). In this study, NEPPs protected HT22 cells against oxidative glutamate toxicity. NEPP6, one of the most effective promoters of neurite outgrowth in PC12 cells, protected the cells most potently among NEPPs 1--10. Several derivatives, NEPPs 11--19, were newly synthesized based on the chemical structure of NEPP6. NEPP11 had a more potent neuroprotective effect than NEPP6. NEPP11 also prevented the death of cortical neurons induced by various stimuli and reduced ischemic brain damage in mice. Biotinylated compounds of NEPPs were synthesized to investigate their cellular accumulation. NEPP6-biotin protected the cells and emitted potent signals from the cells. In contrast, biotinylated non-neuroprotective derivatives emitted much weaker signals. These results suggest that NEPPs are novel types of neurotrophic compounds characterized by their dual biological activities of promoting neurite outgrowth and preventing neuronal death and that their accumulation in the cells is closely associated with their neuroprotective actions.



Deficits in tasks measuring visual processing have been earlier reported in studies of MS. Yet, the nature and severity of visual-processing deficits in MS remains unclear. We used a new method in order to measure the different stages of visual processing in object recognition: shape recognition, familiarity recognition, semantic categorization, and identification with naming. Six two-choice reaction-time tasks were presented to 30 MS patients and 15 healthy controls. The patients were divided into cognitively preserved and cognitively deteriorated study groups according to their cognitive status. The purpose was to find out whether deficits at specific stages of visual processing can be found in cognitively deteriorated MS patients. Cognitively deteriorated MS patients did not perform as well as cognitively preserved MS patients or healthy controls. They were slower already at the early stage of visual processing where discrimination of whole objects from scrambled ones was required. They also had higher error rates in tasks requiring object familiarity detection and object identification with naming. Thus, cognitively deteriorated MS patients had difficulties in visual shape recognition and semantic-lexical processing. However, variation of performances was large within both of the patient groups indicating that even patients without a generalized cognitive decline may have deficits in some stages of the visual processing. We suggest that because of the heterogeneity of the patients, every single case needs to be examined separately in order to identify the possible deficits in visual processing.
Disease-specific findings in the substantia nigra were examined in cases of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), corticobasal degeneration (CBD), and parkinsonism-dementia complex of Guam (PDC); diseases in which the patients exhibit dementia and parkinsonism, with neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) and glial tangles composed of hyperphosphorylated tau. Loss of pigmented neurons was extremely severe in these 3 diseases, and decrease of the nonpigmented neurons was severe in PSP and CBD. On the other hand, in PDC the decrease of the nonpigmented neurons was different in each patient. Topographically, in PSP the nonpigmented neurons were particularly depleted in the ventral part and relative preservation of the pigmented neurons was observed in the medial part at the level examined. Many NFTs were observed in PDC. Although the number of NFTs was small, many pretangles were seen in the neurons in CBD. Granular and hazy astrocytic inclusions were identified exclusively in PDC. Numerous argyrophilic neuropile threads were identified in CBD and PSP, but these were few in PDC. Many foamy spheroid bodies as well as coiled bodies were observed in PSP and CBD, but only a few were observed in PDC. In conclusion, PDC is a disease that is distinctly different from PSP and CBD. It is possible to differentiate between PSP and CBD by the occurrence of many pretangles in CBD, but some similarities between these 2 diseases indicate the existence of common pathological mechanisms.
Overexpression of mutated human amyloid precursor protein (hAPP717V--&gt;F) under control of the platelet-derived growth factor promoter (PDAPP minigene) in transgenic (tg) mice results in plaque formation and astroglial activation similar to Alzheimer disease (AD). However, the extent of the neurofibrillary pathology in this model is less understood. In order to determine if these mice develop AD-like neurofibrillary pathology, vibratome sections from PDAPP tg mice (4- to 20-months-old) were immunolabeled with antibodies against phosphorylated tau (AT8) and phosphorylated neurofilaments (SMI 312, TA51), and analyzed by laser scanning confocal and electron microscopy. Phosphorylated neurofilament-immunoreactive dystrophic neurites in plaques were first seen in mice at 10 to 12 months of age, while phosphorylated tau-immunoreactive dystrophic neurites were observed after 14 months of age. Immunoelectron microscopic analysis revealed that phosphorylated neurofilament immunoreactivity was diffusely distributed along filamentous aggregates (12-15 nm in diameter) in the plaque dystrophic neurites, and occasionally in neuronal cell bodies. In contrast, phosphorylated tau immunoreactivity was observed as clusters distributed along filamentous structures accumulating in the dystrophic neurites and around neurotubules in the axons. However, no paired helical filaments were observed. Taken together, these studies indicate that the PDAPP tg model recapitulates early cytoskeletal pathology similar to that observed in AD.
Xeroderma pigmentosum group A (XPA) and Cockayne syndrome (CS) are hereditary DNA repair disorders complicated by progressive neurodegeneration. Here we immunohistochemically examine the in situ expression of materials that are produced by oxidative stress and glutamate transporters (which can contribute to prevention of glutamate neurotoxicity) in the brains of 5 autopsied patients each of XPA, CS, and control groups. All oxidative products, including nitrotyrosine, advanced glycation end product, and 4-hydroxy-2-nonenal-modified protein (HNE) were deposited in large amounts in the globus pallidus of CS patients compared to XPA patients. They were frequently recognized in the pseudocalcified foci and free minerals in the neuropil, and more rarely in foamy spheroids. In addition, the deposition of HNE was observed also in hippocampal and cerebellar dentate neurons of both CS and XPA patients. The expression of glial glutamate transporters, EAAT1 and GLT-1, was affected in the globus pallidus in 5 CS patients and 3 XPA patients. They were also altered in the cerebellar cortex in most of the CS patients. These data suggest that oxidative stress and disturbed glutamate transport may be involved in pallidal and/or cerebellar degeneration in hereditary nucleotide repair disorders.
The spatial organization of response parameters in squirrel monkey primary auditory cortex (AI) accessible on the temporal gyrus was determined with the excitatory receptive field to pure tone stimuli. Dense, microelectrode mapping of the temporal gyrus in four animals revealed that characteristic frequency (CF) had a smooth, monotonic gradient that systematically changed from lower values (0.5 kHz) in the caudoventral quadrant to higher values (5--6 kHz) in the rostrodorsal quadrant. The extent of AI on the temporal gyrus was approximately 4 mm in the rostrocaudal axis and 2--3 mm in the dorsoventral axis. The entire length of isofrequency contours below 6 kHz was accessible for study. Several independent, spatially organized functional response parameters were demonstrated for the squirrel monkey AI. Latency, the asymptotic minimum arrival time for spikes with increasing sound pressure levels at CF, was topographically organized as a monotonic gradient across AI nearly orthogonal to the CF gradient. Rostral AI had longer latencies (range = 4 ms). Threshold and bandwidth co-varied with the CF. Factoring out the contribution of the CF on threshold variance, residual threshold showed a monotonic gradient across AI that had higher values (range = 10 dB) caudally. The orientation of the threshold gradient was significantly different from the CF gradient. CF-corrected bandwidth, residual Q10, was spatially organized in local patches of coherent values whose loci were specific for each monkey. These data support the existence of multiple, overlying receptive field gradients within AI and form the basis to develop a conceptual framework to understand simple and complex sound coding in mammals.
Recent evidence suggests that Ca(2+)-permeable AMPA receptors display rapid, short-lasting current facilitation. In this study, we investigated the properties of AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic currents in medial septal neurons of the rat in an in vitro slice preparation. Immunocytochemistry with a selective antibody to the GluR2 subunit revealed that both choline acetyltransferase-containing and parvalbumin-containing neurons of the medial septum express no detectable GluR2 subunit immunoreactivity. We used whole cell voltage-clamp recordings to measure synaptically evoked AMPA receptor-mediated currents from medial septal neurons following stimulation of midline afferents. The GYKI 52466 (50 microM)- and 2,3-dioxo-6-nitro-1,2,3,4-tetrahydrobenzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide (NBQX) (20 microM)-sensitive AMPA receptor-mediated component of the synaptic response was isolated by blocking GABA(A)- and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated currents with 30 microM bicuculline and 100 microM 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, respectively. In some cases, patched cells were filled with Lucifer yellow (0.1%) and imaged using 2-photon laser scanning microscopy. AMPA receptor-mediated currents that were observed in large medial septal neurons (20--30 microm) displayed rectification. These currents were sensitive to external application of philanthotoxin-343 (PhTx-343, 50 microM), a potent, high-affinity antagonist of Ca(2+)-permeable, GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors. Rectifying AMPA receptor-mediated currents also displayed a rapid increase in amplitude when evoked five times at low frequency such as 6 Hz. In contrast to currents observed in large medial septal neurons, AMPA-receptor mediated currents evoked in the remaining small (8--11 microm) neurons were nonrectifying and displayed rapid synaptic depression when stimulated five times at 6 Hz. The currents evoked in these cells were unaffected by external application of PhTx-343 and were therefore GluR2-containing AMPA receptors. The results of the present study demonstrate that the principal projection neurons of the medial septum contain PhTx-343-sensitive, GluR2-lacking AMPA receptors that display rapid current facilitation when stimulated at low frequencies.
Restoration of motor function to individuals who have had spinal cord injuries or stroke has been hampered by the lack of an interface to the peripheral nervous system. A suitable interface should provide selective stimulation of a large number of individual muscle groups with graded recruitment of force. We have developed a new neural interface, the Utah Slanted Electrode Array (USEA), that was designed to be implanted into peripheral nerves. Its goal is to provide such an interface that could be useful in rehabilitation as well as neuroscience applications. In this study, the stimulation capabilities of the USEA were evaluated in acute experiments in cat sciatic nerve. The recruitment properties and the selectivity of stimulation were examined by determining the target muscles excited by stimulation via each of the 100 electrodes in the array and using force transducers to record the force produced in these muscles. It is shown in the results that groups of up to 15 electrodes were inserted into individual fascicles. Stimulation slightly above threshold was selective to one muscle group for most individual electrodes. At higher currents, co-activation of agonist but not antagonist muscles was observed in some instances. Recruitment curves for the electrode array were broader with twitch thresholds starting at much lower currents than for cuff electrodes. In these experiments, it is also shown that certain combinations of electrode pairs, inserted into an individual fascicle, excite fiber populations with substantial overlap, whereas other pairs appear to address independent populations. We conclude that the USEA permits more selective stimulation at much lower current intensities with more graded recruitment of individual muscles than is achieved by conventional cuff electrodes.
When a small, focally attended visual stimulus and a larger background frame shift location at the same time, the frame's new location can affect spatial perception. For horizontal displacements on the order of 1--2 degrees, when the frame moves more than the attended stimulus, human subjects may perceive that the attended stimulus has shifted to the right or left when it has not done so. However, that misapprehension does not disable accurate eye movements to the same stimulus. We trained a rhesus monkey to report the direction that an attended stimulus had shifted by making an eye movement to one of the two report targets. Then, using conditions that induce displacement illusions in human subjects, we tested the hypothesis that neuronal activity in the prefrontal cortex (PF) would reflect the displacement directions reported by the monkey, even when they conflicted with the actual displacement, if any, of the attended stimulus. We also predicted that these cells would have directional selectivity for movements used to make those reports, but not for similar eye movements made to fixate the attended stimulus. A population of PF neurons showed the predicted properties, which could not be accounted for on the basis of either eye-movement or frame-shift parameters. This activity, termed report-related, began approximately 150 ms before the onset of the reporting saccade. Another population of PF neurons showed greater directional selectivity for saccadic eye movements made to fixate the attended stimulus than for similar saccades made to report its displacement. In view of the evidence that PF functions to integrate inputs and actions occurring at different times and places, the present findings support the idea that such integration involves movements to acquire response targets, directly, as well as actions guided by less direct response rules, such as perceptual reports.

Parkinson's disease affects various neurotransmitter systems. Using SPECT, the authors measured [(123)I]beta-CIT binding ratios of the caudate, putamen, medial thalamus, and dorsal midbrain over cerebellum in 16 patients with Parkinson's disease, and examined correlations with clinical ratings. Whereas striatal binding ratios (reflecting regional dopamine transporter densities) were associated with motor symptoms, dorsal midbrain binding ratios (reflecting regional serotonin transporter densities) were significantly correlated with the mentation, behavior, and mood subscale of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale. These findings indicate that degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons and a dysfunctional serotonergic raphe system contribute differentially to motor deficits and neuropsychiatric symptoms in Parkinson's disease.
Birdsong is a learned, sequenced motor skill. For the zebra finch, learned song normally remains unchanging beyond early adulthood. However, stable adult song will gradually deteriorate after deafening (Nordeen and Nordeen, 1992), indicating an ongoing influence of auditory feedback on learned song. This plasticity of adult song in response to deafening gradually declines with age (Lombardino and Nottebohm, 2000), suggesting that, after song learning, there continue to be changes in the brain that progressively stabilize the song motor program. A qualitatively similar stabilization of learned song can be precipitated artificially by lesions of a basal ganglia circuit in the songbird anterior forebrain (Brainard and Doupe, 2000), raising the question of whether and how these two forms of song stabilization are related. We investigated this issue by characterizing the deterioration of song that occurs after deafening in young adult birds and the degree to which that deterioration is reduced by age or by lesions of the anterior forebrain that were directed at the lateral portion of the magnocellular nucleus of the anterior neostriatum (LMAN). In most respects, LMAN lesions stabilized song to a significantly greater extent than did aging; whereas old-deafened birds eventually exhibited significant deterioration of song, lesioned-deafened birds generally did not differ from controls. The one exception was for song tempo, which was significantly stabilized by age, but not by LMAN lesions. The results indicate that LMAN lesions do not simply mimic a normal aging process, and likewise suggest that the anterior forebrain pathway continues to play a role even in the residual song plasticity that is observed after the age-dependent stabilization of song.
Recognition of individual body odors is analogous to human face recognition in that it provides information about identity. Individual body odors determined by differences at the major histocompatibility complex (MHC or H-2) have been shown to influence mate choice, pregnancy block, and maternal behavior in mice. Unfortunately, the mechanism and extent of the main olfactory bulb (MOB) and accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) involvement in the discrimination of animals according to H-2-type has remained ambiguous. Here we study the neuronal activation patterns evoked in the MOB in different individuals on exposure to these complex, biologically meaningful sensory stimuli. We demonstrate that body odors from H-2 disparate mice evoke overlapping but distinct maps of neuronal activation in the MOB. The spatial patterns of odor-evoked activity are sufficient to be used like fingerprints to predict H-2 identity using a novel computer algorithm. These results provide functional evidence for discrimination of H-2-determined body odors in the MOB, but do not preclude a role for the AOB. These data further our understanding of the neural strategies used to decode socially relevant odors.
To assess the impact of thalamic synchronization on cortical responsiveness, we used conditional cross-correlation analysis to measure the probability of neuronal discharges in somatosensory cortex as a function of the time between discharges in pairs of simultaneously recorded neurons in the ventrobasal thalamus. Among 26 neuronal trios, we found that thalamocortical efficacy after synchronous thalamic activity was nearly twice as large as the efficacy rate obtained when pairs of thalamic neurons discharged asynchronously. Nearly half of these neuronal trios displayed cooperative effects in which the cortical discharge probability after synchronous thalamic events was larger than could be predicted from the efficacy rate of individual thalamic discharges. In these cases of heterosynaptic cooperativity, thalamocortical efficacy declined to asymptotic levels when the interspike intervals were &gt;6-8 msec. These results indicate that thalamic synchronization has a significant impact on cortical responsiveness and suggest that neuronal synchronization may play a critical role in the transmission of sensory information from one brain region to another.
The classically conditioned vertebrate eye-blink response is a model in which to study neuronal mechanisms of learning and memory. A neural correlate of this response recorded in the abducens nerve can be conditioned entirely in vitro using an isolated brainstem-cerebellum preparation from the turtle by pairing trigeminal and auditory nerve stimulation. Here it is reported that conditioning requires that the paired stimuli occur within a narrow temporal window of &lt;100 msec and that it is blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist d,l-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. Moreover, there is a significant positive correlation between the levels of conditioning and greater immunoreactivity with the glutamate receptor 4 (GluR4) AMPA receptor subunit in the abducens motor nuclei, but not with NMDAR1 or GluR1. It is concluded that in vitro classical conditioning of an abducens nerve eye-blink response is generated by NMDA receptor-mediated mechanisms that may act to modify the AMPA receptor by increasing GluR4 subunits in auditory nerve synapses.
Altered axon-Schwann cell interactions in PNS myelin-deficient Trembler mice result in changed axonal transport rates, neurofilament and microtubule-associated protein phosphorylation, neurofilament density, and microtubule stability. To determine whether PNS and CNS myelination have equivalent effects on axons, neurofilaments, and microtubules in CNS, myelin-deficient shiverer axons were examined. The genetic defect in shiverer is a deletion in the myelin basic protein (MBP) gene, an essential component of CNS myelin. As a result, shiverer mice have little or no compact CNS myelin. Slow axonal transport rates in shiverer CNS axons were significantly increased, in contrast to the slowing in demyelinated PNS nerves. Even more striking were substantial changes in the composition and properties of microtubules in shiverer CNS axons. The density of axonal microtubules is increased, reflecting increased expression of tubulin in shiverer, and the stability of microtubules is drastically reduced in shiverer axons. Shiverer transgenic mice with two copies of a wild-type myelin basic protein transgene have an intermediate level of compact myelin, making it possible to determine whether the actual level of compact myelin is an important regulator of axonal microtubules. Both increased microtubule density and reduced microtubule stability were still observed in transgenic mouse nerves, indicating that signals beyond synaptogenesis and the mere presence of compact myelin are required for normal regulation of the axonal microtubule cytoskeleton.
Dopamine (DA) is a well established modulator of prefrontal cortex (PFC) function, yet the cellular mechanisms by which DA exerts its effects in this region are controversial. A major point of contention is the consequence of D(1) DA receptor activation. Several studies have argued that D(1) receptors enhance the excitability of PFC pyramidal neurons by augmenting voltage-dependent Na(+) currents, particularly persistent Na(+) currents. However, this conjecture is based on indirect evidence. To provide a direct test of this hypothesis, we combined voltage-clamp studies of acutely isolated layer V-VI prefrontal pyramidal neurons with single-cell RT-PCR profiling. Contrary to prediction, the activation of D(1) or D(5) DA receptors consistently suppressed rapidly inactivating Na(+) currents in identified corticostriatal pyramidal neurons. This modulation was attenuated by a D(1)/D(5) receptor antagonist, mimicked by a cAMP analog, and blocked by a protein kinase A (PKA) inhibitor. In the same cells the persistent component of the Na(+) current was unaffected by D(1)/D(5) receptor activation-suggesting that rapidly inactivating and persistent Na(+) currents arise in part from different channels. Single-cell RT-PCR profiling showed that pyramidal neurons coexpressed three alpha-subunit mRNAs (Nav1.1, 1.2, and 1.6) that code for the Na(+) channel pore. In neurons from Nav1.6 null mice the persistent Na(+) currents were significantly smaller than in wild-type neurons. Moreover, the residual persistent currents in these mutant neurons-which are attributable to Nav1.1/1.2 channels-were reduced significantly by PKA activation. These results argue that D(1)/D(5) DA receptor activation reduces the rapidly inactivating component of Na(+) current in PFC pyramidal neurons arising from Nav1.1/1.2 Na(+) channels but does not modulate effectively the persistent component of the Na(+) current that is attributable to Nav1.6 Na(+) channels.
Intercellular Ca(2+) waves are believed to propagate through networks of glial cells in culture in one of two ways: by diffusion of IP(3) between cells through gap junctions or by release of ATP, which functions as an extracellular messenger. Experiments were conducted to determine the mechanism of Ca(2+) wave propagation between glial cells in an intact CNS tissue. Calcium waves were imaged in the acutely isolated rat retina with the Ca(2+) indicator dye fluo-4. Mechanical stimulation of astrocyte somata evoked Ca(2+) waves that propagated through both astrocytes and Mller cells. Octanol (0.5 mm), which blocks coupling between astrocytes and Mller cells, did not reduce propagation into Mller cells. Purinergic receptor antagonists suramin (100 microm), PPADS (20-50 microm), and apyrase (80 U/ml), in contrast, substantially reduced wave propagation into Mller cells (wave radii reduced to 16-61% of control). Suramin also reduced wave propagation from Mller cell to Mller cell (51% of control). Purinergic antagonists reduced wave propagation through astrocytes to a lesser extent (64-81% of control). Mechanical stimulation evoked the release of ATP, imaged with the luciferin-luciferase bioluminescence assay. Peak ATP concentration at the surface of the retina averaged 78 microm at the stimulation site and 6.8 microm at a distance of 100 microm. ATP release propagated outward from the stimulation site with a velocity of 41 microm/sec, somewhat faster than the 28 microm/sec velocity of Ca(2+) waves. Ejection of 3 microm ATP onto the retinal surface evoked propagated glial Ca(2+) waves. Together, these results indicate that Ca(2+) waves are propagated through retinal glial cells by two mechanisms. Waves are propagated through astrocytes principally by diffusion of an internal messenger, whereas waves are propagated from astrocytes to Mller cells and from Mller cells to other Mller cells primarily by the release of ATP.
Patient education is an important part of neuroscience nursing. New treatments, such as beta interferon self-injections, have challenged nurses. The purpose of this study was to analyze the patient education given by 35 Finnish nurses who work with patients who have multiple sclerosis. The content and didactic solutions of patient education, evaluation of patients' learning skills, and learning outcomes were analyzed. Also, successful and unsuccessful patient education experiences are described. The results showed that patient teaching is based on individual and unstructured approaches. The role of the patient is important, and there is need for more systematic evaluation of learning outcomes. Results from teaching of beta interferon self-injections are similar. In general, more systematic research in this area is required.
Clinical pathways have been proven to be valuable tools in improving outcomes in patients with neurological diagnoses. However, their use with trauma populations has been limited. The unpredictable nature of trauma makes it difficult to develop a day-by-day plan of care that would be applicable to all patients with the same trauma diagnosis. Nevertheless, a severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) clinical pathway was developed and implemented at a Level 1 Trauma Center with significant reductions in length of stay and number of ventilator days. With the publication of the Guidelines for the Management of Severe Head Injury, this pathway was refashioned into a severe TBI phased-outcome pathway. Rather than a day-by-day plan of care, this clinical pathway consists of four phases of care: (a) admission to the intensive care unit, (b) acute critical care, (c) mobility and weaning, and (d) pre-rehabilitation. After 12 months, the improvements accomplished by the original pathway have been maintained or exceeded.
The responses from Europe, Asia, Australia, and America illustrate the diversity in the development of the nursing profession and in the possibilities of career advancement for nurses in different countries. Whereas advanced nursing practice is a natural component of the healthcare system in North America, and gradually becoming so in Australia and the United Kingdom, it is far from reality in many other countries. Although the presence or absence of such opportunities necessarily does not reflect the quality of nursing or skills of practicing nurses, their absence clearly prevents professional development, acceptance, and recognition for nurses as a group. In several countries, training programs and courses are available from individual hospitals and other sources. However, as long as such programs and, in particular, the qualifications they lead up to, are not recognized by health authorities at an official level, their contribution beyond that of improving personal knowledge of the trainee is very limited. Undertaking such training may be beneficial for nurses in their present positions but is of little use if they want to change to a new job. Unless the new employer chooses to acknowledge such qualifications, he does not have to. A nurse is a nurse, is a nurse. Needless to say, this also has important implications for nurses' salaries. This was illustrated in a recent survey that identified the average annual salary for nurses in the United States as $37,980 (U.S.). In comparison, official statistics from the Swedish Association of Health Professionals state that the average annual nurse salary in Sweden in 1999 approximated $25,146 (U.S.), with mean salaries ranging from $23,871 (U.S.) (hospital ward nurses) to $33,724 (U.S.) (nurse managers and executives). Although I have not been able to find old comparative data from other countries, informal sources have indicated that the pattern is similar. The need for increased and improved career opportunities for nurses is apparent. How these should be designed and the exact roles of different categories of nurses in various countries will have to be dictated by local needs and other circumstances. However, the scheduled inclusion of this topic at the forthcoming WFNN Congress in Sydney will provide an excellent opportunity for nurses from across the globe to discuss these issues and perhaps initiate work towards setting common international goals for neuroscience nurses. In parallel, it is of outstanding importance that contributions by advanced practice nurses are evaluated in a broad and scientifically sound manner in countries in which they are established and being introduced. Further comments on the topic are highly appreciated!
Cembranoids are cyclic diterpenoids found in tobacco and in marine invertebrates. The present study established that tobacco cembranoids inhibit behavioral sensitization to nicotine in rats and block several types of nicotine acetylcholine receptors (AChRs). 1) At the behavioral level, rat locomotor activity induced by nicotine was significantly increased after seven daily nicotine injections. This sensitization to nicotine was blocked by mecamylamine (1 mg/kg) and by the cembranoids eunicin, eupalmerin acetate (EUAC), and (4R)-2,7,11-cembratriene-4-6-diol (4R), each at 6 mg/kg. None of these compounds modified locomotor activity of nonsensitized rats. 2) In cells expressing human AChRs, cembranoids blocked carbamoylcholine-induced (86)Rb(+) flux with IC(50) in the low micromolar range. The cell lines used were the SH-EP1-halpha4beta2 cell line heterologously expressing human alpha4beta2-AChR, the SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma line naturally expressing human ganglionic alpha3beta4-AChR, and the TE671/RD cell line naturally expressing embryonic muscle alpha1beta1gammadelta-AChR. The tobacco cembranoids tested were 4R and its diastereoisomer 4S, and marine cembranoids tested were EUAC and 12,13-bisepieupalmerin. 3) At the molecular level, tobacco (4R and 4S) and marine (EUAC) cembranoids blocked binding of the noncompetitive inhibitor [(3)H]tenocyclidine to AChR from Torpedo californica electric organ. IC(50) values were in the submicromolar to low-micromolar range, with 4R displaying an order of magnitude higher potency than its diastereoisomer, 4S.


Analysis of patient data from a new neuroscience intensive care unit (NSICU) permitted evaluation of whether such a specialty ICU favorably altered clinical outcomes in critically ill neuroscience patients, and whether such a care model produced an efficient use of resources. A retrospective review was performed to compare (1) the clinical outcomes, as defined by percent mortality and disposition at discharge, between patients with a primary diagnosis of intracerebral hemorrhage treated in 1995 in medical or surgical ICUs and those treated in the same medical facility in an NSICU in 1997; and (2) the efficiency of care, as defined by length of ICU stay, total cost of care, and specific resource use, between patients treated in the NSICU and national benchmark standards for general ICUs during the 1997 fiscal year (FY). In the latter, extracted patient population data on neurosurgery patients requiring ICU treatment during FY 1997 were used with the following adjacent-disease related group (A-DRG)-coded diseases: craniotomy with and without coma or intracerebral hemorrhage, and skull fracture with and without coma lasting longer than 1 hour. Outcome measures of percent mortality and disposition at discharge in patients with intracerebral hemorrhage were significantly improved (P &lt; .05), compared with those in a similar cohort treated 2 years earlier in a general ICU setting. Also, patients treated in the NSICU had shorter hospital stays (P &lt; .01 ) and lower total costs of care (P &lt; .01) than a national benchmark. The data suggest that a neuroscience specialty ICU arena staffed by specialty-trained intensivists and nurses is beneficial.
Seizures are a common occurrence in the intensive care unit (ICU). The presentation of seizures is usually as focal or generalized motor convulsions, but other seizure types may occur. Etiologies of the seizures are typically secondary either to primary neurologic pathology or a consequence of critical illness and clinical management. Particularly important as precipitants of seizures are hypoxia/ischemia, drug toxicity, and metabolic abnormalities. It is important to properly diagnose the seizure type and its cause to ensure appropriate therapy. Most seizures occur singly, and recurrence is usually prevented with initiation of anticonvulsant therapy. However, status epilepticus may develop, which requires emergent treatment before irreversible brain injury occurs. Treatment with anticonvulsants is not without untoward risks, however, and primary toxicities of these agents is reviewed. After traumatic head injury, brain surgery, or cerebrovascular accidents, many patients are at risk for seizures. Current data on the benefits of prophylactic therapy for such patients is also reviewed.
A case of &quot;silent&quot; intracranial meningioma unmasked by narcosis is described. The diagnosis was made because of the patient's failure to wake up after elective general anesthesia for orthopaedic surgery. Factors leading to this complication and its management are discussed. Early computed tomography scan and antiedema therapy are strongly suggested for these patients.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in loss of locomotor function and development of abnormal chronic pain syndromes (mechanical allodynia, thermal hyperalgesia). Following injury, secondary mechanisms including release of excitatory amino acids, inflammation and lipid peroxidation damage neural cells through release of cytotoxic free radicals. We hypothesized that selective inhibition of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), an inducible inflammatory mediator, would decrease tissue damage and subsequently reduce locomotor deficits and development of chronic central pain syndromes after injury. Fifteen minutes prior to receiving T13 spinal segment spinal cord contusion injury, 200-225-g male Sprague-Dawley rats received either vehicle (0.5 ml 1:1 v/v DMSO/saline, i.p., n = 20) or the selective COX-2 inhibitor NS-398 (5 mg/kg in DMSO/saline v/v, i.p., n = 20). Locomotor function via the BBB scale, and nociceptive behaviors measured by paw withdrawals to von Frey filaments and radiant heat stimuli were tested for 4 weeks postinjury. Histological examination and volumetric analysis of spinal cord tissue were performed concomitantly. Spinally contused animals receiving NS-398 demonstrated significantly (p &lt; 0.05) reduced locomotor alteration and reductions in both fore- and hindlimb mechanical allodynia and thermal hyperalgesia when compared to vehicle controls. Histological examination of spinal segments at the lesion segment demonstrated reduced lesion extent and increased viable tissue when compared to vehicle controls. Prostaglandin E2 levels were significantly lowered in NS-398-treated but not vehicle-treated animals 12 h after injury. These results support the role of COX-2 in reducing pathological and behavioral deficits after spinal cord injury.
Strains of influenza A virus are known to infect specific subpopulations of neurons in the mouse brain. Here we report that all segments of the genome of the neurotropic influenza A virus, strain WSN/33, can persist in the brains of immunodefective transporter associated with Antigen Processing 1 (TAP1) mutant mice. Ten to 17 months after injection of virus into the olfactory bulbs, viral RNA encoding the nonstructural NS1 protein was detected in sections from the brain at midbrain levels by RT-PCR in almost all animals. Both negative-strand genomic RNA (vRNA) and positive-strand RNA, including mRNA, were found. RNA encoding nucleoprotein and polymerases, which form the replicative complex of the virus, were detected in fewer brains. RNA encoding envelope proteins were found only in occasional brains. No viral cDNA could be identified. This observation shows that certain regions of the brain in immunodefective mice may harbor the genome of influenza A virus including the NS1 gene, the products of which may play a regulatory role in host-cell metabolism.
Taste stimulation of the mouth induces various oral movements. Sucrose or salt solution induces rhythmical jaw movements (RJM) or tongue protrusion as an ingestive behavior. Bitter taste induces a gaping or tongue retraction as an aversive behavior. There is no report that describes the precise pattern of jaw movements induced by taste stimulation. The purpose of the present study is to clarify the pattern of the taste-induced RJM with electromyographic activities of the masticatory muscles in the anesthetized rat. When water was injected into the mouth of the rat, an RJM was induced. In this type of RJM, the lower jaw swung right and left side in each open-close cycle alternately. The anterior digastric muscle was active in every opening phase, while activities of the jaw closing muscles were generally weak. The RJM induced by water was opening-dominant movements. Sucrose or salt solution induced a similar pattern of RJM to water-induced RJM. When acetic acid was injected, amplitude of the alternate lateral jaw movement was significantly larger than that in the water-induced RJM. The activity of the superficial temporalis muscle was large in those closing phases with ipsilateral side movement, while it was small in the closing phases with contralateral movement. The pattern of quinine-induced RJM was characterized by small lateral, large open-close and large antero-posterior movements. Tastes which are reported to induce ingestive behavior such as sweet or salty don't alter the pattern of RJM; however, the tastes which induce aversive behavior make the pattern of RJM different from the water-induced RJM.
For years, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) has been used clinically for the treatment of many types of pain. Although there have been many studies conducted on the efficacy of TENS in the clinical setting, the results are conflicting. The purpose of our investigation was to determine the effect of varying frequency and intensity of TENS on secondary mechanical hyperalgesia induced by acute joint inflammation. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were injected with a mixture of 3% carrageenan and 3% kaolin (100 microL in 0.9% sterile saline) into the joint cavity of one knee. The response threshold to mechanical stimuli was determined before inflammation of the knee joint; 4 hours after inflammation; immediately after the administration of TENS (approximately 5 hours after inflammation); and at 8, 12, and 24 hours after inflammation. TENS was applied to the inflamed knee joint at either high (100 Hz) or low (4 Hz) frequency and at either sensory or motor intensity. Sensory intensity was just below the threshold for motor contraction, and motor intensity was 2 x threshold for motor contraction. Either low- or high-frequency TENS is equally successful in reducing secondary mechanical hyperalgesia. Similarly, either sensory- or motor-intensity TENS equally reduces secondary mechanical hyperalgesia. Thus, selection of TENS should be based on patient comfort and symptoms for relief of secondary mechanical hyperalgesia.
Vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a potent mitogen for vascular endothelium, is expressed in malignant pleural mesothelioma (MM). The present report examines the effect of VEGF on MM growth. Four MM cell lines produced significantly higher VEGF levels than normal mesothelial cells (1946+/-14 pg/ml vs. 180+/-17 pg/ml; p&lt;0.001). In addition, MM cells expressed the tyrosine kinase-related VEGF receptors Flt-1 and KDR. Recombinant human VEGF phosphorylated both Flt-1 and KDR and increased proliferation of all four MM cell lines in a dose-dependent fashion. Neutralizing antibodies against either VEGF, Flt-1 or KDR significantly reduced MM cellular proliferation. In addition, expression of VEGF, Flt-1, and KDR was observed in MM biopsies. Moreover, higher VEGF levels were found in the pleural effusions of MM patients than in the effusions of patients with non-malignant pleural disease (1885.7+/-894.9 pg/ml vs. 266.9+/-180.5 pg/ml; p&lt;0.001). Linear regression analysis showed a significant inverse correlation between serum VEGF levels and MM patient survival (r=0.72; p&lt;0.01). No correlation was found between tumour vessel density and either serum (r=0.26; p=0.42) or pleural effusion (r=0.35; p=0.26) VEGF levels. These results indicate that VEGF, via activation of its tyrosine kinase receptors, may be a key regulator of MM growth. In addition, VEGF production could have an impact on patient survival, not only by promoting tumour angiogenesis but also by directly stimulating tumour growth.
Previous studies have shown that 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) can modulate the hyperpolarization-activated nonselective cation current (I(h)) to elicit a membrane depolarization in neurons. However, the receptor subtype involved in this response remains controversial. In the accompanying study, we have identified a 5-HT7 receptor-mediated depolarization in the anterodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (ADn). In the present study, we have examined the possible role of I(h) in mediating this 5-HT7 receptor-mediated depolarization. We used the blind tight-seal patch clamp technique to examine the ability of 5-HT to modulate I(h) in the ADn. We found that 5-HT induced a shift in the voltage dependence of I(h) to more depolarized potentials. The pharmacology of the receptor mediating this effect was consistent with that of a 5-HT7 receptor. Since the 5-HT7 receptor is coupled positively to adenylate cyclase, we examined the cAMP dependence of the 5-HT-induced modulation of I(h). Intracellular addition of cAMP mimicked and occluded the 5-HT response. Conversely, in the presence of the protein kinase inhibitors H-8 and staurosporine, ADn neurons still expressed a 5-HT-induced shift in the voltage dependence of I(h). These results suggest that 5-HT regulates I(h) in the ADn through a cAMP-dependent but protein kinase A (PKA)-independent mechanism. To determine the contribution of I(h) to the 5-HT7 receptor-mediated depolarization, we used the selective I(h) blocker ZD7288. This compound greatly reduced the depolarizing response elicited by activation of 5-HT7 receptors. We conclude that 5-HT7 receptors depolarize ADn neurons primarily by increasing I(h) through a cAMP-dependent, PKA-independent mechanism.
Little is currently known regarding the electrophysiological response elicited by 5-hydroxytryptamine-7 (5-HT(7)) receptor stimulation in the brain. Previous anatomical studies have shown that the anterior thalamus expresses a high density of 5-HT7 receptors. Therefore, we used whole-cell recording techniques in the in vitro brain slices to examine the effects of serotonin on neurons of the anterodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (ADn). Bath application of 5-HT induces a large membrane depolarization and inward current in neurons of the ADn. Since these cells expressed 5-HT7 receptor mRNA, as determined by single-cell reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction, we pharmacologically characterized the 5-HT receptor mediating this response. We found that the 5-HT1 and 5-HT7 agonists 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT) and 5-methoxytryptamine mimicked the response to 5-HT, whereas the 5-HT2 agonist 2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine did not. Consistent with the involvement of a 5-HT7 receptor, 5-CT was approximately 18 times more potent than 5-HT. Furthermore, administration of the 5-HT(1A) and 5-HT7 agonist 8-hydroxydipropylaminotetralin mimicked and antagonized the effect of serotonin, suggesting it acted as a partial agonist. To determine if either the 5-HT1 or 5-HT7 receptor mediated the 5-HT-induced inward current, we used antagonists. We found that the 5-HT7 ligands ritanserin, methylsergide, LSD, and mesulergine could inhibit the 5-HT-induced inward current, whereas the 5-HT1 antagonist cyanopindolol had no effect. The pA(2) value determined for mesulergine closely approximated that expected for a 5-HT7 receptor. Finally, we found that bath application of the selective antagonist SB-269770 blocks the 5-HT-induced inward current. These results identify the receptor mediating the serotonin-induced membrane depolarization in the ADn as the 5-HT7 subtype.
We examined the current stimulus threshold in rats with the Neurometer, a device used clinically for measuring perception and pain thresholds. Although many studies have indicated the usefulness of this device in the quantification of nerve dysfunction in patients, we have found no published reports on the use of the Neurometer in animals. Transcutaneous nerve stimuli of the three sine-wave pulses produced by the Neurometer (at 2000, 250, and 5 Hz) were applied to plantar surface of rats. The intensity of each stimulation at which rats vocalized or were hardly startled was defined as the current stimulus threshold. With repeated stimulation, the thresholds were almost constant. Repeated topical application to the area around the stimulating electrode of a high concentration of capsaicin, which acts on small-diameter fibers, increased the thresholds at 250 and 5 Hz, but did not affect the 2000-Hz threshold. Intravenous morphine (2-5 mg/kg) increased all three thresholds, whereas intrathecal morphine (20 or 80 microg) increased only the 5-Hz threshold. Intravenous injection of a minor tranquilizer, diazepam, at 1 mg/kg raised the thresholds at 2000 and 250 Hz, but did not affect the 5-Hz threshold. Higher dose of diazepam increased all three thresholds. These results suggest that the Neurometer makes possible selective examination of subsets of nerve fibers that differ in diameter not only in humans but also in animals. The present study in rats, in which we established a method of measurement, may provide helpful suggestions for the interpretation of data in humans.
Circadian oscillator mechanisms in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) can be reset by photic input, which is mediated by glutamatergic afferents originating in the retina. A key question is why light can only induce phase shifts of the biological clock during a restricted period of the circadian cycle, namely the subjective night. One of several possible mechanisms holds that glutamatergic transmission at retinosuprachiasmatic synapses would be altered, in particular the contribution of glutamate receptor subtypes to the postsynaptic response. By studying the contributions of NMDA and non-NMDA glutamate receptors to the retinal input to SCN in whole-cell patch-clamp recordings in acutely prepared slices, we tested the hypothesis that NMDA receptor current evoked by optic nerve activity is potentiated during the subjective night. During the day the NMDA component of the EPSC evoked by optic nerve stimulation was found less frequently and was significantly smaller in magnitude than during the night. In contrast, the non-NMDA component did not show a significant day-night difference. When the magnitude of the NMDA component was normalized to that of the non-NMDA component, the day-night difference was maintained, suggesting a selective potentiation of NMDA receptor conductance. In addition to contributing to electrically evoked EPSCs, the NMDA receptor was found to sustain a small, tonically active inward current during the night phase. No significant tonic contribution by NMDA receptors was detected during the day. These results suggest, first, a dual mode of NMDA receptor function in the SCN and, second, a clock-controlled type of receptor plasticity, which may gate the transfer of photic input to phase-shifting mechanisms operating at the level of molecular autoregulatory feedback loops.
Using the cell-attached recording configuration, we found that in adult bovine chromaffin cells there exists a direct membrane-delimited inhibition of single Bay K-modified L-channels mediated by opioids and ATP locally released in the recording pipette. This autocrine modulation is mediated by pertussis toxin (PTX)-sensitive G-proteins and causes a 50 % decrease of the open channel probability (Po) and an equivalent percentage increase of null sweeps at +10 mV with no changes to the activation kinetics, single channel conductance and mean open time. The decrease in Po is mainly due to an increase in the occurrence and duration of slow closed times (&gt; 40 ms). Addition of purinergic and opioidergic antagonists (suramin and naloxone) or cell pre-treatment with PTX removes the inhibition while addition of ATP and opioids inside the pipette, but not outside, mimics the effect. Strong pre-pulses (+150 mV, 280 ms) followed by short repolarizations are unable to remove the inhibition at test potential (+10 mV). Increasing the level of cAMP by either direct application of 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)-cAMP (8-CPT-cAMP) or mixtures of forskolin and 1-methyl-3-isobutylxanthine (IBMX) potentiates the activity of L-channels by increasing the mean open time and decreasing the mean closed time and percentage of null sweeps. The cAMP-induced potentiation occurs regardless of whether the G-protein-mediated inhibition is activated by ATP and opioids or inactivated by PTX. Protein kinase inhibitors (H7 and H89) prevent the effects of cAMP without altering the basal autocrine modulation associated with PTX-sensitive G-proteins. Our results provide new evidence for the coexistence of two distinct modulations that may converge on the same neuroendocrine L-channel: a direct G-protein-dependent inhibition and a cAMP-mediated potentiation, which may work in combination to regulate Ca2+ entry during neurosecretion.
This study examined ERP topography during the updating and the utilization of working memory in subjects with PTSD. Event-related potentials of 18 participants with PTSD and 18 controls were recorded from 32 scalp electrodes during an auditory target detection task requiring the constant updating of target identity. Midline N2 and P3 abnormalities previously noted in PTSD during target detection were replicated. Scalp topographic data revealed sustained reduction in activity over the right hemisphere during working memory updating. Executive processes were associated with brief but widespread right hemisphere reductions during the P3, followed by sustained, bilateral reduction frontally. This study identifies an abnormal pattern of cortical network function during both the updating and use of working memory in PTSD.
The apparent diffusion tensor (ADT) imaging method was extended to account for multiple diffusion components. A biexponential ADT imaging experiment was used to obtain separate images of rapidly and slowly diffusing water fractions in excised rat spinal cord. The fast and slow component tensors were compared and found to exhibit similar gross features, such as fractional anisotropy, in both white and gray matter. However, there were also some important differences, which are consistent with the different structures occupying intracellular and extracellular spaces. Evidence supporting the assignment of the two tensor components to extracellular and intracellular water fractions is provided by an NMR spectroscopic investigation of homogeneous samples of brain tissue. Magn Reson Med 45:580-587, 2001.
The sterol regulatory element-binding protein 2 (SREBP-2), a transcription factor of the basic helix-loop-helix-leucine zipper (bHLH-Zip) family, is synthesized in the form of a membrane-attached precursor molecule. When cells are deprived of sterols, a two-step proteolytic processing releases the transcriptionally active N-terminal segment of SREBP-2, thereby allowing it to enter the nucleus. In previous studies, we showed that the nuclear import of SREBP-2 occurs via the direct interaction of importin beta with the HLH-Zip domain. In this study, in order to more completely understand the intracellular dynamics of SREBP-2, we focused on the manner by which importin beta recognizes SREBP-2 at the initial step of the import. It was found that the active form of SREBP-2 exists as a stable dimer in solution and that the substitution of leucine residues for alanine in the leucine zipper motif disrupted the dimerization. It was also demonstrated that this mutant protein did not enter the nucleus either in vivo or in vitro. Solution binding assays, which involved the chemical cross-linking of wild-type or mutated SREBP-2 with importin beta, revealed that the import-active complex appeared to be composed of a dimeric form of SREBP-2 and importin beta. In addition, the SREBP-2 binding domain of importin beta corresponded to an overlapping but not identical region for importin alpha binding, which may explain how importin beta is able to recognize the dimeric HLH-Zip directly. These results indicate that dimerization is a prerequisite process for the nuclear import of SREBP-2 mediated by importin beta.
Cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent signalling pathway has been proposed to regulate acetylcholinesterase (AChE) expression in chick muscle; however, its role in mammalian enzyme is not known. We provide several lines of evidence to suggest that the cAMP-mediated AChE expression in myotube is oppositely regulated between avian and mammalian enzymes. Human AChE promoter was tagged with luciferase, namely Hp-Luc, which was transfected into cultured chick myotubes. Application of cAMP and forskolin induced the expression of chick AChE but reduced human AChE promoter-driven luciferase activity. Transfection of cDNAs encoding active mutants of G proteins altered the intracellular cAMP level in myotubes as well as the expression of chick and human AChE. When the constitutively active forms of Activating Transcription Factor-1 (EWS/ATF-1 oncogene) were over expressed in Hp-Luc transfected myotubes, the expression of chick AChE transcript and protein increased from approximately 1.8- to approximately 2.5-fold, but the luciferase activity was decreased by over 60%. Overexpression of cAMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB) in Hp-Luc transfected myotubes markedly enhanced the cAMP-mediated AChE expression in up- and downregulated chick and human enzymes, respectively. In addition, CREB bound the CRE sequence of human AChE promoter. Mutation on the CRE site markedly enhanced the expression of the promoter-driven luciferase; however, its response to cAMP inhibition in cultured myotubes was still retained. These findings suggest that a cAMP-dependent pathway is contrasting activation and repression of AChE expression in chick and human muscles.
We show that when gene-activated matrices (GAM) are placed between the proximal and distal stumps of severed rat optic nerves, DNA is retained within the GAM, promoting sustained transgene expression in the optic nerve, in the GAM itself, and, more importantly, in axotomized retinal ganglion cells (RGC). Plasmids that encode basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF2), brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), and neurotrophin-3 (NT3) promote sustained survival of RGC for over 3 months after the initial injury. These findings suggest that immobilized DNA implanted into a CNS lesion will be delivered by axon terminal uptake and retrograde transport to axotomized neurons. GAM may therefore be a useful agent for promoting sustained neuron survival and axon regeneration. Whether further optimization of the matrices, plasmids, promoters, and genes present in the GAM will promote even more survival or, alternatively, axon regeneration remains to be determined.
The POU family of transcription factors plays a vital role in controlling cell-fate determination and the timing of cellular events in a number of tissues, including the nervous system. One such POU protein, SCIP, is expressed by Schwann cells in a tightly delimited developmental window termed promyelination. In the PNS, promyelination is functionally defined as the period following Schwann cell exit from the cell-cycle, but prior to the onset of myelination. Previous transgenic and gene ablation studies have shown that SCIP is a myelin-competence factor in the Schwann cell, where it is required for entry into, and the subsequent maintenance of promyelination. To further understand the molecular biology of the promyelination-to-myelination transition in the Schwann cell, we have undertaken a series of DDRTPCR studies to identify genes that are expressed during this phenotypic flux. Through these studies we have identified another POU gene, Brn-5, the expression of which has not previously been appreciated in the Schwann cell. Here we show that the developmental expression patterns of Brn-5 and SCIP are inverse, with Brn-5 stably expressed in the adult myelinating Schwann cell, but virtually absent during promyelination. Further, we show that the induction of the two genes is independent, with SCIP induction requiring activation of adenyl cyclase, whereas Brn-5 induction requires only GGF2. In addition, the induction of Brn-5 is exquisitely sensitive to neuregulin concentration, with higher levels inhibiting its expression. Following nerve injury, when GGF2 levels are elevated in the distal nerve, Brn-5 expression disappears, and SCIP is reexpressed.
An essential role for the bHLH transcription factor MATH1 in the formation of cerebellar granule cells was previously demonstrated in a Math1 null mouse. The function of regulated levels of MATH1 in granule cell development is investigated here using a gain-of-function paradigm. Overexpression of Math1 in its normal domain in transgenic mice leads to early postnatal lethality and perturbs cerebellar development. The cerebellum of the (B)MATH1 transgenic neonate is smaller with less foliation, particularly in the central vermal regions, when compared to wild-type cerebella. A detailed analysis of multiple molecular markers in brains overexpressing Math1 has revealed defects in the differentiation of cerebellar granule cells. NeuroD and doublecortin, markers normally distinguishing the discrete layered organization of granule cell maturation in the inner EGL, are aberrantly expressed in the outer EGL where MATH1-positive, proliferating cells reside. In contrast, TAG-1, a later marker of developing granule cells that labels parallel fibers, is severely diminished. The elevated MATH1 levels appear to drive expression of a subset of early differentiation markers but are insufficient for development of a mature TAG-1-expressing granule cell. Thus, balanced levels of MATH1 are essential for the correct coordination of differentiation events in granule cell development.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is neuroprotective for motoneurons undergoing degeneration, including those in natural motor neuron disease (MND) in wobbler mice. To assess the role of BDNF in this model of MND, endogenous BDNF immunoreactivity was analyzed by semiquantitative video-image analysis. Affected cervical spinal cord motoneurons had significantly greater BDNF immunoreactivity compared to motoneurons of healthy littermates (P = 0.01) and affected lumbar spinal cord motoneurons (P = 0.008 at age 4 weeks; P = 0.005 at age 8 weeks). Neuronal nitric oxide synthase (n-NOS) immunocytochemistry revealed increased immunoreactivity in the affected cervical spinal cord motoneurons. Exogenous BDNF treatment partially inhibited the increased NOS activity, as quantitatively measured by nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase (NADPH-d) histochemistry. The mean number of NADPH-d(+) motoneurons in the cervical anterior horn decreased from 3.5 +/- 1.2 to 1.5 +/- 1.2 (P = 0.002). The increase in endogenous BDNF immunoreactivity in the affected spinal cord may be compensatory in diseased motoneurons, yet it appears to still be inadequate because exogenous BDNF treatment is required to suppress increased NOS activity in degenerating motoneurons. Our study indicates that BDNF is important in halting nitric oxide (NO)-mediated motor neuron degeneration, which has potential implications for the treatment of neurodegenerative disorders.
During ischemic stroke, neurons at risk are exposed to pathologically high levels of intracellular calcium (Ca++), initiating a fatal biochemical cascade. To protect these neurons, we have developed openers of large-conductance, Ca++-activated (maxi-K or BK) potassium channels, thereby augmenting an endogenous mechanism for regulating Ca++ entry and membrane potential. The novel fluoro-oxindoles BMS-204352 and racemic compound 1 are potent, effective and uniquely Ca++-sensitive openers of maxi-K channels. In rat models of permanent large-vessel stroke, BMS-204352 provided significant levels of cortical neuroprotection when administered two hours after the onset of occlusion, but had no effects on blood pressure or cerebral blood flow. This novel approach may restrict Ca++ entry in neurons at risk while having minimal side effects.
The metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) are found throughout the central nervous system, where they modulate neuronal excitability and synaptic transmission. Here we report the presence of phospholipase C-coupled group I mGluRs (mGluR1 and mGluR5) outside the central nervous system on peripheral unmyelinated sensory afferents. Given their localization on predominantly nociceptive afferents, we investigated whether these receptors modulate nociceptive signaling, and found that agonist-induced activation of peripheral group I mGluRs leads to increased sensitivity to noxious heat, a phenomenon termed thermal hyperalgesia. Furthermore, group I mGluR antagonists not only prevent, but also attenuate established formalin-induced pain. Taken together, these results suggest that peripheral mGluRs mediate a component of hyperalgesia and may be therapeutically targeted to prevent and treat inflammatory pain.
Regulation of neuronal N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) by protein kinases is critical in synaptic transmission. However, the molecular mechanisms underlying protein kinase C (PKC) potentiation of NMDARs are uncertain. Here we demonstrate that PKC increases NMDA channel opening rate and delivers new NMDA channels to the plasma membrane through regulated exocytosis. PKC induced a rapid delivery of functional NMDARs to the cell surface and increased surface NR1 immunofluorescence in Xenopus oocytes expressing NMDARs. PKC potentiation was inhibited by botulinum neurotoxin A and a dominant negative mutant of soluble NSF-associated protein (SNAP-25), suggesting that receptor trafficking occurs via SNARE-dependent exocytosis. In neurons, PKC induced a rapid delivery of functional NMDARs, assessed by electrophysiology, and an increase in NMDAR clusters on the surface of dendrites and dendritic spines, as indicated by immunofluorescence. Thus, PKC regulates NMDAR channel gating and trafficking in recombinant systems and in neurons, mechanisms that may be relevant to synaptic plasticity.
Here we describe an important involvement of Cdk5/p35 in regulating the gene expression of acetylcholine receptor (AChR) at the neuromuscular synapse. Cdk5 and p35 were prominently expressed in embryonic muscle, and concentrated at the neuromuscular junction in adulthood. Neuregulin increased the p35-associated Cdk5 kinase activity in the membrane fraction of cultured C2C12 myotubes. Co-immunoprecipitation studies revealed the association between Cdk5, p35 and ErbB receptors in muscle and cultured myotubes. Inhibition of Cdk5 activity not only blocked the NRG-induced AChR transcription, but also attenuated ErbB activation in cultured myotubes. In light of our finding that overexpression of p35 alone led to an increase in AChR promoter activity in muscle, Cdk5 activation is sufficient to mediate the up-regulation of AChR gene expression. Taken together, these results reveal the unexpected involvement of Cdk5/p35 in neuregulin signaling at the neuromuscular synapse.


The emergence of a unified cognitive moment relies on the coordination of scattered mosaics of functionally specialized brain regions. Here we review the mechanisms of large-scale integration that counterbalance the distributed anatomical and functional organization of brain activity to enable the emergence of coherent behaviour and cognition. Although the mechanisms involved in large-scale integration are still largely unknown, we argue that the most plausible candidate is the formation of dynamic links mediated by synchrony over multiple frequency bands.
In this article we revisit the classical neuroscience paradigm of Hebbian learning. We find that it is difficult to achieve effective associative memory storage by Hebbian synaptic learning, since it requires network-level information at the synaptic level or sparse coding level. Effective learning can yet be achieved even with nonsparse patterns by a neuronal process that maintains a zero sum of the incoming synaptic efficacies. This weight correction improves the memory capacity of associative networks from an essentially bounded one to a memory capacity that scales linearly with network size. It also enables the effective storage of patterns with multiple levels of activity within a single network. Such neuronal weight correction can be successfully carried out by activity-dependent homeostasis of the neuron's synaptic efficacies, which was recently observed in cortical tissue. Thus, our findings suggest that associative learning by Hebbian synaptic learning should be accompanied by continuous remodeling of neuronally driven regulatory processes in the brain.
GABA and enkephalin-utilizing efferents from the striatum to the external segment of the pallidal complex (GPe) are thought to be overactive in Parkinson's disease (PD). This overactivity is generally held to play a major role in the genesis of parkinsonian symptoms, which are thought to appear when dopaminergic neuronal death exceeds a critical threshold. Little is known, however, regarding the activity of this pathway during disease progression and more particularly, prior to the emergence of parkinsonian symptoms. In order to test the hypothesis that an upregulation of striatal preproenkephalin-A (PPE-A) mRNA levels occurs before the appearance of parkinsonian motor disabilities, the present study assessed PPE-A mRNA expression and striatal dopamine (DA) content following a chronic 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) administration protocol in monkeys that produces a progressive parkinsonian state. Groups ranged from normal to full parkinsonian through asymptomatic lesioned monkeys. The key finding of this study is that PPE-A expression is already upregulated in asymptomatic-lesioned monkeys showing a marked DA depletion (56%). Importantly, this up-regulation is restricted to motor regions of the basal ganglia circuitry. The increased PPE-A mRNA expression observed in asymptomatic, but DA-depleted animals, supports our initial hypothesis of such an upregulation occurring before the appearance of parkinsonian motor disabilities. Furthermore, when considered with recent electrophysiological and histochemical data, these findings question the functional significance of upregulated enkephalin transmission in the indirect striatopallidal pathway.
Opioid receptor-binding autoradiography was used as a way to map sites of altered opioid transmission in a rat model of l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia. Rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the nigrostriatal pathways sustained a 3-week treatment with l-DOPA (6 mg/kg/day, combined with 12 mg/kg/day benserazide), causing about half of them to develop dyskinetic-like movements on the side of the body contralateral to the lesion. Autoradiographic analysis of mu-, delta-, and kappa-opioid binding sites was carried out in the caudate-putamen (CPu), the globus pallidus (GP), the substantia nigra (SN), the primary motor area, and the premotor-cingulate cortex. The dopamine-denervating lesion alone caused an ipsilateral reduction in opioid radioligand binding in the CPu, GP, and SN, but not in the cerebral cortex. Chronic l-DOPA treatment affected opioid receptor binding in both the basal ganglia and the cerebral cortex, producing changes that were both structure- and receptor-type specific, and closely related to the motor response elicited by the treatment. In the basal ganglia, the most clear-cut differences between dyskinetic and nondyskinetic rats pertained to kappa opioid sites. On the lesioned side, both striatal and nigral levels of kappa binding densities were significantly lower in the dyskinetic group, showing a negative correlation with the rats' dyskinesia scores on one hand and with the striatal expression of opioid precursor mRNAs on the other hand. In the cerebral cortex, levels of mu and delta binding site densities were bilaterally elevated in the dyskinetic group, whereas kappa radioligand binding was specifically increased in the nondyskinetic cases and showed a negative correlation with the rats' dyskinesia scores. These data demonstrate that bilateral changes in cortical opioid transmission are closely associated with l-DOPA-induced dyskinesia in the rat. Moreover, the fact that dyskinetic and nondyskinetic animals often show opposite changes in opioid radioligand binding suggests that the motor response to l-DOPA is determined, at least in part, by compensatory adjustments of brain opioid receptors.
DNA damage in neurons is implicated in the pathogenesis of several neurodegenerative disorders and may also contribute to the often severe neurological complications in cancer patients treated with chemotherapeutic agents. DNA damage can trigger apoptosis, a form of controlled cell death that involves activation of cysteine proteases called caspases. The excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate plays central roles in the activation of neurons and in processes such as learning and memory, but overactivation of ionotropic glutamate receptors can induce either apoptosis or necrosis. Glutamate receptors of the AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate) type mediate such physiological and pathological processes in most neurons. We now report that DNA damage can alter glutamate receptor channel activity by a mechanism involving activation of caspases. Whole-cell patch clamp analyses revealed a marked decrease in AMPA-induced currents after exposure of neurons to camptothecin, a topoisomerase inhibitor that induces DNA damage; N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-induced currents were unaffected by camptothecin. The decrease in AMPA-induced current was accompanied by a decreased calcium response to AMPA. Pharmacological inhibition of caspases abolished the effects of camptothecin on AMPA-induced current and calcium responses, and promoted excitotoxic necrosis. Combined treatment with glutamate receptor antagonists and a caspase inhibitor prevented camptothecin-induced neuronal death. Caspase-mediated suppression of AMPA currents may allow neurons with damaged DNA to withdraw their participation in excitatory circuits and undergo apoptosis, thereby avoiding widespread necrosis. These findings have important implications for treatment of patients with cancer and neurodegenerative disorders.
Advances in all facets of technology from molecular biology to imaging and computational biology offer unprecedented opportunities for improving our understanding of the brain in health and disease. Oligonucleotide and cDNA microarray analysis, using a variety of &quot;DNA chips,&quot; is a recently developed high-throughput technique that allows for tour-de-force analysis of gene expression. We review this powerful technique, developed in genetics laboratories, with reference to applications in neurologic diseases in humans and the use of animal models. The typical microarray experiment is multistaged and includes preparation or purchase of arrays, preparation of target DNA and probe, target DNA hybridization, microarray scanning, and image analysis. The power and pitfalls of this technology are discussed in the context of neuroscience paradigms. Since unprecedented amounts of data are produced from microarray experiments, bioinformatics and modeling expertise are increasingly becoming critical components of this approach.
Usage of 'typical' but not 'atypical' antipsychotic drugs is associated with severe side effects involving extrapyramidal tract (EPT). Single dose of haloperidol caused selective inhibition of complex I in frontal cortex, striatum and midbrain (41 and 26%, respectively) which was abolished by pretreatment of mice with thiol antioxidants, alpha-lipoic acid and glutathione isopropyl ester, and reversed, in vitro, by disulfide reductant, dithiothreitol. Prolonged administration of haloperidol to mice resulted in complex I loss in frontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum and midbrain, while chronic dosing with clozapine affected only hippocampus and frontal cortex. Risperidone caused complex I loss in frontal cortex, hippocampus and striatum but not in midbrain from which extrapyramidal tract emanates. Inhibition of the electron transport chain component, complex I by haloperidol is mediated through oxidation of essential thiol groups to disulfides, in vivo. Further, loss of complex I in extrapyramidal brain regions by anti-psychotics correlated with their known propensity to generate side-effects involving extra-pyramidal tract.
The relationship between locomotor activity and monoamine levels in gerbils after single and/or double forebrain ischemic insult was studied. Locomotor hyperactivity was observed after the first ischemic episode, but the gerbils failed to show hyperactivity after the second ischemic episode induced one week later. The monoamine levels were determined in order to clarify the biochemical basis of post-ischemic locomotor hyperactivity. Norepinephrine increased in response to first ischemic episode but remained at normal levels after the second episode of ischemia. Metabolites of dopamine and serotonin increased after both the first and second ischemic insults, which indicates that these monoamines do not play significant roles in post-ischemic locomotor activity. Therefore, increases in norepinephrine after first ischemic insult may play a role in increasing locomotor activity during the period following such an episode.
Subchronic treatment with MAP (4.6 mg/kg, i.p., once daily for 11 days) significantly decreased the Kd, but not Bmax, values of [3H]1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine ([3H]DPCPX) binding to adenosine A1 receptors in the prefrontal cortex and hippocampus, but not striatum, of rat brain. However, subchronic treatment with PCP (10 mg/kg, i.p., once daily for 11 days) did not alter the Kd and Bmax values of [3H]DPCPX binding to adenosine A1 receptors in these three regions. Subchronic treatment with MAP or PCP did not alter the Bmax and Kd values of [3H]2-p-(2-carboxyehyl)phenethylamino-5'-N-ethylcarboxyamidoadenosine ([3H]CGS21680) binding to adenosine A2A receptors in the striatum. Furthermore, subchronic treatment with MAP or PCP significantly decreased the specific binding of [3H]CGS21680 to adenosine A2A receptors in the hippocampus, but not in the prefrontal cortex. Thus, these results suggest that MAP and PCP may produce differential effects on the adenosine A2A receptors, but not adenosine A1 receptors in rat brain.
PET was used in a cross-linguistic study to determine whether neural mechanisms subserving pitch perception differ as a function of linguistic relevance. We compared tone perception in 12 native Mandarin speakers, who use tonal patterns to distinguish lexical meaning, with that of 12 native speakers of a nontone language, English. Subjects were scanned under two conditions: a silent resting baseline and a tonal task involving discrimination of pitch patterns in Mandarin words. Both groups showed common regions of CBF increase, but only Mandarin speakers showed additional activation in frontal, parietal, and parieto-occipital regions of the left hemisphere; this latter finding indicates that language experience may influence brain circuitry in the processing of auditory cues. In contrast, only the English group showed activity in the right inferior frontal cortex, consistent with a right-hemispheric role in pitch perception.
We aimed to further assess the safety and efficacy of low-dose oral methotrexate (LDOM) treatment for chronic progressive MS (CPMS). We studied 20 CPMS patients, including 16 with secondary progressive MS who had shown disease progression in the previous year. The mean follow-up was 23 months. The mean EDSS score was 6.3+/-1.1 before treatment and 6.4+/-1.1 after one year of treatment. At one year, 15 of 20 patients were still being treated, and 10 were stable. Twelve patients have completed 18 months of treatment, and eight are stable. Two patients stopped treatment because of side effects, two more because they did not perceive benefit, and one was lost to follow-up. Six patients had mild, transient increases in liver enzymes not requiring treatment interruption, and two had localized herpes zoster. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) performed before treatment and at one year remained unchanged in responders. We confirm that LDOM is safe in carefully selected and monitored CPMS patients. MTX is inexpensive and, given its anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory properties, may be used as add-on therapy in non-responders to interferon beta, although hepatic toxicity may be a problem in long-term treatment.
Interferon beta (IFN-beta) reduces exacerbation rates in patients with relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS), but some patients do not respond to treatment. Recent studies have shown a clear dose-response effect on the reduction of exacerbation rates, and on burden of disease accumulation and active lesion frequency seen on MRI. During treatment with 8 MIU IFN-beta we noticed a 30% rate of treatment failure. We then treated non-responders with 12 MIU IFN-beta and observed significant improvement in the clinical signs of disease activity. In order to compare the efficacy of two different doses of IFN-beta-1b, a multicenter study for the optimization of interferon for MS (OPTIMS) has been organized. The design of the study is presented here.
In multiple sclerosis (MS), conventional magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has proved to be sensitive for detecting lesions and their changes over time. However, conventional MRI cannot characterize and quantify the tissue damage within and outside such lesions. Other quantitative MR techniques, including MR spectroscopy (MRS), magnetization transfer imaging (MTI) and diffusion-weighted imaging (DWI) have the potential to overcome this limitation and, as a consequence, to provide complementary information to conventional MRI. MTI- and DWI-derived measurements quantify the structural changes occurring within and outside lesions seen on conventional MRI scans, and MRS adds information on the biochemical nature of such changes. The application of these MR techniques to the study of MS is dramatically increasing our understanding of how MS causes irreversible deficits, and it is likely to provide useful insights into the pathophysiology of other white matter diseases in the future. The present review summarizes the major contributions made by these three MR techniques in the understanding of MS evolution.
During a critical period of brain development, occluding the vision of one eye causes a rapid remodeling of the visual cortex and its inputs. Sleep has been linked to other processes thought to depend on synaptic remodeling, but a role for sleep in this form of cortical plasticity has not been demonstrated. We found that sleep enhanced the effects of a preceding period of monocular deprivation on visual cortical responses, but wakefulness in complete darkness did not do so. The enhancement of plasticity by sleep was at least as great as that produced by an equal amount of additional deprivation. These findings demonstrate that sleep and sleep loss modify experience-dependent cortical plasticity in vivo. They suggest that sleep in early life may play a crucial role in brain development.
Recent studies suggest that increased activity of cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) may contribute to neuronal death and cytoskeletal abnormalities in Alzheimer's disease. We report here such deregulation of Cdk5 activity associated with the hyperphosphorylation of tau and neurofilament (NF) proteins in mice expressing a mutant superoxide dismutase (SOD1(G37R)) linked to amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). A Cdk5 involvement in motor neuron degeneration is supported by our analysis of three SOD1(G37R) mouse lines exhibiting perikaryal inclusions of NF proteins. Our results suggest that perikaryal accumulations of NF proteins in motor neurons may alleviate ALS pathogenesis by acting as a phosphorylation sink for Cdk5 activity, thereby reducing the detrimental hyperphosphorylation of tau and other neuronal substrates.
Neuropeptides are ubiquitous transmitters that have been implicated in a wide variety of physiological and pathological conditions, and it is important to understand the processes that control their secretion. We have developed a technique that measures neuropeptide secretion with high temporal resolution. This method involves placing an electrophysiological &quot;tag&quot; in a neuropeptide prohormone. The tagged prohormone is subsequently expressed together with an ionotropic receptor that binds the tag. Because the neuropeptide of interest and the tag enter the same population of dense core granules, neuropeptide secretion gives rise to fast, synaptic-like currents. Using this method, we show that peptide secretion can be modulated on a millisecond time scale. This technique could be readily adapted to measure the secretion of any neuropeptide.



In the social interaction test of anxiety, microinjections of midazolam (2-8 microg) into the dorsal hippocampus or dorsal raph nucleus significantly increased the time spent in active social interaction, without changing locomotor activity, thus indicating specific anxiolytic effects. However, tolerance developed to these effects in rats that had been pre-treated for 6 days with (-)-nicotine (0.1 mg/kg/day; subcutaneous). Thus, cross-tolerance to the anxiolytic effects of midazolam develops rapidly following a short period of treatment with a low dose of nicotine, which contrasts with the more slowly developing tolerance (about 3 weeks) that develops after benzodiazepine treatment. Following 6 days of nicotine treatment there was a significant reduction in [(3)H]flunitrazepam binding at 2 and 10 nM in the hippocampus, but no change in the midbrain. The decrease in benzodiazepine binding could explain tolerance to the effects of midazolam when administered to the dorsal hippocampus, but other mechanisms, such as indirect effects on the serotonergic (5-HT) system, might be involved in tolerance to the effects of dorsal raph nucleus administration.
The aim of this review is to analyse the current state of our knowledge on evoked potentials (EPs) in ageing and to report some conclusions on the relation between EPs and elder age. Evoked potentials provide a measure of the function of sensory systems that change during the different stages of life. Each sensory system has its own time of maturation. The individuation of the exact period of life when brain ageing starts is difficult to define. Normally, the amplitude of EPs decreases, and their latency increases from adult to elder life. Many authors speculate that these modifications might depend on neuronal loss, changes in cell membrane, composition or senile plaques present in older patients, but there is no evidence that these changes might modify the cerebral function in healthy aged individuals. This review emphasises some incongruities present in different studies confirmed by daily neurophysiologic practice. Different techniques as event-related desynchronization (ERD), contingent negative variation (CNV) and Bereitschaftspotential, are available to study central neuronal changes in normal and pathologic ageing.
In humans, the nervous system is induced during the third gestational week by molecular signals coming from the mesoderm, which modulate the temporal and spatial expression of specific genes in the cells of the dorsal ectoderm. The induced neural plate closes to form the neural tube where the cells actively proliferate in the germinal zone. The neuroblasts which have completed their last division migrate along the fibers of the radial glia to which they adhere, and this movement is essential to establish the normal cerebral organization. The regional identity of the developing brain is governed by the expression of homeobox genes, and the main central structures are clearly delineated by the end of the fifth week. The cerebral cortex begins to form on the seventh week, and the early specification of the cortical areas, which is under genetic control, would be modulated later on by environmental influences. When the neurons have reached their final position, they extend an axon, using surface molecules or diffusible molecules present along its pathway as cues to reach the appropriate target and form a synapse, and this process is a critical step for the establishment of neuronal relationships. The maturation and stabilization of neural networks is characterized by the apoptotic death of roughly 50% of the neurons, due to insufficient neurotrophic support, and by the remodeling of the initial synaptic connections in the surviving neurons. These regressive events occur late in development and depend on both the interactions with the environment and the resulting neuronal activity.
The dopamine (DA) neurons in the ventral tegmental area and medial substantia nigra (VTA/mSN) projecting to the limbic forebrain and prefrontal cortex have long been postulated to play a major role in cognitive and behavioral effects of stress. In this study, the effects of a chronic stressor (prolonged exposure to cold) on the spontaneous activity of DA neurons in the VTA/mSN were examined. Extracellular single-unit recordings of DA neurons were performed in rats following a 17-day continuous exposure to a cold (4 degrees C) environment. Compared to controls, cold-exposed rats displayed 64% fewer spontaneously active DA neurons. The average spike activity (average firing rate, average spikes fired in bursts) of the DA cells that remained active in the cold-exposed rats did not differ significantly from controls. However, a significantly larger proportion of those cells showed excessive burst activity, compared to the DA cell population in controls. These results show that chronic stress can lead to the cessation of spontaneous activity in a subpopulation of VTA/mSN DA cells. These changes may indicate that unlike acute stress, which can potently activate the mesolimbic/mesocortical DA systems, chronic stress leads to an adaptive reduction in the number of active DA cells, perhaps altering the response of these systems to subsequent stressors.
To examine whether visual attention to global and local features of visual stimuli modulates neural activity in the monkey visual cortex, we applied positron emission tomography techniques to monkeys while they were discriminating either global or local features of visual stimuli. The posterior inferior temporal cortex was more activated in discriminating global features than in discriminating local ones, whereas the anterior inferior temporal cortex was more activated in discriminating local features than in discriminating global ones. The results suggest that a functional difference exists in terms of processing of global and local features within the inferior temporal cortex.
Little is known about how unique features in a species can emerge along the conserved body plan beyond species. For example, mammals, including human beings, have acquired the neocortex with distinct function and morphology. Here we review current topics in comparative developmental biology of vertebrate brains, especially focusing on the cerebral neocortex as a suitable model for considering species-specific aspects.
Acute abducens palsy of para-infectious origin is uncommon in adulthood. We present the case history of a 28-year-old woman suffering from acute onset diplopia due to abducens palsy. Magnetic resonance imaging revealed signs suggestive of frank ipsilateral maxillary sinusitis. The lack of anatomical relationship between the maxillary sinus and the abducens nerve led us to conclude that the abducens palsy was of para-infectious origin.






Repetitive strain injury is a group of musculoskeletal disorders affecting muscles, tendons, nerves and blood vessels. These disorders could be attributed to occupational causes; however non-occupational causes should be excluded. The management of these cases required a multidisciplinary team approach.
Over the past 30 years there has been an increasing interest in curriculum innovation in medical schools in North America, the United Kingdom, Netherlands, and Australia. Since the introduction of problem-based learning at McMaster University in Canada in 1969, several medical schools throughout the world have adopted problem-based learning as the educational and philosophical basis of their curricula. Several studies have shown that problem-based learning is an important educational strategy for integrating the curriculum, motivating the students and helping them to identify their learning issues and set their own learning goals. However, there is a great deal of concern regarding what problem-based learning means and the advantages of problem-based learning over traditional curriculum have not been clearly addressed. In this review, a broad range of the definitions of problem-based learning have been addressed and the rationale for problem-based learning and its educational objectives are discussed.

Large-conductance calcium-activated (maxi-K, BK) potassium channels are widely distributed in the brain. Maxi-K channels function as neuronal calcium sensors and contribute to the control of cellular excitability and the regulation of neurotransmitter release. Little is currently known of any significant role of maxi-K channels in the genesis of neurological disease. Recent advances in the molecular biology and pharmacology of these channels have revealed sources of phenotypic variability and demonstrated that they can be successfully modulated by pharmacological agents. A potential role is suggested in the treatment of conditions such as ischemic stroke and cognitive disorders.
This article reviews some recent findings on peripheral mechanisms related to the development of oro-facial pain after trigeminal nerve injury. Chronic injury-induced oro-facial pain is not in itself a life-threatening condition, but patients suffering from this disorder undoubtedly have a reduced quality of life. The vast majority of the work on pain mechanisms has been carried out in spinal nerve systems. Those studies have provided great insight into mechanisms of neuropathic spinal pain, and much of the data from them is obviously relevant to studies of trigeminal pain. However, it is now clear that the pathophysiology of the trigeminal nerve (a cranial nerve) is in many ways different to that found in spinal nerves. Whereas some of the changes seen in animal models of trigeminal nerve injury mimic those occurring after spinal nerve injury (e.g., the development of spontaneous activity from the damaged axons), others are different, such as the time-course of the spontaneous activity, some of the neuropeptide changes in the trigeminal ganglion, and the lack of sprouting of sympathetic terminals in the ganglion. Recent findings provide new insights that help our understanding of the etiology of chronic injury-induced oro-facial pain. Future investigations will hopefully explain how data gained from these studies relate to clinical pain experience in man and should enable the rapid development of new therapeutic regimes.
NEURON is a simulation environment for models of individual neurons and networks of neurons that are closely linked to experimental data. NEURON provides tools for conveniently constructing, exercising, and managing models, so that special expertise in numerical methods or programming is not required for its productive use. This article describes two tools that address the problem of how to achieve computational efficiency and accuracy.
Over the course of the past 24 years, the Paralyzed Veterans of America's Spinal Cord Research Foundation (SCRF) has provided support for more than 400 research grants in a wide range of areas, from improved wheelchair design to axon pathfinding in Drosophila. The Founders of SCRF, as well as its current trustees, believe that it is imperative to target a broad range of research areas to maximize the quality of life for people, both veterans and nonveterans, with paralysis. This approach has involved the support of basic science and clinical research directed towards repair of the spinal cord, as well as research into improved treatments for complications of spinal cord dysfunction and other projects, including engineering grants and conferences, that may enhance the quality of life for people with paralysis within the immediate future.

This review examines the way in which microscopic tissue parameters can affect MR experiments which are sensitive to diffusion. The interaction between the intra- and extravascular as well as that between the intra- and extracellular spaces is examined. Susceptibility gradients due to the presence of deoxyhemoglobin can cause diffusion-induced signal losses which are significant in functional magnetic resonance experiments, particularly at higher main magnetic field strengths. This is also true of the fast response that manifests itself as an early negative signal change in functional magnetic resonance experiments. The fields surrounding paramagnetic vessels are described and the way in which diffusion in these fields contributes to functional signal changes is examined. Flow in the capillary bed can be a confounding factor in experiments which aim to examine the diffusion characteristics of extravascular water. It is potentially also a method for assessing capillary perfusion. The intravoxel incoherent motion experiment is described in terms of how significantly this effect can influence diffusion attenuation curves from water. The major models for describing water diffusion in tissue are presented, as are the main experimental results that have contributed to an understanding of the mechanisms of diffusion contrast. The widely accepted view that changes in the diffusion characteristics are caused by a shift of water to the intracellular space and a concomitant change in extracellular tortuosity is examined critically. More recent experiments that indicate that a reduction in the intracellular diffusion may occur simultaneously with the cell swelling are described and their compatibility with existing models discussed.



The P2X(3) receptor is a ligand-gated cation channel activated by the binding of extracellular adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP), an agent that has been suggested to have a role in the nociceptive pathway after tissue and nerve injury. After peripheral nerve injury, both down regulation and up regulation of the P2X(3) receptor in sensory ganglion neurons have been observed. The purpose of this study was to examine the precise regulation of P2X(3) mRNA expression in primary sensory neurons after nerve injury. We used two nerve injury models in the rat, the transection of the tibial and common peroneal nerves and the transection of the infraorbital nerve, and observed dorsal root ganglion (DRG) and trigeminal ganglion neurons, respectively. P2X(3) mRNA in both neuron populations was detected by in situ hybridization with an oligonucleotide probe that was confirmed by Northern blot analysis. To identify axotomized neurons, we examined the expression of activating transcription factor 3 (ATF3), which is regarded as a neuronal-injury marker, using immunohistochemistry. In the DRG, the mean percentage of P2X(3) mRNA-labeled neurons relative to the total number of neurons increased from 32.7% in the naive rats to 42.7% at 3 days after injury. The mean percentage of P2X(3) mRNA-labeled neurons in ATF3 immunoreactive (ir) neurons was 29.5% at 3 postoperative days, which gradually decreased to 11.2% at 28 days after injury. In the trigeminal ganglion, the mean percentage of P2X(3) mRNA-labeled neurons was 36.9% at 3 days after injury, versus 26.0% in the naive rats. In the ATF3-ir neurons, the mean percentage of P2X(3) mRNA-labeled neurons was 25.3% at 1 postoperative day and was reduced to 6.1% at 28 postoperative days. The finding that P2X(3) mRNA in ATF3-ir neurons decreased significantly after injury indicates that axotomized neurons decreased the expression of P2X(3) mRNA, despite the increase in P2X(3) mRNA relative to the total number of sensory ganglion neurons. These data strongly suggest that P2X(3) mRNA expression increases in intact neurons and that P2X(3) mRNA in intact neurons may play a role in the pathomechanism of post-nerve injury in primary sensory neurons.
The interactive effects of neonatal iron and adult MPTP treatment groups of C57 Bl/6 mice were studied through adminustration of iron (Fe(2+)) 7.5mg/kg b.w., p.o. or vehicle (saline) on days 10-12 post partum, followed at 3months of age by administration of either MPTP (2x20 or 2x40mg/kg, s.c.) or saline. Neonatal iron administration to mice-induced hypoactivity during the first 20-min period of testing and hyperactivity during the 3rd and final 20-min period for all three parameters of motor activity tested at 4months of age. MPTP treatment caused a dose-related hypokinesia throughout the 3x20-min test periods; in the mice that received both neonatal iron and MPTP severe deficits of motor activity (akinesia) were obtained. Iron treatment impaired the ability of mice to habituate to the novel testing environment and later administration of MPTP potentiated the impairment markedly. Neurochemical analyses of striatal and frontal cortical dopamine (DA) and DA metabolites demonstrated that the depletions were potentiated under conditions of combined neonatal iron and adult MPTP. The analysis of total iron content (g/g) in brain regions indicated notably elevated levels in the basal ganglia, but not in the frontal cortex, of mice administered Fe(2+). Iron-overload combined with MPTP treatment induced functional and neurochemical deficits with interactive consequences beyond a mere additive effect that may have implications for the neurodegenerative process in parkinsonism.

The effects of different treatment regimens were investigated on the development of tolerance to the anxiogenic effect of nicotine (0.45 mg/kg) in the social interaction test of anxiety. Rats received nicotine (0.45 mg/kg/day) by intravenous injections (5 days/week), subcutaneous injections (5 or 7 days/week) or continuous infusion by osmotic minipump. In all groups, 4 days of nicotine treatment resulted in significant decreases in social interaction compared with the vehicle control groups, without changes in locomotor activity, indicating a specific anxiogenic effect. These significant anxiogenic effects persisted even after 4 weeks of treatment although they were less marked, indicating development of partial tolerance. No significant changes in the time spent in social interaction were found when rats were tested undrugged 24 and 72 h after the termination of nicotine treatment. There was no evidence that the treatment regimen affected the rate of development of tolerance, despite very different peak plasma nicotine concentrations.
The stimulation of 5-HT1A receptors in the raphe or their blockade in the hippocampus can reduce cognitive deficits induced by blockade of muscarinic receptors in the hippocampus. We investigated the effects of MDL 73005 (8-[2-(2,3-dihydro-1,4-benzodioxin-2-ylmethylamino) ethyl]-8-azaspiro[4,5] decane-7,9-dione methyl sulphonate), an agonist at 5-HT1A somatodendritic autoreceptors and an antagonist at postsynaptic 5-HT1A receptors in rats treated systemically with scopolamine. Spatial memory was assessed in a water maze using protocols testing reference and working memory. Home cage locomotor activity was also determined. Working memory and locomotor activity were evaluated before and after para-chlorophenylalanine (pCPA) treatment. Scopolamine produced a weak impairment of reference memory at 0.5 mg/kg, and a more pronounced impairment of working memory at 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg. MDL 73005 alone (2 mg/kg, i.p.) had no effect, but prevented the memory impairments induced by 0.25 mg/kg of scopolamine. Scopolamine induced hyperlocomotion. MDL 73005 alone did not affect locomotor activity, but exacerbated the hyperlocomotion induced by 0.5 mg/kg of scopolamine. pCPA did not abolish the effects of MDL 73005, suggesting that these effects were not due to an action at presynaptic receptors, or even that they involved receptors other than serotonergic ones (e.g., D2). In conclusion, MDL 73005 is able to antagonise moderate spatial memory dysfunctions induced by systemic muscarinic blockade.
The active principle in marijuana, Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), has been shown to have wide therapeutic application for a number of important medical conditions, including pain, anxiety, glaucoma, nausea, emesis, muscle spasms, and wasting diseases. Delta(9)-THC binds to and activates two known cannabinoid receptors found in mammalian tissue, CB1 and CB2. The development of cannabinoid-based therapeutics has focused predominantly on the CB1 receptor, based on its predominant and abundant localization in the CNS. Like most of the known cannabinoid agonists, Delta(9)-THC is lipophilic and relatively nonselective for both receptor subtypes. Clinical studies show that nonselective cannabinoid agonists are relatively safe and provide therapeutic efficacy, but that they also induce psychotropic side effects. Recent studies of the biosynthesis, release, transport, and disposition of anandamide are beginning to provide an understanding of the role of lipid transmitters in the CNS. This review attempts to link current understanding of the basic biology of the endocannabinoid nervous system to novel opportunities for therapeutic intervention. This new knowledge may facilitate the development of cannabinoid receptor-targeted therapeutics with improved safety and efficacy profiles.
KCNQ genes encode a growing family of six transmembrane domains, single pore-loop, K(+) channel alpha-subunits that have a wide range of physiological correlates. KCNQ1 (KvLTQ1) is co-assembled with the product of the KCNE1 (minimal K(+)-channel protein) gene in the heart to form a cardiac-delayed rectifier-like K(+) current. Mutations in this channel can cause one form of inherited long QT syndrome (LQT1), as well as being associated with a form of deafness. KCNQ1 can also co-assemble with KCNE3, and may be the molecular correlate of the cyclic AMP-regulated K(+) current present in colonic crypt cells. KCNQ2 and KCNQ3 heteromultimers are thought to underlie the M-current; mutations in these genes may cause an inherited form of juvenile epilepsy. The KCNQ4 gene is thought to encode the molecular correlate of the I(K,n) in outer hair cells of the cochlea and I(K,L) in Type I hair cells of the vestibular apparatus, mutations in which lead to a form of inherited deafness. The recently identified KCNQ5 gene is expressed in brain and skeletal muscle, and can co-assemble with KCNQ3, suggesting it may also play a role in the M-current heterogeneity. This review will set this family of K(+) channels amongst the other known families. It will highlight the genes, physiology, pharmacology, and pathophysiology of this recently discovered, but important, family of K(+) channels.
The pharmacological properties of brain cannabinoid receptors were investigated in brains of 35 day-old chickens, since little is known about the avian cannabinoid system. The cannabinoid1 receptor-selective antagonist ligand [3H]SR 141716A bound to chicken brain membranes with K(D) and Bmax values of 0.92+/-0.28 nM and 790+/-58 fmol/mg protein, respectively. The binding was inhibited by CP 55,940 with a pI50 value of 7.63+/-0.14 and by a series of compounds with the order of potency CP 55,940&gt;R(+)WIN 55,212-2&gt;R-1 methanandamide approximately DAK. S(-)WIN 55,212-3 and AM404 were without inhibitory effect at 1 microM. Similar results were found for rat brain membranes. For both rat and chicken brain membranes, addition of the non-hydrolysable GTP analogues Gpp[NH]p and GTPgammaS shifted the CP 55,940 inhibition curve to the right, consistent with an intact coupling to G-proteins in the preparations. Fatty acid amidohydrolase in chicken brain membranes was less sensitive to inhibition by phenylmethylsulphonyl fluoride and arachidonoyl serotonin than its rodent equivalent. However, when fatty acid amidohydrolase activity in the preparations was reduced by use of a lower assay membrane concentration, anandamide was found to inhibit the binding of [3H]SR 141716A to chicken membranes with a pI50 value of 6.39+/-0.16. Using a novel antibody raised to amino acids 346-359 from the C-terminal tail of the human cannabinoid2 receptor, it was found that embryonic chick brain tissue (and embryonic chick neurones in primary culture) expressed a approximately 53 kDa immunoreactive band. This immunoreactivity, which was prevented by preincubation of the antibody with the immunising peptide, was also seen in cells expressing the recombinant human cannabinoid, receptor, but was not seen in adult chicken brain homogenates or in rat cerebellar homogenates. However, a &quot;classical&quot; cannabinoid2-receptor component of [3H]WIN 55212-2 binding (i.e. a fraction inhibited by low concentrations of the cannabinoid2-receptor-selective antagonist SR 144528) was not found.
Sialodacryoadenitis (SDA) is a highly contagious common viral infection in rats, akin to mumps in humans. Anorexia occurs during such viral infection. But the pattern of the decrease in food intake (a decrease in either meal size and meal number or both) during spontaneous viral infection has not been previously characterized. We observed the onset of anorexia and an abnormal feeding pattern during an opportunistic SDA viral infection in our rat colony. We thus studied seven male rats. Before the viral infection there was a positive association between food intake and meal number (P&lt;.05). After infection food intake decreased by 68%. This occurred via a significant decrease in meal size (by 69%) (P&lt;.05); and a nonsignificant decrease in meal number (P=.71). This pattern of decreased food intake is similar to that occurring during indomethacin-induced ulcerative ileitis, where we previously measured an increase in plasma tumor-necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha. Anorexia in response to bacterial lipopolysaccharide administration, which is also linked to plasma TNF-alpha, is however, caused only via a decrease in meal number. The differences in the decrease in the feeding pattern between the SDA viral and a bacterial infection suggest that factors other than TNF-alpha alone play a significant role in the mechanism of anorexia during a viral infection.
Swallowing movements are produced by a central pattern generator located in the medulla oblongata. It has been established on the basis of microelectrode recordings that the swallowing network includes two main groups of neurons. One group is located within the dorsal medulla and contains the generator neurons involved in triggering, shaping, and timing the sequential or rhythmic swallowing pattern. Interestingly, these generator neurons are situated within a primary sensory relay, that is, the nucleus tractus solitarii. The second group is located in the ventrolateral medulla and contains switching neurons, which distribute the swallowing drive to the various pools of motoneurons involved in swallowing. This review focuses on the brain stem mechanisms underlying the generation of sequential and rhythmic swallowing movements. It analyzes the neuronal circuitry, the cellular properties of neurons, and the neurotransmitters possibly involved, as well as the peripheral and central inputs which shape the output of the network appropriately so that the swallowing movements correspond to the bolus to be swallowed. The mechanisms possibly involved in pattern generation and the possible flexibility of the swallowing central pattern generator are discussed.
Rapid progress in deciphering the biological mechanism of Alzheimer's disease (AD) has arisen from the application of molecular and cell biology to this complex disorder of the limbic and association cortices. In turn, new insights into fundamental aspects of protein biology have resulted from research on the disease. This beneficial interplay between basic and applied cell biology is well illustrated by advances in understanding the genotype-to-phenotype relationships of familial Alzheimer's disease. All four genes definitively linked to inherited forms of the disease to date have been shown to increase the production and/or deposition of amyloid beta-protein in the brain. In particular, evidence that the presenilin proteins, mutations in which cause the most aggressive form of inherited AD, lead to altered intramembranous cleavage of the beta-amyloid precursor protein by the protease called gamma-secretase has spurred progress toward novel therapeutics. The finding that presenilin itself may be the long-sought gamma-secretase, coupled with the recent identification of beta-secretase, has provided discrete biochemical targets for drug screening and development. Alternate and novel strategies for inhibiting the early mechanism of the disease are also emerging. The progress reviewed here, coupled with better ability to diagnose the disease early, bode well for the successful development of therapeutic and preventative drugs for this major public health problem.
This review explores how proprioceptive sensory information is organized at spinal cord levels as it relates to a sense of body position and movement. The topic is considered in an historical context and develops a different framework that may be more in tune with current views of sensorimotor processing in other central nervous system structures. The dorsal spinocerebellar tract (DSCT) system is considered in detail as a model system that may be considered as an end point for the processing of proprioceptive sensory information in the spinal cord. An analysis of this system examines sensory processing at the lowest levels of synaptic connectivity with central neurons in the nervous system. The analysis leads to a framework for proprioception that involves a highly flexible network organization based in some way on whole limb kinematics. The functional organization underlying this framework originates with the biomechanical linkages in the limb that establish functional relationships among the limb segments. Afferent information from limb receptors is processed further through a distributed neural network in the spinal cord. The result is a global representation of hindlimb parameters rather than a muscle-by-muscle or joint-by-joint representation.
This review summarizes recent work on the use of reporter genes to label selected neuronal populations in transgenic mice, with particular emphasis on gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) neurons. Reporter genes discussed are the lacZ, green fluorescent protein (GFP), luc, and bla genes, which encode the reporter proteins beta-galactosidase, GFP, luciferase, and beta-lactamase, respectively. Targeted transgenic expression of these reporter proteins is obtained by fusing the corresponding reporter gene, with or without a subcellular localization signal, to a cell type- or brain region-specific gene promoter. Mice carrying GnRH promoter-driven reporter genes have proven useful for revealing the promoter elements required for cell type-specific expression of GnRH, the full anatomical profile of the GnRH neuronal network, and its electrophysiological activity, suggesting that similar approaches will assist in elucidating the properties of other neuronal populations as well.
1. The aim of this study was to investigate hypothalamo-pituitary-thyroid axis (HPTA) functioning and sleep EEG disturbances in major depressive disorder. 2. Thyroid function was evaluated by determination of TSH levels before and after 8 AM and 11 PM TRH administration on the same day in a sample of 113 consecutively-admitted DSM-IV major depressed inpatients (72 females aged 44.3 +/- 13.0 and 41 males aged 45.7 +/- 10.7) that underwent sleep EEG recordings. 3. A blunted TSH response occurred in 15.9% for 8 AM deltaTSH (maximum increment above baseline at the 8 AM TRH challenge), in 39.8% for 11 PM deltaTSH and in 77% for deltadeltaTSH (difference between 11 PM deltaTSH and 8 AM deltaTSH). A negative correlation between deltadeltaTSH and duration of awakenings after sleep onset, and a shorter sleep onset latency in patients with a blunted 11 PM deltaTSH were found, but these two significant relationships disappeared after controlling for the effects of gender and age. 4. The present findings do not support the hypothesis that, in major depression, HPTA dysfunctioning, as reflected in TSH response to TRH, may be related to sleep EEG disturbances.

One of the two core symptoms of depression as defined by the Diagnostic and statistical manual of mental disorders (DSM-IV) (American Psychiatric Association) is anhedonia, or a loss of interest or pleasure. Sucrose consumption has been described as a valid measure of sensitivity to reward. In the present set of studies, changes in sucrose consumption (three-bottle test using 1, 8 and 32% sucrose) were taken as a measure of the anhedonic effect of interferon-alpha (IFN-alpha). Sucrose tests were carried out following the i.p. administration (20 min pre-treatment time) of Recombinant Human Interferon-alphaA (rHIFN-alpha), 10(1), 10(2), 10(4) units(U) and Rat Interferon alpha (rRIFN-alpha), 1,10 and 100 IRU. Both types of IFN-alpha produced a decrease in sucrose consumption and drinking rate (DR) at the highest doses, with the greatest inhibition being at the lowest sucrose concentration (1%). Longer pre-treatment times with rHIFN-alpha (40 and 80 min prior to commencement of 1 h drinking test) resulted in insignificant effects. Significant hypothermia relative to vehicle-injected rats was observed following interferon administration in the 20 min pre-treatment condition, but showed no significant difference when compared to vehicle at 40 or 80 min. Overall these results confirm a depression-like behavioural syndrome (anhedonia) following administration of IFN-alpha.






Just little more than 10 years ago, pain was still considered a neglected aspect of medicine. Since that time, however, significant progress has been made in this field. The magnitude of the problem is evident from the fact that some 5 million Germans suffer from chronic pain, 600,000 of whom are considered to be particularly affected. It is with regard to these pain patients that the term &quot;chronic pain disorder&quot; has been coined. The mechanisms of progressive pain chronicity form one of the central topics in pain research. The plasticity of neuronal pain systems seems to be particularly relevant in this area. Increasingly, interdisciplinary pain management is available to patients with chronic pain disorder, demonstrating both the possibility of improvement for the chronic pain patient and the reduction in costs for the health care system. The number of such pain treatment/management facilities still needs to be expanded because &quot;divinum est sedare dolorem&quot;--it is divine to alleviate pain (Galen of Pergamon).

Peripheral tissue and nerve injury lead to chronic pain symptoms, including spontaneous pain, allodynia and hyperalgesia. Sympathetic nervous system involves in pathological changes above, either through development of abnormal sympathetic function or through its effects on abnormally functioning afferent nerves, thereby to cause many neuropathic pains. This review focuses on the progress at present of sympathetic-sensory coupling and its receptors, intracellular and neural mechanisms.
Previous studies suggest that endotoxin (LPS) stimulation of CD14 receptors may be coupled to heterotrimeric G proteins. However, characterization of the G protein-coupled signaling pathways is incomplete. Also, specific changes in the transduction pathways occur in a phenomenon known as LPS tolerance or desensitization induced by prior exposure to LPS. In the present study, we examined potential CD14-dependent G protein-coupled signaling events in response to LPS, and changes in signaling in these pathways during LPS desensitization in Chinese Hamster Ovary (CHO) cells. LPS stimulated inhibitory kappa B alpha (IkappaB alpha) degradation and p38 phosphorylation in CHO cells transfected with human CD14 receptor (CHO-CD14), but not in CHO cells transfected with vector only. However, activation of these signaling events diverged early in the signal transduction pathways. Pretreatment with pertussis toxin, which inactivates inhibitor G protein (G alpha i) function, significantly inhibited LPS-induced p38 phosphorylation, but not LPS-induced IkappaB alpha degradation. Mastoparan, a putative G alpha i agonist, synergized with LPS to induce p38 phosphorylation. Thus, LPS stimulation of p38 phosphorylation is, in part, G alpha i coupled, whereas IkappaB alpha degradation is not. In subsequent studies, CHO-CD14 cells were desensitized by prior LPS exposure. LPS-desensitized cells exhibited augmented IkappaB alpha content and were refractory to LPS-induced IkappaB alpha degradation and p38 phosphorylation. Pretreatment with cycloheximide, a protein synthesis inhibitor, prevented the effect of LPS desensitization on augmenting cellular IkappaB alpha content and its refractoriness to LPS-induced degradation. However, cycloheximide pretreatment did not prevent impaired p38 phosphorylation in desensitized cells. IkappaB alpha upregulation in LPS tolerance may occur through increased synthesis and/or induction of protein that suppress IkappaB alpha degradation. The latter protein synthesis-dependent mechanisms may be distinct from mechanismis inhibiting p38 phosphorylation in tolerance. These findings suggest that LPS tolerance induces CD14-dependent signaling alterations in G alpha i-coupled pathways leading to mitogen-activated (MAP) kinase activation as well as G alpha i-independent pathways inducing IkappaB alpha degradation.



LTP has been associated with changes in synaptic morphology but the nature of these changes over the time course of the enhanced electrophysiological response has not been fully determined. The current research involved an examination of synaptic structure in the rat hippocampus during the long-term maintenance phase of LTP. Synapses were examined in the middle third of the molecular layer (MML) of the rat dentate gyrus following repeated high frequency tetanization of the perforant path. Synapses from both the ipsilateral inner third of the dentate molecular layer (IML), which was not directly stimulated during the induction of LTP, as well as implanted, nonstimulated animals, served as controls. LTP was induced over a 4-h period, and the animals were sacrificed 5 days after the final stimulation of the LTP group. Ultrastructural quantification included the total number of synapses per neuron, synaptic curvature, the presence of synaptic perforations, and the maximum length of the synapses. No overall changes in the number of synapses per neuron, shape, or synaptic perforations were observed. There was, however, a significant increase in the length of synapses in the directly stimulated LTP tissue. This increase in synaptic length was particularly evident in the concave-shaped synapses which were also more perforated. These results, together with previous findings, describe a sequence of changes in synaptic morphology that accompany LTP in a structure that is associated with learning and memory.

This article discusses fluoxetine serum concentrations as displayed in a clinical setting. A racemic serum fluoxetine and norfluoxetine high-performance liquid chromatography method, including ultraviolet light detection, was used for routine therapeutic drug monitoring (TDM) purposes. In all, 508 samples were analyzed. For the scientific investigation, predefined inclusion and exclusion criteria were applied and 150 samples representative of trough values in steady-state conditions with essential clinical information provided on the assay request forms were evaluated. Fluoxetine plus norfluoxetine concentration-to-dose (C/D) ratio showed Gaussian distribution. Interindividual coefficients of variation of fluoxetine and norfluoxetine serum concentrations after different doses were found to be 40-63%. Intraindividual fluoxetine TDM variability was low. The Spearman rank correlation coefficient for fluoxetine and norfluoxetine C/D ratios in first and second samples was 0.68. Minor increases in norfluoxetine C/D and fluoxetine plus norfluoxetine C/D ratios were found in elderly patients compared with younger adult patients. A higher body-mass index was associated with minor decreases in fluoxetine and fluoxetine plus norfluoxetine C/D ratios. New fluoxetine pharmacokinetic data are added to the results from earlier phases of drug development. Moreover, the results of this study support the usefulness of a fluoxetine TDM procedure for individual dose optimization, detection of drug interactions, and assessments of patient compliance.
This study has demonstrated the potential of human amniotic epithelial cells (HAEC) as a transgene carrier to treat patients with familial hypercholesterolemia (FH). One approach to liver-directed gene therapy is represented by transplantation of autologous hepatocytes that have been genetically modified in vitro. However, the hepatocytes must be isolated from surgically resected tissue and it is difficult to expand the hepatocytes in culture. In contrast, the advantages for using HAEC are the higher availability and the nonimmunogenicity after allotransplantation. Our strategy involved isolating HAEC from an amnion, transducing a human low-density lipoprotein receptor (LDLR) gene into these cells with a recombinant adenovirus, and transplanting the genetically modified cells into the liver of an animal model of FH. Each animal, treated with the LDLR-transduced HAEC, exhibited a substantial decrease in serum cholesterol with an eventual return to pretreatment level. Moreover, the transplanted HAEC migrated out of the sinusoids into the hepatic parenchyma and expressed the LDLRs until at least 20 days after transplantation. However, the transplanted HAEC markedly decreased in number after 10 days post-transplant with an increase of inflammatory cells. The temporary nature of the metabolic improvement may be associated with xenograft rejection and transient function of the adenoviral vector.
The cause of multiple sclerosis (MS) is unknown. Despite indications from epidemiological and identical-twin studies that MS is infectious, no virus or other infectious agent has been tightly linked to disease. The isolation of Chlamydia pneumoniae from the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of MS patients and the detection of both Chlamydia-specific DNA and antibody in MS CSF have been reported. Other analyses of brain and CSF have shown no significant difference in C. pneumoniae-specific DNA or antibody between MS and control subjects. Recent work has revealed intrathecal production of C. pneumoniae-specific IgG in only 24% of MS patients compared with 5% of control patients. More importantly, the major CSF oligoclonal bands from MS patients did not react to C. pneumoniae.
There is growing excitement over stem cell biology. It has stirred strong ethical and moral debates over the status and rights of small clusters of cells. It has promised a panacea for illnesses ranging from diabetes to stroke. It has challenged historical dogmas in developmental biology. There have been many commentaries on all of these issues in prominent journals and newspapers over recent months. In this article, we take a critical look at new data that underpin the last of these claims: the chimeric stem cell.
This review synthesizes data from behavioral studies examining the role of sleep in memory storage with what is known about the molecular mechanisms of memory consolidation. There are striking similarities in the effects on memory storage of post-training pharmacological manipulations and post-training manipulations of sleep. For example, inhibition of protein synthesis is most effective if it occurs at a time post-training when rapid eye movement (REM) sleep is required for memory consolidation. The neurochemical changes that occur across sleep/wake states, especially the cholinergic changes that occur in the hippocampus during REM sleep, might provide a mechanism by which sleep modulates specific cellular signaling pathways involved in hippocampus-dependent memory storage.
Amyloid beta (Abeta) is a small self-aggregating peptide produced at low levels by normal brain metabolism. In Alzheimer's disease (AD), self-aggregation of Abeta becomes rampant, manifested most strikingly as the amyloid fibrils of senile plaques. Because fibrils can kill neurons in culture, it has been argued that fibrils initiate the neurodegenerative cascades of AD. An emerging and different view, however, is that fibrils are not the only toxic form of Abeta, and perhaps not the neurotoxin that is most relevant to AD: small oligomers and protofibrils also have potent neurological activity. Immuno-neutralization of soluble Abeta-derived toxins might be the key to optimizing AD vaccines that are now on the horizon.
Rodents used in biomedical research are typically reared in small cages that lack key features of their natural habitats. These conditions impose constraints on behaviour and brain development, resulting in altered brain functions. In this article, evidence for three different ways in which barren housing conditions interfere with brain development and behaviour is reviewed. Early environmental deprivation, thwarting of behavioral response rules, and disruption of habitat-dependent adaptation processes are shown to result in aberrant or maladaptive brain functions. Current standard housing conditions could therefore compromise the utility of rodents for research, especially in behavioural neuroscience. However, a better understanding of the animals' needs and of the environmental factors involved in the control of behaviour could offer a biological basis for refinement.
Chemosensory neurons in the mammalian nose detect an array of odors and pheromones that carry essential information about the animal's environment. How the nose organizes this immense amount of information is a major question in sensory biology. New evidence suggests that there are several subpopulations of sensory neurons in the nose that project to different areas in the forebrain. Strikingly, evidence is now emerging that several of these neuronal subpopulations employ distinct second messenger cascades to transduce chemical stimuli. This new understanding of the heterogeneity of chemosensory transduction mechanisms offers the opportunity to use genetically altered animals to specifically target these subpopulations. Such approaches should enable researchers to examine the role that each of these subsystems could play in chemosensory-dependent behaviors.
Receptor subtypes for purines have been identified in a variety of tissues, increasing interest in the roles of purine-mediated signalling in pathophysiological processes. Growing evidence supports the involvement of one of the purinoceptor subtypes, P2X3, in nociception. In this article, recent studies of purine-mediated nociception and visceral pain will be discussed. Furthermore, a novel hypothesis is proposed for purine-mediated mechanosensory transduction where ATP released during distension from epithelial cells lining tubes (such as ureter and gut) and sacs (such as the bladder) acts on P2X3 receptors on a subepithelial nerve plexus to initiate impulses that are relayed via the spinal cord to pain centres in the brain.
Since the discovery of its role in the CNS, glutamate, together with its involvement in signalling at synapses, has been the subject of a vast amount of research. More recently, it has become clear that glutamate signalling is also functional in non-neuronal tissues and occurs in sites as diverse as bone, pancreas and skin. These findings raise the possibility that glutamate acts as a more widespread 'cytokine' and is able to influence cellular activity in a range of tissue types. The impact of these discoveries is significant because they offer a rapid way to advance the development of therapeutics. Agents developed for use in neuroscience applications might be beneficial in the modulation of pathology peripherally, impacting on conditions such as osteoporosis, diabetes and wound healing.
Two orthogonal patterns presented to the two eyes, respectively, are perceived as alternating in time, a phenomenon often assumed to reflect competition between neuronal activities corresponding to the two eyes, presumably in the primary visual cortex. Recent evidence supports a competition between neuronal activities corresponding to the two patterns (objects) at some higher cortical processing stage after inputs from the two eyes have converged. Here, using textures made of Gabor signals, we present psychophysical data showing that the level of visual processing at which competition takes place and is resolved, is determined by the degree of stimulus coherence. Moreover, depending on stimulus parameters, competition may occur at several levels of processing at the same time.
To achieve perceptual match between a flashed target and a gradually changing one, the flashed target should have the feature value corresponding to the value to be obtained by the gradually changing target only later. Flashed target should be positioned ahead of the continuously moving one in order to be perceived as aligned (Nijhawan (1994). Nature, 370, 256-257); with continuously changing colour, spatial frequency, pattern entropy or luminance, the flashed target should have feature value which changing target obtains only later (Sheth, Nijhawan, &amp; Shimojo (2000). Nature Neuroscience, 3, 489-495). It was found that flash-lag effect is present even if the continuously accumulating pre- and post-target input consists in spatially and featurally invariant stimulation. The perceptual precedence of the target in stream over its synchronous single-flashed replica may result from perceptual acceleration where newly arriving visual signals are facilitated by the locally preceding stimulation.
The precise involvement of 5-ht(5A), 5-ht(5B), 5-ht(6) and 5-HT(7) receptors in the pleiotropic actions of 5-HT remain incompletely known. To gain insights into their physiological function(s), localization of mRNAs encoding these subtypes was carried out using in situ hybridization on rat brain sections. Localization was heterogeneous. For example, 5-ht(5A) mRNA was widely expressed while 5-ht(5B) mRNA was predominantly expressed in habenula, hippocampus and inferior olive. 5-ht(6) mRNA was abundant in olfactory tubercles and caudate putamen, and highest levels of 5-HT(7) mRNA were observed in multiple thalamic nuclei. These data suggest that these receptors may have distinct functional roles within the serotonergic system.
Morphine and morphine-6-glucuronide, a morphine metabolite, have been identified and quantified in Mytilus edulis pedal ganglia at a level of 2.67+/-0.44 and 0.98+/-0.14 ng/ganglia, respectively by high performance liquid chromatography coupled to electrochemical detection. These opiate alkaloids were further identified by both gas-chromatography mass spectrometry and nanoflow electrospray ionization double quadrupole orthogonal acceleration Time of Flight mass spectrometry. In animals that were starved, the morphine level rose to 6.38+/-0.88 ng/ganglion and the morphine 6-glucoronide rose to a level of 23.0+/-3.2 ng/ganglion after 30 days. These studies demonstrate that opiate alkaloids are present as naturally occurring signal molecules whose levels respond to stress, i.e., starvation. Opiate alkaloids were not found in the animal's incubation media or food, demonstrating their synthesis occurred in the respective tissue. These new method of opiate alkaloid detection, conclusively proves that morphine and morphine-6-glucuronide are present in animal tissues.
Regulators of G-protein signaling (RGS) proteins are a novel family of GTPase-activating proteins that interact with Galpha subunits of the Gi/o, Gz, Gq and G(12/13) subfamilies to dampen G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR)-mediated signaling by accelerating intrinsic Galpha-GTPase activity. In the present study, we report on messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) localization in rat brain of six RGS genes by in situ hybridization. The distribution patterns of RGS2, RGS13, RGS14 and GAIP (Galpha interacting protein) overlapped in most brain regions examined. Highest regional expression was observed for RGS2 in the cerebral cortical layers, striatum, hippocampal formation, several thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei and hindbrain regions such as the pontine, interpeduncular and dorsal raphe nuclei. Levels of RGS14 mRNA closely paralleled those of RGS2 expression levels throughout most brain regions. RGS13 mRNA was enriched in the hippocampal formation, amygdala, mammillary nuclei as well as the pontine and interpeduncular nuclei. GAIP expression levels were highest in the hippocampal formation with moderate to low levels present in all other regions studied. Of the six RGS genes probed, RGS16 mRNA displayed a discrete localization predominantly in the thalamic midline/intralaminar and principal relay nuclei, and the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus. RGS1 mRNA signal was not detected in brain. In conclusion, the in situ hybridization studies for RGS2, RGS13, RGS14, RGS16 and GAIP mRNAs extend our knowledge of the distribution of RGS genes expressed in the rat central nervous system, and indicate overlapping RGS-enriched regions that may be indicative of functional diversification in GPCR signaling pathway modulation.
Antibodies against APP, a precursor of Abeta deposited in Alzheimer's disease brain, have been shown to cause neuronal death. Therefore, it is important to determine whether Abeta mediates antibody-induced neurotoxicity. When primary neurons were treated with anti-APP antibodies, Abeta40 and Abeta42 in the cultured media were undetectable by an assay capable of detecting 100 nM Abeta peptides. However, exogenously treated Abeta1-42 or Abeta1-43 required &gt;3 microM to exert neurotoxicity, and 25 microM Abeta1-40 was not neurotoxic. Glutathione-ethyl-ester inhibited neuronal death by anti-APP antibody, but not death by Abeta1-42, whereas serum attenuated toxicity by Abeta1-42, but not by anti-APP antibody. Using immortalized neuronal cells, we specified the domain responsible for toxicity to be cytoplasmic His(657)-Lys(676), but not the Abeta1-42 region, of APP. This indicates that neuronal cell death by anti-APP antibody is not mediated by secreted Abeta.
Extended release of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in the nervous system during immunological and infectious conditions may trigger demyelinating disorders and cause disturbances in brain function. The aim of this study was to examine the effects of IFN-gamma on neuronal function in rat hippocampal cell cultures by using whole cell patch clamp analysis together with quantitative immunocytochemistry. Acute application of IFN-gamma to differentiated neurons in culture caused no immediate neurophysiological responses, but recordings after 48 h of incubation displayed an increase in frequency of AMPA receptor (AMPAR)-mediated spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs). Quantitative immunocytochemistry for the AMPAR subunit GluR1 showed no alteration in receptor clustering at this time point. However, prolonged treatment with IFN-gamma for 2 weeks resulted in a significant reduction in AMPAR clustering on dendrites but no marked differences in EPSC frequency between treated neurons and controls could be observed. On the other hand, treatment of hippocampal neurons for 4 weeks, instituted at an immature stage (1 day in culture), caused a significant reduction in spontaneous EPSC frequency. These neurons developed with no overt alterations in dendritic arborization or in the appearance of dendritic spines as visualized by alpha-actinin immunocytochemistry. Nonetheless, there was a marked reduction in AMPAR clustering on dendrites. These observations show that a key immunomodulatory molecule, IFN-gamma, can cause long-term modifications of synaptic activity and perturb glutamate receptor clustering.
We investigated the effects of beta-estradiol, dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate on intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca(2+)](i)) increases induced by gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), high K(+) and N-methyl-D-aspartate acid (NMDA) in cultured hippocampal neurons. Acute treatment with beta-estradiol, dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate inhibited the GABA-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increases to the similar extent. Tamoxifen, an estrogen receptor antagonist, did not block the inhibitory effects of beta-estradiol. On the other hand, GABA type A (GABA(A)) receptor antagonists, picrotoxin and bicuculline, blocked the GABA-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increases. Previously, we demonstrated that GABA- and high K(+)-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increases were commonly mediated by voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCCs). Therefore, we examined the effects of these steroids on the high K(+)-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increases. The inhibitory effect of beta-estradiol on the high K(+)-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increases was much greater than that of dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate. beta-Estradiol inhibited the NMDA-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increases with an IC(50) of 51.8 microM and NMDA responses were reduced to half in the presence of 10 micro M nifedipine, indicating that the NMDA-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increases also involved VGCCs. Further, we examined the inhibitory effect of beta-estradiol on the high K(+)-induced [Ca(2+)](i) increases in the presence of a N-type VGCCs antagonist, 1 microM omega-conotoxin, or a L-type VGCCs antagonist, 10 microM nifedipine. The IC(50) value of beta-estradiol alone (45.5 microM) was similar to that of omega-conotoxin (33.1 microM), while the value combined with nifedipine was reduced to 2.2 microM. beta-Estradiol also abolished the positive modulatory effect of L-type VGCCs agonist, 1,4-dihydro-2,6-dimethyl-5-nitro-4-[2-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl]pyridine-3-carboxylic acid methyl ester (Bay K 8644). Our results showed that the inhibitory mechanism of beta-estradiol is different from that of dehydroepiandrosterone and dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate and beta-estradiol may act primarily at L-type VGCCs.
Summary: A case of traumatic persistent pnmltlve trigeminal artery (PPTA) cavernous sinus fistula treated with GDC embolisation is reported. Because of the small lumen of PP TA, posteriorly directed course and flow contribution from the posterior circulation, balloon embolisation via the carotid system was not considered appropriate. The fistula was successfully closed by GDC embolisation.
The metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) belong to family C of the G-protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) superfamily. The receptors are characterized by having unusually long amino-terminal domains (ATDs), to which agonist binding has been shown to take place. Previously, we have constructed a molecular model of the ATD of mGluR1 based on a weak amino acid sequence similarity with a bacterial periplasmic binding protein. The ATD consists of two globular lobes, which are speculated to contract from an &quot;open&quot; to a &quot;closed&quot; conformation following agonist binding. In the present study, we have created a Zn(2+) binding site in mGluR1b by mutating the residue Lys(260) to a histidine. Zinc acts as a noncompetitive antagonist of agonist-induced IP accumulation on the K260H mutant with an IC(50) value of 2 microm. Alanine mutations of three potential &quot;zinc coligands&quot; in proximity to the introduced histidine in K260H knock out the ability of Zn(2+) to antagonize the agonist-induced response. Zn(2+) binding to K260H does not appear to affect the dimerization of the receptor. Instead, we propose that binding of zinc has introduced a structural constraint in the ATD lobe, preventing the formation of a &quot;closed&quot; conformation, and thus stabilizing a more or less inactive &quot;open&quot; form of the ATD. This study presents the first metal ion site constructed in a family C GPCR. Furthermore, it is the first time a metal ion site has been created in a region outside of the seven transmembrane regions of a GPCR and the loops connecting these. The findings offer valuable insight into the mechanism of ATD closure and family C receptor activation. Furthermore, the findings demonstrate that ATD regions other than those participating in agonist binding could be potential targets for new generations of ligands for this family of receptors.
Upon binding to the cAMP-response element of a gene's promoter, the transcription factor known as cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) facilitates transcription of many different neuronal genes including those involved with synaptic function. Based on our previous reports of gene structure (GenBank accession number AF029701 ), we now demonstrate that activated CREB binds to the proximal promoter of the human presenilin-1 (PS-1) gene to activate PS-1 transcription in rat and in human neuronal cells. Specific stimulation of the N-methyl-d-aspartate subtype of neuronal glutamate receptors activates CREB and results in increased PS-1 expression. Similarly, treatment with brain-derived neurotrophic factor activates CREB and increases PS-1 expression in a dose-dependent fashion. By using adenovirus vectors expressing dominant negative forms of CREB, we were able to show that induction of PS-1 expression requires the activation of CREB. Conversely, constitutive expression of mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (MEK) results in activation of CREB and increased PS-1 expression that can be blocked by the addition of selective MEK inhibitors. Our findings suggest a hypothesis where stimulation of N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors signals CREB activation to enhance PS-1 gene product expression that contributes to normal neuronal functions.
The cost of electronic equipment can be a critical barrier to including neurophysiology exercises in biology teaching programs. We describe the construction of a simple and inexpensive AC preamplifier with performance comparable to that of commercial products. The amplifier consists of two integrated circuits in five stages: differential input, fixed gain, variable gain (100 or 1000), low-pass filter (5 or 20 kHz), and 50 or 60 Hz notch filter. We compared our amplifier with two commercial units, the A-M Systems Model 1700 and the Grass P15. The quality of extracellular recording from a typical student preparation (spontaneously active crayfish motor nerve) was the same for all three amplifiers, although our amplifier has slightly higher internal noise than the P15 and slightly lower common-mode rejection than the 1700 and P15. In addition, we describe a simple suction electrode for extracellular nerve recording. It is easily constructed from readily available materials and uses a disposable plastic pipette tip, instead of the traditional glass tip, to contact the nerve. This tip is easily replaced if broken or clogged, and can be adapted to different recording conditions by selecting a different tip size or stretching the plastic. Development of this equipment is part of an ongoing project to promote neuroscience education by expanding the neurophysiology options available to laboratory instructors.
Skilled forelimb use has been used in many studies to examine motor system status, learning, and recovery from nervous system damage in rats. The dependent measures in many current skilled reaching models rely on endpoint measures, number of successful reaches, or qualitative measures, the movements used in performing a reach. The present study describes a new reaching task, which allows measurement of distance and direction of skilled forelimb movement while also permitting end point and qualitative measurements. Animals reached from a clear Plexiglas box through an aperture to retrieve pieces of straight, uncooked pasta from an array of 260 vertically oriented pieces of pasta arranged in rows distally and laterally away from the aperture (a matrix). By extending the range of a reach, more pasta is obtained. Limb movements, pieces of pasta removed, and the pattern of pasta removal are dependent measures. The usefulness of the test is demonstrated using control, dorsal column lesion, and unilateral dopamine depleted animals. The task uses a desired food, tests learning and skill, the range of limb movement, and the ability to reach for different distances and directions. The task can also be modified to investigate other features of limb use including skill adjustments, laterality, and force.
cDNA microarrays are becoming widespread tools in the study of complex gene expression patterns with applications using cells lines, animal model systems, and human disease. Glass cDNA microarrays using fluorescent labeled cDNA probes require a large amount of input RNA usually not available in many neuroscience applications. Here we demonstrate a technique for the use of 33-P labeled cDNA probes in hybridizations to the same glass cDNA arrays used for fluorescent applications. This approach allows the use of low quantities of RNA, common phosphoimaging scanners, data acquisition software, and standard DNA and RNA labeling protocols, while being consistent and interchangeable with glass-based cDNA array technology.
XLalphas ('extra large' alpha) is a 78 kDa splice variant of the alpha-subunit of the heterotrimeric G protein, Gs (Nature 372 (1994) 804). Prompted by its neuroendocrine-specific tissue distribution in the adult (J. Biol. Chem. 275 (2000) 33622) and its ability to activate adenylyl cyclase (J. Biol. Chem. 275 (2000) 33633), we investigated the expression of XLalphas in the developing rat nervous system using immunofluorescence. Remarkably, XLalphas expression in the neural tube was found to begin at the onset of neurogenesis, being observed in a subset of mitotic neuroepithelial cells as well as in young neurons. At later developmental stages, XLalphas was associated with a subset of neurons in certain regions of the nervous system such as diencephalon, midbrain, hindbrain, spinal cord and sympathetic trunk. These results suggest a role of XLalphas in neuronal differentiation.
Pregnenolone sulfate, one of the most abundantly produced neurosteroids in the hippocampus, has well characterized effects at postsynaptic receptors including the N-methyl-D-asparate type of glutamate receptor. Little is known, however, about the mechanism of action of neurosteroids on the release of glutamate. In this study we describe a robust effect of pregnenolone sulfate at glutamatergic synapses in the CA1 region of the hippocampus. In particular, we found that pregnenolone sulfate enhances paired-pulse facilitation of EPSPs at the two major classes of ionotropic glutamate receptors with an EC(50)&lt;1 microM. Thus, we propose a novel mechanism of action of neurosteroids in hippocampal neurons that involves the modulation of glutamate release.
Proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) signals from lipids in brain have been observed to increase after ischemic brain injury. However, neither the chemical identity nor the cellular location of these lipids has been established. The aim of the present study was to identify the origin of MRS lipid signals in rat brain after temporary (90 min) middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO). Fatty acyl proton signals were detected by short-echo one and two dimensional (1)H MRS in superfused brain slices from the infarcted hemisphere 1-5 days after MCAO. The intensities of these signals were strongly correlated with the amount of triacylglyceride and cholesterol ester in lipid extracts from the samples (r(2)=0.96, P&lt;0.05) and were not correlated with the amount of free fatty acids in the tissue. Histological staining of tissue revealed the presence of neutral lipid droplets in infarcted regions. Dual labeling by immunohistochemistry demonstrated that these droplets were localized to microglia/macrophage (OX-42-labeled cells). These results strongly suggest that (1)H MRS lipid signals from brain after stroke arise from microglia/macrophage phagocytosis of cellular membranes.
Laminin-5 (Ln-5) is an essential component of epithelial basal laminae that is also expressed in the developing nervous system. Here we use a convenient, simple and reproducible in vitro fluorescent assay to assess the neurite outgrowth promoting activity of purified Ln-5. Embryonic chick neurons from dorsal root ganglia, ciliary ganglia, and (to a lesser extent) retina extended neurites on Ln-5, but the neurite outgrowth promoting activity was not as great as that of Ln-1 or Ln-2. Neurons from diencephalon, telencephalon, and spinal cord did not respond to Ln-5.
Recent bio-developmental models of shyness traits (Schmidt, L.A., Fox, N.A., 1998. The development and outcomes of childhood shyness. Annals of Child Development 13, 1--20; Schmidt, L.A. Fox, N.A., 1999. Conceptual, biological, and behavioural distinctions among different types of shy children. In: Schmidt, L.A., Schulkin, J. (Eds.), Extreme Fear, Shyness, and Social Phobia: Origins, Biological Mechanisms, and Clinical Outcomes. Oxford University Press, New York, pp. 47--66) have proposed that childhood shyness and early sociability troubles may be a precursor to pervasive social dysfunction in adulthood. An important question in testing the vulnerability model is to determine the severity of shyness among adults who have a serious social dysfunction, such as individuals diagnosed with schizophrenia. The Cheek and Buss Shyness and Sociability Scales (Cheek, J.M., Buss, A.H., 1981. Shyness and sociability. Journal of Personality and Social Psychology 41, 330--339) and the Reznick Retrospective Self-report of Inhibition (Reznick, J.S., Hegeman, I.N., Kaufman, E.R., Woods, S.W., Jacobs, M., 1992. Retrospective and concurrent self-report of behavioural inhibition and their relation to adult mental health. Development and Psychopathology 4, 301--321) were administered to 23 schizophrenia outpatients and 23 control subjects matched for age and sex. The results indicated that individuals with schizophrenia showed significantly more shyness (P&lt;0.004), lower sociability (P&lt;0.02) and more recollections of childhood social troubles (P&lt;0.007) compared with the control group. Within the schizophrenia group, both shyness traits (P&lt;0.04) and limited sociability (P&lt;0.01) were clearly associated with interpersonal dysfunction, while significant correlations were also found between troubled sociability and negative symptoms (P&lt;0.05). The findings of shyness traits, impaired sociability and more recollections of childhood social difficulties among stable outpatients diagnosed with schizophrenia are consistent with predictions based on a bio-developmental shyness vulnerability model.
The volumes of the whole temporal lobe, the superior temporal gyrus and the corpus callosum were measured on magnetic resonance images from 13 patients with schizotypal personality disorder (SPD), 27 patients with schizophrenia, and 31 age- and sex-matched controls. Temporal lobe structures were traced on consecutive 1.2mm thick SPGR images. Both patient groups had smaller temporal lobes than normal volunteers, a difference that was more marked for the area outside the superior temporal gyrus than for the STG. Correcting for brain volume diminished differences between normal subjects and schizophrenia patients, but the differences between normal subjects and SPD patients remained. Normal volunteers and SPD patients showed significant correlations between the sagittal section area of the posterior portion of the corpus callosum, which carries temporal interhemispheric connections, and the white matter volume of the temporal lobe. While the sample size is modest, taken together, these results suggest that the psychopathological symptoms of SPD may be related to temporal gray matter loss with relatively intact white matter connectivity, while the cognitive and psychotic symptoms of schizophrenia may be related to temporal gray loss combined with disruption of normal patterns of white matter development.

The number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive fibers in the nerve fiber layer is increased in the retina of the weaver compared to control mice (Dev. Brain Res. 121 (2000) 113). To confirm the retinopetal/centrifugal nature of these fibers, a newly devised whole-mounted optic nerve technique allowed us to determine, during development, their first appearance within the optic nerve (post-natal day 12) compared to retina (post-natal day 13). One such fiber was also observed looping in the retina of a monkey fetus.
Brain N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) glutamate receptors have been implicated as important mediators of both learning and neuronal development. The current study investigated how ketamine (a well-known NMDA-receptor blocking drug) influences taste-mediated conditioned motor responses (CMRs) in perinatal rats. Dams pregnant with either embryonic day 18 (E18) or E19 rat fetuses were injected with 0 or 100 mg/kg ketamine HCl (i.p.). One-half hour later, a reversible spinal block was performed on the dam and fetuses received oral lavage with 10 microl, 0.3% saccharin (SAC) or water (control) in utero. After the oral injection, fetuses received either a saline (control) or lithium chloride (LiCl) injection (81 mg/kg, i.p.). The uterus was replaced and, 2 days later (E20 or E21), some rats received oral lavage with SAC. Other litters were born via normal vaginal delivery or Cesarean section and orally exposed to SAC on post-natal day 3 (P3). Motor responses were observed immediately after the oral lavage of SAC. If SAC had been paired with LiCl in utero, pups generally exhibited conditioned suppression of orofacial movements (as compared to controls). Ketamine significantly attenuated this taste-mediated CMR of animals conditioned on E19. However, the same treatments did not disrupt CMRs of rats treated with ketamine before CS-US pairing on E18. Our findings indicate an age-dependent role for NMDA receptors in the formation of CMRs in perinatal rats.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an important role in normal brain development. In the present study, we examined the ontogenetic pattern of BDNF gene expression in both monogamous prairie voles (Microtus ochrogaster) and promiscuous montane voles (M. montanus); two closely related microtine rodents that differ in life strategy and social behavior. In both species, BDNF mRNA showed an early appearance and a transient expression in a regionally specific manner. In the dentate gyrus and CA3 region of the hippocampus, BDNF mRNA was found neonatally, increased gradually during development, and reached a peak at weaning, followed by a subsequent decline to the adult level. In the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, levels of BDNF mRNA persisted until weaning, followed by a significant increase to the adult levels at 3 months of age. BDNF mRNA also demonstrated a species-specific developmental pattern. In the cingulate cortex, BDNF mRNA labeling displayed a transient increase in the second and third postnatal weeks followed by a subsequent decrease to the adult level in prairie voles, but persisted throughout the course of development in montane voles. In general, montane voles achieved an adult pattern of BDNF mRNA expression earlier than did prairie voles. Together, these data indicate that BDNF may function differently in infant and adult brains, and that the two species of voles differ in the ontogenetic pattern of BDNF mRNA expression in a regional-specific manner, which may be associated with their different life strategy and brain and behavioral development.

The plant Cannabis sativa has been used by humans for thousands of years because of its psychoactivity. The major psychoactive ingredient of cannabis is Delta(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol, which exerts effects in the brain by binding to a G-protein-coupled receptor known as the CB1 cannabinoid receptor. The discovery of this receptor indicated that endogenous cannabinoids may occur in the brain, which act as physiological ligands for CB1. Two putative endocannabinoid ligands, arachidonylethanolamide ('anandamide') and 2-arachidonylglycerol, have been identified, giving rise to the concept of a cannabinoid signalling system. Little is known about how or where these compounds are synthesized in the brain and how this relates to CB1 expression. However, detailed neuroanatomical and electrophysiological analysis of mammalian nervous systems has revealed that the CB1 receptor is targeted to the presynaptic terminals of neurons where it acts to inhibit release of 'classical' neurotransmitters. Moreover, an enzyme that inactivates endocannabinoids, fatty acid amide hydrolase, appears to be preferentially targeted to the somatodendritic compartment of neurons that are postsynaptic to CB1-expressing axon terminals. Based on these findings, we present here a model of cannabinoid signalling in which anandamide is synthesized by postsynaptic cells and acts as a retrograde messenger molecule to modulate neurotransmitter release from presynaptic terminals. Using this model as a framework, we discuss the role of cannabinoid signalling in different regions of the nervous system in relation to the characteristic physiological actions of cannabinoids in mammals, which include effects on movement, memory, pain and smooth muscle contractility. The discovery of the cannabinoid signalling system in mammals has prompted investigation of the occurrence of this pathway in non-mammalian animals. Here we review the evidence for the existence of cannabinoid receptors in non-mammalian vertebrates and invertebrates and discuss the evolution of the cannabinoid signalling system. Genes encoding orthologues of the mammalian CB1 receptor have been identified in a fish, an amphibian and a bird, indicating that CB1 receptors may occur throughout the vertebrates. Pharmacological actions of cannabinoids and specific binding sites for cannabinoids have been reported in several invertebrate species, but the molecular basis for these effects is not known. Importantly, however, the genomes of the protostomian invertebrates Drosophila melanogaster and Caenorhabditis elegans do not contain CB1 orthologues, indicating that CB1-like cannabinoid receptors may have evolved after the divergence of deuterostomes (e.g. vertebrates and echinoderms) and protostomes. Phylogenetic analysis of the relationship of vertebrate CB1 receptors with other G-protein-coupled receptors reveals that the paralogues that appear to share the most recent common evolutionary origin with CB1 are lysophospholipid receptors, melanocortin receptors and adenosine receptors. Interestingly, as with CB1, each of these receptor types does not appear to have Drosophila orthologues, indicating that this group of receptors may not occur in protostomian invertebrates. We conclude that the cannabinoid signalling system may be quite restricted in its phylogenetic distribution, probably occurring only in the deuterostomian clade of the animal kingdom and possibly only in vertebrates.
Low-frequency thalamocortical oscillations that underlie drowsiness and slow-wave sleep depend on rhythmic inhibition of relay cells by neurons in the reticular nucleus (RTN) under the influence of corticothalamic fibers that branch to innervate RTN neurons and relay neurons. To generate oscillations, input to RTN predictably should be stronger so disynaptic inhibition of relay cells overcomes direct corticothalamic excitation. Amplitudes of excitatory postsynaptic conductances (EPSCs) evoked in RTN neurons by minimal stimulation of corticothalamic fibers were 2.4 times larger than in relay neurons, and quantal size of RTN EPSCs was 2.6 times greater. GluR4-receptor subunits labeled at corticothalamic synapses on RTN neurons outnumbered those on relay cells by 3.7 times, providing a basis for differences in synaptic strength.
Computational maps are of central importance to a neuronal representation of the outside world. In a map, neighboring neurons respond to similar sensory features. A well studied example is the computational map of interaural time differences (ITDs), which is essential to sound localization in a variety of species and allows resolution of ITDs of the order of 10 micros. Nevertheless, it is unclear how such an orderly representation of temporal features arises. We address this problem by modeling the ontogenetic development of an ITD map in the laminar nucleus of the barn owl. We show how the owl's ITD map can emerge from a combined action of homosynaptic spike-based Hebbian learning and its propagation along the presynaptic axon. In spike-based Hebbian learning, synaptic strengths are modified according to the timing of pre- and postsynaptic action potentials. In unspecific axonal learning, a synapse's modification gives rise to a factor that propagates along the presynaptic axon and affects the properties of synapses at neighboring neurons. Our results indicate that both Hebbian learning and its presynaptic propagation are necessary for map formation in the laminar nucleus, but the latter can be orders of magnitude weaker than the former. We argue that the algorithm is important for the formation of computational maps, when, in particular, time plays a key role.

Although the presence of an olfactory impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD) has been recognized for 25 years, its cause remains unclear. Here we suggest a contributing factor to this impairment, namely, that PD impairs active sniffing of odorants. We tested 10 men and 10 women with clinically typical PD, and 20 age- and gender-matched healthy controls, in four olfactory tasks: (i) the University of Pennsylvania smell identification test; (ii and iii) detection threshold tests for the odorants vanillin and propionic acid; and (iv) a two-alternative forced-choice detection paradigm during which sniff parameters (airflow peak rate, mean rate, volume, and duration) were recorded with a pneomatotachograph-coupled spirometer. An additional experiment tested the effect of intentionally increasing sniff vigor on olfactory performance in 20 additional patients. PD patients were significantly impaired in olfactory identification (P &lt; 0.0001) and detection (P &lt; 0.007). As predicted, PD patients were also significantly impaired at sniffing, demonstrating significantly reduced sniff airflow rate (P &lt; 0.01) and volume (P &lt; 0.002). Furthermore, a patient's ability to sniff predicted his or her performance on olfactory tasks, i.e., the more poorly patients sniffed, the worse their performance on olfaction tests (P &lt; 0.009). Finally, increasing sniff vigor improved olfactory performance in those patients whose baseline performance had been poorest (P &lt; 0.05). These findings implicate a sniffing impairment as a component of the olfactory impairment in PD and further depict sniffing as an important component of human olfaction.
Interferon-alpha (IFNalpha) is not only an immunoregulatory factor, but is also an analgesic molecule. We ever reported that there exist distinct domains in IFNalpha molecule that mediate immune and analgesic effects respectively and inferred that the analgesic domain locates around the 122nd Tyr residue of IFNalpha molecule in the tertiary structure. After the 36th Phe residue, which was located closely to the 122nd Tyr residue in the tertiary structure, was mutated to Ser using site-directed mutagenesis, the analgesic activity of this mutant lost completely, but the antiviral activity of IFNalpha still maintained 40.5% of wild type IFNalpha. The results suggest that the 36th Phe residue is one of the constituent for the analgesic domain of IFNalpha and inferred that the analgesic domain of IFNalpha consists of the 122nd Tyr and the residues around the 122nd in the tertiary structure, which include the 36th Phe.
The objective of this study was to assess whether reduced glucose metabolism (rCMRGlu) and cognitive functioning could predict development of Alzheimer's disease (AD) in subjects with mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Twenty MCI patients underwent baseline and follow-up investigations of rCMRGlu, as measured by PET, and cognitive function measured by neuropsychological test assessments. Subjects were clinically followed up with an average interval of 36.5 months. Two groups were obtained after the second clinical assessment. Nine patients were diagnosed as AD and classified as progressive MCI (P-MCI), whereas 11 patients remained clinically stable and were classified as stable MCI (S-MCI). There were no differences in demographic variables or baseline MMSE between the two subgroups. Logistic regression indicated the two variables that most effectively predicted future development of AD were rCMRGlu from the left temporoparietal area and performance on the block design. These combined measures gave an optimal 90% correct classification rate, whereas only rCMRGlu or neuropsychology alone gave 75% and 65% correct classification, respectively. Measures of temporoparietal cerebral metabolism and visuospatial function may aid in predicting the evolution to AD for patients with MCI.
Recent studies have demonstrated the analgesic synergy between mu- and delta-opioid receptor, but evidence obtained at the cellular level is scanty. This work was designed to find the evidence of synergy between the actions of D-Ala2-Mephe4-glyol5 enkephalin (DAMGO) and D-Phe2, D-Phe5 enkephalin (DPDPE) on undifferentiated SH-SY5Y cells. Microphysiometer was used to detect the functional activity of cells by measuring the real-time extracellular acidification rate (ECAR). The results demonstrate the unequivocal synergy between DAMGO and DPDPE at least within certain ratios. In addition, combined administration of the two drugs in the synergistic ratios attenuates receptor desensitization. These data indicate that DAMGO and DPDPE have a synergistic effect at cellular level.
The Edg (endothelial differentiation gene) receptors are recently discovered G-protein coupled receptors which are activated by endogenous lysophospholipids. The cellular activities mediated by Edg receptors are reminiscent of those normally associated with Trk receptor activation and include modulation of cell growth, differentiation, proliferation and migration as well as apoptotic and cytoskeletal effects. In this study we have investigated immunohistochemically the distribution of one family member, the Edg2 receptor, within the adult rat brain and shown the protein expression to be most prominent in white matter tract regions. This suggests a possible role for the Edg2 receptor in nerve cell myelination.
Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization the expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) was studied in the mouse spinal cord under normal conditions and after unilateral rhizotomy and after local colchicine treatment. Under normal conditions a dense plexus of CGRP-immunoreactive (IR) fibres was observed in the superfical layers of dorsal horns with lower numbers of fibers in deeper laminae. Seven days after unilateral rhizotomy, there was a marked reduction of CGRP-IR fibres in the ipsilateral superfical layers and distinctly CGRP-IR neurons could be detected in the ipsilateral lamina III. CGRP mRNA-positive neurons were observed in lamina III in both the ipsilateral and contralateral dorsal horn. Colchicine treatment did not markedly increase the number of CGRP-IR neurons. The results suggest that CGRP is synthesized in local dorsal horn neurons of the mouse, and these neurons presumably participate in sensory processing.
We have examined the distribution of the neuronal calcium-binding protein, neuronal calcium sensor 1 (NCS-1) in the developing and adult rat retina using subcellular fractionation of the rat retina and immunohistochemistry. NCS-1 immunoreactivity was situated primarily in the ganglion cells, a class of amacrine cells, and in the inner plexiform layer (IPL). During development, NCS-1 protein expression closely followed that of the synaptic vesicle protein, synaptophysin, increasing dramatically in the IPL at postnatal day 3, the time when conventional synapses are formed in the retina. These findings suggest that NCS-1 plays a role in synaptogenesis in the retina and in synaptic transmission at conventional synapses but not ribbon synapses in the adult rat retina.
We studied the effect of Agrp (agouti-related peptide) on LH (luteinizing hormone) and PRL (prolactin) surges in ovariectomized rats primed with estradiol and progesterone. The rats displayed characteristic LH and PRL surges that were completely abolished by starving. Injection of either 1 nmol or 3 nmol Agrp (83-132), a potent antagonist of the orexigenic MC3 and MC4 receptors, completely prevented both the LH and PRL surges. We also investigated the effects of either a single or double injection of anti-Agrp serum to fasted animals, which were without LH and PRL surges. A single injection of the antiserum was without effect, but the rats that received double injection of anti-Agrp serum partially reinstated both the LH and PRL surges. Although the onset of LH and PRL surges was significantly delayed in the double treated group, the highest levels of the surges for both hormones were statistically indistinguishable compared with the control group. These data give a clear indication that endogenous Agrp may be involved in LH and PRL surges during starvation, providing further evidence that the melanocortin system is important for these hormonal surges in female rats.
Although fear conditioning has received extensive neurobiological attention little is known about social learning whereby one individual may learn and acquire the fear responses of another. A 30 min exposure to intact biting flies (stable fly, Stomoxys colcitrans L.) elicits in individual fly-naive mice analgesia and active self burying responses to avoid the flies. Fly-naive observer mice that witnessed other demonstrator mice being attacked by biting flies exhibited analgesia and self-burying to avoid flies when exposed 24 h later to altered flies whose biting mouth parts were removed. The opiate antagonist naloxone, while reducing the analgesic responses elicited by exposure to a fly-stressed demonstrator, did not affect either the subsequent conditioned analgesia or self-burying. However, the specific NMDA receptor antagonist NPC 12626, given to observers prior to, but not after, presentation of fly attacked demonstrators blocked the socially determined conditioned analgesia and self burying avoidance. This supports NMDA involvement in the mediation of the social transmission and long-term (24h) retention of conditioned analgesia and fear.

To clarify if sympathetic outflow is altered in Buerger's disease (thromboangitis obliterans, TAO), we measured skin sympathetic nerve activity (SSNA) in TAO patients, and observed the sweating and vasoconstrictive responses during resting and with activating maneuvers. Multiunit postganglionic sympathetic activity was recorded in a skin fascicle of the tibial nerve innervating the skin of the sole (glabrous skin) and peroneal nerve innervating the skin of the dorsum pedis (hairy skin) from five TAO patients and five healthy subjects simultaneously with skin blood flow and sweat expulsion. TAO patients showed significantly less vasoconstrictor SSNA than healthy subjects (17.0+/-1.9 vs. 31.5+/-5.8 bursts/min, P&lt;0.001). Moreover, we found no relationship between vasoconstrictor SSNA and skin blood flow in some patients, while they were well correlated in healthy subjects. There was no evidence for increased sympathetic activity in TAO patients, and no hypersensitive relationship was found between SSNA and skin blood flow. These observations suggested that these TAO patients exhibiting no relationship between skin blood flow reduction and vasoconstrictor activity might not respond to sympathectomy, which is generally expected to result in an increase in skin blood flow. The absence of increased sympathetic nerve activity provides further indirect evidence of a local vascular abnormality in TAO.
We studied how, sympathetic response to cold exposure determines thermoregulatory function. Three female and seven male volunteers (age, 23.2+/-1.9 years) were exposed to abrupt local cooling and gradual systemic cooling with recording of microneurographic skin sympathetic nerve activity tSSNA), skill temperatures (Ts), tympanic temperature (Tty), skin blood flow measured by laser Doppler flowmetry, and sweating rate measured with a ventilated capsule. Local cooling induced an abrupt vasoconstrictor SSNA increase and Tty rise. There was a significant positive correlation between the increase in the vasoconstrictor SSNA and the change rate of Tty. Systemic cooling at 0.2 degrees C/min enhanced SSNA but gradually decreased Tty, and a significant negative correlation was observed between them. A 10-min delay separated the SSNA rise from the subsequent Tty rise following local cooling. A delay of less than 1 min preceded the SSNA increase after the Tty fall induced by systemic cooling. These findings suggested that subjects with a good SSNA response to cold stress can maintain core temperature, but 10 min is necessary to raise the core temperature by reducing heat loss from the skin surface. In contrast. vasoconstrictor SSNA responds linearly to a fall in core temperature with a delay of less than 1 min.
Few have made such an impact as Geoffrey Burnstock in their scientific field. As the originator of the purinergic hypothesis, Burnstock has been central to the development of our understanding of the P2 receptor family and of the role of extracellular ATP in cell-to-cell signalling. In this millennial year, Burnstock has been awarded the Queen's medal from The Royal Society and Lifetime Achievement Award from the American Gastroenterology Association. Thus, it was my privilege to join Alan North in organising and producing the Burnstock Festschrift (Purines and the Autonomic Nervous System; from controversy to the clinic, in [J. Auton. Nerv. Syst. Vol. 81 (2000)]) to honour not only Geoffrey Burnstock's successes in this millennial year, but a lifetime of achievements spanning some 40 years in the field of purine signalling.
Leptin is secreted by adipose tissue and thought to regulate appetite at the central level. Several studies have explored the central nervous system (CNS) entry of this peptide across the blood-brain and blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barriers in parallel, but this is the first to explore the transport kinetics of leptin across the choroid plexus (blood-CSF barrier) in isolation from the blood-brain barrier (BBB). This is important as the presence of both barriers can lead to ambiguous results from transport studies. The model used was the isolated Ringer perfused sheep choroid plexus. The steady-state extraction of [(125)I]leptin (7.5 pmol l(-1)) at the blood face of the choroid plexus was 21.1+/-5.7%, which was greater than extraction of the extracellular marker, giving a net cellular uptake for [(125)I]leptin (14.0+/-3.7%). In addition, trichloroacetic acid precipitable [(125)I] was detected in newly formed CSF, indicating intact protein transfer across the blood-CSF barrier. Human plasma concentrations of leptin are reported to be 0.5 nM. Experiments using 0.5 nM leptin in the Ringer produced a concentration of leptin in the CSF of 12 pM (similar to that measured in humans). [(125)I]Leptin uptake at the blood-plexus interface using the single-circulation paired tracer dilution technique (uptake in &lt;60 s) indicated the presence of a saturable transport system, which followed Michaelis-Menten-type kinetics (K(m)=16.3+/-1.8 nM, V(max)=41.2+/-1.4 pmol min(-1) g(-1)), and a non-saturable component (K(d)=0.065+/-0.002 ml min(-1) g(-1)). In addition, secretion of new CSF by the choroid plexuses was significantly decreased with leptin present. This study indicates that leptin transport at the blood-CSF barrier is via saturable and non-saturable mechanisms and that the choroid plexus is involved in the regulation of leptin availability to the brain.
A substantial projection from the retina to the dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN) has been demonstrated in the Chilean degus, a diurnal/crepuscular hystricomorph rodent. Following intraocular injection of cholera toxin subunit B (CTB), immunocytochemically labeled CTB-positive axons and terminals were observed in all major retinorecipient nuclei as well as in the DRN and periaqueductal gray (PAG) of the mesencephalon. Two streams of optic axons to the DRN were observed: one descending from the optic tract at the level of the pretectum and anterior superior colliculus, the other emerging as a small fascicle at the anterior pole of the inferior colliculus and descending bilaterally through the PAG. Contralateral retinal afferents in the DRN appeared to terminate primarily in the dorsomedial and lateral subdivisions of the DRN, and a less extensive ipsilateral component also was observed. Axonal arborizations were characterized by short branches and multiple varicosities, both in the DRN and in the PAG. The extent and density of DRN retinal afferents were not as extensive as previously observed in Mongolian gerbils using identical techniques, but the retinal-DRN projection is considerably larger in degus than in rats. The functional significance of the retinal-DRN pathway remains to be determined, although a variety of evidence indicates that light may directly affect the activity of neurons and serotonin levels in the DRN.
In vitro phosphorylation of recombinant wild-type 2N4R tau and FTDP-17 exonic mutant forms P301L, V337M and R406W by glycogen synthase kinase 3beta (GSK3beta) was examined by two dimensional phosphopeptide mapping analysis on thin layer cellulose plates. Comparison of these peptide maps with those generated from wild-type 1N4R tau isoform from which the phosphopeptide constituents and sites of phosphorylation had been determined previously, enabled us to monitor directly changes in phosphorylation of the individual tau proteins. No differences were found in the phosphorylation of wild-type, P301L or V337M tau by GSK3beta but the R406W mutant showed at least two clear differences from the other three tau proteins. The peptides, identified by mass spectrometry corresponding to phosphorylation at both threonine 231 and serine 235 (spot 3), serines 396, 400 and 404 (spot 6a) and serines 195 and 199 (spot 6b) were absent from the R406W peptide map. The findings imply that the R406W mutation in tau exerts long-range conformational effects on the structure of tau.
The neuronal adaptor protein X11alpha participates in the formation of multiprotein complexes and intracellular trafficking. It contains a series of discrete protein-protein interaction domains including two contiguous C-terminal PDZ domains. We used the yeast two-hybrid system to screen for proteins that interact with the PDZ domains of human X11alpha, and we isolated a clone encoding domains II and III of the copper chaperone for Cu,Zn-superoxide dismutase-1 (CCS). The X11alpha/CCS interaction was confirmed in coimmunoprecipitation studies plus glutathione S-transferase fusion protein pull-down assays and was shown to be mediated via PDZ2 of X11alpha and a sequence within the carboxyl terminus of domain III of CCS. CCS delivers the copper cofactor to the antioxidant superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) enzyme and is required for its activity. Overexpression of X11alpha inhibited SOD1 activity in transfected Chinese hamster ovary cells which suggests that X11alpha binding to CCS is inhibitory to SOD1 activation. X11alpha also interacts with another copper-binding protein found in neurons, the Alzheimer's disease amyloid precursor protein. Thus, X11alpha may participate in copper homeostasis within neurons.
Butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) is important in cocaine metabolism, but it hydrolyzes (-)-cocaine only one-two thousandth as fast as the unnatural (+)-stereoisomer. A starting point in engineering BChE mutants that rapidly clear cocaine from the bloodstream, for overdose treatment, is to elucidate structural factors underlying the stereochemical difference in catalysis. Here, we report two three-dimensional Michaelis-Menten complexes of BChE liganded with natural and unnatural cocaine molecules, respectively, that were derived from molecular modeling and supported by experimental studies. Such complexes revealed that the benzoic ester group of both cocaine stereoisomers must rotate toward the catalytic Ser(198) for hydrolysis. Rotation of (-)-cocaine appears to be hindered by interactions of its phenyl ring with Phe(329) and Trp(430). These interactions do not occur with (+)-cocaine. Because the rate of (-)-cocaine hydrolysis is predicted to be determined mainly by the re-orientation step, it should not be greatly influenced by pH. In fact, measured rates of this reaction were nearly constant over the pH range from 5.5 to 8.5, despite large rate changes in hydrolysis of (+)-cocaine. Our models can explain why BChE hydrolyzes (+)-cocaine faster than (-)-cocaine, and they suggest that mutations of certain residues in the catalytic site could greatly improve catalytic efficiency and the potential for detoxication.

The release of biogenic amines from large dense core vesicles (LDCVs) depends on localization of the vesicular monoamine transporter VMAT2 to LDCVs. We now find that a cluster of acidic residues including two serines phosphorylated by casein kinase 2 is required for the localization of VMAT2 to LDCVs. Deletion of the acidic cluster promotes the removal of VMAT2 from LDCVs during their maturation. The motif thus acts as a signal for retention on LDCVs. In addition, replacement of the serines by glutamate to mimic phosphorylation promotes the removal of VMAT2 from LDCVs, whereas replacement by alanine to prevent phosphorylation decreases removal. Phosphorylation of the acidic cluster thus appears to reduce the localization of VMAT2 to LDCVs by inactivating a retention mechanism.
Ferritin is expressed very early in the development of oligodendrocytes. This protein makes iron available within cells while providing some protection from iron-induced oxidative damage. In the developing rat brain, ferritin is found initially in microglia followed by oligodendrocytes in a temporal and spatial pattern that coincides with the expression of myelin. In this study, we test the hypothesis that hypoxic/ischemic (H/I) insult will alter the expression of ferritin in microglia and oligodendrocytes, resulting in a delay in the appearance of myelin markers. Seven-day-old rat pups were exposed to H/I insult. Within 24 hours, after the insult, there is an increase in ferritin-positive amoeboid microglia and a decrease in immunohistochemical reaction for the myelin marker Rip in the brain. The oligodendrocyte marker 2'-3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphodiesterase is elevated in the H/I hemisphere relative to the hypoxia-only hemisphere between 8 and 15 days after insult. By 23 days after the insult, the subcortical white matter segregates into areas that contain ferritin-positive microglia and are devoid of Rip-positive oligodendrocytes or areas with Rip-positive cells and no ferritin-positive microglia. The H/I insult also affects the ratio of H-rich to L-rich ferritin expression at most of the time periods. These results demonstrate that the type of ferritin, its cellular distribution and the normal pattern of subcortical white matter myelination is affected by H/I. We propose that the absence of ferritin in oligodendrocytes prohibits them from storing sufficient iron to meet the synthetic and metabolic demands associated with myelination.
Monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 plays a critical role in innate immunity by directing the migration of monocytes into inflammatory sites. Recent data indicated a function for this chemokine in adaptive immunity as a regulator of T cell commitment to T helper cell type 2 (Th2) effector function. Studies in a Th1-dependent animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), showed that MCP-1 was highly expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) of affected rodents, and MCP-1 antibodies could block relapses of the disease. Mice deficient for the major MCP-1 receptor, CC chemokine receptor (CCR)2, did not develop EAE after active immunization but generated effector cells that could transfer the disease to naive wild-type recipients. We analyzed EAE in mice deficient for MCP-1 to define the relevant ligand for CCR2, which responds to murine MCP-1, MCP-2, MCP-3, and MCP-5. We found that C57BL/6 MCP-1-null mice were markedly resistant to EAE after active immunization, with drastically impaired recruitment of macrophages to the CNS, yet able to generate effector T cells that transferred severe disease to naive wild-type recipients. By contrast, adoptive transfer of primed T cells from wild-type mice into naive MCP-1-null recipients did not mediate clinical EAE. On the SJL background, disruption of the MCP-1 gene produced a milder EAE phenotype with diminished relapses that mimicked previous findings using anti-MCP-1 antibodies. There was no compensatory upregulation of MCP-2, MCP-3, or MCP-5 in MCP-1-null mice with EAE. These results indicated that MCP-1 is the major CCR2 ligand in mice with EAE, and provided an opportunity to define the role of MCP-1 in EAE. Compared with wild-type littermates, MCP-1-/- mice exhibited reduced expression of interferon gamma in draining lymph node and CNS and increased antigen-specific immunoglobulin G1 antibody production. Taken together, these data demonstrate that MCP-1 is crucial for Th1 immune responses in EAE induction and that macrophage recruitment to the inflamed CNS target organ is required for primed T cells to execute a Th1 effector program in EAE.
Previous research has demonstrated an interaction between the effects of amphetamine and exposure to a novel environment on the activity of neurons in the nucleus accumbens. Given a model in which these accumbens efferents gate the excitability of basal forebrain cholinergic corticopetal neurons, the administration of intra-accumbens amphetamine was hypothesized to potentiate the increase in cortical acetylcholine produced by introduction to a novel environment. Dual probe microdialysis revealed no synergistic interactions between exposure to a novel environment and amphetamine on nucleus accumbens dopamine or cortical acetylcholine efflux. This finding indicates that exposure to a novel environment failed to recruit the telencephalic activation of the nucleus accumbens presumably necessary to reveal modulatory effects of accumbens dopaminergic transmission on cortical acetylcholine release.
We studied female GRP-R-deficient mice with respect to olfactory function and social behavior toward male conspecifics. Results of a food exploration test (hidden cookie method) revealed that the olfactory ability of these mutant mice is identical to that of wild-type mice. However, when preference toward either a socially dominant or subordinate male mouse was assessed in a social preference test, wild-type mice showed a greater preference for socially dominant males than did GRP-R-deficient mice. In contrast, in a social investigation test to an anesthetized male mouse, GRP-R-deficient mice exhibited greater investigatory behavior toward the target male than did wild-type mice. When female C57BL/6J mice were given diazepam (0, 1, 2 or 4 mg/kg, i.p.), their investigatory behavior to the anesthetized male target was increased in a dose-dependent manner. Conversely, i.p. administration of bicuculline (1 mg/kg) significantly decreased the social investigatory behavior of female GRP-R-deficient mice, but not of wild-type mice. These results indicate that female GRP-R-deficient mice exhibit altered responsiveness to male conspecifics relative to their wild-type counterparts, and suggest that this outcome may be attributable, at least in part, to altered GABAergic function in these mutant mice.
The present study showed that corticosterone (B) could induce a rapid activation of p38 and c-Jun NH(2)-terminal protein kinase (JNK) in PC12 cells. The dose-response and time-response curves were bell-shaped with maximal activation at 10(-9) M and at 15 min. RU38486 had no effect, and bovine serum albumin-coupled B could induce the activation. Genistein failed to block the phosphorylation, suggesting the pathway was not involved in tyrosine kinase activity. Phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate could mimic, while G6976 could abolish the actions. These results demonstrated that B might act via a putative membrane receptor to activate p38 and JNK rapidly through a protein kinase C-dependent pathway.
Stimulation of B cell antigen receptor (BCR) may induce proliferation, differentiation, or apoptosis, depending upon the maturational stage of the cell and the presence or absence of signals transmitted via coreceptors. One such signal is delivered via CD40; for instance, ligation of CD40 rescues B cells from BCR-induced apoptosis. Here we show that, in contrast to WEHI-231 cells, CD40 ligation did not reverse BCR-induced growth inhibition in the BAL-17 mature B cell line and CD40 ligation itself inhibited proliferation. This inhibitory signaling was not observed in CD45-deficient cells. Further analyses demonstrate that transfection of dominant-negative form of SEK1 or treatment with SB203580 strongly reduced CD40-induced inhibition of BAL-17 proliferation, suggesting a requirement for c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase and p38 in CD40-induced inhibition of proliferation. Interestingly, CD40-initiated activation of c-Jun NH2-terminal kinase and p38 was enhanced and sustained in CD45-deficient cells, and these phenotypes were reversed by transfecting CD45 gene. However, CD40-mediated induction of cell surface molecules was not affected in CD45-deficient cells. Taken collectively, these results suggest that CD45 exerts a decisive effect on selective sets of CD40-mediated signaling pathways, dictating B cell fate.
The clinical significance and the effects of pharmacological treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) were evaluated by measurement of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). CSF-AChE of AD patients was lower, not significantly, compared with controls. However, CSF-AChE was significantly increased after treatment of AD patients with AChE inhibitors (donepezil and galantamine). The increase was higher in patients treated with donezepil than in those treated with galantamine, which might be related to different mechanisms for the substances. The increase was also dose-dependent, and was especially marked in patients showing a clinical response. These data suggest that CSF biomarkers are capable not only of identifying a biochemical effect of drugs, but also of differentiating between different compounds in a dose-dependent manner.
The expression of metabotropic glutamate receptor 8 (mGluR8) was studied in the rat hippocampus after pilocarpine-induced status epilepticus (APISE) by light immunohistochemistry and immunoelectron microscopy. At 1 day APISE, mGluR8 immunoreactivity was up-regulated in the entire molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. At 7 days APISE, mGluR8 immunoreactive cells began to appear in the stratum lacunosum moleculare of CA1, and by day 31, they were seen in all layers of CA1. By electron microscopy and double labelling study, the mGluR8 immunoreactive cells were identified as astrocytes. The present novel finding of induced expression of mGluR8 in astrocytes APISE suggests that it may be linked to gliosis.

The focus of this study was to analyze the effects of nicotine on behavioural compensation after fimbria-fornix (FF) lesions in rats tested on the Morris water task (MWT). Nicotine (0.3 mg/kg) was injected subcutaneously for 11 consecutive days before, for 11 consecutive days after, or for 11 consecutive days before and after a FF lesion. Additionally, a lesion group was included that was given mecamylamine (1.0 mg/kg), a nicotine antagonist, 10 min before nicotine administration as well as mecamylamine-only, no treatment lesion, and sham groups. All drug administration ceased 24 h before three consecutive days of behavioural testing on the MWT. Results showed that the sham group and animals receiving both a pre- and post-lesion treatment of nicotine performed significantly better than all other groups, and the pre- and post-lesion nicotine group performed equivalent to sham controls on both acquisition and a probe trial. The compensatory effect of nicotine was blocked by mecamylamine. This study demonstrates that nicotine stimulates recovery from brain damage and the results are discussed in relation to neural mechanisms and potential applications.
The present study aimed to assess the role of advanced age in the development and manifestation of thiamine deficiency using an animal model of Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome (WKS). Interactions between pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency (PTD) and age were examined relative to working memory impairment and neuropathology in Fischer 344 rats. Young (2-3 months) and aged (22-23 months) F344 rats were assigned to one of two treatment conditions: PTD or pair-fed control (PF). Rats in the former group were further divided into three groups according to duration of PTD treatment. Working memory was assessed with an operant matching-to-position (MTP) task; after testing, animals were sacrificed and both gross and immunocytochemical measures of brain pathology were obtained. Aged rats exhibited acute neurological disturbances during the PTD treatment regime earlier than did young rats, and also developed more extensive neuropathology with a shorter duration of PTD. Aged rats displayed increased brain shrinkage (smaller frontal cortical and callosal thickness) as well as enhanced astrocytic activity in the thalamus and a decrease in ChAT-positive cell numbers in the medial septum; the latter two measures of neuropathology were potentiated by PTD. In both young and aged rats, and to a greater degree in the latter group, PTD reduced thalamic volume. Behaviorally, aged rats displayed impaired choice accuracy on the delayed MTP task. Regardless of age, rats with lesions centered on the internal medullary lamina of the thalamus also displayed impaired choice accuracy. Moreover, increased PTD treatment duration led to increased response times on the delayed MTP task. These results suggest that aging does indeed potentiate the neuropathology associated with experimental thiamine deficiency, supporting an age coupling hypothesis of alcohol-related neurological disorders.
We sought to determine the effectiveness of head posture as a contextual cue to facilitate adaptive transitions in manual control during visuomotor distortions. Subjects performed arm pointing movements by drawing on a digitizing tablet, with targets and movement trajectories displayed in real time on a computer monitor. Adaptation was induced by presenting the trajectories in an altered gain format on the monitor. The subjects were shown visual displays of their movements that corresponded to either 0.5 or 1.5 scaling of the movements made. Subjects were assigned to three groups: the head orientation group tilted the head towards the right shoulder when drawing under a 0.5 gain of display and towards the left shoulder when drawing under a 1.5 gain of display; the target orientation group had the home and target positions rotated counterclockwise when drawing under the 0.5 gain and clockwise for the 1.5 gain; the arm posture group changed the elbow angle of the arm they were not drawing with from full flexion to full extension with 0.5 and 1.5 gain display changes. To determine if contextual cues were associated with display alternations, the gain changes were returned to the standard (1.0) display. Aftereffects were assessed to determine the efficacy of the head orientation contextual cue compared to the two control cues. The head orientation cue was effectively associated with the multiple gains. The target orientation cue also demonstrated some effectiveness while the arm posture cue did not. The results demonstrate that contextual cues can be used to switch between multiple adaptive states. These data provide support for the idea that static head orientation information is a crucial component to the arm adaptation process. These data further define the functional linkage between head posture and arm pointing movements.
The purpose of the present study was to investigate the effects of sex and estrous cycle on exploratory behavior, as well as the degree to which reliance on environmental cues changes with training. Fischer 344 rats were placed three times in an open field box that contained three objects (two identical bottles and a cylinder). During the initial exposure to the environment all females showed higher activity levels and explored a larger region of the environment compared to males. However, upon subsequent exposure to the same environment, these sex differences disappeared. During the third and final session, the locations of the bottle and the cylinder were switched. The estrous females and to a lesser degree male rats, responded to the relocation of objects with a renewal of exploration and activity; proestrous females did not show this response. The rats were then trained on a four-arm radial maze reference memory task. The correct arm could be located by its relation to extra-room cues, a large distal white panel, or to local inserts on the maze. Once the animals consistently chose the goal arm, a probe session was conducted to determine which cues the animals were using to solve the task. During the probe trial both the white panel and the local inserts were rotated 90 degrees clockwise and counterclockwise respectively and the animals' choice of arm recorded. During the first probe, females tended to rely on all three types of cues in solving the task. With additional training there was a shift towards predominantly using the distal visual information. In contrast, male rats did not show this shift; by the first probe session the males were predominantly using the distal visual information to solve the task. The findings indicate: (1) sex differences in the initial use of environmental cues; (2) the usage of environmental information is dynamic and changes with additional exposures to the environment. The results are related to previous findings on sex differences and estrous cycle effects, with an emphasis on the implications for hippocampal processing.
Drosophila transient receptor potential (Trp) and its mammalian homologues are postulated to form capacitative Ca2+ entry or store-operated channels. Here we show that expression of murine Trp4 in HEK 293 cells also leads to an increase in inwardly rectifying K+ currents. No similar increase was found in cell lines expressing Trp1, Trp3 or Trp6. Consistent with typical characteristics of inward rectifiers, the K+ currents in Trp4-expressing cells were blocked by low millimolar concentrations of Cs+ and Ba2+, but not by 1.2 mM Ca2+, and were only slightly inhibited by 5 mM tetraethylammonium. Single channel recordings of excised inside-out patches revealed the presence of two conducting states of 51 pS and 94 pS in Trp4-expressing cells. The outward current in the excised patches was blocked by 1 mM spermine, but not by 1 mM Mg2+. How Trp4 expression causes the increase in the K+ currents is not known. We propose that Trp4 either participates in the formation of a novel K+ channel or up-regulates the expression or activity of endogenous inwardly rectifying K+ channels.

The present study investigated the role of alpha(2C)-adrenoceptors in the regulation of activity and discrimination accuracy in an operant chamber test. We trained food deprived control and alpha(2C)-adrenoceptor knockout mice to collect liquid food rewards in an operant chamber during the light (20 s) period. No food reward was delivered during the dark period (40 s). The alpha(2C)-adrenoceptor knockout mice tended to make fewer total responses and collect less rewards than their controls after saline treatment. However, only response accuracy of alpha(2C)-adrenoceptor knockout mice was significantly lower than that of the control mice. Methylphenidate, a drug blocking dopamine re-uptake and increasing dopamine release, dose-dependently decreased the number of total responses and collected food rewards in control mice but increased those measures in alpha(2C)-adrenoceptor knockout mice. In addition, the effect of methylphenidate on discrimination accuracy differed between knockout and control mice. Our results indicate that alpha(2C)-adrenoceptors may regulate dopamine-mediated functions.
We studied the connections of eleven auditory cortical areas with the claustrum and the endopiriform nucleus in the cat, by means of cortical injections of either wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase, or biotinylated dextran amines. Unlike previously accepted reports, all auditory areas have reciprocal connections with the ipsi- and contralateral claustrum, though they differ in strength and/or topography. The areas that send the strongest projections are the intermediate region of the posterior ectosylvian gyrus and the insular cortex, followed by the primary auditory cortex and the dorsal portion of the posterior ectosylvian gyrus. The high degree of convergence of cortical axons in the intermediate region of the claustrum, arising from tonotopic and nontonotopic areas, suggests that claustral neurons are unlikely to be well tuned to the frequency of the acoustic stimulus. Corticoclaustral axons from any given area cover territories largely overlapping with those occupied by the claustrocortical neurons projecting back to the same area. The location of cortically projecting neurons in the claustrum matches the position of the target cortical area in the cerebral hemisphere, both rostrocaudally and dorsoventrally. These findings suggest that the intermediate region of the claustrum integrates inputs from all auditory cortical areas, and then sends the result of such processing back to every auditory cortical field. On the other hand, the endopiriform nucleus, a limbic-related structure thought to play a role in the acquisition of conditioned fear, would process mostly polymodal information, since it only receives projections from the insular and temporal cortices.
We have provided a translation of Golgi's original paper on the mammalian hippocampus (first published in 1883 and reprinted numerous times), along with a preface on its historical context. Golgi believed that this part of the cerebral hemisphere showed best the exact relationship between nerve cells and nerve fibers, the most important problem in 19th century neuroscience.
It is rare to see a day pass in which we are not told through some popular medium that the population is becoming older. Along with this information comes the &quot;new&quot; revelation that as we enter the next millennium there will be increases in age-associated diseases (e.g., cancer, cardiovascular disease) including the most devastating of these, which involve the nervous system (e.g., Alzheimer's disease [AD] and Parkinson's disease [PD]). It is estimated that within the next 50 years approximately 30% of the population will be aged 65 years or older. Of those between 75 and 84 years of age, 6 million will exhibit some form of AD symptoms, and of those older than 85 years, over 12 million will have some form of dementia associated with AD. What appears more ominous is that many cognitive changes occur even in the absence of specific age-related neurodegenerative diseases. Common components thought to contribute to the manifestation of these disorders and normal age-related declines in brain performance are increased susceptibility to long-term effects of oxidative stress (OS) and inflammatory insults. Unless some means is found to reduce these age-related decrements in neuronal function, health care costs will continue to rise exponentially. Thus, it is extremely important to explore methods to retard or reverse age-related neuronal deficits as well as their subsequent, behavioral manifestations. Fortunately, the growth of knowledge in the biochemistry of cell viability has opened new avenues of research focused at identifying new therapeutic agents that could potentially disrupt the perpetual cycle of events involved in the decrements associated with these detrimental processes. In this regard, a new role in which certain dietary components may play important roles in alleviating certain disorders are beginning to receive increased attention, in particular those involving phytochemicals found in fruits and vegetables.
Excessive proinflammatory cytokine and NO production by activated microglia play a role in neurodegenerative disorders. To investigate whether the neuroprotectant N-acetyl-O-methyldopamine (NAMDA) downregulates genes associated with microglial activation, we measured gene expression of TNF-alpha, IL-1beta, inducible nitric oxide synthase (NOS2), and an associated cofactor synthesis gene, GTP cyclohydrolase I (GTPCH) in LPS-stimulated microglia cells in the presence or absence of NAMDA. The temporal pattern of cytokine gene expression showed that LPS (0.2 microg/ml) increased TNF-alpha and IL-1beta gene expression at 1 and 3 h, which was repressed by cotreatment of NAMDA. Similarly, LPS also induced GTPCH and NOS2 gene expression at 3 and 6 h, and cotreatment of NAMDA repressed the induction with parallel reduction of nitrite, an oxidative metabolite of nitric oxide. Since transcription factor NF-kappaB is involved in regulating expression of these genes, the effects of NAMDA on NF-kappaB nuclear translocation and DNA binding in immunostimulated microglia were investigated. We found that neither LPS-induced NF-kappaB translocation nor DNA binding activity was affected by cotreatment with NAMDA in BV-2 microglia. On the other hand, NAMDA increased intracellular cAMP levels and potentiated LPS-induced phosphorylated cAMP-responsive element binding protein (pCREB) expression. Treatment with adenosine 3'5'-cyclic monophosphothioate, a specific inhibitor of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA), reversed not only NAMDA-induced pCREB upregulation but also NAMDA-induced repression of TNF-alpha and IL-1beta gene transcription. The data demonstrate that NAMDA represses LPS-induced proinflammatory cytokines gene expression via a cAMP-dependent protein kinase pathway. Thus, repressing proinflammatory cytokines and NOS2 gene expression in activated microglia by NAMDA may provide new therapeutic strategies for ischemic cerebral disease as well as other neurodegenerative diseases.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) plays a role in the distribution of lipid within many organs and cell types in the human body, including neurons and astrocytes of the central nervous system (CNS). The apoE4 isoform is also a genetic risk factor for late onset Alzheimer's disease (AD). However, the mechanism by which apoE is involved in AD is largely unknown. In order to understand how apoE is involved in the distribution of lipid in the CNS, we sought to investigate not only the origin of intraneuronal apoE, but the pathway by which it is processed once synthesized. We have established that human neurons can synthesize apoE in the presence of astrocytes, and that intracellular neuronal apoE is processed through the rough endoplasmic reticulum, golgi, and CD63-positive lysosomes where it may be stored before secretion. Our results also suggest that apoE synthesis is regulated by a feedback mechanism, controlled by the neuron itself. This regulatory mechanism may be essential to the maintenance of neuronal cholesterol concentrations and in turn membrane stability.
SqKv1A is a cDNA that encodes a Kv1 (Shaker-type) alpha-subunit expressed only in the giant axon and the parental giant fiber lobe (GFL) neurons of the squid stellate ganglion. We incorporated SqKv1A into a recombinant baculovirus for expression in the insect Sf9 cell line. Whole-cell patch-clamp recordings reveal that very few cells display functional potassium current (IK) if cultured at the standard postinfection temperature of 27 degrees C. At 18 degrees C, less SqKv1A protein is produced than at 27 degrees C, but cells with IK currents are much more numerous and can survive for at least 20 days postinfection (vs. approximately 5 days at 27 degrees C). Activation and deactivation kinetics of SqKv1A in Sf9 cells are slower (approximately 3- and 10-fold, respectively) than those of native channels in GFL neurons, but have similar voltage dependencies. The two cell types show only subtle differences in steady-state voltage-dependence of conductance and inactivation. Rates of IK inactivation in 20 mM external K are identical in the two cell types, but the sensitivity of inactivation to external tetraethylammonium (TEA) and K ions differ: inactivation of SqKv1A in Sf9 cells is slowed by external TEA and K ions, whereas inactivation of GFL IK is largely insensitive. Functional differences are discussed in terms of factors that may be specific to cell-type, including the presence of presently unidentified Kv1 subunits in GFL neurons that might form heteromultimers with SqKv1A.
Androgen was reported to cause cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) during replacement therapy for aplastic anemia. Oxymetholone, a synthetic androgen analogue, has been widely used in the treatment of aplastic anemia. A 40-year-old woman with aplastic anemia visited our hospital because of severe headache, nausea, vomiting, blurred vision and diplopia for a period of 1 month. She had taken oxymetholone for 2 years. Neurological examination revealed bilateral papilledema and bilateral sixth nerve palsies. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), performed at the time of admission, demonstrated left-sided tentorial SDH, and focal cerebral thrombosis of the left superficial sylvian vein and sigmoid sinus. MR venography revealed multiple irregularities in the superior sagittal sinus and left transverse sinus. CVT with tentorial subdural hematoma (SDH) caused by oxymetholone was strongly suggested. Oxymetholone was immediately discontinued, and her symptoms and signs disappeared. Because of the thrombocytopenia, anticoagulation was not started. She was discharged and visited the outpatient clinic without neurological symptoms for 6 months. This report supports the cautions given about the risk of CVT with oxymetholone supplementation in aplastic anemia. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first report of CVT associated with tentorial SDH that was probably caused by oxymetholone.
The medial geniculate nucleus of the thalamus (MGN) and the basolateral complex of the amygdala (BLA) are critical components of the neural circuit that mediates auditory fear conditioning. Several studies indicate that neurons in both the MGN and BLA exhibit associative plasticity of spike firing during auditory fear conditioning. In the present study, we examined whether the development of plasticity in the MGN requires the BLA. Single units were recorded from chronic multichannel electrodes implanted in the medial division of the MGN of conscious and freely moving rats. Rats received auditory fear conditioning trials, which consisted of a white-noise conditional stimulus (CS) and a co-terminating footshock unconditional stimulus (US). Unpaired (sensitization) controls received the same number of trials as paired animals, but the CS and US were explicitly unpaired. Before fear conditioning, rats received either an intra-amygdala infusion of muscimol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, to inactivate BLA neurons or an infusion of the saline vehicle. Auditory fear conditioning produced a substantial increase in both CS-elicited spike firing in the MGN and conditional freezing behavior in vehicle-treated rats receiving paired training. Muscimol inactivation of the BLA severely attenuated the development of both conditioning-related increases in CS-elicited spike firing in the MGN and conditional freezing to the auditory CS. Unpaired training did not yield increases in either CS-elicited spike firing or freezing to the tone CS. These results reveal that the BLA is essential to the development of plasticity in the auditory thalamus during fear conditioning.
Dopamine transmission in the nucleus accumbens can be activated by drugs, stress, or motivated behaviors, and repeated exposure to these stimuli can sensitize this dopamine response. The objectives of this study were to determine whether female sexual behavior activates nucleus accumbens neurons and whether past sexual experience cross-sensitizes neuronal responses in the nucleus accumbens to amphetamine. Using immunocytochemical labeling, c-Fos expression in different subregions (shell vs core at the rostral, middle, and caudal levels) of the nucleus accumbens was examined in female hamsters that had varying amounts of sexual experience. Female hamsters, given either 6 weeks of sexual experience or remaining sexually naive, were tested for sexual behavior by exposure to adult male hamsters. Previous sexual experience increased c-Fos labeling in the rostral and caudal levels but not in the middle levels of the nucleus accumbens. Testing for sexual behavior increased labeling in the core, but not the shell, of the nucleus accumbens. To validate that female sexual behavior can sensitize neurons in the mesolimbic dopamine pathway, the locomotor responses of sexually experienced and sexually naive females to an amphetamine injection were then compared. Amphetamine increased general locomotor activity in all females. However, sexually experienced animals responded sooner to amphetamine than did sexually naive animals. These data indicate that female sexual behavior can activate neurons in the nucleus accumbens and that sexual experience can cross-sensitize neuronal responses to amphetamine. In addition, these results provide additional evidence for functional differences between the shell and core of the nucleus accumbens and across its anteroposterior axis.
In natural situations, motor activity must often choose a single target when multiple distractors are present. The present paper asks how primate smooth pursuit eye movements choose targets, by analysis of a natural target-selection task. Monkeys tracked two targets that started 1.5 degrees eccentric and moved in different directions (up, right, down, and left) toward the position of fixation. As expected from previous results, the smooth pursuit before the first saccade reflected a vector average of the responses to the two target motions individually. However, post-saccadic smooth eye velocity showed enhancement that was spatially selective for the motion at the endpoint of the saccade. If the saccade endpoint was close to one of the two targets, creating a targeting saccade, then pursuit was selectively enhanced for the visual motion of that target and suppressed for the other target. If the endpoint landed between the two targets, creating an averaging saccade, then post-saccadic smooth eye velocity also reflected a vector average of the two target motions. Saccades with latencies &gt;200 msec were almost always targeting saccades. However, pursuit did not transition from vector-averaging to target-selecting until the occurrence of a saccade, even when saccade latencies were &gt;300 msec. Thus, our data demonstrate that post-saccadic enhancement of pursuit is spatially selective and that noncued target selection for pursuit is time-locked to the occurrence of a saccade. This raises the possibility that the motor commands for saccades play a causal role, not only in enhancing visuomotor transmission for pursuit but also in choosing a target for pursuit.
The initial microglial responses that occur after brain injury and in various neurological diseases are characterized by microglial accumulation in the affected sites of brain that results from the migration and proliferation of these cells. The early-phase signal responsible for this accumulation is likely to be transduced by rapidly diffusible factors. In this study, the possibility of ATP released from injured neurons and nerve terminals affecting cell motility was determined in rat primary cultured microglia. Extracellular ATP and ADP induced membrane ruffling and markedly enhanced chemokinesis in Boyden chamber assay. Further analyses using the Dunn chemotaxis chamber assay, which allows direct observation of cell movement, revealed that both ATP and ADP induced chemotaxis of microglia. The elimination of extracellular calcium or treatment with pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulphonic acid, suramin, or adenosine-3'-phosphate-5'-phosphosulfate did not inhibit ATP- or ADP-induced membrane ruffling, whereas AR-C69931MX or pertussis toxin treatments clearly did so. As an intracellular signaling molecule underlying these phenomena, the small G-protein Rac was activated by ATP and ADP stimulation, and its activation was also inhibited by pretreatment with pertussis toxin. These results strongly suggest that membrane ruffling and chemotaxis of microglia induced by ATP or ADP are mediated by G(i/o)-coupled P2Y receptors.
It has been found that insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I) exerts cytoprotection against Abeta amyloid-induced neuronal cell death. Deposits of Abeta amyloid are one of the pathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Here, we examined whether IGF-I exerts protective activity against cell death induced by a familial AD (FAD)-linked mutant of amyloid precursor protein (APP), and we found that IGF-I protected cells from toxicity of FAD-associated V642I mutant of APP in multiple cell systems. IGFBP-3 blocked this action of IGF-I, but not of des(1-3)IGF-I, which was as active as IGF-I in the presence of IGFBP-3. The data also demonstrated that the IGF-I receptor (IGF-IR) mediates the protective activity of IGF-I. The antagonizing function of the IGF-I/IGF-IR system against V642I-APP, which is further antagonized by IGFBP-3, provides a molecular clue to the understanding of AD pathophysiology and to the establishment of potential therapy for AD.
Transmission at the end-bulb synapse formed by auditory nerve terminals onto the soma of neurons in the avian nucleus magnocellularis is characterized by high transmitter release probability and strong synaptic depression. Activation of presynaptic GABA(B) receptors minimizes depression at this synapse and significantly enhances synaptic strength during high-frequency activity. Here we investigate synaptic mechanisms underlying this phenomenon. EPSC amplitudes evoked by 200 Hz trains increased more than twofold when release probability was reduced with Cd(2+) or baclofen. This effect was not exhibited by a transmitter depletion model of presynaptic depression, which predicts that EPSC amplitudes reach a common steady-state amplitude during high-frequency trains, despite alterations of initial release probability. However, an additional source of postsynaptic depression was sufficient to explain our findings. Aniracetam, a modulator of AMPA receptors that reduces desensitization, decreased the amount of synaptic depression during trains, indicating that desensitization occurred during trains of stimuli. However, this effect of aniracetam was absent when release probability was lowered with baclofen or Cd(2+). No effect of aniracetam on the NMDA component of the EPSC was seen, confirming a postsynaptic site of action of aniracetam. When desensitization was reduced with aniracetam, steady-state EPSC amplitudes during trains were found to converge over a wide range of release probabilities, as predicted by the depletion model. Additional evidence of AMPA receptor desensitization was provided by direct measurement of quantal amplitudes immediately after stimulus trains. Thus, presynaptic modulation by GABA(B) receptors regulates the extent of AMPA receptor desensitization and controls synaptic strength, thereby modulating the flow of information at an auditory synapse.
Neurons in the rat substantia nigra (SN) are enriched in group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) subtypes and respond to group I mGluR activation. To better understand the mechanisms by which mGluR1 and mGluR5 mediate these effects, the goal of this study was to elucidate the subsynaptic localization of these two receptor subtypes in the rat and monkey substantia nigra. At the light microscope level, neurons of the SN pars reticulata (SNr) displayed moderate to strong immunoreactivity for both mGluR1a and mGluR5 in rats and monkeys. However, mGluR1a labeling was much stronger in monkey than in rat SN pars compacta (SNc) neurons, whereas a moderate level of mGluR5 immunoreactivity was found in both species. At the electron microscope level, the immunoreactivity for both group I mGluR subtypes was primarily expressed postsynaptically, although light mGluR1a labeling was occasionally seen in axon terminals in the rat SNr. Immunogold studies revealed a striking difference in the subcellular distribution of mGluR1a and mGluR5 immunoreactivity in SNr and SNc neurons. Although the bulk of mGluR1a was attached to the plasma membrane, &gt;80% of mGluR5 immunoreactivity was intracellular. Plasma membrane-bound immunoreactivity for group I mGluRs in both SNc and SNr neurons was mostly extrasynaptic or in the main body of symmetric, putative GABAergic synapses. On the other hand, asymmetric synapses either were nonimmunoreactive or displayed perisynaptic labeling. These data raise important questions about the trafficking, internalization, and potential functions of group I mGluRs at extrasynaptic sites or symmetric synapses in the substantia nigra.
Proteolysis of mutant huntingtin (htt) has been hypothesized to occur in Huntington's disease (HD) brains. Therefore, this in vivo study examined htt fragments in cortex and striatum of adult HD and control human brains by Western blots, using domain-specific anti-htt antibodies that recognize N- and C-terminal domains of htt (residues 181-810 and 2146-2541, respectively), as well as the 17 residues at the N terminus of htt. On the basis of the patterns of htt fragments observed, different &quot;protease-susceptible domains&quot; were identified for proteolysis of htt in cortex compared with striatum, suggesting that htt undergoes tissue-specific proteolysis. In cortex, htt proteolysis occurs within two different N-terminal domains, termed protease-susceptible domains &quot;A&quot; and &quot;B.&quot; However, in striatum, a different pattern of fragments indicated that proteolysis of striatal htt occurred within a C-terminal domain termed &quot;C,&quot; as well as within the N-terminal domain region designated &quot;A&quot;. Importantly, striatum from HD brains showed elevated levels of 40-50 kDa N-terminal and 30-50 kDa C-terminal fragments compared with that of controls. Increased levels of these htt fragments may occur from a combination of enhanced production or retarded degradation of fragments. Results also demonstrated tissue-specific ubiquitination of certain htt N-terminal fragments in striatum compared with cortex. Moreover, expansions of the triplet-repeat domain of the IT15 gene encoding htt was confirmed for the HD tissue samples studied. Thus, regulated tissue-specific proteolysis and ubiquitination of htt occur in human HD brains. These results suggest that the role of huntingtin proteolysis should be explored in the pathogenic mechanisms of HD.
Extracellular purines have essential roles in neuronal development; hence, disruptions in their metabolism as reported in Lesch Nyhan syndrome (LNS) could result in developmental abnormalities. The deficiency of hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyl transferase (HGPRT) in LNS leads to increased hypoxanthine and uric acid production. We have reported that HGPRT-deficient B103-4C neuroblastoma, a neuronal model of LNS, proliferated less and differentiated more than their HGPRT-positive B103 counterparts. Here, we sought to determine whether differences in proliferation and differentiation would occur when these cells were cultured in the presence of hypoxanthine or in a hypoxanthine-/serum-free chemically defined media (NBMN2). In media with 1% serum, hypoxanthine (50 microM) significantly increased the proliferation of both cell lines with a greater effect on B103-4C cells. In 1% serum media, hypoxanthine increased differentiation of B103 but decreased B103-4C differentiation. In NBMN2, B103 proliferated far more than B103-4C, but both cell types differentiated to the same extent. These results are interpreted to suggest that elevated levels of central nervous system (CNS) hypoxanthine as reported in LNS may affect neuronal development, and to implicate hypoxanthine and abnormal neuronal development as causative factors in the etiology of LNS.
1. Peroneal muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSA), finger blood pressure and cardiac intervals were recorded at rest in 60 healthy subjects, aged 18-71 years. Arterial baroreflex control of MSA was analysed by relating each spontaneous sympathetic burst to the diastolic blood pressure and the cardiac interval of the heart beat during which the burst was generated. The results were expressed as blood pressure/cardiac interval threshold for occurrence of bursts, and as baroreflex sensitivity (i.e. the relationship between diastolic pressure/cardiac interval and burst strength). 2. Significant blood pressure/cardiac interval thresholds were present in all subjects and old subjects had less variability of thresholds than young subjects. In contrast, significant baroreflex sensitivity for diastolic pressure and cardiac interval was present in only 55 and 73 % of the subjects, respectively. There was no age-related difference in sensitivity. 3. In 40 subjects, two 5 min periods from the same recording were analysed. The number of sympathetic bursts and the threshold for occurrence of bursts were reproducible in all subjects. In contrast, significant baroreflex sensitivity in both periods was present in only 30 % (diastolic pressure) and 40 % (cardiac interval) of the subjects. 4. The results show that the baroreflex mechanisms regulating the occurrence and strength of sympathetic bursts are not identical. We suggest that the modulation occurs at two sites, one which determines whether or not a burst will occur, and another at which the strength of the discharge is determined.
1. We investigated interhemispheric interactions between the human hand motor areas using transcranial cortical magnetic and electrical stimulation. 2. A magnetic test stimulus was applied over the motor cortex contralateral to the recorded muscle (test motor cortex), and an electrical or magnetic conditioning stimulus was applied over the ipsilateral hemisphere (conditioning motor cortex). We investigated the effects of the conditioning stimulus on responses to the test stimulus. 3. Two effects were elicited at different interstimulus intervals (ISIs): early facilitation (ISI = 4-5 ms) and late inhibition (ISI &gt; or = 11 ms). 4. The early facilitation was evoked by a magnetic or anodal electrical conditioning stimulus over the motor point in the conditioning hemisphere, which suggests that the conditioning stimulus for early facilitation directly activates corticospinal neurones. 5. The ISIs for early facilitation taken together with the time required for activation of corticospinal neurones by I3-waves in the test hemisphere are compatible with the interhemispheric conduction time through the corpus callosum. Early facilitation was observed in responses to I3-waves, but not in responses to D-waves nor to I1-waves. Based on these results, we conclude that early facilitation is mediated through the corpus callosum. 6. If the magnetic conditioning stimulus induced posteriorly directed currents, or if an anodal electrical conditioning stimulus was applied over a point 2 cm anterior to the motor point, then we observed late inhibition with no early facilitation. 7. Late inhibition was evoked in responses to both I1- and I3-waves, but was not evoked in responses to D-waves. The stronger the conditioning stimulus was, the greater was the amount of inhibition. These results are compatible with surround inhibition at the motor cortex.
1. The rectification property of the inward rectifier K+ channel is chiefly due to the block of outward current by cytoplasmic Mg2+ and polyamines. In the cloned inward rectifier K+ channel Kir2.1 (IRK1), Asp172 in the second transmembrane region (M2) and Glu224 in the putative cytoplasmic region after M2 are reported to be critical for the sensitivity to these blockers. However, the difference in the inward rectification properties between Kir2.1 and a very weak inward rectifier sWIRK could not be explained by differences at these two sites. 2. Following sequence comparison of Kir2.1 and sWIRK, we focused this study on Glu299 located in the centre of the putative cytoplasmic region after M2. Single-point mutants of Kir2.1 (Glu224Gly and Glu299Ser) and a double-point mutant (Glu224Gly-Glu299Ser) were made and expressed in Xenopus oocytes or in HEK293T cells. 3. Their electrophysiological properties were compared with those of wild-type (WT) Kir2.1 and the following observations were made. (a) Glu299Ser showed a weaker inward rectification, a slower activation upon hyperpolarization, a slower decay of the outward current upon depolarization, a lower sensitivity to block by cytoplasmic spermine and a smaller single-channel conductance than WT. (b) The features of Glu224Gly were similar to those of Glu299Ser. (c) In the double mutant (Glu224Gly-Glu299Ser), the differences from WT described above were more prominent. 4. These results demonstrate that Glu299 as well as Glu224 control rectification and permeation, and suggest the possibility that the two sites contribute to the inner vestibule of the channel pore. The slowing down of the on- and off-blocking processes by mutation of these sites implies that Glu224 and Glu299 function to facilitate the entry (and exit) of spermine to (and from) the blocking site.

Oligodendroglial reactions to compression injury of spinal cord include apoptosis, secondary demyelination, and remyelination failure. Within hours after contusion, the membrane lipid peroxidation (MLP) byproduct, 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), increases rapidly in gray matter and thereafter in white matter tracts beyond the initial lesion level. Considering that HNE is a mediator and marker of neuronal MLP toxicity in various neurodegenerative conditions, the present study examined its effect on the regeneration potential of oligodendrocyte progenitors, as defined by their capacity to survive, proliferate and migrate in primary culture. Treatment of oligodendroblasts with HNE evoked a time- and dose-dependent cytotoxicity resembling apoptosis at aldehyde concentrations known to be produced by neurons and achieved in tissue undergoing peroxidative injury. In addition, sublethal concentrations of HNE inhibited the mitogenic and chemotactic responses of more immature progenitors to platelet-derived growth factor. These effects appear to be mediated in part by the formation of HNE adducts with progenitor proteins located within the plasma membrane and cytoplasmic compartments. Our data are the first to show that HNE can have direct, deleterious effects on oligodendrocyte precursors. The present study also suggests a mechanism by which the striking accumulation of HNE in white matter tracts surrounding the site of spinal cord compression injury and in other ischemic-hypoxic insults associated with MLP could suppress the potential regenerative response of endogenous oligodendrocyte progenitor cells.
Cocaine enhances dopamine-mediated neurotransmission by blocking dopamine re-uptake at axon terminals. Most dopamine-containing nerve terminals innervate medium spiny neurons in the striatum of the brain. Cocaine addiction is thought to stem, in part, from neural adaptations that act to maintain equilibrium by countering the effects of repeated drug administration. Chronic exposure to cocaine upregulates several transcription factors that alter gene expression and which could mediate such compensatory neural and behavioural changes. One such transcription factor is DeltaFosB, a protein that persists in striatum long after the end of cocaine exposure. Here we identify cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (Cdk5) as a downstream target gene of DeltaFosB by use of DNA array analysis of striatal material from inducible transgenic mice. Overexpression of DeltaFosB, or chronic cocaine administration, raised levels of Cdk5 messenger RNA, protein, and activity in the striatum. Moreover, injection of Cdk5 inhibitors into the striatum potentiated behavioural effects of repeated cocaine administration. Our results suggest that changes in Cdk5 levels mediated by DeltaFosB, and resulting alterations in signalling involving D1 dopamine receptors, contribute to adaptive changes in the brain related to cocaine addiction.
The vertebrate brain continues to produce new neurons throughout life. In the rat hippocampus, several thousand are produced each day, many of which die within weeks. Associative learning can enhance their survival; however, until now it was unknown whether new neurons are involved in memory formation. Here we show that a substantial reduction in the number of newly generated neurons in the adult rat impairs hippocampal-dependent trace conditioning, a task in which an animal must associate stimuli that are separated in time. A similar reduction did not affect learning when the same stimuli are not separated in time, a task that is hippocampal-independent. The reduction in neurogenesis did not induce death of mature hippocampal neurons or permanently alter neurophysiological properties of the CA1 region, such as long-term potentiation. Moreover, recovery of cell production was associated with the ability to acquire trace memories. These results indicate that newly generated neurons in the adult are not only affected by the formation of a hippocampal-dependent memory, but also participate in it.

The repeated administration of selective kappa-opioid receptor agonists prevents the locomotor activation produced by acute cocaine administration and the development of cocaine-induced behavioral sensitization. Previous studies have shown that dopamine (DA) D2 autoreceptors modulate the synthesis and release of DA in the striatum. Evidence that kappa agonist treatment downregulates DA D2 receptors in this same brain region has recently been obtained. Accordingly, the present studies were undertaken to examine the influence of repeated kappa-opioid receptor agonist administration on pre- and postsynaptic DA D2 receptor function in the dorsal striatum using pre- and postsynaptic receptor-selective doses of quinpirole. Rats were injected once daily with the selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist U69593 (0.16-0.32 mg/kg s.c.) or vehicle for 3 days. Microdialysis studies assessing basal and quinpirole-evoked (0.05 mg/kg s.c.) DA levels were conducted 2 days later. Basal and quinpirole-stimulated locomotor activity were assessed in a parallel group of animals. The no-net flux method of quantitative microdialysis revealed no effect of U69593 on basal DA dynamics, in that extracellular DA concentration and extraction fraction did not differ in control and U69593-treated animals. Acute administration of quinpirole significantly decreased striatal DA levels in control animals, but in animals treated with U69593, the inhibitory effects of quinpirole were significantly reduced. Quinpirole produced a dose-related increase in locomotor activity in control animals, and this effect was significantly attenuated in U69593-treated animals. These data reveal that prior repeated administration of a selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist attenuates quinpirole-induced alterations in DA neurotransmission and locomotor activity. These results suggest that both pre- and postsynaptic striatal DA D2 receptors may be downregulated following repeated kappa-opioid receptor agonist administration. Synapse 39:343-350, 2001. Published 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Cerebral cholinergic deficits have been described in Alzheimer disease (AD) and as a result of normal aging. At the present time, there are very limited options for the quantification of cholinergic receptors with in vivo imaging techniques such as PET. In the present study, we examined the feasibility of utilizing [11C]N-methyl-4-piperidyl benzilate (NMPB), a nonselective muscarinic receptor ligand, in the study of aging and neurodegenerative processes associated with cholinergic dysfunction. Based on prior data describing the accuracy of various kinetic methods, we examined the concentration of muscarinic receptors with [11C]NMPB and PET using two- and three-compartment kinetic models. Eighteen healthy subjects and six patients diagnosed with probable AD were studied. Pixel-by-pixel two-compartment model fits showed acceptable precision in the study of normal aging, with comparable results to those obtained with a more complex and less precise three-compartment model. Normal aging was associated with a reduction in muscarinic receptor binding in neocortical regions and thalamus. In AD patients, the three-compartment model appeared capable of dissociating changes in tracer transport from changes in receptor binding, but suffered from statistical uncertainty, requiring normalization to a reference region, and therefore limiting its potential use in the study of neurodegenerative processes. After normalization, no regional changes in muscarinic receptor concentrations were observed in AD.
Treatment of rats with diamide (100 mg/kg i.p.) altered the thiol components of the blood to a very different extent than in tissues (liver, kidney, lung, spleen, heart and testis). A total consumption (10 min) and regeneration (120 min) of blood glutathione (GSH), matched by a parallel increase and decrease in glutathione-protein mixed disulfides (GS-SP) was observed. In contrast, no modification of non-protein SH groups (NPSH) and protein SH groups (PSH), GS-SP and malondialdehyde (MDA) was observed in liver, kidney, lung, testis spleen and heart within same time range. In particular, only glutathione disulfide (GSSG) levels and some activities of antioxidant enzymes were modified to a small extent and in an opposite direction in some organs. For example, GSSG, and glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G-6-PDH) and catalase (CAT) activities appeared up-regulated in one tissue and down-regulated in another. The least modified organ was the liver, whereas lung and spleen were the most affected (lung, GSSG, significantly increased whereas G-6-PDH, glutaredoxin (GRX), GPX, superoxide dimutase (SOD) levels were significantly lowered; spleen, GSSG and the activity of glutathione reductase (GR), G-6-PDH and glutathione transferase (GST) were significantly decreased). The different responses of erythrocytes and organs to diamide were explained by the high affinity of hemoglobin and by the relatively high potential of thiol regeneration in organs. The rapid reversibility of the process of protein S-thiolation in blood and the small effects in organs leads us to propose the existence of an inter-organ cooperation in the rat that regulates protein S-thiolation in blood. Plasma thiols may well play a role in this process.
Organotin compounds, particularly tri-organotin, have demonstrated cytotoxic properties against a number of tumor cell lines. On this basis, triethyltin(IV)lupinylsulfide hydrochloride (IST-FS 29), a quinolizidine derivative, was synthesized and developed as a potential antitumor agent. This tin-derived compound exhibited potent antiproliferative effects on three different human cancer cell lines: teratocarcinoma of the ovary (PA-1), colon carcinoma (HCT-8) and glioblastoma (A-172). Cytotoxic activity was assessed by MTT and cell count assays during time course experiments with cell recovery after compound withdrawal. Significant cell growth inhibition (up to 95% in HCT-8 after 72 h of exposure), which also persisted after drug-free medium change, was reported in all the cell lines by both assays. In addition, the cytocidal effects exerted by IST-FS 29 appeared more consistent with necrosis or delayed cell death, rather than apoptosis, as shown by morphologic observations under light microscope, DNA fragmentation analysis and flow cytometry. In the attempt to elucidate whether this compound might affect genes playing a role in G1/S phase transition, the expressions of p53, p21(WAF1), cyclin D1 and Rb, mainly involved in response to DNA-damaging stress, were analyzed by Western blot. Heterogeneous patterns of expression during exposure to IST-FS 29 were evidenced in the different cell lines suggesting that these cell-cycle-related genes are not likely the primary targets of this compound. Thus, the present data seem more indicative of a direct effect of IST-FS-29 on macromolecular synthesis and cellular homeostasis, as previously hypothesized for other organotin complexes.
This study was designed to assess the effect of ageing on spatial (allocentric and egocentric) strategies in rats. Two different tasks were designed for this purpose: one involving Morris' circular pool (distal extramaze cues) and another using the T water maze (egocentric cues). In the first task, the aged rats showed some difficulty in acquiring allocentric spatial learning skills. After increasing the number of trials in this task, there was no significant improvement in the performance of the aged group of rats compared to the adult group. However, in the second spatial task (using egocentric cues), both age groups gave a similar performance. Therefore, the effect of ageing on spatial learning depends on the strategy required to acquire this learning.
The authors identified a novel mtDNA mutation (T9176G) in the ATPase 6 gene in a family in which a 10-year-old girl had a severe neurodegenerative disorder, her elder sister had died of Leigh syndrome (LS), and a maternal uncle had a spinocerebellar disorder. Biochemical studies disclosed a reduced rate of ATP synthesis in skin fibroblast cultures from the proposita as the likely explanation of her severe illness. The findings expand the genetic variants associated with LS.

Insulin potentiates N-methyl-d-aspartate receptors (NMDARs) in neurons and Xenopus oocytes expressing recombinant NMDARs. The present study shows that insulin induced (i) an increase in channel number times open probability (nP(o)) in outside-out patches excised from Xenopus oocytes, with no change in mean open time, unitary conductance, or reversal potential, indicating an increase in n and/or P(o); (ii) an increase in charge transfer during block of NMDA-elicited currents by the open channel blocker MK-801, indicating increased number of functional NMDARs in the cell membrane with no change in P(o); and (iii) increased NR1 surface expression, as indicated by Western blot analysis of surface proteins. Botulinum neurotoxin A greatly reduced insulin potentiation, indicating that insertion of new receptors occurs via SNARE-dependent exocytosis. Thus, insulin potentiation occurs via delivery of new channels to the plasma membrane. NMDARs assembled from mutant subunits lacking all known sites of tyrosine and serine/threonine phosphorylation in their carboxyl-terminal tails exhibited robust insulin potentiation, suggesting that insulin potentiation does not require direct phosphorylation of NMDAR subunits. Because insulin and insulin receptors are localized to glutamatergic synapses in the hippocampus, insulin-regulated trafficking of NMDARs may play a role in synaptic transmission and plasticity, including long-term potentiation.
In both humans and animals, the hippocampus is critical to memory across modalities of information (e.g., spatial and nonspatial memory) and plays a critical role in the organization and flexible expression of memories. Recent studies have advanced our understanding of cellular basis of hippocampal function, showing that N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in area CA1 are required in both the spatial and nonspatial domains of learning. Here we examined whether CA1 NMDA receptors are specifically required for the acquisition and flexible expression of nonspatial memory. Mice lacking CA1 NMDA receptors were impaired in solving a transverse patterning problem that required the simultaneous acquisition of three overlapping odor discriminations, and their impairment was related to an abnormal strategy by which they failed to adequately sample and compare the critical odor stimuli. By contrast, they performed normally, and used normal stimulus sampling strategies, in the concurrent learning of three nonoverlapping concurrent odor discriminations. These results suggest that CA1 NMDA receptors play a crucial role in the encoding and flexible expression of stimulus relations in nonspatial memory.
Although it is believed that little recovery occurs after adult mammalian spinal cord injury, in fact significant spontaneous functional improvement commonly occurs after spinal cord injury in humans. To investigate potential mechanisms underlying spontaneous recovery, lesions of defined components of the corticospinal motor pathway were made in adult rats in the rostral cervical spinal cord or caudal medulla. Following complete lesions of the dorsal corticospinal motor pathway, which contains more than 95% of all corticospinal axons, spontaneous sprouting from the ventral corticospinal tract occurred onto medial motoneuron pools in the cervical spinal cord; this sprouting was paralleled by functional recovery. Combined lesions of both dorsal and ventral corticospinal tract components eliminated sprouting and functional recovery. In addition, functional recovery was also abolished if dorsal corticospinal tract lesions were followed 5 weeks later by ventral corticospinal tract lesions. We found extensive spontaneous structural plasticity as a mechanism correlating with functional recovery in motor systems in the adult central nervous system. Experimental enhancement of spontaneous plasticity may be useful to promote further recovery after adult central nervous system injury.
Poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase-1 (PARP-1; EC ) is an abundant nuclear enzyme, activated by DNA strand breaks to attach up to 200 ADP-ribose groups to nuclear proteins. As retroviral infection requires integrase-catalyzed DNA strand breaks, we examined infection of pseudotyped HIV type I in fibroblasts from mice with a targeted deletion of PARP-1. Viral infection is almost totally abolished in PARP-1 knockout fibroblasts. This protection from infection reflects prevention of viral integration into the host genome. These findings suggest a potential for PARP inhibitors in therapy of HIV type I infection.
Mammalian homologues of Drosophila Trp form plasma membrane channels that mediate Ca(2+) influx in response to activation of phospholipase C and internal Ca(2+) store depletion. Previous studies showed that human Trp3 is activated by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP(3)) receptors (IP(3)Rs) and identified interacting domains, one on Trp and two on IP(3)R. We now find that Trp3 binds Ca(2+)-calmodulin (Ca(2+)/CaM) at a site that overlaps with the IP(3)R binding domain. Using patch-clamp recordings from inside-out patches, we further show that Trp3 has a high intrinsic activity that is suppressed by Ca(2+)/CaM under resting conditions, and that Trp3 is activated by the following: a Trp-binding peptide from IP(3)R that displaces CaM from Trp3, a myosin light chain kinase Ca(2+)/CaM binding peptide that prevents CaM from binding to Trp3, and calmidazolium, an inactivator of Ca(2+)/CaM. We conclude that inhibition of the inhibitory action of CaM is a key step of Trp3 channel activation by IP(3)Rs.
Regulation of protein phosphatase 1 (PP1) by protein inhibitors and targeting subunits has been previously studied through the use of recombinant protein expressed in Escherichia coli. This preparation is limited by several key differences in its properties compared with native PP1. In the present study, we have analyzed recombinant PP1 expressed in Sf9 insect cells using baculovirus. Sf9 PP1 exhibited properties identical to those of native PP1, with respect to regulation by metals, inhibitor proteins, and targeting subunits, and failure to dephosphorylate a phosphotyrosine-containing substrate or phospho-DARPP-32 (Dopamine and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, M(r) 32,000). Mutations at Y272 in the beta12/beta13 loop resulted in a loss of activity and reduced the sensitivity to thiophospho-DARPP-32 and inhibitor-2. Mutations of Y272 also increased the relative activity toward a phosphotyrosine-containing substrate or phospho-DARPP-32. Mutation of acidic groove residues caused no change in sensitivity to thiophospho-DARPP-32 or inhibitor-2, but one mutant (E252A:D253A:E256R) exhibited an increased K(m) for phosphorylase a. Several PP1/PP2A chimeras were prepared in which C-terminal sequences of PP2A were substituted into PP1. Replacement of residues 274-330 of PP1 with the corresponding region of PP2A resulted in a large loss of sensitivity to thiophospho-DARPP-32 and inhibitor-2, and also resulted in a loss of interaction with the targeting subunits, spinophilin and PP1 nuclear targeting subunit (PNUTS). More limited alterations in residues in beta12, beta13, and beta14 strands highlighted a key role for M290 and C291 in the interaction of PP1 with thiophospho-DARPP-32, but not inhibitor-2.
Cell death is ubiquitous in the developing brain and an important regulator of cell number. The olfactory bulb, the first central relay for information from the nose, is a particularly appropriate region for studying cell death. The bulb is constantly infused with new cells, has a strictly organized anatomy, and cell survival is known to depend on levels of afferent activation. The present study examined patterns of cell death in both the normally developing and sensory-deprived rat olfactory bulb terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated deoxyuridine triphosphate-biotin nick end labeling (TUNEL). In control pups, TUNEL-labeled profiles were high at postnatal day 5 (P5, day of birth = P0), but then decreased rapidly to constant levels. In contrast, blocking airflow through half of the nasal cavity by surgically closing an external naris on P1 resulted in a gradual increase in TUNEL-positive figures within the ipsilateral olfactory bulb by P20, with the effects being seen in the mitral and granule cell layers until at least P60. The effect was largely age dependent, because subjects occluded from P30 to P60 showed only slight increases in cell death. Furthermore, although interlaminar differences were encountered, the pattern of cell death appeared uniform over much of the bulb. Finally, reopening occluded nares decreased cell death levels to control values, suggesting an inverse relationship between the level of olfactory function and the extent of cell death. Thus, the data indicate that cell death is prevalent in the normal olfactory bulb, and that it is directly regulated by the level of olfactory function.
The serological analysis of recombinant cDNA expression libraries (SEREX) by utilizing a library derived from a human pancreatic adenocarcinoma cell line and IgG antibodies from an allogeneic patient serum led to the identification of 18 genes: 13 of these were known genes, and 5 were unknown genes. In Northern and RT-PCR analyses, we found that the expression of mRNA of 14 genes was elevated in pancreatic cancer cell lines compared with the levels in normal pancreatic tissues. In addition, the expression of mRNA of hsp105 in colon cancer was greater than that in normal colon tissue. Immunohistochemical analysis using anti-hsp105 antibody revealed that an increased expression of hsp105 is a characteristic feature of pancreatic ductal and colon adenocarcinoma. Furthermore, hsp105 immunoreactivity in some cases of gastric, esophageal, and hepatocellular carcinoma was much stronger than that in normal corresponding tissues. These molecules identified may provide good diagnostic markers for cancer cells.
Ciliary function is essential for normal cellular activity in all species from simple protozoa upwards. In humans, ciliary dysmotility or complete immobility have been identified in autosomal recessive multisystemic diseases characterized by recurrent respiratory tract infections and male subfertility due to impaired sperm mobility. Linkage to human chromosome 19q13.3 has been published for some families but no candidate genes have been identified. We report the first identification of a mammalian homolog of a radial spokehead-like protein, with high homology to proteins of sea urchins and the protozoan Chlamydomonas reinhardtii, at the myotonic dystrophy-1 locus (chromosome19q13.3). In the lower organisms, these proteins are important in normal ciliary or flagellar action, including that of sea urchin spermatozoa. Expression of the mammalian homolog was detected in the adult testis. We suggest that this gene, which we have called Radial Spokehead-Like 1 (RSHL1), is a candidate gene for familial primary ciliary dyskinesia.
Following a unilateral anteromedial cortex lesion, a critical period of 12 h to 6 days exists during which the recovery process is exquisitely vulnerable to manipulation. Certain anti-convulsant drugs, as well as convulsive seizures impede recovery when administered during, but not after, the critical period. The mechanisms underlying these behavioral phenomena have not been delineated. Thus, the present study was designed to determine potential mechanisms underlying and responsible for the critical period. To this end, we measured the immunoreactivity of two important markers of the post-injury response cascade, c-Fos and bFGF, at designated times after a unilateral anteromedial cortex lesion. These temporal patterns of expression in the perilesional cortex and ipsilateral dorsal striatum were mapped onto functional recovery patterns. Within the critical period, c-Fos was dramatically elevated through 48 h after the lesion, while bFGF peaked later, on day 6. Upregulation of these markers preceded recovery from somatosensory deficits, which was most dramatic after post-operative day 9 and complete by day 23. Early post-lesion expression of c-Fos may contribute to lesion-induced bFGF expression, which through its neurotrophic properties could be responsible for subsequent functional recovery. Gaining a similar understanding of the critical period following human traumatic brain injury could be an important first step toward improved treatment strategies and neurobehavioral outcome.
The purpose of the present experiment was to explore the role of the dorsal hippocampus in mediating the development of tolerance to the anxiogenic effect of nicotine in the social interaction test of anxiety, and to determine whether tolerance develops to the effects of nicotine on [3H]-5-HT release in this area. Nicotine (1 microg) administered bilaterally into the dorsal hippocampus significantly reduced the time spent in social interaction in vehicle pre-treated rats, indicating an anxiogenic effect, but tolerance to this effect was seen in the rats pre-treated for 6 days with s.c. nicotine (0.1 mg/kg/day). In rats that had been pre-treated with vehicle for 6 days, nicotine (50-200 microM), significantly stimulated [3H]-5-HT release from dorsal hippocampal slices. This stimulation was significantly reduced in rats pre-treated with nicotine (0.1 mg/kg/day) for 6 days, indicating the development of tolerance to the effects of nicotine on 5-HT release. This suggests that tolerance to the anxiogenic effect of nicotine administered into the dorsal hippocampus could be mediated by a reduction in the nicotine enhancement of 5-HT release in this area.
Selective protein kinase C (PKC) activators and inhibitors were used to investigate the involvement of specific PKC isoforms in the modulation of voltage-sensitive Ca(2+) channels (VSCCs) in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells. Exposure to the phorbol ester phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) inhibited the Ca(2+) currents elicited by depolarizing voltage steps. This inhibition was occluded by the PKC-specific inhibitor Ro 31-8220 but remained unaffected by G 6976, a selective inhibitor of conventional PKC isoforms. PDBu treatment caused the translocation of PKC-alpha and -epsilon isoforms from cytosol to membranes. PKC-iota and -zeta showed no signs of translocation. It is concluded that VSCCs are specifically inhibited by the activation of PKC-epsilon in chromaffin cells. This may be relevant to the action of phospholipase-linked receptors involved in the control of Ca(2+) influx, both in catecholaminergic cells and other cell types.
The activity of the exogenous, full-length insulin-like growth factor-2 (IGF-2) P3 promoter is significantly up-regulated during the logarithmic growth phase but rapidly declines in confluent CaCo2 cells undergoing differentiation. Nuclear run-on assays confirmed cell density-dependent regulation of endogenous P3 promoter. To identify regulatory elements in the P3 promoter that may be required for regulating cell density-dependent transcriptional activity, we used the methods of promoter truncation, electrophoretic mobility shift assay, DNase footprinting, and mutation analysis. The relative activity of the full-length (-1229/+140) and truncated (-1090/+140) promoter was identical, being approximately 19, 27, 7, and 3% of pSV-luc activity on days 3, 5, 7, and 9 of cell culture, respectively. However, truncation to -1048 resulted in complete loss of cell density-dependent down-regulation of P3 promoter activity on days 7 and 9, suggesting the presence of regulatory elements between -1091 and -1048 sequence. Further stepwise truncation to -515 did not change promoter activity. Truncation to -138/+140 resulted in complete loss of promoter activity, suggesting that the core promoter was within the -515/-138 segment. A 14-base pair footprint (-1084/-1070) was identified by DNase footprinting within the distal -1091/-1048 segment. Electrophoretic mobility shift assay with wild type and mutant probes confirmed the presence of a novel 7-base pair (CGAGGGC) (-1084/-1078) cis element (P3-D); its mutation abolished binding. Functionality of P3-D cis element was confirmed by measuring the activity of core P3 promoter ligated to distal P3 segment containing either the mutant or wild type P3-D element. We have, therefore, identified a novel cis element, P3-D, that appears to play a critical role in regulating IGF-2 P3 promoter activity in a cell density/differentiation-dependent manner.
Thermal denaturation can help elucidate protein domain substructure. We previously showed that the Na,K-ATPase partially unfolded when heated to 55 degrees C (Arystarkhova, E., Gibbons, D. L., and Sweadner, K. J. (1995) J. Biol. Chem. 270, 8785-8796). The beta subunit unfolded without leaving the membrane, but three transmembrane spans (M8-M10) and the C terminus of the alpha subunit were extruded, while the rest of alpha retained its normal topology with respect to the lipid bilayer. Here we investigated thermal denaturation further, with several salient results. First, trypsin sensitivity at both surfaces of alpha was increased, but not sensitivity to V8 protease, suggesting that the cytoplasmic domains and extruded domain were less tightly packed but still retained secondary structure. Second, thermal denaturation was accompanied by SDS-resistant aggregation of alpha subunits as dimers, trimers, and tetramers without beta or gamma subunits. This implies specific alpha-alpha contact. Third, the gamma subunit, like the C-terminal spans of alpha, was selectively lost from the membrane. This suggests its association with M8-M10 rather than the more firmly anchored transmembrane spans. The picture that emerges is of a Na,K-ATPase complex of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits in which alpha can associate in assemblies as large as tetramers via its cytoplasmic domain, while beta and gamma subunits associate with alpha primarily in its C-terminal portion, which has a unique structure and thermal instability.
The effect of oxidants, electrophiles, and NO donors in rat or human erythrocytes was analyzed to investigate the influence of protein sulfhydryl groups on the metabolism of these thiol reactants. Oxidant-evoked alterations in thiolic homeostasis were significantly different in the two models; large amounts of glutathione protein mixed disulfides were produced in rat but not in human erythrocytes by treatment with hydroperoxides or diamide. The disappearance of all forms of glutathione (reduced, disulfide, protein mixed disulfide) was induced by menadione only in human erythrocytes. The treatment of rat red blood cells with electrophiles produced glutathione S-conjugates to a much lower extent than in human red blood cells; GSH was only minimally depleted in rat red blood cells. The NO donor S-nitrosocysteine induced a rapid transnitrosation reaction with hemoglobin in rat erythrocytes producing high levels of S-nitrosohemoglobin; this reaction in human red blood cells was negligible. All drugs were cleared more rapidly in rat than in human erythrocytes. Unlike human Hb, rat hemoglobin contains three families of protein SH groups; one of these located at position beta125 is directly implicated in the metabolism of thiol reactants. This is thought to influence significantly the biochemical, pharmacological, and toxicological effects of some drugs.
NMDA receptors are glutamate-regulated ion channels of critical importance for many neurophysiological and neuropathological processes. Mg2+ blocks the NMDA receptor by binding to the channel pore with an apparent affinity that depends on the membrane potential. We have investigated the effect of NMDA and the required co-agonist glycine on the affinity of the Mg2+ block site in NR1-1a/NR2A NMDA receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes. We found that NMDA and glycine increase the IC50 value of the Mg2+-block site at pH 7.4 and in the presence of physiological concentration of Ca2+. The increase the IC50 value may correspond to a decrease in Mg2+-block affinity. This effect may result in an increased influx of Ca2+, and this influx may constitute up to a third of the total Ca2+ influx induced by NMDA. At high pH, or at low concentrations of Ca2+, NMDA and glycine have an opposite effect and instead decreased the IC50 value of the Mg2+-block. These results indicate that glutamate and glycine can regulate the affinity of the Mg2+-block site. This effect may have implications for the understanding the role of NMDA receptors both under physiological and pathophysiological conditions.

The fact that relatives of patients with schizophrenia display subtle cognitive abnormalities suggests genetic transmission of an underlying cognitive endophenotype. It was examined to what extent the cognitive abnormalities that discriminate patients and relatives from controls do so independently of each other, and independent of IQ. Neuropsychological measures were assessed in 50 patients with schizophrenia, 50 first-degree relatives of patients with schizophrenia, and 50 healthy controls. The assessment focused on episodic memory, attentional span, simple and complex speed of information, and semantic memory. Factor analysis of the cognitive test results yielded four factors reflecting speed, episodic memory, working memory, and semantic fluency. Performance of the relatives was intermediate to that of the patients and the controls after adjustment for age, sex, educational level, and IQ. For both patients and relatives, speed of information processing, working memory, and episodic memory independently discriminated from control performance, with a similar pattern in the order of the size of the effects. The results suggest the existence of more than one familial cognitive risk factor for schizophrenia. Independent familial cognitive risk factors may represent separate causal influences or separate indicators of risk related to the same genetic mechanism.
[structure: see text]. Complementary stereoselective syntheses of individual C3 epimers of the NK-1 receptor antagonist precursor 1 have been developed. Both diastereomers were derived from the common intermediate 3; introduction of the 3S stereocenter in 1a was achieved through hydrogenation of an arylated dihydrofuran, whereas the corresponding stereogenic center in 1b was installed using a stereo- and regioselective alkene hydroarylation.
Long-term information storage within the brain requires the synthesis of new proteins and their use in synapse-specific modifications [1]. Recently, we demonstrated that translation sites for the local synthesis of integral membrane and secretory proteins occur within distal dendritic spines [2]. It remains unresolved, however, whether a complete secretory pathway, including Golgi and trans Golgi network-like membranes, exists near synapses for the local transport and processing of newly synthesized proteins. Here, we report evidence of a satellite secretory pathway in distal dendritic spines and distal dendrites of the mammalian brain. Membranes analogous to early (RER and ERGIC), middle (Golgi cisternae), and late (TGN) secretory pathway compartments are present within dendritic spines and in distal dendrites. Local synthesis, processing, and transport of newly translated integral membrane and secretory proteins may thus provide the molecular basis for synapse-specific modifications during long-term information storage in the brain.
DNA damage has been documented in neurodegenerative conditions ranging from Alzheimer's disease to stroke. DNA-dependent protein kinase (DNA-PK) is involved in V(D)J recombination and DNA double strand break repair, and may play a role in cell death induced by DNA damage. We now report that cultured hippocampal neurons from severe combined immunodeficient (scid) mice which lack DNA-PK activity are hypersensitive to apoptosis induced by exposure to topoisomerase inhibitors, amyloid beta peptide (A beta) and glutamate. A similar increased vulnerability of hippocampal CA1 and CA3 neurons was observed in adult scid mice after kainate-induced seizures. Our results suggest that DNA-PK activity is important for neuron survival under conditions that may occur in neurological disorders.
Microtubules are central to the spatial organization of diverse membrane-trafficking systems. Here, we report that Hook proteins constitute a novel family of cytosolic coiled coil proteins that bind to organelles and to microtubules. The conserved NH(2)-terminal domains of Hook proteins mediate attachment to microtubules, whereas the more divergent COOH-terminal domains mediate the binding to organelles. Human Hook3 bound to Golgi membranes in vitro and was enriched in the cis-Golgi in vivo. Unlike other cis-Golgi-associated proteins, however, a large fraction of Hook3 maintained its juxtanuclear localization after Brefeldin A treatment, indicating a Golgi-independent mechanism for Hook3 localization. Because overexpression of Hook3 caused fragmentation of the Golgi complex, we propose that Hook3 participates in defining the architecture and localization of the mammalian Golgi complex.
An organotypic culture system of the early postnatal rat retina was developed to study microglial activation within a tissue environment. One day after tissue preparation, microglial cells of the ganglion cell/nerve fiber layer revealed features of activation. Cells acquired an ameboid morphology as revealed by Bandeiraea simplicifolia lectin staining. Proliferation-as revealed by Ki67 immunocytochemistry-resulted in higher cell densities. In the supernatant, tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-6 (IL-6), and monocyte chemoattractant factor-1 (MCP-1) were detected by using specific enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay systems, activated microglia being the most likely source of their release. After 6 days in vitro (div), microglial cells regained their resting morphology, and cell counts returned to control levels. Concomitantly, the release activity decreased to undetectable levels. When slices were treated at this later stage of cultivation (&gt;6 div) with bacterial lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 100 ng/ml for 24 hours), microglial cells became activated, as revealed by a change in morphology. In parallel, the LPS treatment also resulted in high levels of TNF-alpha, IL-6, and MCP-1 in the culture medium. Both the release from the tissue and the morphological changes of the microglia were reversible. Seventy-two hours after LPS removal, only microglia with ramified morphology were found, and release activities returned to baseline. These data suggest that the organotypic culture of the retina is a useful model for studying microglial activation from its resting form.
Abnormalities in amygdala and hippocampus have been shown to coexist in schizophrenia (SZ). In the hippocampus, compelling evidence suggests that a disruption of GABA neurotransmission is present mainly in sectors CA4, CA3, and CA2. The amygdala sends important inputs to the hippocampus and is also believed to have a defective GABA system in schizophrenia. To explore the possibility that changes in the hippocampal GABAergic system could be related to an increased inflow of activity originating in the amygdala, a &quot;partial&quot; animal model has been developed. In awake, freely moving, rats a GABA(A) receptor antagonist was infused locally into the basolateral nuclear complex of the amygdala (BLn). Within 2 hours, a decreased density of both the 65- and 67-kDa isoforms of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD(65) and GAD(67)) -immunoreactive (IR) terminals was detected on neuron somata in sectors CA3 and CA2, but not in CA1, CA3, or dentate gyrus. An increase of GAD(67)-IR somata was also found in the dentate gyrus and CA4. In anterograde tracer studies, amygdalo-hippocampal projection fibers were exclusively found in CA3 and CA2, but not CA1. Taken together, these results indicate that activation of amygdalo-hippocampal afferents is associated with the induction of significant changes in the GABA system of the hippocampus, with a subregional distribution that is remarkably similar to that found in SZ. Under pathologic conditions, an excessive discharge of excitatory activity emanating from the amygdala could be capable of altering inhibitory modulation along the trisynaptic pathway. This mechanism may potentially contribute to disturbances of GABAergic function in the major psychoses. Such &quot;partial&quot; rodent modelling provides an important strategy for deciphering the effect of altered cortico-limbic circuits in SZ.
EDI-immunoreactive macrophages, absent from the superior cervical ganglia (SCG) of normal rats, appear in these ganglia within 48h after postganglionic axotomy. Further, resident macrophages show changes after axotomy. Since chemokines function as chemoattractants and activators of leukocytes, the effects of axotomy on chemokine expression in the SCG were examined. Within 6 h after nerve transection, increases were seen in mRNA levels for monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1. MCP-1 mRNA was concentrated in a population of neurons, while MCP-1 protein was localized to endothelial cells. This axotomy-induced neuronal MCP-1 expression may trigger the infiltration and/or activation of macrophages in SCG after injury.
The islands of Calleja in the rat brain stain brilliantly and stand out clearly using the NADPH-diaphorase histochemical staining. The 3-D structure of the Islands of Calleja was mapped in sagittal sections of young adult (3 months) and aged (28 months) animals. Contours were determined using a camera lucida method, and transferred to a computer equipped with an image analyzing system. Alignment of the sections using fixed anatomical anchers revealed that the islands of Calleja were one continuous structure at both ages studied. The structures varied between animals, and there was a pronounced left-right difference in the individual rats.
GABA induced a transient increase in cytosolic free Ca2+ in cerebellar granule cells, which decreased from 3 to 8 days in vitro (DIV). Cytosolic Ca2+ changes induced by glutamate/glycine were comparable at 3 and 7 DIV. The GABA response was ascribed to GABA(A)-receptor mediated depolarization activating L-type Ca2+ channels since the response was inhibited by bicuculline or nifedipine. GABA-mediated Ca2+ rise at 4 DIV was potentiated by pentobarbital or by the neurosteroid 5beta-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one, or by decreasing the extracellular Cl- concentration. Neurons cultured for &gt; 7 DIV showed no rise in intracellular Ca2+ in response to GABA regardless of the Cl- gradient. GABA(A) receptor-mediated cytosolic Ca2+ rise suggests an important role for the excitatory activity of GABA in developing cerebellar granule neurons.
The effect of a single-dose i.v. infusion of vinpocetine on the cerebral blood flow (CBF) and glucose metabolism of post-stroke patients was studied by measuring the regional and global cerebral metabolic rates of glucose (CMRglu) and the corresponding kinetic constants before and after treatment. Transcranial Doppler (TCD) and single photon emission tomography (SPECT) measurements were also performed. The cerebral glucose metabolism was significantly higher in the contralateral hemisphere than in the affected one before therapy. In the affected hemisphere the regional glucose metabolism was inhomogenous: relatively low values were measured in the stroke region, whereas it was increased in the peristroke region. Although a single-dose vinpocetine treatment did not affect significantly the regional or global metabolic rates of glucose, the glucose transport (both intracellular up-take and release) was strongly affected in the whole brain, in the contralateral hemisphere and in the peri-infarct area of the symptomatic hemisphere. A slightly increased (not significant, N. S.) cerebral blood flow could be observed in the contralateral and a decreased flow (N. S.) in the symptomatic hemisphere.
Whether electrical microstimulation of a rat's striatal jaw region (SJR) in fact induced tongue or facial muscle activity in addition to jaw muscle activity was tested. Microstimulation of SJR-evoked EMG activity in a jaw-opener (anterior digastricus) and tongue-protruder (genioglossus). No activity was evoked in jaw-closers (temporalis or masseter), tongue-retractor (hyoglossus) or in facial muscles. In addition, the EMG effect could still be induced after extensive ablation of the neocortex; it was reproduced by microinjection of 50 mM kainic acid into SJR. The effective sites were histologically localized to a small central striatal region adjoining the anterior commissure. These findings may be of considerable value in understanding the striatal mechanism of orolingual dyskinesia involving involuntary jaw and tongue movements.
Peripheral nerve injury induces changes in gene expressions of a variety of neuroactive substances in cell somata, which may have roles in the adaptive response to the injury, neuronal survival, growth and regeneration. In this study, we designed a rat model of ischemic peripheral facial paralysis with a selective embolization technique, and observed mRNA expression of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), c-jun, and growth associated protein (GAP)-43 in facial nerve nuclei using in situ hybridization histochemistry. The rats were demonstrated to have a transient facial paralysis consistently, and thus this method was regarded as a model of minor peripheral nerve injury. The mRNA of CGRP, c-jun and GAP-43 showed a distinct pattern of induction and time course of increase after the ischemic nerve injury. The results suggest that the small injury to the peripheral nerve was able to induce changes in mRNA expression in the cell body of motoneurons. We also investigated the protective effect of superoxide dismutase (SOD), which is a free radical-scavenging enzyme involved in cellular antioxidant defenses. The SOD treatment clearly alleviated the behavioral impairment and decreased the CGRP mRNA expression at 3rd day after injury. These data suggest that a free radical generated by the ischemia may be partially responsible for ischemic nerve damage and the change in gene expression in motoneurons.
Treatment of intact rats with the full D(1) dopamine agonist A-77636 induced Fos-like immunoreactivity in the medial and, to a lesser extent, the lateral portions of the striatum. Pretreatment with the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine hydrobromide (1.5-6 mg/kg) potentiated the response to A-77636 and eliminated the mediolateral staining gradient seen after A-77636 alone. Similar effects were not produced by scopolamine methylbromide, which fails to cross the blood-brain barrier, demonstrating that the actions of scopolamine were centrally mediated. The effects of scopolamine were further compared to those of the D(2)-like dopamine agonist quinpirole using a factorial design in which subjects were pretreated with either scopolamine, quinpirole, or a combination of the two drugs before receiving A-77636. Pretreatment with either scopolamine or quinpirole increased staining in the lateral striatum, but the combination of the two drugs was no more effective than was quinpirole alone. Pretreatment with quinpirole, but not scopolamine, resulted in a markedly &quot;patchy&quot; pattern of staining and actually suppressed staining in the region between patches in the medial striatum. These findings demonstrate that there are both differences and similarities between the effects of scopolamine and quinpirole on D(1) agonist-induced Fos expression and suggest that although inhibition of cholinergic neurons may be one of the mechanisms through which the effects of quinpirole are produced, other factors must also contribute.
5-HT1A, 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptors are known to function as 5-HT autoreceptors in the rat dorsal raphe nucleus (DRN), modulating local 5-HT efflux. However, there are no studies on the simultaneous blockade of these receptors in the DRN. We investigated the effect of 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D receptor antagonists on 5-HT efflux in rat DRN, alone and in the presence of 5-HT1A receptor antagonists, using the technique of fast cyclic voltammetry. The 5-HT1A receptor antagonist, WAY 100635, and the 5-HT1B receptor antagonist, SB-224289, had no effect on 5-HT efflux while the 5-HT1B/1D receptor antagonist, GR 127935, produced a small decrease in 5-HT efflux. In contrast, the 5-HT1D receptor antagonist, BRL 15572, produced a significant increase in 5-HT efflux. Co-perfusion of WAY 100635 and SB-224289 significantly increased 5-HT efflux. In addition, WAY 100635 reversed the small inhibition of 5-HT efflux observed with GR 127935 but had no effect on the BRL 15572-induced increase. Antagonism of all three 5-HT autoreceptors with SB-224289, BRL 15572 and WAY 100635 significantly increased 5-HT efflux. These data confirm that 5-HT efflux within the DRN is under the control of 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B and 5-HT1D autoreceptors and elevation of 5-HT efflux was greatest following antagonism of 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B receptors.
Activated caspase-3has been immunohistochemically studied in 30glioblastomas. Its distribution has been compared with that of apoptotic nuclei demonstrated by terminal dUTP nick-end labeling (TUNEL) and morphology. The best procedure for the demonstration of caspase-3 requires formalin fixation, followed by Carnoy fixation, with microwave irradiation. The number of positive cells is lower than that of apoptotic nuclei shown by TUNEL technique, especially in perinecrotic pseudo-palisadings, and there are also qualitative variations. Positive staining occurs in nuclei, cytoplasms or in both cell compartments. The interpretation of Caspase-3 positive staining is based on its crucial position in the final pathway to apoptosis and on the mechanisms by which it cleaves cytoplasmic and nuclear proteins among which inhibitory/caspase-activated DNase system is included.
Gap junction coupling between hippocampal cell axons has been implicated in high frequency oscillations. We used antidromic activation of region CA3 from the fimbria to test the hypothesis that, if gap junctions exist between CA3 pyramidal cell axons, they should cause cross-talk between cells. Agents known to open gap junctions, including 8-Br-cAMP and forskolin (analogue and activator of the cAMP 2nd messenger system respectively) augmented the antidromic population spike and uncovered fast oscillations in the extracellular field. Increasing 2nd messenger concentration reduced the threshold stimulation for antidromic triggering of action potentials, suggesting an improved capability to conduct the electrical impulse retrogradely to the soma. Our studies support the existence of gap junction coupling between CA3 pyramidal cell axons in the fimbria that can be acutely modulated by 2nd messengers.
The Portuguese Medical Association, through its Colleges of Specialistes, has decided to establish working groups to establish Therapeutic Guidelines in pathologies of great interest and current relevance in order to improve and rationalize health care. The group in charge of establishing the Therapeutic Recommendations in Depression, whose work I had the responsability and pleasure of coordinating during part of 1998 and 1999, is comprised of colleagues selected by the Portuguese Medical Association (Ordem dos Mdicos). In the last few years, there has been rapidly increasing clinical and scientific interest in the study and treatment of depression throughout the life cycle, in different contexts and levels of medical practice. The rapid progress made in the neurosciences and psychopharmacology, new research in the field of psychotherapies and improved knowledge of relevant psychosocial aspects has not only broadened our knowledge of the aetiology and pathogenesis of depression, but also improved our criteria of diagnosis and classification. This has allowed the development of new therapeutic approaches and new drugs of proven efficacy. These Recommendations are aimed at systematizing and disseminating a consensus on interventions in depression, supported by evidence and the most recent scientific developments, in a way that will optimise therapeutic treatment. Due to some delay in the publication of these Recommendations (through no fault of the working group), and the rapid evolution of knowledge in this area, some of the contents may shortly need to be revised and updated. The writers and publishers of this document are fully aware of this and in accordance.
Portal-systemic encephalopathy may be seen with hyperammonemia that complicates chronic liver disease. We report an unusual case of reversible parkinsonism associated with hyperammonemia and portal vein thrombosis. An active 90-year-old male developed motor slowing and resting hand tremor over 6 months. Examination showed asterixis, bradykinesia, cogwheel rigidity, rest tremor, and a parkinsonian gait. Serum venous ammonia was elevated at 145 microM. The next day, the patient became comatose and serum ammonia was 178 microM. With lactulose therapy, serum ammonia level normalized and examination showed only minimal parkinsonism after 1 week. An abdominal CT scan identified portal vein thrombosis with porto-systemic shunting that reversed after 7 months of treatment. Examination 2 years later showed no signs of parkinsonism. Parkinsonism can dominate the clinical picture of patients with hyperammonemia before the onset of encephalopathy.
We report here an early autopsy case of a 60-year-old woman clinically diagnosed as having frontal lobe dementia without other neurological deficits. Postmortem examination revealed mild spongiosis in layers II and III of the frontal cortex, together with depletion of melanin-containing neurons in the substantia nigra. In addition to ubiquitin-positive neurites, ubiquitin-positive, tau-negative inclusions, which were previously considered to be a hallmark for motor neuron disease with or without dementia, were identified in neurons of the hippocampal dentate gyrus and of the temporal cortex. Although the patient lacked lower motor symptoms, the presence of Bunina bodies identified in the hypoglossal nuclei further supported the relationship of this case to motor neuron disease. Bunina bodies might be present in some cases of frontal lobe dementia. The presence or absence of Bunina bodies should be scrutinized even in cases without motor symptoms. In this case, creatine kinase of skeletal muscle origin was elevated, which might also be a potential indicator that suggests subclinical involvement of lower motor neurons.
There has been a debate for many years on whether muscular training is beneficial or harmful for patients with myopathic disorders and the role of exercise training in the management of these patients is still controversial. Much of this confusion is because of the lack of well-designed controlled training studies on this heterogenic group of disorders. Because effective therapies are still lacking, the patients have to rely on symptomatic treatment in which continuous physiotherapy plays an important role. There is thus still a need for studies evaluating the short- and long-term effects of muscular training in different types of myopathic disorders. We need to elucidate whether muscular training can increase strength and resistance to fatigue, but most importantly, we need to clarify whether training can improve specific functional abilities of the patient with myopathy. Future studies should give us specific information on what type of training, endurance or strength training, is to be preferred for different myopathies. The effect of strength training in one type of muscle disorder is not directly applicable to another, but is largely dependent on the underlying biological defect. From the studies published so far, high-resistance strength training at submaximal and possibly also at near-maximal levels seem beneficial, at least in the short perspective for slowly progressive myopathic disorders. However, the long-term effects of such training have not been systematically studied. In rapidly progressive myopathies, which are caused by deficient structural proteins such as in Duchenne's muscular dystrophy, the use of high-resistance training is far more controversial and questionable. If exercise regimens are to be used, they should preferably commence in the early stages of the disease, at which time there is still a substantial amount of trainable muscle fibres.

Tegaserod (Zelmac), an aminoguanidine indole derivative of serotonin, is a selective partial agonist highly selective for 5-HT(4) receptor with an affinity constant in the nanomolar range. Tegaserod does not cause adverse pharmacodynamic effects, is absorbed rapidly after oral administration and distributes widely into tissues. Pharmacokinetics of oral tegaserod are linear in the 2--12 mg dose range. After oral administration tegaserod is metabolized mainly pre-systemically; when absorbed, intact tegaserod is excreted as N-glucuronides mainly via the bile. No clinically relevant drug--drug interactions were identified. Tegaserod has proven safe in toxicity studies. In pharmacodynamic studies, tegaserod stimulated the peristaltic reflex in vitro, increased canine intestinal and colonic motility and transit, reduced visceral afferent firing or sensation in response to distension in animals, and accelerated gastric, small bowel and colonic transit in healthy patients, and small bowel transit in patients with constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. Three large phase III randomized, double-blinded, and placebo-controlled trials were performed predominantly in females (approximately 85%) with constipation-predominant irritable bowel syndrome. Overall, phase III results support efficacy as assessed by the subject's global assessment of relief with significant improvement in secondary endpoints such as abdominal pain, bowel frequency and consistency. Tegaserod was well-tolerated; the most frequent adverse event was transient diarrhoea.
While the inherited deficiency of the enzyme glucocerebrosidase (Gaucher disease) is panethnic in its distribution, there have not been studies of the mutations encountered in specific ethnic groups in the United States, other than those on Ashkenazi Jews. We present the clinical descriptions and genotypes of seven patients of African-American ancestry with type 1 Gaucher disease, and summarize the published literature regarding the genotypes encountered in this population. All seven of the patients had moderate-to-severe manifestations of the disease, and all developed symptoms by adolescence. Genotypic analyses revealed that no two probands shared the same genotype. The common mutations N370S, c.84-85insG, IVS2+1 G--&gt;A, and R463C were not seen. Mutation L444P was present on one allele in each of the patients; but the same mutation was encountered as a single point mutation in three of the patients, and as part of a recombinant allele in four of the patients. Southern blot analyses revealed a glucocerebrosidase fusion allele in one patient, and a duplication resulting from recombination in the region downstream from the glucocerebrosidase gene in three of the patients. Five different point mutations (A90T, R48W, N117D, R170C, and V352L), one deletion mutation (c.222-224 delTAC), and one insertion mutation (c.153-154 insTACAGC) were encountered. Our results demonstrate that there is significant genotypic heterogeneity among African-American patients with type 1 Gaucher disease, and that recombinations in the glucocerebrosidase gene locus are particularly common in this patient group. Published 2001 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Transgenic mice (Tg2576) overexpressing human beta-amyloid precursor protein with the Swedish mutation (APP695SWE) develop Alzheimer's disease-like amyloid beta protein (Abeta) deposits by 8 to 10 months of age. These mice show elevated levels of Abeta40 and Abeta42, as well as an age-related increase in diffuse and compact senile plaques in the brain. Senile plaque load was quantitated in the hippocampus and neocortex of 8- to 19-month-old male and female Tg2576 mice. In all mice, plaque burden increased markedly after the age of 12 months. At 15 and 19 months of age, senile plaque load was significantly greater in females than in males; in 91 mice studied at 15 months of age, the area occupied by plaques in female Tg2576 mice was nearly three times that of males. By enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay, female mice also had more Abeta40 and Abeta42 in the brain than did males, although this difference was less pronounced than the difference in histological plaque load. These data show that senescent female Tg2576 mice deposit more amyloid in the brain than do male mice, and may provide an animal model in which the influence of sex differences on cerebral amyloid pathology can be evaluated.
Circadian modulation of episodic bursts is recognized as the normal physiological pattern of diurnal variation in plasma cortisol levels. The primary physiological factors underlying these diurnal patterns are the ultradian timing of secretory events, circadian modulation of the amplitude of secretory events, infusion of the hormone from the adrenal gland into the plasma, and clearance of the hormone from the plasma by the liver. Each measured plasma cortisol level has an error arising from the cortisol immunoassay. We demonstrate that all of these three physiological principles can be succinctly summarized in a single stochastic differential equation plus measurement error model and show that physiologically consistent ranges of the model parameters can be determined from published reports. We summarize the model parameters in terms of the multivariate Gaussian probability density and establish the plausibility of the model with a series of simulation studies. Our framework makes possible a sensitivity analysis in which all model parameters are allowed to vary simultaneously. The model offers an approach for simultaneously representing cortisol's ultradian, circadian, and kinetic properties. Our modeling paradigm provides a framework for simulation studies and data analysis that should be readily adaptable to the analysis of other endocrine hormone systems.
Rats drank rapidly when 0.3 M NaCl was the only drinking fluid available after overnight water deprivation, consuming approximately 200 ml/24 h. Although such large intakes of this hypertonic solution initially elevated plasma osmolality, excretion of comparable volumes of urine more concentrated than 300 meq Na(+)/l ultimately appears to restore plasma osmolality to normal levels. Rats drank approximately 100 ml of 0.5 M NaCl after overnight water deprivation, but urine Na(+) concentration (U(Na)) did not increase sufficiently to achieve osmoregulation. When an injected salt load exacerbated the initial dehydration caused by water deprivation, rats increased U(Na) to void the injected load and did not significantly alter 24-h intake of 0.3 or 0.5 M NaCl. Rats with lesions of area postrema had much higher saline intakes and lower U(Na) than did intact control rats; nonetheless, they appeared to osmoregulate well while drinking 0.3 M NaCl but not while drinking 0.5 M NaCl. Detailed analyses of drinking behavior by intact rats suggest that individual bouts were terminated by some rapid postabsorptive consequence of the ingested NaCl load that inhibited further NaCl intake, not by a fixed intake volume or number of licks that temporarily satiated thirst.
Previous experiments have indicated that arterial hypotension increases plasma oxytocin (OT) levels in rats and that OT infused intravenously causes an increase in plasma renin activity (PRA). The goal of the present study was to determine whether systemic administration of an OT receptor antagonist would attenuate the increase in PRA that is normally evoked by arterial hypotension in rats. In conscious male rats, intravenous injection of hydralazine or diazoxide produced sustained hypotension and evoked a significant increase in PRA, as expected. Intravenous infusion of an OT receptor antagonist did not alter the hypotension induced by hydralazine or diazoxide, but it did markedly blunt the induced increase in PRA. The OT receptor antagonist also blunted the hypotension-evoked increase in heart rate and plasma vasopressin levels, suggesting that the antagonist may have generally disrupted afferent signaling of hypotension. Thus hypotension-evoked OT secretion may contribute to cardiovascular homeostasis by enhancing baroreceptor signals that stimulate increases in renin secretion, vasopressin secretion, and heart rate during arterial hypotension in rats.

The purpose of this study was to compare weightbearing radiographs with histologic cartilage evaluation in a rabbit meniscectomy model of the early stage of osteoarthrosis. Fifteen rabbits had a medial meniscectomy performed in one knee and a sham operation in the other knee. Five rabbits each were sacrificed at 13, 25, and 40 weeks after surgery. Radiographic joint space width and histologic cartilage changes of the medial knee compartment were quantified. Five non-operated knees and five knees in which the meniscus had been removed immediately before the evaluations served as control specimens. Overall, the joint space of the peripheral part of the medial knee compartment was narrower in knees operated on for meniscus removal than in sham-operated knees (P &lt; 0.003). In the knees with the meniscus removed, more cartilage changes were seen at the joint surface area of contact on radiographs than in the sham-operated knees (P &lt; 0.0015). Indeed, the area of contact had cartilage changes similar to those in the whole medial compartment. However, there was no correlation between the degree of histologic cartilage change and the corresponding joint space measurements. Joint space width as measured on weightbearing radiographs is reduced after meniscectomy in the rabbit, but it does not reflect the degree of cartilage damage of the loaded joint surfaces in early stages of osteoarthrosis.



Chemical intolerance is a phenomenon observed in multiple chemical sensitivity (MCS) syndrome, an ill-defined disorder in humans attributed to exposure to volatile organic compounds. Amplification of symptoms in individuals with MCS resembles the phenomenon of psychostimulant- and stress-induced sensitization in rodents. We have recently tested in rats the hypothesis that repeated chemical exposure produces sensitization of central nervous system (CNS) circuitry. A rat model of MCS in our laboratory has employed several endpoints of CNS function after repeated formaldehyde (Form) exposure (1 h/day x 5 days/week x 4 weeks). Repeated Form exposure produced behavioral sensitization to later cocaine injection, suggesting altered dopaminergic sensitivity in mesolimbic pathways. Rats given repeated Form also demonstrated increased fear conditioning to odor paired with footshock, implicating amplification of neural circuitry guiding fear responding to a conditioned odor cue. Recent studies examining the effects of repeated Form on locomotor activity during each daily exposure showed a decrease in rearing activity after 12-15 days of Form exposure compared to air-exposed controls. EEG recordings taken 1 week after withdrawal from daily Form revealed altered sleep architecture. Some of the differences in sleep disappeared after subsequent brief (15 min) challenge with Form the next day. Overall, the findings indicate that repeated low-level chemical exposure produces behavioral changes that may be akin to those observed in individuals with MCS, such as greater sensitivity to chemicals manifest as increased anxiety upon chemical exposure and altered sleep and/or fatigue. Study of the underlying CNS changes will provide a basis for mechanistically based animal models for MCS.
Chemical intolerance (CI) in humans is a poorly understood phenomenon of uncertain etiology, seemingly influenced by multiple factors both within and between affected individuals. Several authors have suggested that the development of CI in some individuals may be due, at least in part, to Pavlovian conditioning processes in which the expression of overt symptoms to certain substances reflects classically conditioned responses to previously neutral olfactory and contextual stimuli. In this paper, we describe the potential relationship between olfactory and contextual conditioning in experimental animals and the development and expression of CI in humans. Furthermore, as significant advances have been made in delineating the brain areas that underlie these learned responses, we also review recent research on the contributions of the amygdala and perirhinal cortical region to olfactory and contextual fear conditioning.
Injection of capsaicin into the skin results in pain, primary heat and mechanical hyperalgesia, and secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia. Sensory receptors in the area of secondary mechanical allodynia and hyperalgesia are unaffected, and so the sensory changes must be due to central actions of the initial intense nociceptive discharge that follows the capsaicin injection. Central sensitization of the responses of spinothalamic tract neurons lasts several hours, but can be prevented by spinal cord administration of non-NMDA and NMDA glutamate receptor antagonists or NK1 substance P receptor antagonists. The long-lasting increase in excitability of spinothalamic tract cells depends on the activation of several second messenger cascades (PKC, PKA, and NO/PKG signal transduction pathways). The excitability change also depends on activation of calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II, which is consistent with the proposal that this central sensitization response is a form of long-term potentiation.
We describe an Australian family of Greek origin with a parkinsonian syndrome and an Ala53Thr alpha-synuclein gene mutation. Five of 9 siblings were affected, the average age of onset was 45 years, and the initial symptoms were variable, including resting tremor, bradykinesia, and gait disturbance, as previously described in families with the same point mutation. Affected family members responded well to levodopa, developed progressive cognitive impairment, and had a disease duration of 5 to 16 years. Pathologic features typical of idiopathic Parkinson's disease were found at autopsy. However, there were several additional features not previously reported in families with this gene mutation. These features included severe central hypoventilation, orthostatic hypotension, prominent myoclonus, and urinary incontinence. An abundance of alpha-synuclein-immunoreactive Lewy neurites were found in the brainstem pigmented nuclei, hippocampus, and temporal neocortex. The Lewy neurites were associated with temporal lobe vacuolation. Subcortical basal ganglia cell loss and gliosis were seen. These additional clinical and pathological features suggest that the Ala53Thr alpha-synuclein mutation can produce a more widespread disorder than found in typical idiopathic Parkinson's disease.
Two prior double-blind, placebo-controlled, randomized trials demonstrated that glatiramer acetate (GA) reduces relapse rates in patients with relapsing remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). This study was designed to determine the effect, onset, and durability of any effect of GA on disease activity monitored with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in patients with RRMS. Two hundred thirty-nine eligible patients were randomized to receive either 20 mg GA (n = 119) or placebo (n = 120) by daily subcutaneous injection. Eligibility required one or more relapses in the 2 years before entry and at least one enhancing lesion on a screening MRI. The study was a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled phase during which all patients studied underwent monthly MRI scans and clinical assessments over 9 months. The primary outcome measure was the total number of enhancing lesions on T1-weighted images. Secondary outcome measures included the proportion of patients with enhancing lesions, the number of new enhancing lesions and change in their volume; the number of new lesions detected on T2-weighted images and change in their volume, and the change in volume of hypointense lesions seen on unenhanced T1-weighted images. Clinical measures of disease activity were also evaluated. The active treatment and placebo groups were comparable at entry for all demographic, clinical, and MRI variables. Treatment with GA showed a significant reduction in the total number of enhancing lesions compared with placebo (-10.8, 95% confidence interval -18.0 to -3.7; p = 0.003). Consistent differences favoring treatment with GA were seen for almost all secondary end points examined: number of new enhancing lesions (p &lt; 0.003), monthly change in the volume of enhancing lesions (p = 0.01), and change in volume (p = 0.006) and number of new lesions seen on T2-weighted images (p &lt; 0.003). The relapse rate was also significantly reduced by 33% for GA-treated patients (p = 0.012). All effects increased over time. Glatiramer acetate significantly reduced MRI-measured disease activity and burden.

Cognitive and adaptive behavioural outcome were studied in the identified survivors of a population based study of non-traumatic coma (NTC) in childhood. Children were assessed early (six weeks) and late (12 months) after NTC. At least 7% of those children in whom no suspicions of prior neurodevelopmental morbidity existed showed moderate or severe disability following NTC. Children over 2 years of age at insult showed some improvement between early and late assessments; however, children below 2 years showed no improvement. Differing age at insult effects were observed between aetiological groups. A relation between early age at first insult and poor outcome was particularly evident among children experiencing NTC caused by epilepsy.

The main objective was to evaluate changes in the ability to draw the human figure (HFD) across adult life span and to relate these changes to those known to exist in memory function. Healthy adults (1000) from each of 10 five-year cohorts between 35 and 80 years were recruited randomly from a population in northern Sweden. Each participant was administered a health examination including cognitive testing and a drawing test, and an extensive examination of memory functions. For the drawing variables HFDarch and HFDtot, there is a steady decrease in episodic memory with poor drawers performing at a lower level. For semantic memory up to 65 years of age, there is no difference in performance, but thereafter a decrease. Good drawers show a better memory performance than poor drawers. For priming data for both HFDarch and HFDtot, there seems to be an interaction between age and drawing, such that poor drawers perform at a lower level for the two oldest groups but not for the youngest group. The HFDess is a valuable instrument and can support clinical evaluation as a screening for cognitive decline. The reduction of essential body details was strongly related to dementia progression, and thus as good a predictor of cognitive decline as episodic memory performance. The reduced capacity to perform a complex HFD declines with age and is most pronounced in the oldest age groups.


Individuals overestimate the diameter of 1-mm-deep stimulus holes presented to the tongue when they use their fingers to select a hole of matching diameter. The aim here was to determine whether the oral size illusion evident for 1-mm-deep holes would also occur with 1-mm-high pegs of similar diameters. The illusion was studied in 24 individuals who were blindfolded during the trials. The two sets of test stimuli were (a) 5 cylindrical pegs (1 mm high) and (b) five circular holes (1 mm deep), each of 2.5, 5.0, 7.5, 10.0, 12.5 mm dia. The stimuli were held to the mouth with one hand, while the fingers of the free hand were used to select a matching object from a comparator series of either 1-mm-deep holes or 1-mm-high pegs ranging from 2.0 to 18 mm dia. Each stimulus was presented four times in a random order. The participants overestimated the diameter of the 1-mm-deep stimulus holes when these were matched with 1-mm-deep comparator holes. However, there was no illusion with four out of five 1-mm-high stimulus pegs when matched with 1-mm-high comparator pegs. In the 'reverse' experiment, there was no illusion with four out of five stimulus holes when these were matched with 1-mm-high comparator pegs. However, an illusion was evident for all the 1-mm-high stimulus pegs when these were matched with the 1-mm-deep comparator holes. Regardless of the nature of the stimulus ('hole' or 'peg'), a mismatch between the stimulus and comparator was consistently seen only when the fingers probed comparator holes. The oral size illusion is not due to any intrinsic differences in the sensitivities of the tongue or fingers. Rather, the illusion is due to the inability of the fingertip to access small comparator holes.
Fast (beta-gamma band 20-100 Hz) rhythms of electrical activity of the brain have been suggested to play an important role in perception, cognition and consciousness providing temporal binding of neural activities and allowing the formation of mental representations. The recent advances in the concept of temporal binding and their relation to the theory of neural networks (connectionism) are reviewed here as well as some experimental results concerning the intensified gamma rhythms and epilepsy. The hippocampal-neocortical gamma rhythms are extremely intense and hypersynchronous at onset of the epileptiform discharges induced by systemic kainic acid in the rat. Those gamma rhythms are followed by a slow rhythm of epileptiform spikes/sharp waves or spike-wave complexes ('spike-wave' activity). During spike-wave activity, gamma synchronisation is significantly decreased. A novel unifying concept is proposed which relates the associative principle of neural networks to the mechanism of temporal binding at high frequencies. It suggests that for each memory stored in an associative network there is a corresponding quasi-stable state of synchronous oscillation at some frequency within the gamma band. It also suggests that excessive temporal binding (&quot;over-binding&quot;) occurs at seizure onset when abnormally intensified and globally synchronous fast activity is often observed. &quot;Over-binding&quot; may cause the undesirable formation of false associations due to inadequate synaptic modifications. To prevent this process, spike-wave discharge develops as an extreme activation of the mechanism capable to desynchronise and eventually suppress fast activity and erase the spurious modes of activity associated with hypersynchronous gamma rhythms. Thus, spike-wave activity is suggested to be the &quot;anti-binding&quot; mechanism. This mechanism is also related to the spikes/sharp waves normally occurring in the brain mostly in sleep. It is qualitatively similar to the &quot;unlearning&quot; mechanism of Crick and Mitchison presumably associated with the PGO spikes of the REM sleep.
The team approach in neuroscience patient care results in health care professionals interacting on a daily basis. However, the collaboration of health care disciplines in research is limited. The barrier to research integration among disciplines may be related to the diverse views of the quantitative and qualitative paradigms. Health care research is challenged by both the variety of health professionals and differing research paradigms. Patients will benefit from integrated health care research with a coordinated research agenda and efficient use of resources.
Culture of preimplantation mammalian embryos and cells can influence their subsequent growth and differentiation. Previously, we reported that culture of mouse embryonic stem cells is associated with deregulation of genomic imprinting and affects the potential for these cells to develop into normal fetuses. The purpose of our current study was to determine whether culture of preimplantation mouse embryos in a chemically defined medium (M16) with or without fetal calf serum (FCS) can affect their subsequent development and imprinted gene expression. Only one third of the blastocysts that had been cultured from two-cell embryos in M16 medium complemented with FCS developed into viable Day 14 fetuses after transfer into recipients. These M16 + FCS fetuses were reduced in weight as compared with controls and M16 fetuses and had decreased expression of the imprinted H19 and insulin-like growth factor 2 genes associated with a gain of DNA methylation at an imprinting control region upstream of H19. They also displayed increased expression of the imprinted gene Grb10. The growth factor receptor binding gene Grb7, in contrast, was strongly reduced in its expression in most of the M16 + FCS fetuses. No alterations were detected for the imprinted gene MEST: Preimplantation culture in the presence of serum can influence the regulation of multiple growth-related imprinted genes, thus leading to aberrant fetal growth and development.
Aging is associated with gradual bone loss in men and premenopausal women, with an accelerated rate of loss after menopause in women. Although many studies have investigated bone loss due to surgically induced estrogen depletion, little is known regarding normal age-related changes in bone mass in animal models. We used dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry (DXA) to measure bone mineral density (BMD), bone mineral content (BMC), and projected area (PA) at four skeletal sites over 4 years in 20 premenopausal female (8-23 years) and 29 male (8-27 years) rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta). Forearm BMD declined with age in both male and female monkeys. Lean mass was positively associated with BMD at all sites in males and with the distal radius in females. Serum osteocalcin declined and urinary cross-links increased with age in males but not females. Serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations decreased with age in females, and a similar trend was observed in males. In conclusion, an age-related decline in forearm BMD was observed in male and female rhesus monkeys. Total body BMC declined over time in older females, with a similar trend in males. Changes in markers of bone turnover with age were also observed in male monkeys. The results of this longitudinal study suggest that the rhesus monkey is a potential model for age-related changes in the human skeleton.
The pharmacology of various peptide and non-peptide ligands was studied in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells stably expressing human orexin-1 (OX(1)) or orexin-2 (OX(2)) receptors by measuring intracellular calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) using Fluo-3AM. Orexin-A and orexin-B increased [Ca(2+)](i) in CHO-OX(1) (pEC(50)=8.38+/-0.04 and 7.26+/-0.05 respectively, n=12) and CHO-OX(2) (pEC(50)=8.20+/-0.03 and 8.26+/-0.04 respectively, n=8) cells. However, neuropeptide Y and secretin (10 pM - 10 microM) displayed neither agonist nor antagonist properties in either cell-line. SB-334867-A (1-(2-Methyylbenzoxanzol-6-yl)-3-[1,5]naphthyridin-4-yl-urea hydrochloride) inhibited the orexin-A (10 nM) and orexin-B (100 nM)-induced calcium responses (pK(B)=7.27+/-0.04 and 7.23+/-0.03 respectively, n=8), but had no effect on the UTP (3 microM)-induced calcium response in CHO-OX(1) cells. SB-334867-A (10 microM) also inhibited OX(2) mediated calcium responses (32.7+/-1.9% versus orexin-A). SB-334867-A was devoid of agonist properties in either cell-line. In conclusion, SB-334867-A is a non-peptide OX(1) selective receptor antagonist.
It has been suggested that mental states play an important role in determining behaviour and that mental state attributions (&quot;theory of mind&quot;) underlie the ability to understand and predict other peoples' behaviour. Theory of mind was investigated in 31 patients with unilateral frontal lobe lesions (15 right-sided and 16 left-sided) by comparing their performance with that of 31 matched control subjects. The ability to infer first- and second-order beliefs was tested by requiring subjects to listen to stories in which a protagonist acted upon a false belief. Both patient groups exhibited significantly impaired performance on the two theory of mind measures. Both frontal lobe groups also exhibited a range of deficits in tests of executive functions, but analyses revealed that these seemed to be independent of theory of mind impairments. These findings are discussed in terms of the hypothesis of a specialized, adaptive brain system underlying theory of mind reasoning ability, and are related to observed difficulties in social functioning among patients with frontal lobe damage.
Cross-sectional studies suggest that impaired cerebral haemodynamics is associated with symptomatic status in patients with carotid stenosis and occlusion, but there is relatively little prospective data confirming this association. Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography was used to determine the reactivity of the middle cerebral artery to 8% carbon dioxide in air in 107 patients with either carotid occlusion (n = 48) or asymptomatic carotid stenosis (n = 59). Subjects were followed prospectively until stroke, transient ischaemic attack (TIA), death or study end. Mean duration of follow-up was 635 days. No patients dropped out due to operation before an end-point was reached, or were lost to follow-up. There were 11 ipsilateral ischaemic events during follow-up (six strokes, five TIAs). Exhausted ipsilateral middle cerebral artery reactivity (&gt;20% increase in ipsilateral middle cerebral flow velocity in response to 8% carbon dioxide) predicted ipsilateral stroke and TIA risk in the whole group (P: &lt; 0.00001) and in the carotid occlusion (P: = 0.019) and carotid stenosis (P: = 0.015) groups alone. It also predicted the risk of ipsilateral stroke alone in all three groups. Cox regression was performed, controlling for age, gender, hypertension, diabetes, smoking, ipsilateral CT infarct, degree of contralateral stenosis and the presence of ipsilateral stenosis versus occlusion. Exhausted reactivity remained an independent predictor of ipsilateral stroke and TIA (odds ratio 14.4, 95% confidence interval 2.63-78.74, P: = 0.0021). In contrast, the pulsatility index of the middle cerebral artery was a poor predictor of the risk of stroke. Reactivity to 6% carbon dioxide also predicted the risk of stroke and TIA, but slightly less effectively than reactivity to 8% carbon dioxide. Severely reduced cerebrovascular reactivity predicts the risk of ipsilateral stroke and TIA in patients with carotid occlusion, and to a lesser extent in asymptomatic carotid stenosis. Particularly in the former group, a study is required to determine whether revascularization reduces the risk of stroke in patients with exhausted reactivity.
The onset of autoimmunity in lupus-prone mice is accompanied by a constellation of behavioral deficits, termed Autoimmunity-Associated Behavioral Syndrome (AABS). In particular, a spontaneous increase in serum interleukin-6 (IL-6) levels in five-week old MRL-lpr mice coincides temporally with blunted responsiveness to sucrose and excessive immobility in the forced swim test. These relationships, along with evidence that sucrose intake drops after systemic IL-6 overexpression is induced in healthy mice, have led to the hypothesis that sustained elevation in serum IL-6 also induces other aspects of AABS. This hypothesis is tested by comparing the behavioral profiles of healthy mice infected with Ad5mIL6 adenovirus (2 x 10(8) pfu of virus/mouse i.p.) with those of animals infected with control Ad5 virus. This methodology was used to achieve high circulating levels of IL-6, to overcome the problem of its short half-life, and to avoid the stressful effects of repeated injections. The Ad5mIL6 infection (known to induce excessive IL-6 levels over five days) transiently reduced food, water, and sucrose intake, as well as rectal temperature in MRL +/+ and AKR/J mice. Although the level of locomotor activity did not decline, Ad5mIL6-infected AKR/J mice demonstrated less novel object exploration. Performance in the step-down, plus-maze, and spontaneous alternation tests were disturbed to various degrees in all infected animals. The present results suggest that prolonged exposure to circulating IL-6 primarily impairs ingestive behavior, likely reflecting enhanced catabolism. The inability of circulating IL-6 to alter other aspects of behavior supports the hypothesis that multiple immuno-neuroendocrine mechanisms contribute to the pathogenesis of AABS.
We intended to determine if leftward error of line bisection means &quot;right&quot; or &quot;left&quot; neglect in a patient with left unilateral spatial neglect. The patient placed the subjective midpoint to the left of the true center when bisecting lines without cueing. By contrast, when cued to the left endpoint, he showed typical rightward errors that became greater as longer lines were presented. Cueing to the right endpoint increased leftward errors compared with the bisections without cueing. The results suggest that paradoxical leftward error of line bisection is a form of &quot;left&quot; unilateral spatial neglect in that the shortness of the left extent is ignored.
A new perspective is described which views developmental dyslexia as the outcome of learning to write the alphabet in the nondominant (right) hemisphere. The letter-level and whole-word subtypes of dyslexia are seen as differing responses adopted to cope with this predicament. Striking similarities between dyslexics and callosotomy patients in the allocation of covert attention to lateralized stimuli provide direction for integrating a diversity of dyslexic research within this framework. This synthesis, together with information from pure alexia, brain activation, and reading research, lends insight into the neural circuitry of the compensatory strategies adopted by the two dyslexic subtypes.
Progressive axon outgrowth during neural development contrasts with the failure of regenerative neurite growth in the mature mammalian central nervous system (CNS). During neuroembryogenesis, spatiotemporal patterns of repellent and attractant activities in the vicinity of the growth cone favor neurite outgrowth. In the mature CNS, however, a relative balance between forces supporting and restricting axon growth has been established, only allowing subtle morphological changes in existing neuritic arbors and synapses. Following CNS injury, this balance shifts towards enhanced expression of growth-inhibiting molecules and diminished availability of their growth-promoting counterparts. Evidence is now emerging that the proteins governing developmental axon guidance critically contribute to the failure of injured central neurons to regenerate. As a first step toward elucidation of the role of chemorepulsive axon guidance signals in axonal regeneration, the effects of lesions of the central and peripheral nervous system on the expression of Semaphorin3A, the prototype and founding member of the semaphorin family of axon guidance signals, and of the Semaphorin3A receptor proteins neuropilin-1 and plexin-A1 have recently been examined. Here we review the first evidence indicating that (i) lesion-induced changes in the expression of chemorepulsive semaphorins relate to the success or failure of injured neurons to regenerate and (ii) semaphorins may represent important molecular signals controlling multiple aspects of the cellular response that follows CNS injury. In the future, genetic manipulation of the injury-induced changes in the availability of semaphorins and/or of their receptors will provide further insight into the mechanisms by which semaphorins influence neural regeneration.
Gram-negative bacteria-derived lipopolysaccharide (LPS or endotoxin) is known to play an important role in immune and neurological manifestations during bacterial infections. LPS exerts its effects through cytokines, and peripheral or brain administration of LPS activates cytokine production in the brain. In this study, we investigated cytokine and neuropeptide mRNA profiles in specific brain regions and peripheral organs, as well as serum tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha protein levels, in response to the intraperitoneal administration of LPS. For the first time, the simultaneous analysis of interleukin (IL)-1beta system components (ligand, signaling receptor, receptor accessory proteins, receptor antagonist), TNF-alpha, transforming growth factor (TGF)-beta1, glycoprotein 130 (IL-6 receptor signal transducer), OB protein (leptin) receptor, neuropeptide Y, and pro-opiomelanocortin (opioid peptide precursor) mRNAs was done in samples from specific brain regions in response to peripherally administered LPS. The same brain region/organ sample was assayed for all cytokine mRNA components. Peripherally administered LPS up-regulated pro-inflammatory cytokine (IL-1beta and/or TNF-alpha) mRNAs within the cerebral cortex, cerebellum, hippocampus, spleen, liver, and adipose tissue. LPS also increased plasma levels of TNF-alpha protein. LPS did not up-regulate inhibitory (anti-inflammatory) cytokine (IL-1 receptor antagonist and TGF-beta1) mRNAs in most brain regions (except for IL-1 receptor antagonist in the cerebral cortex and for TGF-beta1 in the hippocampus), while they were increased in the liver, and IL-1 receptor antagonist was up-regulated in the spleen and adipose tissue. Overall, peripherally administered LPS modulated the levels of IL-1beta system components within the brain and periphery, but did not affect the neuropeptide-related components studied. The data suggest specificity of transcriptional changes induced by LPS and that cytokine component up-regulation in specific brain regions is relevant to the neurological and neuropsychiatric manifestations associated with peripheral LPS challenge.
We have demonstrated that alpha-spectrins (alphaSpISigma* and alphaSpIISigma1) are major ubiquitinated proteins in terminally differentiated hippocampal neurons in culture. Western blotting experiments, using alphaSpISigma1, alphaSpIISigma1, and ubiquitin antibodies and lysates of 11-day-old cultured rat hippocampal neurons, have demonstrated that a single band comigrating with alphaSpISigma* and alphaSpIISigma1 in a 5% polyacrylamide sodium dodecyl sulfate gel is recognized by ubiquitin antibodies when (125)I-protein A is used for detection. Immunofluorescence staining of the 7- and 12 -day-old rat hippocampal neuron cultures using ubiquitin, alphaSpISigma1, and alphaSpIISigma1 antibodies demonstrated that all of these antibodies label neurons but not the astrocytes in the cultures. Immunoprecipitation of spectrin subunits in lysates of 12-day-old rat hippocampal neurons under stringent conditions (9.5 M urea) using alphaSpISigma1 and alphaSpIISigma1 antibodies followed by Western blot experiments of the immunoprecipitated spectrin subunits using alphaSpISigma1, alphaSpIISigma1 and ubiquitin antibodies confirmed that both alphaSpISigma* and alphaSpIISigma1 are ubiquitinated in rat hippocampal neurons. Furthermore, we demonstrated by immunohistochemistry that alpha-spectrins are components of the cytoplasmic ubiquitinated inclusions in hippocampal neurons in Alzheimer's and Parkinson's disease patients.
Although under some conditions the attention-related late positive event-related potential (ERP) response (LPC) is apparently normal in autism during visual processing, the LPC elicited by visuospatial processing may be compromised. Results from this study provide evidence for abnormalities in autism in two components of the LPC generated during spatial processing. The early frontal distribution of the LPC which may reflect attention orienting was delayed or missing in autistic subjects during conditions in which attention was to peripheral visual fields. The later parietal distribution of the LPC which may be associated with context updating was smaller in amplitude in autistic subjects regardless of attention location. Both abnormalities suggest disruption of function in spatial attention networks in autism. Evidence that the cerebellar abnormalities in autism may underlie these deficits comes from: (1) similar results in ERP responses and spatial attention deficits in patients with cerebellar lesions; (2) brain-behavior correlations in normally functioning individuals associating the size of the posterior cerebellar vermis and the latency of the frontal LPC; and (3) a previously reported complementary correlation between the size of the posterior vermal lobules and spatial orienting speed. Although the scalp-recorded LPC is thought to be cortically generated, it may be modulated by subcortical neural activity. The cerebellum may serve as a modulating influence by affecting the task-related antecedent attentional process. The electrophysiological abnormalities reported here index spatial attention deficits in autism that may reflect cerebellar influence on both frontal and parietal spatial attention function.
Previous studies have provided evidence that the lateral premotor cortex (PMC) is involved in representations triggered by attended sensory events. However, while the functional specificity of subregions of this large cortical structure has been intensively investigated in the monkey, little is known about functional differences within human lateral premotor areas. In the present study, functional magnetic resonance imaging was used to investigate if attending to object-specific (O), spatial (S), or temporal (T) properties of the same sensory event, i.e. moving objects, involves different premotor areas. We found a frontoparietal 'prehension network' comprising the pre-supplementary motor area (preSMA), the ventral PMC, and the left anterior intraparietal sulcus (aIPS) to be activated independently of the attended stimulus property, but most intensively during object-related attention. Moreover, several areas were exclusively activated according to the attended stimulus property. Particularly, different PMC regions responded to the Object (O) task (left superior ventrolateral PMC), the Spatial (S) task (dorsolateral PMC), and the Timing (T) task (frontal opercular cortex (FOP)). These results indicate that the representation of different stimulus dimensions engage distinct premotor areas and, therefore, that there is a functional specificity of lateral premotor subregions.
We used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to investigate neural correlates of processes concerning store and manipulation in verbal working memory. We prepared a revised lag 1 digit span, digit span and a simple number detection task. Specific activities in association with manipulating process were identified in the right middle (BA 9/46) and left precentral gyrus (BA 6). Activated areas specific to maintaining process were detected in the right middle (right BA 11/10) and medial (BA 6) frontal gyri, the right inferior parietal lobule (BA 40), and the left middle (BA 9) and inferior frontal gyri (BA 44). The process-nonspecific activated areas common to two processes were identified in the right inferior frontal gyrus (BA 47) and the left superior parietal lobule (BA 7). Using the signal percent change of each subject, we calculated the correlation coefficients among each activated area. The results of this analysis showed that two processes of verbal working memory were clearly discriminated. The two essential processes of manipulation and maintenance in working memory seem to activate process-specific and overlapping (process-nonspecific) areas, but the patterns of combination were definitely different.
This article is a transcription of an electronic symposium in which active researchers were invited by the Brazilian Society of Neuroscience and Behavior (SBNeC) to discuss the advances of the last decade in the neurobiology of emotion. Four basic questions were debated: 1) What are the most critical issues/questions in the neurobiology of emotion? 2) What do we know for certain about brain processes involved in emotion and what is controversial? 3) What kinds of research are needed to resolve these controversial issues? 4) What is the relationship between learning, memory and emotion? The focus was on the existence of different neural systems for different emotions and the nature of the neural coding for the emotional states. Is emotion the result of the interaction of different brain regions such as the amygdala, the nucleus accumbens, or the periaqueductal gray matter or is it an emergent property of the whole brain neural network? The relationship between unlearned and learned emotions was also discussed. Are the circuits of the former the underpinnings of the latter? It was pointed out that much of what we know about emotions refers to aversively motivated behaviors, like fear and anxiety. Appetitive emotions should attract much interest in the future. The learning and memory relationship with emotions was also discussed in terms of conditioned and unconditioned stimuli, innate and learned fear, contextual cues inducing emotional states, implicit memory and the property of using this term for animal memories. In a general way it could be said that learning modifies the neural circuits through which emotional responses are expressed.
Transient or permanent focal brain injury following acute thromboembolic occlusion develops from a complex cascade of pathophysiological events. The processes of excitotoxicity, peri-infarct depolarisation, inflammation, and apoptosis within the ischemic penumbra are proposed. While the translation of therapeutic agents from the animal models to human clinical trials have been disappointing, there remains an atmosphere of optimism as a result of the development of new diagnostic and therapeutic approaches, which include physiological, as opposed to pharmacological, intervention. This article provides an insight into the understanding of cerebral ischemia, together with current and future treatment strategies.
Many diseases associated with ageing have an underlying oxidative stress and accompanying inflammatory component, for example, Alzheimer's disease or atherosclerosis. Reviewed in this manuscript are: the role of oxidative stress in activating the transcription factor nuclear factor kappa B (NFkappaB), the role of NFkappaB in activating proinflammatory gene transcription, strong oxidants produced by cells, anti-oxidant defense systems, the central role of phase 2 enzymes in the anti-oxidant defense, dietary phase 2 enzyme inducers and evidence that dietary phase 2 enzymes decrease oxidative stress. It is likely that a diet containing phase 2 enzyme inducers may ameliorate or even prevent diseases that have a prominent inflammatory component to them. Research should be directed into the potential therapeutic effects of dietary phase 2 enzyme inducers in ameliorating diseases with an underlying oxidative stress and inflammatory component to them.
Genetic approaches have provided evidence that DNA end-joining problems serve an essential role in neuronal survival during development of mammalian embryos. In the present study, we tested whether the DNA repair enzyme, DNA dependent protein kinase, plays an important role in the survival of cerebral cortical neurons in mice. DNA-PK is comprised of a DNA-binding subunit called Ku and a catalytic subunit called DNA-PKcs. In mice with the scid mutation, DNA-PKcs is truncated near the kinase domain, which causes loss of kinase activity. We compared the spatial and temporal aspects of neuronal cell death in scid versus isogenic wild-type embryos and found a significant increase in dying cells in scid mice, as assessed by nuclear changes, DNA fragmentation and caspase-3 activity. Additional biochemical and immunocytochemical studies indicated that of several DNA repair enzymes investigated, only PARP was increased in scid mice, possibly in response to elevated DNA strand breaks.
We recently described calbindin immunoreactivity in the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig stomach. To study the neurochemical coding of calbindin D28 k (CALB)-containing myenteric neurones, the presence of calretinin (CALRET), choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), enkephalin (ENK), neuropeptide Y, serotonin (5-HT), somatostatin (SOM) and substance P(SP) was investigated immunohistochemically in colchicine-treated preparations. Nitric oxide synthase-containing neurones were detected by NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry. In addition, we investigated the neurone distribution patterns around the gastric corpus. Most CALB neurones were ChAT positive. ChAT/CALB neurones were either CALRET (ca 75%) or 5-HT positive and most contained in addition SP and/or ENK. All 5-HT neurones contained CALB. CALB labelled on average 2.3, 4.8 and 7.5 neurones per ganglion at the lesser curvature, in the central region and the greater curvature, respectively, which indicated a preferential localisation at the greater curvature. Compared to the total number of myenteric neurones, the proportion of CALB neurones increased significantly from the lesser curvature (6%) towards the greater curvature (18%). This shift, although observed for most ChAT/CALB-positive populations, was most prominent for the ChAT/CALB/CALRET/SP/ENK-encoded neurones. SOM-positive and ChAT-only encoded neurones were preferentially located at the lesser curvature. The remaining ten neurochemically defined populations did not exhibit an uneven distribution. The colocalisation of CALB with CALRET or 5-HT is specific for myenteric neurones in the stomach and represents one significant difference to the neurochemical code of CALB neurones in the guinea-pig intestine. The functional significance of the unevenness of neurone distribution along the circumference of the gastric corpus remains to be studied.
Lanepitant, a potent non-peptide neurokinin-1 receptor antagonist, inhibits neurogenic dural inflammation, and may have a role in migraine therapy. This study evaluated the effect of lanepitant taken daily for migraine prevention. Patients with migraine headaches with and without aura by International Headache Society classification criteria were enrolled in a 12-week double-blind, parallel design study comparing the effect of 200 mg qd lanepitant (n = 42) and placebo (n = 42) on reduction of migraine frequency. The primary outcome measure was response rate, i.e. the proportion of patients with a 50% reduction in days of headache. Of the 84 patients enrolled, 90.5% were female. The endpoint response rate for lanepitant-treated patients (41.0%) was not statistically significantly (P = 0.065) greater than that for placebo-treated patients (22.0%). No efficacy variables differed significantly between treatments, except for response rates at month 3 (P = 0.045). Higher plasma concentrations were no more effective than lower concentrations. In this study lanepitant was not effective in preventing migraine, but was well tolerated. These results do not support a role for NK-1 antagonism in migraine prevention.
The computation of speech codes (i.e. phonology) is an important aspect of word reading. Understanding the neural systems and mech- anisms underlying phonological processes provides a foundation for the investigation of language in the brain. We used high-resolution three-dimensional positron emission tomography (PET) to investigate neural systems essential for phonological processes. The burden of neural activities on the computation of speech codes was maximized by three rhyming tasks (rhyming words, pseudowords and words printed in mixed letter cases). Brain activation patterns associated with these tasks were compared with those of two baseline tasks involving visual feature detection. Results suggest strong left lateralized epicenters of neural activity in rhyming irrespective of gender. Word rhyming activated the same brain regions engaged in pseudoword rhyming, suggesting conjoint neural networks for phonological processing of words and pseudowords. However, pseudoword rhyming induced the largest change in cerebral blood flow and activated more voxels in the left posterior prefrontal regions and the left inferior occipital-temporal junction. In addition, pseudoword rhyming activated the left supramarginal gyrus, which was not apparent in word rhyming. These results suggest that rhyming pseudowords requires active participation of extended neural systems and networks not observed for rhyming words. The implications of the results on theories and models of visual word reading and on selective reading dysfunctions after brain lesions are discussed.
Lesion and imaging studies have suggested that the premotor cortex (PMC) is a crucial component in the neural network underlying the processing of sequential information. However, whether different aspects of sequential information like interval and ordinal properties are supported by different anatomical regions, and whether the representation of sequential information within the PMC is necessarily related to motor requirements, remain open questions. Brain activations were investigated during a sequence encoding paradigm in 12 healthy subjects using functional magnetic resonance imaging. Subjects had to attend either to the interval or to the ordinal information of a sequence of visually presented stimuli and had to encode the relevant information either before motor reproduction or before perceptual monitoring. Although interval and ordinal information led to activations within the same neural network, direct comparisons revealed significant differences. The pre-supplementary motor area (preSMA), the lateral PMC, the frontal opercular cortex as well as basal ganglia and the left lateral cerebellar cortex (CE) were activated significantly more strongly by interval information, whereas the SMA, the frontal eye field, the primary motor cortex (MI), the primary somatosensory cortex, the cuneus as well as the medial CE and the thalamus were activated more strongly by ordinal information. In addition, serial encoding before reproduction led to higher activations than serial encoding before monitoring in the preSMA, SMA, MI and medial CE. Our findings suggest overlapping but different kinds of sequential representation, depending on both the ordinal and interval aspects as well as motor requirements.
Under natural conditions, animals must process spatiotemporally complex signals in order to guide adaptive behavior. It follows that the response properties of neurons should reflect the dynamic nature of such signals. Recently, several studies have demonstrated the existence of time-varying receptive fields in the auditory, visual and somatosensory thalamocortical pathways. The characteristics of these receptive fields suggest that they are constrained by the need to actively interpret time-varying stimuli. Here, we review these studies, the possible functions of these receptive fields, and how they might be generated in the thalamocortical pathway.
Because BALB/c mice transgenic for the rat Her-2/neu oncogene develop multifocal carcinomas in all mammary glands by week 33, they constitute an aggressive model for investigation of treatments designed to oppose mammary carcinogenesis. Nonspecific immune reaction elicited by systemic interleukin (IL)-12 both delayed the appearance of the first tumor and reduced the number of glands affected. However, only 5% of mice were tumor free at week 33. On the other hand, specific vaccination with plasmids encoding for the rat p185neu resulted in a further delay, so much so that 58% of mice were tumor free at week 33. No CTL response was evoked in either IL-12-treated or DNA-vaccinated mice, whereas an anti-rat p185neu antibody response was evident in the latter. Pathological examinations showed that in both IL-12-treated and DNA-vaccinated mice, the tumor growth area was infiltrated by reactive cells associated with expression of endothelial adhesion molecules and antiangiogenic proinflammatory cytokines. In the vaccinated mice, reduction of the number of cells expressing rat p185neu was combined with down-regulation of its membrane expression and even a marked inhibition in development of the terminal ductal lobular units. The reactive infiltrate in vaccinated mice contained numerous granulocytes that likely played an antiangiogenic and angiodestructive role and also joined other cells in the antibody-mediated killing of the r-p185neu+ cells. These results suggest that the elicitation of nonspecific and specific immunity could be beneficially used in individuals with a high risk of developing tumors.
Experimental Borrelia burgdorferi infection of rhesus monkeys is an excellent model of Lyme disease and closely parallels the infection in humans. Little is known about the interaction of host immunity with the spirochete in patients with chronic infection. We hypothesized that rapid development of anti-B. burgdorferi antibody in immunocompetent nonhuman primates (NHPs) is the major determinant of the reduction of the spirochetal load in Lyme borreliosis. This hypothesis was tested by measurement of the spirochetal load by PCR in association with characterization of the anti-B. burgdorferi humoral immune response in immunocompetent NHPs versus that in corticosteroid-treated NHPs. Although anti-B. burgdorferi immunoglobulin G (IgG) antibody was effectively inhibited in dexamethasone (Dex)-treated NHPs, anti-B. burgdorferi IgM antibody levels continued to rise after the first month and reached levels in excess of IgM levels in immunocompetent NHPs. This vigorous production of anti-B. burgdorferi IgM antibodies was also studied in vitro by measurement of antibody produced by B. burgdorferi-stimulated peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Despite these high IgM antispirochetal antibodies in Dex-treated NHPs, spirochetal loads were much higher in these animals. These data indicate that Dex treatment results in interference with isotype switching in this model and provide evidence that anti-B. burgdorferi IgG antibody is much more effective than IgM antibody in decreasing the spirochetal load in infected animals.

In this paper we will review recent neuroimaging research in schizophrenia, with an aim to critically evaluate several recent proposals concerning the nature and the timing of the neuroanatomic abnormalities underlying the disorder. Specifically, enlargement of cerebrospinal fluid spaces, deficits in cortical gray matter, and reduced volume of mesiotemporal structures have all been reported in patients in the first episode of schizophrenia, their first-degree relatives, and individuals with schizotypal personality disorder, supporting the possibility that these abnormalities reflect a genetically mediated neurodevelopmental disorder. These findings from the empirical literature will be synthesized from the perspective of dual cytoarchitectonic trends theory of neurodevelopment, as well as in relation to current conceptions of the schizophrenia prodrome. We believe that the evidence shows that sufficient groundwork has been laid to begin longitudinal neuroimaging studies of adolescents at clinical risk for schizophrenia, in order to more definitively determine the pathophysiology of the disorder. Such information could have significant implications in terms of understanding the prediction, treatment, and ultimately the prevention of schizophrenia.
Abnormal light-related behaviors have been described for patients with panic disorder (PD). The present study was undertaken to investigate the retinal light response in PD using electroretinography (ERG). The authors conducted b-wave ERG measurements with a bright light (after dark adaptation) in 28 patients with PD and 28 control subjects. There were no significant differences in the mean b-wave amplitude between the two groups, but the retinal response to light in PD patients was generally lower than in healthy subjects. A large interindividual variability was found; also noted was a significant difference in the mean b-wave amplitude between the right and left eyes in the control group. The data indicate subtle variation of retinal photosensitivity in a subgroup of patients with PD. Because dopaminergic retinal activity affects b-ERG amplitude, the authors hypothesize that the dopaminergic system is involved in the response to light in PD patients.
Cortical representations of sound can be modified by repeatedly pairing presentation of a pure tone with electrical stimulation of neuromodulatory neurons located in the basal forebrain (Bakin &amp; Weinberger, 1996; Kilgard &amp; Merzenich, 1998a). We developed a computational model to investigate the possible effects of basal forebrain modulation on map reorganization in the auditory cortex. The model is a self-organizing map with acoustic response characteristics mimicking those observed in the mammalian auditory cortex. We simulated the effects of basal forebrain modulation, using parameters intrinsic to the self-organizing map, such as the learning rate (controlling the adaptability of map nodes) and the neighborhood function (controlling the excitability of map nodes). Previous research has suggested that both parameters can be useful for characterizing the effects of neuromodulation on plasticity (Kohonen, 1993; Myers et al., 1996; Myers, Ermita, Hasselmo, &amp; Gluck, 1998). The model successfully accounts for experimentally observed effects of pairing basal forebrain stimulation with the presentation of a single tone, but not of two tones, suggesting that auditory cortical plasticity is constrained in ways not accounted for by current theories. Despite this limitation, the model provides a useful framework for describing experience-induced changes in auditory representations and for relating such changes to variations in the excitability and adaptability of cortical neurons produced by neuromodulation.
Previous work has shown that human adults, children, and infants can rapidly compute sequential statistics from a stream of speech and then use these statistics to determine which syllable sequences form potential words. In the present paper we ask whether this ability reflects a mechanism unique to humans, or might be used by other species as well, to acquire serially organized patterns. In a series of four experimental conditions, we exposed a New World monkey, the cotton-top tamarin (Saguinus oedipus), to the same speech streams used by Saffran, Aslin, and Newport (Science 274 (1996) 1926) with human infants, and then tested their learning using similar methods to those used with infants. Like humans, tamarins showed clear evidence of discriminating between sequences of syllables that differed only in the frequency or probability with which they occurred in the input streams. These results suggest that both humans and non-human primates possess mechanisms capable of computing these particular aspects of serial order. Future work must now show where humans' (adults and infants) and non-human primates' abilities in these tasks diverge.
In the isolated Agama lizard aorta, acetylcholine (ACh; 3 nM-100 microM), noradrenaline (NA; 30 nM-0.3 mM), adrenaline (Adr; 30 nM-300 microM), adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP; 30 nM-1 mM), alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha,beta-meATP; 10 nM-10 microM), beta,gamma-methylene ATP (beta,gamma-meATP; 0.1-300 microM), 2-methylthio ATP (2-meSATP; 30 nM-30 microM) and high concentrations of uridine triphosphate (UTP; 1 microM-1 mM), all produced constriction. The P2 receptor antagonists pyridoxalphosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4'-disulfonic acid (PPADS; 30 microM), suramin (0.1 mM) and Reactive blue 2 (30 microM) all raised vascular tone and could not be utilized and the antagonist 2'-O-(trinitrophenyl) ATP (TNP-ATP; 0.1 microM) had no effect on responses to the ATP analogues. alpha,beta-MeATP (3 microMx3) desensitised responses to alpha,beta-meATP (10 microM) and beta,gamma-meATP (0.3 mM), but not to ATP (0.3 mM) or 2-meSATP (30 microM). On pre-constricted aorta (EC50 concentration of either ACh or Adr), adenosine (1 microM-1 mM), the A1-selective agonist N6-cyclopentyl adenosine (CPA; 1-300 microM) [but not the A2- and A3-selective agonists CGS 21680 and IB-MECA respectively (both up to 30 microM)] and sodium nitroprusside (10 nM-100 microM) produced vasodilatation. Adenosine vasodilatation was antagonised by 8-p-sulfophenyl-theophylline (8-pSPT; 30 microM) but not by N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME; 0.1 mM). ATP (up to 0.3 mM), 2-meSATP (up to 10 microM) and UTP (up to 1 mM) were not vasodilators. In summary, A1 receptors mediating relaxation and excitatory P2X1 receptors were identified in the smooth muscle of the lizard aorta. However, in contrast to mammalian aorta, P2Y receptors on endothelial cells mediating vasodilatation via nitric oxide do not appear to be present.
I disagree with Ross about the location of colors: They are in the brain, not in the external world. It is difficult to deny that there are colors in our conscious visual experience, and if we take the causal theory of perception seriously, we cannot identify these colors with the beginning of the causal chain in perception (external objects in the distal stimulus field), but we must search for them at the end of the causal chain (in the brain). Several lines of compelling evidence from cognitive neuroscience (e.g., synesthesia, dreaming, and achromatopsia) demonstrate unambiguously that color is in the brain. Furthermore, it seems that Ross has failed to consider one substantial version of subjectivism in his article. This monistic approach to color and consciousness appears to be the least implausible alternative when we try to understand what colors are and where they reside.
Advances in the field of small-bowel motility in the last few years include the delineation of the role of the intrinsic primary afferent neuron in eliciting the peristaltic reflex, the genetic control of the development of the enteric nervous system, and the potential role of the interstitial cells of Cajal as pacemakers of the intestine and colon. New promising molecules have been developed for therapeutic purposes, particularly in the modulators of serotonin receptors. Their effects on sensory and motor function has allowed a better recognition of the important role of 5-hydroxytryptamine in several disorders, especially in irritable bowel syndrome. In this brief review, we have elected to appraise the advances pertaining to human studies, with emphasis on novel methodologies, disease manifestations, and novel therapeutic strategies.

Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) tau is a promising biochemical ante-mortem marker for Alzheimer's disease (AD). Levels are increased in AD compared to other dementias, neurological diseases and healthy controls. An age-related decrease in both soluble tau and tau bound to paired helical filaments has been shown in brains from non-demented subjects. To study tau levels in normal ageing, we investigated CSF in 29 healthy individuals aged 45-80 years. A statistically significant increase in CSF tau with increasing age was found which might be caused by neuronal loss during normal ageing and redistribution of soluble tau from the brain into CSF. We could not demonstrate any influence by the APOE genotype, though larger populations have to be investigated to confirm this result. In conclusion, we found an age-dependent increase in CSF tau in healthy individuals. We emphasise the importance of establishing an age-dependent interval of CSF tau in non-demented subjects.

This experiment investigates neonatal intersensory functioning between touch and vision for texture density. The experiment compared manual activity (holding time and hand pressure frequency) recorded on objects in the presence (test period) or absence of visual information (pre-test and post-test periods). Thirty-two babies were assigned to four experimental conditions according to texture density of the objects held and seen during the test period: Objects had either the same (matching conditions) or different (mismatching conditions) texture density information. The results clearly showed that in matching conditions, holding times were systematically increased during the test period. However, hand pressure frequency remained unchanged over the three test periods. In the mismatching conditions, holding times remained unchanged over the three test periods. However, hand pressure frequency systematically changed during the test period according to the texture density of the visual object. These results indicate newborns' capability to compare texture density information across modalities.
As cholinergic stimulation increases vocalizations in adult rats, the present study investigated the effects of systemic oxotremorine, a cholinergic agonist, on the production of separation calls in rat pups of different ages and whether these effects are in response to central versus peripheral stimulation. The first experiment examined the dose-response effects of oxotremorine on the number of vocalizations and acoustic parameters of 10-, 15-, and 17-day-old rat pups. In contrast to other studies on adult rats, pup vocalizations were decreased while marginally changing acoustic parameters. The second experiment, using muscarinic antagonists, showed that pretreatment with atropine sulfate, which can cross the blood-brain barrier (BBB), reversed the call-reducing effect of oxotremorine whereas pretreatment with atropine methyl nitrate, which does not cross BBB, did not. Suppression of vocalizations by oxotremorine may be explained by central activation and not the peripheral effects of the drug. Dissimilar effects of cholinergic stimulation of infant and adult rat brains may be attributed to a differential role of the cholinergic system during development and maturity.
Information that originates from peripheral sensory organs is conveyed by axons of cephalic sensory cranial ganglia connecting the sensory organs to appropriate central targets in the brain. Thus, the establishment of correct axonal projections by sensory afferents is one of the most important issues in neural development. Previously, we examined the development of the vestibular nerve that originates from the VIIIth ganglion using a flat whole-mount preparation of the rat hindbrain and developed an in vitro, culture preparation that can recapitulate vestibular nerve development (Tashiro, Y., Endo, T., Shirasaki, R., Miyahara, M., Heizmann, C. W. and Murakami, F. (2000) J. Comp. Neurol. 417, 491-500). Both in vivo and in vitro, the ascending branch of the VIIIth ganglion projecting to the cerebellum reaches the base of the cerebellar primordium and starts to splay out towards the rhombic lip, apparently avoiding the ventral metencephalon. We now examine the nature of cues that guide vestibulocerebellar axons by applying various manipulations to the flat whole-mount in vitro preparation. Our observations suggest that local nonpermissive cues and oriented cues play a pivotal role in the guidance of vestibular axons to their central target.



Santiago Ramn y Cajal published the first of the three volumes of his principal life's work in 1899, and published the last volume in 1904. This book remains the definitive work on the morphology of the vertebrate nervous system. In it, Ramn y Cajal describes the structure and organization of virtually all parts of the nervous system and discusses his theories, including the neuron doctrine and the law of functional polarization, which are the cornerstones of modern neurobiology. A century later, Ramn y Cajal's work is still fundamental to understanding the nervous system.
Estrogen increases evoked norepinephrine release in the hypothalamus of female rodents, in part by reducing the ability of alpha2-adrenoceptors to act as negative feed-back inhibitors of norepinephrine release. Estrogen enhancement of norepinephrine release in the hypothalamus correlates with decreased coupling of the alpha2-adrenoceptor to G protein. To determine the mechanism by which estrogen uncouples alpha2-adrenoceptors from G protein, we tested the hypothesis that estrogen increases alpha2-adrenoceptor phosphorylation. Short-term activation of endogenous serine/threonine phosphatases with protamine or treatment with exogenous phosphatase restored alpha2-adrenoceptor coupling to G protein to control levels in hypothalami from estrogen-exposed female rats. Additional experiments examined whether estrogen alters G protein-coupled receptor kinase expression or activity or serine/threonine phosphatase activity. These proteins are involved in G protein-coupled receptor phosphorylation, internalization, and recycling. Estrogen exposure reduced G protein-coupled receptor kinase mRNA, protein, and activity in the hypothalamus. Furthermore, estrogen treatment reduced serine/threonine phosphatase activity in the hypothalamus. Analysis of ligand binding in subcellular fractions demonstrated that estrogen decreases the fraction of internalized alpha2-adrenoceptors in the hypothalamus.Therefore, estrogen promotes norepinephrine release in the hypothalamus by stabilizing alpha2-adrenoceptor phosphorylation, uncoupling the receptor from G protein. Estrogen may stabilize alpha2-adrenoceptor phosphorylation by inhibiting receptor internalization and dephosphorylation.
Although there is considerable information regarding the role of brain CRF in energy balance, relatively little is known about the role of urocortin (UCN), which is an equally potent anorexic agent. Therefore, the effects of intracerebroventricular (icv) administration of UCN (0.01-1 nmol/day) on food intake and body weight were assessed over a period of 13 days and compared with data from CRF-infused counterparts. Although both peptides dose dependently reduced food intake and weight gain, the effects of CRF were much greater in magnitude than those of UCN, particularly on body weight. Pair-feeding studies suggested that, while the effects of CRF on body weight could not be completely explained by appetite suppression, the effects of UCN appeared to be due to its initial impact on food intake. CRF increased brown adipose fat pad and adrenal weights, whereas it reduced thymus and spleen weights. CRF also increased serum corticosterone, triglyceride, FFA, and cholesterol levels, whereas it reduced glucose. UCN did not produce any consistent changes in any of these indices of sympathetic nervous system activation. Concurrent administration of the CRF(2)-selective antagonist, antisauvagine-30 (ASV-30) (30 nmol/day) completely reversed or attenuated the effects of UCN and CRF (1 nmol/day) on food intake and body weight. ASV-30 did not significantly attenuate any of the above CRF-induced changes in tissue weights or serum chemistry. These data suggest that the central CRF(2) receptor may primarily mediate the anorexic, but not the metabolic effects of CRF.
The 5-HT(1A) receptor has previously been shown to be important in mediating the behavioural effects of nicotine. It is possible that nicotine administration might regulate the levels of 5-HT receptors in limbic and cortical regions, and such regulations may underlie adaptive responses to nicotine in the central nervous system. The effects of acute and chronic systemic (--)-nicotine administration on 5-HT(1A) receptor gene expression were measured by in situ hybridization, in the rat cerebral cortex, dorsal hippocampus and lateral septum. In the cortex, acute nicotine (0.5 mg/kg i.p.) significantly increased the expression of 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA 2 h and 24 h after injection. Similarly, acute nicotine significantly increased 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA in the dentate gyrus (DG), CA3 and CA1 regions of the dorsal hippocampus 2 h and 24 h after injection. Acute nicotine was without effect in the lateral septum. Chronic nicotine (0.5 mg/kg i.p; twice daily for 7 days) significantly decreased 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA in the cortex 2 h after the final injection, but was without effect at 24 h or 72 h. Chronic nicotine caused no changes in 5-HT(1A) mRNA in the lateral septum or dorsal hippocampus. These data demonstrate that nicotine regulates 5-HT(1A) receptor gene expression in the cortex and hippocampus. The rapid regulation of expression of 5-HT(1A) receptor mRNA leads to the hypothesis that nicotine-induced 5-HT release may alter the postsynaptic sensitivity to 5-HT.
Low doses of lipopolysaccharide, tumour necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), or exposure to a stressor (restraint) increased plasma corticosterone levels. In animals pretreated with lipopolysaccharide, a marked sensitization of the corticosterone response was evident upon subsequent exposure to lipopolysaccharide, TNF-alpha, or restraint, 1 day later. As well, the sickness-inducing effects of lipopolysaccharide, TNF-alpha and IL-1 beta were markedly increased in mice pretreated with lipopolysaccharide. The sensitization effects were marked when the second treatment was administered 1 day after lipopolysaccharide administration, but not when a 28-day interval elapsed. In a second experiment, TNF-alpha influenced monoamine functioning in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and within extrahypothalamic regions, including the central amygdala, locus coeruleus, prefrontal cortex. Moreover, serotonin activity within the central amygdala, as well as dopamine activity within the prefrontal cortex, were subject to a sensitization effect in animals pretreated with lipopolysaccharide 1 day earlier. Macrophage depletion by a suspension of clodronate liposomes attenuated the plasma corticosterone changes induced by TNF-alpha, but did not affect the sensitization. In contrast, the acute effects of TNF-alpha on central neurotransmitters were unaffected by the liposome suspension, but this treatment prevented the sensitization. These data may be relevant to clinical situations in which individuals exposed to bacterial infections may be rendered more susceptible to the behavioural and neurochemical effects of subsequently encountered stressors and immunological challenges.
Dystrophin and its autosomal homologue utrophin are coexpressed in muscle cells, and utrophin is functionally able to replace dystrophin in models of Duchenne muscular dystrophy. In brain, the two proteins are expressed differentially, suggesting distinct functional roles. Dystrophin is associated with postsynaptic GABA(A) receptors in hippocampus, cortex and cerebellum, whereas utrophin is present extrasynaptically, notably in large brainstem neurons. Here, the regulation of dystrophin and utrophin was investigated in a model of temporal lobe epilepsy. Adult mice were injected unilaterally with kainic acid into the dorsal hippocampus to induce loss of pyramidal cells and hypertrophy of dentate gyrus (DG) granule cells, as described (Suzuki, F., Junier, M.P., Guilhem, D., Sorensen, J.C. &amp; Onteniente, B. (1995) Neuroscience, 64, 665--674.). These morphological changes were associated with an increase in postsynaptic GABA(A)-receptors in the ipsilateral DG, as demonstrated by a parallel increase in punctate immunoreactivity to GABA(A)-receptor alpha 2 subunit, gephyrin and dystrophin in the molecular layer. Thus, both dystrophin and gephyrin were involved in postsynaptic clustering of GABA(A) receptors. A transient induction of utrophin was seen at the onset of degeneration in CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells and in the hilus. Most strikingly, however, utrophin immunoreactivity appeared in the granule cell layer of the DG and became very strong in hypertrophic granule cells 1--2 months post-kainate treatment. These results suggest that utrophin provides structural support of neuronal membranes, whereas dystrophin is a component of GABAergic synapses.
Hippocampal place cells were recorded while rats solved a continuous spatial alternation task requiring short-term spatial memory. All cells that had a firing field on the stem of the Y-shaped maze were found to have a very similar pattern of discharge whether the rat was about to make a right or a left turn, and whether the preceding turn was a right or a left turn. Thus, the view that place cells encode a variety of events (including the direction of turns) useful for solving memory tasks is not well supported by the present data. We suggest several possible explanations to account for the discrepancy with other recent studies showing turn-related modulation of place-cell activity.
We tested whether neuronal activity in the dorsal premotor cortex (PMd) reflected the orientation of selective spatial attention, as opposed to the target of a reaching movement, eye position and saccade direction. These four spatial variables were dissociated in two tasks, which both required that a monkey attend to a robot's location in order to know when to make a movement. However, the target of the reaching movement varied; it was the robot's location in one task, but a different location in the other task. Eye position was recorded, but not explicitly controlled. Of 199 PMd neurons sampled, 19% had activity related to eye position, and an overlapping 11% were related to saccade direction (totaling 24% of the PMd sample). Of the 152 PMd neurons that lacked oculomotor relationships, approximately 20% reflected the orientation of selective spatial attention. Attentional tuning may account, at least in part, for gaze-independent receptive fields and visuospatial, target or goal relationships in tasks involving stimulus-response incompatibility.
The matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) family, comprising more than 20 isoforms, modulates the extracellular milieu by degrading extracellular matrix (ECM) proteins. Because MMP is one of the few groups of proteinases capable of hydrolysing insoluble fibrillar proteins, they are likely to play crucial roles in regulating both normal and pathophysiological processes in the brain. However, little is yet known about their possible neuronal functions due presumably to their unusual redundancy and to the absence of a complete catalogue of isoforms. As an initial step in understanding the MMP system in the brain, we analysed an expression spectrum of MMP in rat brain using RT-PCR and discovered a novel brain-specific MMP, MT5-MMP. MT5-MMP was the predominant species among the nongelatinase-type isoforms in brain. MT5-MMP, present in all brain tissues examined, was most strongly expressed in cerebellum and was localized in the membranous structures of expressing neurons, as assessed biochemically and immunohistochemically. In cerebellum, its expression was regulated developmentally and was closely associated with dendritic tree formation of Purkinje cells, suggesting that MT5-MMP may contribute to neuronal development. Furthermore, its stable postdevelopmental expression and colocalization with senile plaques in Alzheimer brain indicates possible roles in neuronal remodeling naturally occurring in adulthood and in regulating pathophysiological processes associated with advanced age.
[123I]FP-CIT (N-omega-fluoropropyl-2 beta-carbomethoxy-3 beta-(4-iodophenyl)nortropane) has been developed successfully as a radioligand for single-photon emission tomography (SPET) imaging of dopamine transporters, which are situated in the membrane of dopaminergic neurons. Imaging of these transporters has shown promise as a clinical tool to detect degeneration of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway. Several &quot;presynaptic parkinsonian&quot; syndromes, such as Parkinson's disease or multiple system atrophy, are characterised by degeneration of the nigrostriatal pathway. [123I]FP-CIT SPET imaging studies have shown the ability to detect loss of striatal dopamine transporters in such syndromes. However, in clinical practice it is sometimes difficult, but important, to discriminate patients with &quot;presynaptic parkinsonism&quot; from those with other forms of parkinsonism not characterised by loss of presynaptic dopaminergic cells (e.g. psychogenic parkinsonism or drug-induced postsynaptic parkinsonism). In these inconclusive cases, it may be of value to confirm or exclude the existence of degeneration of nigrostriatal dopaminergic cells by using imaging techniques such as [123I]FP-CIT SPET. Using [123I]FP-CIT SPET, we have imaged the striatal dopamine transporters in a group of patients with inconclusive forms of parkinsonism, and, moreover, have been able to perform clinical follow-up of these patients 2-4 years after imaging. In 33 inconclusive cases, ratios of specific to non-specific binding were calculated for the caudate nucleus and putamen following [123I]FP-CIT SPET imaging and compared with ratios obtained in healthy controls. In nine of the patients, degeneration of the nigrostriatal pathway was found scintigraphically and in all these cases, presynaptic parkinsonism was confirmed by clinical follow-up. In the other 24 subjects no degeneration was found scintigraphically. Forms of parkinsonism other than the presynaptic were confirmed at follow-up in 19 cases, and in three cases no conclusive diagnosis was established, but presynaptic parkinsonism was excluded clinically. A clinical diagnosis of presynaptic parkinsonism was established in two cases: one case of multiple system atrophy (in this patient loss of dopamine D2 receptors was found with [123I]iodobenzamide SPET performed 2 weeks after [123I]FP-CIT imaging) and one case of Parkinson's disease. Our data suggest that the positive predictive value of [123I]FP-CIT imaging is very high, and although the negative predictive value is lower, dopamine transporter imaging offers the prospect of a quick, objective method to confirm or exclude presynaptic parkinsonism in inconclusive cases.
We evaluated racemic zopiclone, its (S)- and (R)-enantiomers and a metabolite, (S)-desmethylzopiclone, for their actions on locomotor activity, rotarod performance, the elevated plus maze and the Vogel conflict test of anxiety, and electroconvulsive shock-induced seizures duration. Zopiclone and its (R)- and (S)-enantiomers reduced locomotor activity, and zopiclone and its (S)-enantiomer disrupted rotarod performance at 10 mg/kg. (S)-desmethylzopiclone did not alter these measures at doses of less than 200 mg/kg. (S)-desmethylzopiclone altered plus maze performance at the lowest dose of all the zopiclone derivatives tested, caused a dose-related effect on the Vogel conflict test and caused a dose-related reduction of electroconvulsive shock-induced seizure durations. The data indicate that (S)-desmethylzopiclone can bring about an anxiolytic effect without a substantial degree of central nervous system depression, and suggest that the agent may be particularly useful clinically in the treatment of anxiety.

Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) is utilized to treat a variety of painful conditions. Inflamed animals present with an increased response to noxious stimuli, i.e., hyperalgesia, at the site of injury (primary hyperalgesia) and outside the site of injury (secondary hyperalgesia). Further, following acute inflammation, dorsal horn neurons show an increased responsiveness to peripherally applied stimuli, which has been termed sensitization. Previous studies demonstrate a reduction in dorsal horn neuron activity following TENS treatment in normal animals and a reduction in primary and secondary hyperalgesia in acutely inflamed animals. The purpose of this study was to examine the effects of TENS on dorsal horn neurons sensitized by acute inflammation. Extracellular recordings from wide dynamic range (WDR), high threshold (HT) and low threshold (LT) dorsal horn neurons in anesthetized rats were assessed for spontaneous activity, responses to innocuous and noxious mechanical stimulation and receptive field size. Responses were measured before and 3 h after induction of inflammation, and immediately and 1 h after application of either high (100 Hz) or low (4 Hz) frequency TENS (motor intensity, pulse duration = 100 microseconds). TENS was applied to the inflamed paw to encompass the receptive field of the neuron for 20 min. WDR and HT dorsal horn neurons sensitized to mechanical stimulation after induction of inflammation. Application of either high or low frequency TENS to the inflamed paw reduced both innocuous and noxious evoked responses of WDR and HT dorsal horn neurons immediately and 1 h after treatment with TENS. Comparison of responses after TENS with baseline responses showed that the evoked responses in the majority of WDR and HT cells returned to or fell below baseline responses. TENS had no effect on responses of LT neurons. In summary, central neuron sensitization is reduced by TENS and may underlie the reduction in hyperalgesia observed after treatment with TENS.
The triceps surae muscle group, consisting of the mono-articular soleus (SOL) and bi-articular gastrocnemius (GAS) muscles, primarily generates plantar flexor torque. Since the GAS muscle crosses the knee joint, flexion of the knee reduces the length of this muscle, thus limiting its contribution to torque output. However, it is not clearly understood how the central nervous system activates muscles that are at inefficient or non-optimal force-producing lengths. Therefore, the present study was designed to determine the effect of muscle length on motor-unit recruitment in the medial GAS muscle. Single motor-unit activity was recorded from the medial GAS muscle while electromyographic (EMG) activity was recorded from the SOL muscle in nine male subjects. With the ankle angle held constant at 90 degrees, the knee angle was changed from 180 degrees to 90 degrees, corresponding to a long and short GAS muscle length, respectively. Levels of voluntary plantar flexor torque were produced at a rate of 2 Nm.s-1 until motor-unit activity was detected. A total of 229 motor units were recorded, of which 121 and 108 were obtained at the long and short muscle lengths, respectively. At the short length, onset of motor-unit activity occurred at significantly higher levels of plantar flexor torque and SOL EMG. Onset of motor-unit activity occurred at 2.97 +/- 7.78 Nm and 32.14 +/- 10.25 Nm, corresponding to 0.045 +/- 0.075 mV and 0.231 +/- 0.129 mV of SOL EMG in the long and short positions, respectively. No individual GAS motor unit could be recorded at both muscle lengths. Motor units in the shortened GAS muscle may be influenced by peripheral afferents capable of reducing the excitability of the motoneurone pool. This may also reflect a specific inhibition of motor units having shortened, non-optimal fascicle lengths, and they are thereby incapable of contributing to plantar flexor torque.
The objective of this study was to examine the ocular hydrodynamic effects of topically and centrally administered naphazoline, alone and following pretreatment with pertussis toxin (PTX) and alpha(2)/I(1)receptor antagonists. Topically and intracisternally administered naphazoline was examined for its ability to alter intraocular pressure (IOP) of rabbits in the absence and presence of receptor antagonists (rauwolscine, efaroxan) and a G(i/o)ribosylating agent PTX. In addition, the topical effects of naphazoline on pupil diameter and aqueous humor flow rate were evaluated. Topical unilateral application of naphazoline (7.5, 25 and 75 micro g; 25 micro l) elicited an ipsilateral dose-dependent mydriasis (2, 4 and 5.5 mm) that peaked at 2 hr with a duration of up to 5 hr. The IOP decreases induced by naphazoline were bilateral and dose-dependent (3, 6 and 10 mmHg); the response peaked at 1 hr and lasted for up to 5 hr. Pretreatment with efaroxan (250 micro g) elicited significantly greater antagonism of the ocular hypotensive response to naphazoline than did rauwolscine (250 micro g) suggesting an involvement of imidazoline (I(1)) receptors. Intracisternal application of naphazoline (3.3 micro g) also produced bilateral reductions (6 mmHg) of IOP that were immediate (10 min post drug) and lasted for approximately 2 hr. In PTX-pretreated (2.5 micro g kg(-1), i.a.) rabbits, the ocular hypotensive effects of naphazoline by both routes (topically and centrally) were attenuated by 50--65%. In addition to producing ocular hypotension, topical application of naphazoline (75 micro g; 25 micro l) caused significant reduction, from 2.8 to 1.5 micro l min(-1), in aqueous humor flow. These in vivo data indicate that, regardless of route of administration, alteration of aqueous humor flow by naphazoline was induced by the activation of alpha(2)and I(1)receptors. The ocular hypotensive effects produced by central administration did not result in sedation, therefore, there is the suggestion that central alpha(2)adrenergic receptors were stimulated minimally by naphazoline. Thus, these data suggest that ocular hypotensive effects and suppression of aqueous humor flow rate by naphazoline are mediated, in part, by alpha(2)and/or central I(1)at both central (brain) and peripheral (eye) sites. Moreover, these data indicate that the receptors are linked to PTX-sensitive G((i/o))proteins.
We have recently noted that the inner nuclear layer (INL) and the inner plexiform layer (IPL) were significantly thinner in mice homozygous for the nervous defect (nr / nr) than in control (nr /+ or +/+) littermates. Here, we have carried out a series of anatomical studies to further understand these inner retinal changes. At postnatal day (P) 13, there was no difference in the inner retina between nervous and control mice, while a significant difference was observed at P30. Similar changes were not seen in other mouse models of photoreceptor degeneration. There was a significant reduction in the density of cells in the INL that were stained by antibodies against the inhibitory neurotransmitters GABA and glycine. These results indicate that the nervous defect causes a degeneration of one or more sub-types of amacrine cells, in addition to the loss of cerebellar Purkinje cells and retinal photoreceptors that is known to occur in these mutant animals. Finally, evidence is provided that photoreceptors die by an apoptotic pathway in nervous mice.
Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) may decrease the risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). Cyclooxygenase 2 (COX-2), one of the targets of NSAIDs, is increasingly expressed in neuronal cells in AD brain. In this study, of the cytokines that are found at increased levels in AD brain (interleukin (IL)-1alpha, IL-1beta, IL-6 and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)alpha), IL-1beta was found to induce COX-2 immunoreactivity and prostaglandin (PG) E2 secretion by human neuroblastoma cell line SK-N-SH. COX inhibitors indomethacin and BF389, as well as the glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX) and pyrrolidinedithiocarbamate, which is an inhibitor of nuclear factor kappaB as well as a potent antioxidant, inhibited IL-1beta induced PGE2 secretion. In addition, DEX reduced the IL-1beta induced COX-2 immunoreactivity in the same concentration as wherein it inhibited PGE2 secretion. Palmitoyl trifluormethyl ketone, an inhibitor of Ca(2+) independent phospholipase A2 (iPLA2) and a less potent inhibitor of cytosolic PLA2, dose-dependently reduced the IL-1beta induced PGE2 secretion. This suggests that the IL-1beta induced PGE2 secretion may depend on the availability of arachidonic acid. Although the physiological role of neuronal COX-2 still remains unclear, we suggest an interplay between glial derived IL-1 and neuronal upregulation of COX-2 expression in chronic neurodegenerative diseases, such as AD.
Recent data from our laboratory have identified a role for mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathogenesis of progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). To extend this finding, we measured key parameters of mitochondrial function in platelet-derived cytoplasmic hybrid (cybrid) cell lines expressing mitochondrial genes from patients with PSP. We observed significant decreases in aconitase activity, cellular ATP levels, and oxygen consumption in PSP cybrids as compared to control cybrids, further suggesting a contributory role of impaired mitochondrial energy metabolism in PSP, possibly due to genetic abnormalities of mitochondrial DNA.
Cortical and striatal cultures were prepared from the same embryonic rat brains and maintained in identical culture conditions. In this way, the intrinsic, genetically imprinted differences determine the responses of cortical and striatal neurons in comparative studies. Cortical and striatal neurons differed in their sensitivity to glutamate receptor-mediated neurotoxicity as measured by the MTT cell viability assay. On the 8th day in vitro, striatal cultures were less sensitive to N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA)-induced toxicity than cortical, although both cultures were equally vulnerable to alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA)- or kainate-induced toxicity. The AMPA receptor-mediated cell death in cortical cultures, however, was much more dependent on preventing AMPA receptor desensitization than in striatal cultures. Furthermore, glutamate-induced neurotoxicity was primarily mediated by NMDA receptors in cortical cultures, while blockade of either NMDA or AMPA receptors gave almost complete protection against glutamate in striatal cultures. To elucidate the molecular mechanisms responsible for the observed differences, we analyzed the expression of NMDA receptor subunits (NR1, NR2A-C) at the mRNA and the protein level in cortical and striatal cultures as well as in standard cerebellar granule cell cultures. The lowest expression level of NMDA receptor subunits was found in striatal cultures, thereby providing a possible explanation for their lower sensitivity to NMDA. Remarkable differences were found between the relative rates of mRNA and protein expression for NR1 and NR2B in the three cultures, indicative of intrinsic differences in the posttranscriptional regulation of NMDA receptor subunit expression in cultures from various brain regions.
The sequencing and annotation of the euchromatin of the Drosophila melanogaster genome provides an important foundation that allows neurobiologists to work back from the complete gene set of neuronal proteins to an eventual understanding of how they function to produce cognition and behavior. Here we provide a brief survey of some of the key insights that have emerged from analyzing the complete gene set in Drosophila. Not surprisingly, both the Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila genomes contain a conserved repertoire of neuronal signaling proteins that are also present in mammals. This includes a large number of neuronal cell adhesion receptors, synapse-organizing proteins, ion channels and neurotransmitter receptors, and synaptic vesicle-trafficking proteins. In addition, there are a significant number of fly homologs of human neurological disease loci, suggesting that Drosophila is likely to be an important disease model for human neuropathology in the near future. The experimental analysis of the Drosophila neuronal gene set will provide important insights into how the nervous system functions at the cellular level, allowing the field to integrate this information into the framework of ultimately understanding how neuronal ensembles mediate cognition and behavior.
Slow transit constipation is a clinical syndrome predominantly affecting young women, characterized by constipation and delayed colonic transit, occasionally associated with pelvic floor dysfunction. The disorder spans a spectrum of variable severity, ranging from patients who have relatively mild delays in transit but who are otherwise indistinguishable from irritable bowel syndrome patients at one extreme, to patients with colonic inertia or chronic megacolon at the other extreme. Potential mechanisms for impaired colonic propulsion include fewer colonic HAPCs or a reduced colonic contractile response to a meal. The cause of the syndrome is unclear. The treatment is primarily medical; surgery is reserved for patients with severe disease or colonic inertia. Recognition and treatment of pelvic floor dysfunction is crucial for patients treated medically or surgically. Collaborative studies are necessary to determine the pathophysiology of this disorder and to ascertain the efficacy of novel prokinetic agents.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) strongly supports the survival of injured neonatal motoneurons, suggesting its potential uses in the treatment of motoneuron injury and motor neuron diseases. We examined neuroprotective effects of an adenoviral vector encoding GDNF (AxCAhGDNF) on the survival of lesioned adult rat facial and spinal motoneurons. The facial nerve or the seventh cervical segment (C7) ventral and dorsal roots of 3 month-old Fischer 344 male rats were avulsed and removed from the stylomastoid or vertebral foramen, respectively, and AxCALacZ (adenovirus containing beta-galactosidase gene), AxCAhGDNF, or PBS was inoculated in the lesioned foramen. One week after the avulsion and treatment with AxCALacZ, the animal showed expression of beta-galactosidase activity in lesioned facial and spinal motoneurons. Animals avulsed and treated with AxCAhGDNF showed intense immunolabeling for GDNF in lesioned facial and spinal motoneurons and expression of virus-induced human GDNF mRNA transcripts in the lesioned brain stem and spinal cord tissues. The treatment with AxCAhGDNF after avulsion significantly prevented the loss of lesioned facial and C7 spinal motoneurons, ameliorated choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity, and suppressed the activity of nitric oxide synthase in these neurons. These results indicate that the adenovirus-mediated gene transfer of GDNF may prevent the degeneration of motoneurons in adult humans with motoneuron injury and motor neuron diseases.
In the clinical setting, parkinsonian rigidity is assessed using subjective rating scales such as that of the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating System (UPDRS). However, such scales are susceptible to problems of sensitivity and reliability. Here, we evaluate the reliability and validity of a device designed to quantify parkinsonian rigidity at the elbow and the wrist. The method essentially quantifies the clinical examination and employs small sensors to monitor forces and angular displacements imposed by the clinician onto the limb segment distal to the joint being evaluated. Force and displacement data are used to calculate elastic and viscous stiffnesses and their vectorial sum, mechanical impedance. Interexaminer agreement of measures of mechanical impedance in subjects with Parkinson's disease was comparable to that of clinical UPDRS scores. Examiners tended to overrate rigidity on the UPDRS scale during reinforcement manoeuvres. Mechanical impedance was nonlinearly related to UPDRS ratings of rigidity at the elbow and wrist; characterization of such relationships allows interpretation of impedance measurements in terms of the clinical rating scales.
We investigated platelet [14C]serotonin (5-HT) uptake and lysergic acid diethylamide [N-methyl-3H] ([3H]LSD)- and phenyl-6'-paroxetine ([3H]paroxetine) binding in 30 patients with major depression at baseline and after 6 months of treatment with either paroxetine or sertraline. The study was of a double-blind design. Baseline data was compared with an age- and gender-matched group of healthy volunteers. Baseline Vmax was significantly lower in patients than in controls. Bmax for [3H]paroxetine binding were similar in patients and controls, but patients who suffered their first depression had significantly lower Bmax for [3H]paroxetine binding than patients who had suffered multiple depressions. Twenty-three patients (76%) (13 in the paroxetine group and 10 in the sertraline group) responded to treatment as judged by a 50% or more reduction in Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale (MADRS) scores after 6 months of treatment. There were no significant differences between the paroxetine and sertraline treated groups. Both paroxetine and sertraline caused a significant reduction in Vmax and a significant increase in Km. There was a strong correlation between Km and plasma drug concentration in patients who experienced their first depression but not in patients who had suffered multiple episodes. Bmax for [3H]paroxetine binding increased after paroxetine treatment while the opposite occurred after sertraline treatment. There was a significant interaction between the impact of drug and earlier depressions. All patients included in the study had been drug free for at least 2 months. Earlier antidepressant treatment may have long withstanding effects on the serotonin uptake machinery but it cannot be excluded that the sensitivity of the uptake mechanism may become more resistant to change in patients with recurrent depressive episodes.
An increasing body of evidence demonstrates that lithium and valproate have a regulatory effect on signal transduction pathways. Alteration of signalling molecules triggers changes in gene expression which are thought to contribute to the therapeutic effects of these drugs on bipolar disorder. Differential-display PCR was used to identify genes in rat cerebral cortex that are regulated by chronic treatment with lithium and valproate. One novel lithium-regulated gene was identified and was characterized and studied further with 5'-RACE-PCR and library screening. We also found that valproate regulated the expression of the 78-kDa glucose-regulated protein (GRP78). Chronic treatment with valproate has also been found to increase gene transcription, mRNA and protein levels of GRP78. These results suggest novel targets for lithium and valproate that may be relevant to their mechanism of action. The data further our understanding of the mechanism of the action of mood stabilizers, and help identify new targets for genetic studies and therapeutic strategies in bipolar disorder.
Anxiety symptoms are associated with a marked increase in sudden cardiac death, suggesting an abnormality in the autonomic control of the heart. We examined the effects of sympathetic stimulation on QT interval variability in panic disorder patients by infusing the ss-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol in 6 panic disorder patients and 11 normal subjects. The ECG signal was analysed before the infusion and after 5 min after the infusion was started. The outcome measures were the QT variability normalized for mean QT interval (QTvm) and the QT variability index (QTvi), a measure of QT variability normalized by the concomitant heart rate variability. Patients with panic disorder had more variability in QT interval duration than normal controls and this variability was increased further by sympathetic stimulation with isoproterenol. The isoproterenol-associated increase in QT interval occurred in controls in the absence of significant anxiety. However, on one of two measures, the increase in QT interval variability was greater in patients with panic disorder, suggesting a greater sensitivity to isoproterenol or to isoproterenol-induced anxiety.
Within 30 min after the initiation of status epilepticus (SE) by lithium and pilocarpine, rats were injected with either acepromazine or ketamine. Compared to the rats that had received the acepromazine, the group that had received the ketamine displayed more accurate spatial memory. Their scores did not differ significantly from normal (non-seized) controls. Although the ketamine treatment did not significantly change the amount of neuronal loss within about 100 Paxinos and Watson structures, it was neuroprotective for several structures within the thalamus and portions of the temporal and parietal cortices. Ketamine-treated rats, however, displayed markedly more damage within the entorhinal cortices and amygdalohippocampal area.
Chronic Fatigue Syndrome (CFS) is an unexplained illness that is characterized by severe fatigue. Some have suggested that CFS is a &quot;functional somatic syndrome&quot; in which symptoms of fatigue are inappropriately attributed to a serious illness. However, brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data suggest that there may be an organic abnormality associated with CFS. To understand further the significance of brain MRI abnormalities, we examined the relationship between MRI identified brain abnormalities and self-reported physical functional status in 48 subjects with CFS who underwent brain MR imaging and completed the Medical Outcomes Study SF-36. Brain MR images were examined for the presence of abnormalities based on 5 general categories previously shown to be sensitive to differentiating CFS patients from healthy controls. There were significant negative relationships between the presence of brain abnormalities and both the physical functioning (PF) (rho=-.31, p=.03), and physical component summary PCS (rho=-.32, p=.03) subscales of the SF-36. CFS patients with MRI identified brain abnormalities scored significantly lower on both PF (t(1,46) =2.3, p=.026) and the PCS (t(1,41) =2.4, p=.02) than CFS subjects without an identified brain abnormality. When adjusted for age differences only the PF analysis remained significant. However, the effect sizes for both analyses were large indicating meaningful differences in perceived functional status between the groups. These results demonstrate that the presence of brain abnormalities in CFS are significantly related to subjective reports of physical function and that CFS subjects with MRI brain abnormalities report being more physically impaired than those patients without brain abnormalities.
We compared the rate of falling in older nursing home residents who had been prescribed selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), other classes of antidepressants, and no antidepressants. Data were obtained from pharmacy records, medical records, fall logs, and incidence reports for one nursing home (1995 data). Older adults on SSRIs were more likely to fall than older adults not on antidepressants (p = .003) and were more likely to have an injurious fall (p = .03). The association with falling remained significant even when including potential confounders (p = .007). Older nursing home residents should be treated for depression. However, SSRIs may also carry an increased risk for falling.




This report is the first systematic evaluation of the effects of prolonged weightlessness on the bipedal postural control processes during self-generated perturbations produced by voluntary upper limb movements. Spaceflight impacts humans in a variety of ways, one of which is compromised postflight postural control. We examined the neuromuscular activation characteristics and center of pressure (COP) motion associated with arm movement of eight subjects who experienced long-duration spaceflight (3--6 mo) aboard the Mir space station. Surface electromyography, arm acceleration, and COP motion were collected while astronauts performed rapid unilateral shoulder flexions before and after spaceflight. Subjects generally displayed compromised postural control after flight, as evidenced by modified COP peak-to-peak anterior-posterior and mediolateral excursion, and pathlength relative to preflight values. These changes were associated with disrupted neuromuscular activation characteristics, particularly after the completion of arm acceleration (i.e., when subjects were attempting to maintain upright posture in response to self-generated perturbations). These findings suggest that, although the subjects were able to assemble coordination modes that enabled them to generate rapid arm movements, the subtle control necessary to maintain bipedal equilibrium evident in their preflight performance is compromised after long-duration spaceflight.
Previous studies of animals observed a phenomenon of adaptation of distortion product otoacoustic emission (DPOAE) and found that the phenomenon was mediated to a large extent by the medial olivocochlear (MOC) reflex. The present study investigated DPOAE adaptation in humans. The following stimuli were used: f2/f1 = 1.2; f2 = 2, 4, or 5.65 kHz; L2 = 50-65 dB SPL re 20 microPa rms, L1 - L2 = 0-15 dB, where L1 and L2 represent levels of the f1 and f2 tones, respectively; duration of two-tone burst = 5.5 s; interburst gap = 20 or 30 s; number of repetitions = 40 or 64. We analyzed the 2f1 - f2 DPOAE as a function of time using a method of heterodyne envelope detection. The subjects were 20 humans aged from 15 to 54 years (median = 21 years) with normal hearing. We observed that (1) humans exhibited DPOAE adaptation phenomenon; (2) the time course of DPOAE level was characterized by a 2-exponential function; (3) distributions of the fast and slow time constants were well separated with their median values being 69 ms and 1.51 s, respectively; (4) distributions of the magnitudes of the fast and slow adaptation components were largely overlapped with their median values being 0.65 and 0.40 dB, respectively; and (5) the combined magnitude of the adaptation ranged from 0.4 to 3.0 dB with a median of 1.10 dB. To our knowledge, the present study is the first published article to describe adaptation of DPOAE in humans. These results should help advance the basic knowledge of human cochlear mechanics operating under the control of the MOC feedback system and contribute to the development of practical applications such as identifying people at high risk of acoustical injury and a clinical test of the functional status of the MOC system.

Reactive oxygen species have been implicated in the pathophysiology of renal ischemia reperfusion injury. Antioxidants including polyphenolics have been found to protect renal cells from the cellular injury induced by ischemia and reperfusion. Resveratrol, a stilbene polyphenol found in grapes and red wine, has recently been found to protect isolated rat heart from ischemia reperfusion injury. This study was sought to determine if resveratrol could also protect renal cells from ischemic injury. Male Wistar rats were treated with control, resveratrol (0.23 microg/kg), vehicle used to solubilize resveratrol, and resveratrol plus L-NAME (15 mg/kg body wt), a nitric oxide blocker. Our results demonstrated that resveratrol administration reduced the mortality of ischemic rats from 50% to 10% and renal damage was reduced as indicated by histologic examination and serum creatinine level. The short-term administration of resveratrol also inhibited renal lipid peroxidation induced by ischemia and reperfusion both in cortex and in medulla. Electron paramagnetic resonance detected an increased formation of nitric oxide in the resveratrol-treated kidney that was reduced to the baseline value after treating the rats with L-NAME in addition to resveratrol. The results suggest that resveratrol reduced the renal ischemia reperfusion injury through a nitric oxide-dependent mechanism.
The strong inwardly rectifying potassium channels Kir2.x are involved in maintenance and control of cell excitability. Recent studies reveal that the function and localization of ion channels are regulated by interactions with members of the membrane-associated guanylate kinase (MAGUK) protein family. To identify novel interacting MAGUK family members, we constructed GST-fusion proteins with the C termini of Kir2.1, Kir2.2 and Kir2.3. GST affinity-pulldown assays from solubilized rat cerebellum and heart membrane proteins revealed an interaction between all three Kir2.x C-terminal fusion proteins and the MAGUK protein synapse-associated protein 97 (SAP97). A truncated form of the C-terminal GST-Kir2.2 fusion protein indicated that the last three amino acids (S-E-I) are essential for association with SAP97. Affinity interactions using GST-fusion proteins containing the modular domains of SAP97 demonstrate that the second PSD-95/Dlg/ZO-1 (PDZ) domain is sufficient for interaction with Kir2.2. Coimmunoprecipitations demonstrated that endogenous Kir2.2 associates with SAP97 in rat cerebellum and heart. Additionally, phosphorylation of the Kir2.2 C terminus by protein kinase A inhibited the association with SAP97. In rat cardiac ventricular myocytes, Kir2.2 and SAP97 colocalized in striated bands corresponding to T-tubules. In rat cerebellum, Kir2.2 was present in a punctate pattern along SAP97-positive processes of Bergmann glia in the molecular layer, and colocalized with astrocytes and granule cells in the granule cell layer. These results identify a direct association of Kir2.1, Kir2.2 and Kir2.3 with the MAGUK family member SAP97 that may form part of a macromolecular signaling complex in many different tissues.
To investigate whether rat hippocampal neurogenesis varies with strain and gender, the authors examined proliferating progenitor cells and their progeny in young male and female Sprague-Dawley (SD) and spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) using the thymidine analog bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) combined with immunohistochemistry for the neuronal marker Calbindin D28k and glial fibrillary acidic protein. Rats were given 7 consecutive daily BrdU injections and were killed 1 day or 4 weeks later to allow for discrimination between proliferation and cell survival. Stereologic analysis of the numbers of BrdU-immunoreactive cells in the dentate gyrus revealed both a strain difference with significantly higher cell proliferation and net neurogenesis in SHR than in SD and a gender difference with males from both strains producing significantly more cells than their female counterparts. Whereas the number of progenitors four weeks after BrdU injections was still significantly greater in male than in female SHRs, resulting in a greater net neurogenesis in the male, the number of BrdU-immunoreactive cells did not differ between male and female SD rats, suggesting a greater survival of newly generated cells in the dentate gyrus in female than in male SD rats. No sex or strain difference was observed in the relative ratio of neurogenesis and gliogenesis.
Fibromyalgia syndrome is a chronic and debilitating disorder characterized by widespread nonarticular musculoskeletal pain whose etiology is unknown. Many of the symptoms of this syndrome, including difficulty sleeping, fatigue, malaise, myalgias, gastrointestinal complaints, and decreased cognitive function, are similar to those observed in individuals whose circadian pacemaker is abnormally aligned with their sleep-wake schedule or with local environmental time. Abnormalities in melatonin and cortisol, two hormones whose secretion is strongly influenced by the circadian pacemaker, have been reported in women with fibromyalgia. We studied the circadian rhythms of 10 women with fibromyalgia and 12 control healthy women. The protocol controlled factors known to affect markers of the circadian system, including light levels, posture, sleep-wake state, meals, and activity. The timing of the events in the protocol were calculated relative to the habitual sleep-wake schedule of each individual subject. Under these conditions, we found no significant difference between the women with fibromyalgia and control women in the circadian amplitude or phase of rhythms of melatonin, cortisol, and core body temperature. The average circadian phases expressed in hours posthabitual bedtime for women with and without fibromyalgia were 3:43 +/- 0:19 and 3:46 +/- 0:13, respectively, for melatonin; 10:13 +/- 0:23 and 10:32 +/- 0:20, respectively for cortisol; and 5:19 +/- 0:19 and 4:57 +/- 0:33, respectively, for core body temperature phases. Both groups of women had similar circadian rhythms in self-reported alertness. Although pain and stiffness were significantly increased in women with fibromyalgia compared with healthy women, there were no circadian rhythms in either parameter. We suggest that abnormalities in circadian rhythmicity are not a primary cause of fibromyalgia or its symptoms.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease characterized by clinical relapse and remission. Because of the potential role of natural killer (NK) cells in the regulation of autoimmunity, we have examined cytokine profile and surface phenotype of NK cells in the peripheral blood of MS. Here we demonstrate that NK cells in the remission of MS are characterized by a remarkable elevation of IL-5 mRNA and a decreased expression of IL-12Rbeta2 mRNA, as well as a higher expression of CD95. Moreover, the NK cells from MS in remission produced much larger amounts of IL-5 than did those from controls after stimulation with phorbol myristate acetate (PMA) and ionomycin. These features are reminiscent of those of NK type 2 (NK2) cells that can be induced in a condition favoring functional deviation of T cells toward Th2. Remarkably, the NK cells lose the NK2-like property when relapse of MS occurs, but regain it after recovery. We also found that NK2 cells induced in vitro inhibit induction of Th1 cells, suggesting that the NK2-like cells in vivo may also prohibit autoimmune effector T cells. Taken together, it is possible that NK cells play an active role in maintaining the remission of MS.
The EEG was monitored in 56 patients during implantation of an internal cardioverter defibrillator. The purpose of this study was to determine the main EEG frequency ranges that represent ischemic changes during short periods of circulatory arrest. The EEG was recorded with a 16-channel common reference montage (Cz). After onset of circulatory arrest, the log spectral changes of three-epoch moving averages were calculated relative to the baseline spectrum. For factor analysis, 17 EEG periods were selected that showed changes progressing to an isoelectrical period. Topographic differences and the time course of quantitative EEG (qEEG) changes were studied in all 56 patients. For each patient the EEG period with the longest duration of circulatory arrest was chosen. Factor analysis revealed four factors that represented the spectral EEG changes occurring during circulatory arrest and recovery. The frequency intervals of these factors were 0 to 0.5 Hz, 1.5 to 3 Hz, 7.5 to 9.5 Hz, and 15 to 20 Hz for all channels. Only minor topographic differences were found in the power of the spectral changes; the sequence of events was similar for all electrode positions. The first EEG change after circulatory arrest was an initial increase in alpha power and a decrease in beta power. On average, after approximately 15 seconds alpha power started to decrease, beta power decreased further, delta-1 power started to increase, and delta-2 power started to decrease. After approximately 25 seconds, the delta-1 power increase appeared to plateau or to decrease. A circulatory arrest longer than approximately 30 seconds resulted in an isoelectrical EEG. After restoration of the circulation, there was a fast transient increase in delta-1 and delta-2 power, followed by a decrease to baseline. alpha and beta power showed a more gradual increase in power toward baseline and were the last to restore after 60 to 90 seconds. In general, the spectral changes in the alpha and beta frequency ranges were most pronounced and consistent. In conclusion, to detect intraoperative cerebral ischemia, monitoring of changes in the four frequency ranges found is preferable to monitoring changes in the classically defined frequency bands. Furthermore, these results stress the importance of the alpha and beta ranges in detecting cerebral ischemia.

We present serial neuropsychological, magnetic resonance (MR) imaging and EEG changes in a case of widespread CNS myelinopathy due to intravenous heroin overdose complicated by a period of prolonged unconsciousness. Following recovery from the acute overdose, the subject had the delayed onset of akinetic mutism with urinary incontinence. Sequential formal neuro-psychological assessments over 9 months showed evolution from severe global cerebral dysfunction to moderate disturbance of frontal lobe function. Almost complete resolution of diffuse white matter signal changes, accompanied by the development of a degree of volume loss, was evident on serial MR imaging over the same period, and generalized arrhythmic delta-range slowing on the EEG evolved int o a near normal pattern.

The authors trained 6 baboons (Papio papio) to make 1 of 2 report responses to 16-icon same arrays versus 16-icon different arrays. In the same arrays, the icons were all the same as one another, whereas in the different arrays the icons were all different from one another. In Experiment 1, the baboons discriminated the same arrays from the different arrays, and they transferred their discriminative responding to arrays of novel icons. In Experiments 2 and 3, the baboons exhibited strong sensitivity to the degree of display variability when they were shown mixed arrays that comprised some same and some different items. The information theoretic measure &quot;entropy&quot; systematically described these results and outperformed several rival metrics. Finally, in Experiments 4 and 5, the baboons' responses to displays that contained jittered and blurred icons suggested that their same-different conceptual behavior was not based on the spatial orderliness of the visual arrays.
It has been hypothesized that play is more likely to be present in larger brained species. We tested this hypothesis in mammals using independent contrasts, a method that controls for phylogenetic relatedness. Comparisons across 15 orders revealed that the prevalence and complexity of play was significantly correlated with brain size, with larger brained orders having more playful species. Three orders, Rodentia, Marsupialia, and Primates, were used for within-order comparisons among species and, where possible, among families. The comparisons were not significant for rodents or primates, and those for marsupials yielded inconsistent results. Therefore, although a strong relationship is present at the highest taxonomic level of comparison, it diminishes or evaporates at lower level comparisons.
In three experiments, we examined the effects of old age on the reaction time (RT) decrement associated with task alternation. Old age was associated with increased mixing-cost, which is the RT difference between two conditions: mixed-task, where trials involving two tasks were intermixed, and single-task, where all the trials involved the same task. Old age was also associated with an increased switching-cost, which is the RT difference between trials in which the task was just changed and trials in which it was repeated. There was also indication of a slowed passive dissipation of task set adopted in the preceding trial. In contrast to these impairments, old age was also associated with an almost intact ability to prepare for an upcoming task switch. This ability was indicated by a normal reduction in switching-cost due to an increase in the time allowed to prepare for the switch. We discuss the implications of the results in relation to theories of task-switching and to the underlying brain mechanisms, especially with respect to the effect of old age on the prefrontal cortex.
The first attempt at psychosurgery--intentional damage to the intact brain for the relief of mental illness--was undertaken in 1888 by the Swiss psychiatrist Gottlieb Burckhardt. Six chronic schizophrenic patients underwent localized cerebral cortical excisions. Most patients showed improvement and became easier to manage, although one died from the procedure and several had aphasia or seizures. Burckhardt, a learned neuropsychiatrist, presented his results in 1890 and in 1891 published his scientific rationale and detailed clinical outcome in a scholarly paper. Nevertheless his approach had shocked the medical community as reckless and irresponsible. Burckhardt was ridiculed, his academic endeavors ceased and his surgical endeavor largely ignored. Nevertheless he continued practice as a fine psychiatrist and mental hospital director. Burckhardt's career and interesting ideas on higher cerebral functions are reviewed and placed in perspective regarding the development of &quot;modern&quot; psychosurgery almost one-half century later.
Kurt Goldstein was one of the major proponents of the holistic movement which was opposed to the classical connectionist Wernicke-Lichtheim-Model in aphasiology at the beginning of the 20th century. Influenced by Kant, Husserl and Cassirer, his work goes beyond purely empirical research and approaches traditionally philosophical questions: How can we proceed from empirical data to a theory adequately reflecting reality? How can we understand man as mind and body? What is the relation between language and cognition? Goldstein's concepts of biological knowledge, self-actualization and abstract attitude seek to address these questions. His work thus becomes attractive for philosophers. It was taken up and interpreted by Cassirer, Merleau-Ponty and Gurwitsch.
Views on the representation of emotion in the brain, as formulated about a century ago, are described, with a focus on the Vienna physiologist and psychologist Sigmund Exner, the psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud, and the French physician Israel Waynbaum. All three can be characterized as forerunners in the field of &quot;affective neuroscience&quot;. By the turn of the century, they had developed a neural network theory of emotion which included a stage of pre-cortical processing. In spite of their otherwise very diverse theoretical backgrounds, their concepts of parallel processing routes were highly similar. It is interesting to note that their ideas were on line with present-day views on the neural substrates and physiological characteristics of emotional processing, although none of the three scientists could rely on the refined anatomical knowledge available nowadays.
The year 2000 marks the 150th anniversary of the birth of Edward Albert Schfer (Sir Edward Albert Sharpey-Schafer). Affiliated first with University College, London, and then with Edinburgh University, Schfer made monumental contributions to the fields of histology, physiology, endocrinology, and practical medicine. This paper traces his professional life and emphasizes his seminal contributions to the neurosciences, which include his findings in support of neuron doctrine, his research on cortical localization in monkeys, his discovery of adrenaline and its place in the history of neural transmission, and his studies on recovery after nerve damage. Author of many histology and physiology books, founder of the &quot;Quarterly Journal of Experimental Physiology,&quot; and mentor to many students who achieved great fame themselves, Schfer was an active teacher and researcher, a man who remained committed to his vision of medicine based on laboratory science until he died in 1935.
Knowledge of cerebral structure and function in its modern form can be traced to the neurone doctrine based largely on the work of Santiago Ramn y Cajal [1852-1934] and his lifelong exploitation of the Golgi method. Cajal openly acknowledged his debt to the neuropsychiatrist Luis Simarro Lacabra [1851-1921] who introduced him to the method in 1887, and recalled that the sight of the silver-impregnated nerve cells was the turning point which led him to abandon general anatomy and concentrate on neurohistology. Simarro, who dissipated his free time in trying to improve not only the scientific but also the political world around him, was able to produce exciting Golgi preparations of the cerebral cortex after he returned from voluntary exile in Paris from 1880 to 1885. Certainly it was there that he learned the methods of experimental histology from Louis-Antoine Ranvier [1835-1922] whose laboratory exercises, in the guise of lectures, he attended assiduously.


The effects of mesial temporal (MT) and cerebellar hypometabolism were studied using measures of verbal, visual and motor skill learning. Twelve patients with refractory temporal lobe epilepsy who showed asymmetrical mesial temporal lobe hypometabolism on [18F] fluoro-2-deoxy-glucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) were given tests involving 4 consecutive learning trials and a 30-min delayed recall trial. Delayed recognition was also assessed for the words and designs, and skill transfer was evaluated for mirror drawing. Compared to 9 normal control participants, patients with more marked MT hypometabolism on the left had impaired delayed recall of words and patients with more marked MT hypometabolism on the right showed impaired learning of novel designs, but normal retention over delay. Patients were not impaired in their mirror-drawing performance. The findings for MT hypometabolism correspond well to those obtained in other studies where patients have been classified on the basis of side of hippocampal atrophy or temporal lobe excision.
Avian spinal motoneurons have been well characterized with regard to developmental programmed cell death (PCD). Approximately 50% of the neurons originally generated undergo cell death as they innervate their target muscles, and target derived trophic support plays an important role in regulating survival of these neurons. To investigate events mediating motoneuron PCD, we have examined the role of Bcl-2 family proteins, cytochrome C, and caspase-9 in this process. We report that while protein levels of Bcl-2, Bcl-xL, and Bax do not change within motoneurons as they become committed to die, a translocation of Bax from the cytosol to organelle membranes and the nucleus occurs coincident with the time when motoneurons become committed to cell death. In addition, cytochrome C is released from mitochondria to the cytosol in dying cells prior to the activation of caspases. Consequently, an enhanced caspase-9-like activity was detected in dying cells, and this activity was upstream and necessary for the appearance of a caspase-3-like activity. These results allow us to further define some of the critical events that mediate the execution phase of motoneuron death following trophic factor deprivation.
This study examined the ontogeny of voltage-sensitive calcium conductances in rat phrenic motoneurons (PMNs) and their role in regulating electrical excitability during the perinatal period. Specifically, we studied the period spanning from embryonic day (E)16 through postnatal day (P)1, when PMNs undergo fundamental transformation in their morphology, passive properties, ionic channel composition, synaptic inputs, and electrical excitability. Low voltage-activated (LVA) and high voltage-activated (HVA) conductances were measured using whole cell patch recordings utilizing a cervical slice-phrenic nerve preparation from perinatal rats. Changes between E16 and P0-1 included the following: an approximately 2-fold increase in the density of total calcium conductances, an approximately 2-fold decrease in the density of LVA calcium conductances, and an approximately 3-fold increase in the density of HVA conductances. The elevated expression of T-type calcium channels during the embryonic period lengthened the action potential and enhanced electrical excitability as evidenced by a hyperpolarization-evoked rebound depolarization. The reduction of LVA current density coupled to the presence of a hyperpolarizing outward A-type potassium current had a critical effect in diminishing the rebound depolarization in neonatal PMNs. The increase in HVA current density was concomitant with the emergence of a calcium-dependent &quot;hump-like&quot; afterdepolarization (ADP) and burst-like firing. Neonatal PMNs develop a prominent medium-duration afterhyperpolarization (mAHP) as the result of coupling between N-type calcium channels and small conductance, calcium-activated potassium channels. These data demonstrate that changes in calcium channel expression contribute to the maturation of PMN electrophysiological properties during the time from the commencement of fetal inspiratory drive to the onset of continuous breathing at birth.
Recently, it has been reported that inflammatory processes are associated with the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease and that treatment of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs reduce the risk for Alzheimer's disease. In the present study, we examined nitric oxide radical quenching activity of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs and steroidal drugs using our established direct in vitro nitric oxide radical detecting system by electron spin resonance spectrometry. The non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, aspirin, mefenamic acid, indomethacin and ketoprofen directly and dose-dependently scavenged generated nitric oxide radicals. In experiments of nitric oxide radical donor, NOC18-induced neuronal damage, these four non-steroidal drugs significantly prevented the NOC18-induced reduction of cell viability and apoptotic nuclear changes in neuronal cells without affecting the induction of inducible nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity. However, ibuprofen, naproxen or steroidal drugs, which had less or no scavenging effects in vitro, showed almost no protective effects against NOC18-induced cell toxicity. These results suggest that the protective effects of the former four non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs against apoptosis might be mainly due to their direct nitric oxide radical scavenging activities in neuronal cells. These direct NO. quenching activities represent novel effects of non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. Our findings identified novel pharmacological mechanisms of these drugs to exert not only their anti-inflammatory, analgesic, antipyretic activities but also neuroprotective activities against neurodegeneration.
Lead poisoning can cause a wide range of symptoms with particularly severe clinical effects on the CNS. Lead can increase spontaneous neurotransmitter release but decrease evoked neurotransmitter release. These effects may be caused by an interaction of lead with specific molecular targets involved in neurotransmitter release. We demonstrate here that the normally calcium-dependent binding characteristics of the synaptic vesicle protein synaptotagmin I are altered by lead. Nanomolar concentrations of lead induce the interaction of synaptotagmin I with phospholipid liposomes. The C2A domain of synaptotagmin I is required for lead-mediated phospholipid binding. Lead protects both recombinant and endogenous rat brain synaptotagmin I from proteolytic cleavage in a manner similar to calcium. However, lead is unable to promote the interaction of either recombinant or endogenous synaptotagmin I and syntaxin. Finally, nanomolar concentrations of lead are able to directly compete with and inhibit the ability of micromolar concentrations of calcium to induce the interaction of synaptotagmin I and syntaxin. Based on these findings, we conclude that synaptotagmin I may be an important, physiologically relevant target of lead.
The relationship between neuronal glutamate turnover, the glutamate/glutamine cycle and de novo glutamate synthesis was examined using two different model systems, freshly dissected rat retinas ex vivo and in vivo perfused rat brains. In the ex vivo rat retina, dual kinetic control of de novo glutamate synthesis by pyruvate carboxylation and transamination of alpha-ketoglutarate to glutamate was demonstrated. Rate limitation at the transaminase step is likely imposed by the limited supply of amino acids which provide the alpha-amino group to glutamate. Measurements of synthesis of (14)C-glutamate and of (14)C-glutamine from H(14)CO(3) have shown that (14)C-amino acid synthesis increased 70% by raising medium pyruvate from 0.2 to 5 mM. The specific radioactivity of (14)C-glutamine indicated that approximately 30% of glutamine was derived from (14)CO(2) fixation. Using gabapentin, an inhibitor of the cytosolic branched-chain aminotransferase, synthesis of (14)C-glutamate and (14)C-glutamine from H(14)CO(3)(-) was inhibited by 31%. These results suggest that transamination of alpha-ketoglutarate to glutamate in Mller cells is slow, the supply of branched-chain amino acids may limit flux, and that branched-chain amino acids are an obligatory source of the nitrogen required for optimal rates of de novo glutamate synthesis. Kinetic analysis suggests that the glutamate/glutamine cycle accounts for 15% of total neuronal glutamate turnover in the ex vivo retina. To examine the contribution of the glutamate/glutamine cycle to glutamate turnover in the whole brain in vivo, rats were infused intravenously with H(14)CO(3)(-). (14)C-metabolites in brain extracts were measured to determine net incorporation of (14)CO(2) and specific radioactivity of glutamate and glutamine. The results indicate that 23% of glutamine in the brain in vivo is derived from (14)CO(2) fixation. Using published values for whole brain neuronal glutamate turnover, we calculated that the glutamate/glutamine cycle accounts for approximately 60% of total neuronal turnover. Finally, differences between glutamine/glutamate cycle rates in these two model systems suggest that the cycle is closely linked to neuronal activity.
Scatter factor/hepatocyte growth factor (SF/HGF) and its tyrosine kinase receptor c-met are developmentally expressed, neuroprotective, and tumorigenic within the CNS. In the present study SF/HGF is shown to induce the expression of c-met in two human glioblastoma cell lines, U-373 MG and T98G, and the signaling pathways involved in this induction are dissected. SF/HGF activated mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) and inhibition of either Ras or MAPK-kinase completely inhibited SF/HGF-mediated c-met induction. Inhibition of phospholipase-C (PLC) did not affect c-met induction in either cell line. Inhibition of phosphoinositide 3-kinase (PI3-kinase) substantially reduced c-met induction by SF/HGF in T98G cells but had no effect in U-373 MG cells. Protein kinase C (PKC) inhibition reduced c-met induction in T98G cells but not in U-373 MG cells. SF/HGF induced the expression of c-fos and c-jun mRNA and increased the levels of AP-1 transcription factor in both cells lines as determined by AP-1-luciferase reporter expression. Transfection of either cell line with TAM-67, a dominant negative for the jun transactivation domain, completely inhibited AP-1 and c-met induction by SF/HGF. These results support a model of c-met induction by SF/HGF in human glioma cells that uniformly involves Ras, MAPK, and AP-1 and additionally involves PI3-kinase and PKC in some cell lines.
Integrins are integral membrane proteins that mediate adhesive interactions of cells with the extracellular matrix and with other cells. Integrin engagement results in activation of intracellular signaling cascades that effect several different cellular responses including motility, proliferation and survival. Although integrins are known to provide cell survival signaling in various types of non-neuronal cells, the possibility that integrins modulate neuron survival has not been explored. We now report data demonstrating a neuroprotective function of integrins in embryonic hippocampal neurons. Neurons grown on laminin, an integrin ligand, exhibit increased resistance to glutamate-induced apoptosis compared with neurons grown on polylysine. Neurons expressed integrin beta1 and treatment of cultures with an antibody against integrin beta1 abolished the protective effect of laminin. Neurons maintained on laminin exhibited a sustained activation of the Akt signaling pathway demonstrated in immunoblot analyses using an antibody that selectively recognizes phosphorylated Akt. The neuroprotective effect of integrin engagement by laminin was mimicked by an IKLLI-containing integrin-binding peptide and was abolished by treatment of neurons with the PI3 kinase inhibitor wortmanin. Levels of the anti-apoptotic protein Bcl-2 were increased in neurons grown on laminin and decreased by wortmanin, suggesting a mechanism for the neuroprotective effect of integrin-mediated signaling. The ability of integrin-mediated signaling to prevent glutamate-induced apoptosis suggests a mechanism whereby neuron-substrate interactions can promote neuron survival under conditions of glutamate receptor overactivation.
Genetic studies have implicated amyloid precursor protein (APP) in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. While accumulating lines of evidence indicate that APP has various functions in cells, little is known about the proteins that modulate its biological activity. Toward this end, we employed a two-hybrid system to identify potential interacting factors. We now report that fibulin-1, which contains repetitive Ca(2+)-binding EGF-like elements, binds to APP at its amino-terminal growth factor-like domain, the region that is responsible for its neurotrophic activities. Fibulin-1 expression in the brain is confined to neurons, and is not expressed significantly by astrocytes or microglia. Direct binding of fibulin-1 to the secreted form of APP (sAPP) was demonstrated with a pull-down assay using fragments of both fibulin-1 fused with glutathione-S transferase and sAPP, produced in bacteria and yeast, respectively. The fibulin-1/sAPP heteromer was shown to form in the conditioned medium of transfected COS-7 cells. Furthermore, fibulin-1 blocks sAPP-mediated proliferation of primary cultured rat neural stem cells. These results suggest that fibulin-1 may play a significant role in modulating the neurotrophic activities of APP.
Tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) gene promoter activity is increased in PC12 cells that are treated with the phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (TPA). Mutagenesis of either the cAMP responsive element (CRE) or the activator protein-1 element (AP1) within the TH gene proximal promoter leads to a dramatic inhibition of the TPA response. The TH CRE and TH AP1 sites are also independently responsive to TPA in minimal promoter constructs. TPA treatment results in phosphorylation of cAMP responsive element binding protein (CREB) and activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) in PC12 cells; hence, we tested whether CREB and/or PKA are essential for the TPA response. In CREB-deficient cells, the response of the full TH gene proximal promoter or the independent response of the TH CRE by itself to TPA is inhibited. The TPA-inducibility of TH mRNA is also blocked in CREB-deficient cells. Expression of the PKA inhibitor protein, PKI, also inhibits the independent response of the TH CRE to TPA. Our results support the hypothesis that TPA stimulates the TH gene promoter via signaling pathways that activate either the TH AP1 or TH CRE sites. Both signaling pathways are dependent on CREB and the TH CRE-mediated pathway is dependent on PKA.
We investigated the distribution of the alpha5 integrin subunit in the normal adult rat CNS using immunohistochemical methods. Results indicated that the alpha5 integrin subunit was expressed on the vast majority of neurons throughout the brain and spinal cord. In general, neurons showed diffuse cytoplasmic labelling, although many cortical neurons in layers 4 and 5 did show punctate labelling on the cell surface. In addition, axons within the white matter of the brainstem and caudal CNS areas were labelled, with the most intense labelling seen within the white matter of the spinal cord. In addition, labelling of astrocytes was seen throughout white matter, with particularly heavy astrocyte labelling in the spinal cord. The widespread distribution of the alpha5 subunit suggests a general function for the alpha5beta1 integrin receptor (the only integrin receptor that includes the alpha5 subunit) in the adult CNS. The increased expression of fibronectin, the only known ligand for the alpha5beta1 integrin receptor, known to occur around the site of a CNS lesion suggests a possible role for the alpha5beta1 receptor in the response of neurons in the vicinity of a CNS injury.
We studied three neurotransmitters involved in the regulation of pulsatile luteinizing hormone (LH) release: opioid peptides, serotonin and norepinephrine, using the ovariectomized guinea-pig. This is an attractive animal model due to the regularity of its LH pulses, enabling any disruptions to be clearly ascertained. In all experiments, a specific agonist or antagonist was administered, either alone or serially to enable detection of interactions, and effects on mean LH concentrations, pulse amplitude and interpulse interval were determined by PULSAR analysis. In the ovariectomized guinea-pig, catecholamines are stimulatory (acting through the alpha1 and alpha2 but not beta receptors, unlike other species), opioids inhibitory and serotonin permissively stimulatory to pulsatile LH release. Stimulatory effects of the opiate antagonist were not blocked by pretreatment with an alpha1- or alpha2-adrenergic antagonist. Similarly, pretreatment with the opiate antagonist did not prevent the suppression of LH release by alpha1 and alpha2 antagonists. This suggests that, in the guinea-pig, effects of opiates and catecholamines on LH release are exerted by independent pathways to luteinizing hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) neurones. For the opiate-serotonin interactions, pretreatment with the serotonergic antagonist did not block the stimulatory effect of the opiate antagonist on LH release. However, pretreatment with the opiate agonist could not be overcome by the serotonergic agonist. This suggests that the effects of the serotonin system on LHRH release may be indirectly mediated by opioid neurones. Taken together, these studies demonstrate that the three neurotransmitter systems studied are critically involved in normal pulsatile LH release in the female guinea-pig, and demonstrate novel functional relationships between the opioid and the adrenergic and serotonergic systems.
Paraneoplastic cerebellar degeneration (PCD) occurs as a non-metastatic manifestation of cancer in a small proportion of patients with certain breast or gynaecological tumours, and is characterised by widespread Purkinje cell loss. Antibodies against a Purkinje cell cytoplasmic antigen, called Yo, that is expressed by the tumours, are present in the majority of these patients, but the pathogenic role of the antibodies is not clear. To characterise further the immune response in these cases, 13 anti-Yo positive sera were tested for IgG subclasses by immunohistochemistry and western blotting and, in four cases, PHA-stimulated cytokine secretion by peripheral blood lymphocytes was measured. Surprisingly, anti-Yo antibodies were entirely restricted to the IgG1 subclass, whereas antibodies against the small cell cancer-associated antigen, Hu, were found in all four IgG subclasses. There was a trend towards raised IgG1 levels in the total IgG of the anti-Yo positive patients and, in two, PHA-stimulated peripheral blood lymphocytes secreted raised levels of IFN-gamma. By contrast, in the other two cases tested, raised levels of IL-4 were secreted. Patients with PCD associated with anti-Yo antibodies appear to have strong immune responses that are polarised with respect to the IgG subclass and Th cytokine profiles.
Increased titers of IgM anti-GM1 antibodies are present in some patients with Lower Motor Neuron Disease (LMND) or Motor Neuropathy (MN), but their pathogenic role and the mechanism of action are unclear. Previous studies have shown that the B subunit of Cholera Toxin (CT), which binds and crosslinks ganglioside GM1, modulate intracellular calcium in murine neuroblastoma cells via the activation of L-type voltage-dependent calcium channels (VGCC). Therefore, using a fluorimetric approach, we have examined the hypothesis that the pentameric IgM anti-GM1 antibodies, could similarly alter calcium concentration in N18 neuroblastoma cells. Sera with human IgM anti-GM1 antibodies were obtained from 5 patients with LMND and 2 patients with MN. Human IgG anti-GM1, IgM anti-Myelin Associated Glycoprotein (MAG), IgM anti-sulfatide antibodies and lectin peanut agglutinin (PNA), that recognizes specifically the Gal(betal-3)GalNAc epitope, were used as control sera. Direct application of either human IgM anti-GM1 antibodies or the B subunit of CT to N18 neuroblastoma cells induced a sustained influx of manganese ions, as indicated by a quench of the intracellular fura-2 fluorescence. Furthermore, the dihydropyridine L-type channel antagonists completely inhibited the manganese influx, suggesting that it is due to activation of an L-type VGCC. The magnitude of the influx was correlated with antibody titers. None of human IgG anti-GM1, IgM anti-MAG, IgM anti-sulfatide antibodies or PNA induce an ion influx, pointing to the selective participation of the pentameric IgM isotype of anti-GM1 in the modulation of L-type calcium channels opening. Given that L-type calcium channels are present on motor neurons, the modulation of L-type calcium channels by IgM GM1 antisera may have important implications in diseases such as LMND and MN.
CD28 provides a critical costimulatory signal for antigen-specific T cell activation. Because CD28 is an important factor in the development of autoimmune diseases, we investigated its role in T cell-mediated experimental autoimmune neuritis (EAN), an animal model of Guillain-Barr syndrome in humans. CD28-deficient mutant (CD28-/-) C57BL/6 mice and corresponding wild-type mice were immunized with P0 peptide 180-199, a purified component of peripheral nerve myelin, and Freund's complete adjuvant. As a result, all wild-type mice developed severe EAN, in contrast, none of the CD28-/- mice manifested clinical signs of disease. Additionally, CD28-/- mice had fewer IL-12 producing cells in sciatic nerve sections and fewer IFN-gamma secreting splenic cells than wild-type mice on day 24 post immunization, i.e., at the peak of clinical EAN. At that time point, CD28-/- mice had milder infiltration of such inflammatory cells as macrophages, CD4+ T cells and monocytes into sciatic nerve tissues and less demyelination than wild-type mice. Moreover, the CD28-deficiency led to reduced production of specific anti-P0 peptide 180-199 antibodies compared with wild-type mice. Evidently, CD28 is required for interaction with B7 to regulate the activation of T and B cells that initiates development of EAN.
In rat experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), encephalitogenic T cells mainly use Vbeta8.2 of TCR, but it is not clear whether Vbeta8.2 is the sole encephalitogenic TCR. To address this issue, we examined the immunological status of Lewis rats that had been treated with anti-Vbeta8.2 mAb and immunized with myelin basic protein (MBP). It was demonstrated that rats in which the majority of Vbeta8.2+ T cells had been depleted developed clinical EAE and possessed newly expanded Vbeta10. Analysis of T cell lines established from these animals revealed that T line cells responded to a minor epitope in the MBP molecule. However, treatment with a mixture of anti-Vbeta8.2 and anti-Vbeta10 mAbs reduced the clinical severity of EAE but did not induce complete suppression of the disease due to new activation of Vbeta6. These findings suggest that rapid and frequent examination of the TCR repertoire is essential to identify pathogenic TCRs and to establish TCR-based immunotherapy for autoimmune diseases.
Autoimmune inflammation in the central nervous system (CNS) is maintained by secretion of a large number of cytokines. To elucidate its molecular mechanisms, we examined the expression and localization of STAT1, STAT3, STAT4 and STAT6 molecules, which are the downstream molecules of the cytokine signal transduction pathway, in the CNS during acute experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced in Lewis rats. Western blot analysis demonstrated that STAT1 protein increased gradually till the recovery stage, whereas STAT4 protein showed abrupt increase at the early stage followed by gradual decrease. STAT3 and STAT6 showed stable expression throughout the course of the disease. The kinetics of the phosphorylated form of STAT1 and STAT4 roughly paralleled that of the total protein although the peak of STAT3 phosphorylation was recognized at the preclinical stage. Immunohistochemical examinations revealed that STAT3 and STAT4, but not STAT1 and STAT6, immunoreactivities were mainly expressed in astrocytes and microglia, respectively, and were closely associated with inflammatory lesions. Taken together, these findings suggest that STAT3 and STAT4 play an important role in the formation of, and recovery from, autoimmune inflammation in the CNS.
Fatigue is a common symptom of patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). It is reported by about one-third of patients, and for many fatigue is the most disabling symptom. Fatigue may be associated with motor disturbances and/or mood disorders, which makes it very difficult to determine whether the fatigue is an aspect of these features or a result per se of the disease. Although peripheral mechanisms have some role in the pathogenesis of fatigue, in MS there are clear indications that the more important role is played by &quot;central&quot; abnormalities. Neurophysiological studies have shown that fatigue does not depend on involvement of the pyramidal tracts and implicate impairment of volitional drive of the descending motor pathways as a physiopathological mechanism. Metabolic abnormalities of the frontal cortex and basal ganglia revealed by positron-emission tomography and correlations between fatigue and magnetic resonance imaging lesion burden support this hypothesis. Some recent studies also suggest that pro-inflammatory cytokines contribute to the sense of tiredness. No specific treatments are available. Management strategies include medications, exercise, and behavioural therapy; in most cases a combined approach is appropriate.

Linear scleroderma &quot;en coup de sabre&quot; (LScs) is associated with neurological complications, the pathogenesis of which is uncertain. A 27 year old woman is reported on who developed epilepsy and focal neurological signs in association with LScs. Brain MRI demonstrated predominantly ipsilateral relapsing and remitting grey and white matter lesions. Analysis of CSF and pathology obtained at brain biopsy provides evidence of an inflammatory process which may be amenable to immunosuppressive treatment.

The platypus (Ornithorhynchus anatinus), a uniquely Australian species, is one of the few living venomous mammals. Although envenomation of humans by many vertebrate and invertebrate species results in pain, this is often not the principal symptom of envenomation. However, platypus envenomation results in an immediate excruciating pain that develops into a very long-lasting hyperalgesia. We have previously shown that the venom contains a C-type natriuretic peptide that causes mast cell degranulation, and this probably contributes to the development of the painful response. Now we demonstrate that platypus venom has a potent action on putative nociceptors. Application of the venom to small to medium diameter dorsal root ganglion cells for 10 s resulted in an inward current lasting several minutes when the venom was diluted in buffer at pH 6.1 but not at pH 7.4. The venom itself has a pH of 6.3. The venom activated a current with a linear current-voltage relationship between -100 and -25 mV and with a reversal potential of -11 mV. Ion substitution experiments indicate that the current is a nonspecific cationic current. The response to the venom was blocked by the membrane-permeant Ca(2+)-ATPase inhibitor, thapsigargin, and by the tyrosine- and serine-kinase inhibitor, k252a. Thus the response appears to be dependent on calcium release from intracellular stores. The identity of the venom component(s) that is responsible for the responses we have described is yet to be determined but is probably not the C-type natriuretic peptide or the defensin-like peptides that are present in the venom.
We investigated the convergence of somatosensory and auditory inputs in within subregions of macaque auditory cortex. Laminar current source density and multiunit activity profiles were sampled with linear array multielectrodes during penetrations of the posterior superior temporal plane in three macaque monkeys. At each recording site, auditory responses to binaural clicks, pure tones, and band-passed noise, all presented by earphones, were compared with somatosensory responses evoked by contralateral median nerve stimulation. Subjects were awake but were not required to discriminate the stimuli. Borders between A1 and surrounding belt regions were identified by mapping best frequency and stimulus preferences and by subsequent histological analysis. Regions immediately caudomedial to A1 had robust somatosensory responses co-represented with auditory responses. In these regions, both somatosensory and auditory response profiles had &quot;feedforward&quot; patterns; initial excitation beginning in Lamina 4 and spreading to extragranular laminae. Auditory and somatosensory responses displayed a high degree of temporal overlap. Anatomical reconstruction indicated that the somatosensory input region includes, but may not be restricted to, the caudomedial auditory association cortex. As was earlier reported for this region, auditory frequency tuning curves were broad and band-passed noise responses were larger than pure tone responses. No somatosensory responses were observed in A1. These findings suggest a potential neural substrate for multisensory integration at an early stage of auditory cortical processing.
Perception of surface orientation is an essential step for the reconstruction of the three-dimensional (3D) structure of an object. Human lesion and functional neuroimaging studies have demonstrated the importance of the parietal lobe in this task. In primate single-unit studies, neurons in the caudal part of the intraparietal sulcus (CIP) were found to be active during the extraction of surface orientation through monocular (two-dimensional) cues such as texture gradients and linear perspective as well as binocular (3D) cues such as disparity gradient and orientation disparity. We used event-related fMRI to study the functional neuroanatomy of surface orientation discrimination using stimuli with monocular depth cues in six volunteers. Both posterior (CIP) and anterior (AIP) areas within the intraparietal sulcus showed a stronger activation during surface orientation as compared with a control (color discrimination) task using identical stimuli. Furthermore, the signal changes in CIP showed a greater performance effect than those in AIP, suggesting that CIP is tightly linked to the discrimination task.
Hippocampal slices bathed in 4-aminopyridine (4-AP, &lt; or =200 microM) exhibit 1) spontaneous large inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) in pyramidal cells, which occur without the necessity of fast glutamatergic receptors, and which hence are presumed to arise from coordinated firing in populations of interneurons; 2) spikes of variable amplitude, presumed to be of antidromic origin, in some pyramidal cells during the large IPSP; 3) bursts of action potentials in selected populations of interneurons, occurring independently of fast glutamatergic and of GABA(A) receptors. We have used neuron pairs, and a large network model (3,072 pyramidal cells, 384 interneurons), to examine how these phenomena might be inter-related. Network bursts in electrically coupled interneurons have previously been shown to be possible with dendritic gap junctions, when the dendrites were capable of spike initiation, and when action potentials could cross from cell to cell via gap junctions; recent experimental data showing that dendritic gap junctions between cortical interneurons lead to coupling potentials of only about 0.5 mV argue against this mechanism, however. We now show that axonal gap junctions between interneurons could also lead to network bursts; this concept is consistent with the occurrence of spikelets and partial spikes in at least some interneurons in 4-AP. In our model, spontaneous antidromic action potentials can induce spikelets and action potentials in principal cells during the large IPSP. The probability of observing this type of activity increases significantly when axonal gap junctions also exist between pyramidal cells. Sufficient antidromic activity in the model can lead to epileptiform bursts, independent of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, in some principal cells, preceded by IPSPs and spikelets. The model predicts that gap junction blockers should suppress large IPSPs observed in 4-AP and should also reduce the probability of observing antidromic activity, or bursting, in pyramidal cells. Experiments show that, indeed, the gap junction blocking compound carbenoxolone does suppress spontaneous large IPSCs, occurring in 4-AP plus ionotropic glutamate blockers, together with a GABA(B) receptor blocker; carbenoxolone also suppresses large, fast inward currents, corresponding to ectopic spikes, which occur in 4-AP. Carbenoxolone does not suppress large depolarizing IPSPs induced by tetanic stimulation. We conclude that in 4-AP, axonal gap junctions could, at least in principle, account in part for both the large IPSPs, and for the antidromic activity in pyramidal neurons.
We previously identified cholinergic-dependent plateau potentials (PPs) in CA1 pyramidal neurons that were intrinsically generated by interplay between voltage-gated calcium entry and a Ca(2+)-activated nonselective cation conductance. In the present study, we examined both the second-messenger pathway and the role of synaptic inhibition in the expression of PPs. The stimulation of m1/m3 cholinergic receptor subtypes and G-proteins were critical for activating PPs because selective receptor antagonists (pirenzepine, hexahydro-sila-difenidol hydrochloride, 4-diphenylacetoxy-N-methylpiperidine methiodide) and intracellular guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) prevented PP generation in carbachol. Intense synaptic stimulation occasionally activated PPs in the presence of oxytremorine M, a cholinergic agonist with preference for m1/m3 receptors. PPs were consistently activated by synaptic stimulation only when oxytremorine M was combined with antagonists at both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors. These latter data indicate an important role for synaptic inhibition in preventing PP generation. Both intrinsically generated and synaptically activated PPs could not be elicited following inhibition of serine/threonine protein phosphatases by calyculin A, okadaic acid, or microcystin-L, suggesting that muscarinic-induced dephosphorylation is necessary for PP generation. PP genesis was also inhibited following irreversible thiophosphorylation by intracellular perfusion with ATP-gamma-S. These data indicate that the expression of cholinergic-dependent PPs requires protein phosphatase-induced dephosphorylation via G-protein-linked m1/m3 receptor(s). Moreover, synaptic inhibition via both GABA(A) and GABA(B) receptors normally prevents the synaptic activation of PPs. Understanding the regulation of PPs should provide clues to the role of this regenerative potential in both normal activity and pathophysiological processes such as epilepsy.
Microinjection of kappa-opioid receptor agonists into the nucleus accumbens produces conditioned place aversion. While attention has focused primarily on the inhibition of dopamine release by kappa-receptor agonists as the synaptic mechanism underlying this effect, recent anatomical studies have raised the possibility that regulation of noncatecholaminergic transmission also contribute. We have investigated the effects of kappa-receptor activation on fast excitatory synaptic transmission in an in vitro slice preparation using whole cell voltage-clamp or extracellular field recordings in the shell region of the nucleus accumbens. The kappa-receptor agonist U69593 produces a pronounced, dose-dependent inhibition of glutamatergic excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) that can be reversed by 100 nM nor-BNI. Furthermore, U69593 causes an increase in the paired-pulse ratio as well as a decrease in the frequency of spontaneous miniature events, suggesting a presynaptic site of action. Despite anatomical evidence for kappa-receptor localization on dendritic spines of nucleus accumbens neurons, no electrophysiological evidence of a postsynaptic effect was found. This presynaptic inhibition of excitatory synaptic transmission in the nucleus accumbens shell provides a novel mechanism that may contribute to the kappa-receptor-mediated aversion observed in intact animals.
To determine whether neuronal oscillations are essential for long-range cortical synchronization in the somatosensory system, we characterized the incidence and response properties of gamma range oscillations (20-80 Hz) among pairs of synchronized neurons in primary (SI) and secondary (SII) somatosensory cortex. Synchronized SI and SII discharges, which occurred within a 3 msec period, were detected in 13% (80 of 621) of single-unit pairs and 25% (29 of 118) of multiunit pairs. Power spectra derived from the auto-correlation histograms (ACGs) revealed that approximately 15% of the neurons forming synchronized pairs were characterized by oscillations. Although 24% of the synchronized neuron pairs (19/80) were characterized by oscillations in one or both neurons, only 1% (1/80) of these pairs displayed oscillations at the same frequency in both neurons. Similar results were observed among pairs of multiunit responses. When single-trial responses were analyzed, the vast majority of responses still did not exhibit oscillations in the gamma frequency range. These results suggest that separate populations of cortical neurons can be bound together without being constrained by the phase relationships defined by specific oscillatory frequencies.
Systems level studies have shown that the paired serotonergic cerebral giant cells (CGCs) of gastropod mollusks have important extrinsic modulatory actions on the central pattern generator (CPG) underlying rhythmic ingestion movements. Here we present the first study that investigates the modulatory actions of the CGCs and their released transmitter 5-HT on the CPG at the cellular level. In the snail, Lymnaea, motoneurons such as the B4, B8, and B4CL cells are part of the feeding CPG and receive serotonergic synaptic inputs from CGCs. These motoneurons were used to investigate the effect of serotonergic modulation on endogenous cellular properties of CPG neurons. Cells were isolated from the intact nervous system, and their properties were examined by pharmacological methods in cell culture. Motoneurons were also grown in coculture with CGCs to compare 5-HT effects with CGC stimulation. Three distinct modulatory effects of exogenously applied 5-HT/CGC activity were seen: all three motoneuron types were depolarized by 5-HT for prolonged periods leading to firing. Conditional bursting accompanied this depolarization in the B4/B8 cells, but not in B4CL cells. The frequency of the bursting was increased with increased CGC tonic firing. An increase in the size of postinhibitory rebound (PIR) occurred with 5-HT application in all three cell types, because of an increase in a CsCl-sensitive, hyperpolarization-activated inward current. Similar modulatory effects on membrane potential, endogenous bursting, and PIR properties could be observed in the intact nervous system and were necessary for motoneuron activation during feeding. Part of the systems gating and frequency control functions of the CGCs appear to be caused by these modulatory effects on feeding motoneurons.
Recent studies implicate the hippocampus in contextual memory retrieval. The present experiments explore this possibility by examining the impact of reversible inactivation of the dorsal hippocampus (DH) on the context-specific expression of extinction. In experiment 1, rats were conditioned to fear a tone conditional stimulus (CS) and subsequently extinguished either in the same context as conditioning or in a novel context. A third group of rats underwent fear conditioning but did not receive extinction. After extinction, conditional fear to the tone CS was assessed in the conditioning context by measuring freezing. Rats extinguished in the conditioning context exhibited low levels of freezing, whereas those extinguished in a different context and those that received no extinction showed high levels of freezing. This indicates that the expression of extinction is context-specific. In experiment 2, the context-specific expression of extinction was disrupted by infusion of muscimol, a GABA(A) receptor agonist, into the DH. Rats that received muscimol infusions into the DH showed little freezing to the tone CS, regardless of whether the CS had been extinguished in the testing context or another context. In experiment 3, intrahippocampal muscimol infusions did not disrupt the expression of conditional freezing to the tone CS in rats that did not receive extinction. Thus, muscimol infusion into the DH produced a selective impairment in the context-specific expression of extinction. These results extend findings from other behavioral paradigms and provide additional support for a role for the hippocampus in contextual memory retrieval.
The olivocerebellar system has been proposed to function as a timing device for motor coordination in which inferior olivary neurons act as coupled oscillators that spontaneously generate rhythmic and synchronous activity. However, the inferior olive receives excitatory afferents, which can also drive the activity of these neurons. The extent to which the olivocerebellar system can intrinsically generate synchronous activity and olivary neurons act as neuronal oscillators has not been determined. To investigate this issue, multiple electrode recordings of complex spike (CS) activity were obtained from 236 crus 2a Purkinje cells in anesthetized rats. Intraolivary injections of the glutamate antagonists 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione or 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-6-nitro-2,3-dioxo-benzo[f]quinoxaline-7-sulfonamide disodium were made, and the resulting changes in CS activity were determined. Loss of evoked CS responses to motor cortex stimulation or perioral tactile stimulation was used to measure the efficacy of the block. Block of glutamatergic input decreased the average CS firing rate by approximately 50% but did not abolish spontaneous CS activity. The remaining CS activity was significantly more rhythmic than that in control. The patterns of synchrony were similar to those found in control conditions (i.e., synchronous CSs primarily occurred among Purkinje cells located within the same approximately 250-microm-wide rostrocaudally oriented cortical strip); however, this normal banding pattern was enhanced. These changes in CS activity were not observed with vehicle injections. The results suggest that excitatory afferent activity disrupts olivary oscillations and support the hypotheses that olivary neurons are capable of acting as neuronal oscillators and that synchronous CS activity results from electrotonic coupling of olivary neurons.
To investigate the cortical information processing during the preparation of vocalization, we performed transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) over the cortex while the subjects prepared to produce voice in response to a visual cue. The control reaction time (RT) of vocalization without TMS was 250-350 msec. TMS prolonged RT when it was delivered up to 150-200 msec before the expected onset of voice (EOV). The largest delay of RT was induced bilaterally over points 6 cm to the left and right of the vertex (the left and right motor areas), resulting in 10-20% prolongation of RT. During the early phase of prevocalization period (50-100 msec before EOV), the delay induced over the left motor area was slightly larger than that induced over the right motor area, whereas, during the late phase (0-50 msec before EOV), it was significantly larger over the right motor area. Bilateral and simultaneous TMS of the left and right motor areas induced delays not significantly different from that induced by unilateral TMS during the early phase, but induced a large delay well in excess of the latter during the late phase. Thus, during the cortical preparation for human vocalization, alternation of hemispheric lateralization takes place between the bilateral motor cortices near the facial motor representations, with mild left hemispheric predominance at the early phase switching over to robust right hemispheric predominance during the late phase. Our results also suggested involvement of the motor representation of respiratory muscles and also of supplementary motor cortex.
We have investigated the role of the NMDA glutamate receptor (NMDAR) in the genesis and regulation of structural plasticity during synaptogenesis in the visual layers of the rat superior colliculus (sSC). In this neuropil, three projections compete for synaptic space during development. By fluorescently labeling the projections of both eyes and imaging them with confocal microscopy, we can quantify the sprouting of the ipsilateral retinal projection that follows removal of a portion of the contralateral retinal and/or corticocollicular projection. Using these techniques we have studied the effects of NMDAR blockade under different levels of competition. NMDARs were chronically blocked from birth [postnatal day 0 (P0)] by suspending the competitive antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid in the slow release plastic Elvax, a slab of which was implanted over the sSC. Such treatment alone does not impair the normal segregation of the retinal projections. However, if sprouting of the ipsilateral projection is initiated with a small contralateral retinal lesion at P6, this sprouting can be further increased by blocking NMDARs from birth. Sprouting of the ipsilateral retinal projection is also induced by retinal lesions made at P10/P11, but NMDAR blockade does not augment the sprouting induced by this later lesion. However, when combined with simultaneous ablation of the ipsilateral visual cortex, P10/P11 lesions show increased sprouting after NMDAR blockade. These data indicate that P0 NMDAR blockade does not eliminate synaptic competition in the sSC. Instead, early elimination of NMDAR function appears to facilitate sprouting that is gated in a stepwise manner by the other visual afferents.

Magnetic resonance spectroscopy (MRS) studies on traumatic brain injury (TBI) have shown that the neuronal metabolite N-acetylaspartate (NAA) may be reduced in regions of brain remote from sites of focal injury. Such reductions have generally been attributed to diffuse axonal injury (DAI) or neuron death. The aim of the present study was to investigate the contribution of metabolic depression, in the absence of DAI or cell death, to remote NAA reduction after TBI. The right sensorimotor cortices of adult rats were injured by weight drop. Two and six days later, tissue slices from the ipsilateral occipital cortex, or from the same region in uninjured rats, were superfused and examined by 1H-MRS. The occipital cortex has been shown to have negligible DAI or cell death but marked transient metabolic depression in this model of TBI. Two days after injury, the ratio of the NAA peak height to the total creatine peak height (NAA/TCr) was 14% lower than in control samples. Six days after injury, NAA/TCr recovered to within 7% of the control value. The time course of NAA/TCr decrease and recovery was similar to the time courses of widespread depression and recovery of 2-deoxyglucose uptake and mitochondrial alpha-glycerophosphate dehydrogenase activity measured previously in this model of TBI. Together, these results suggest that at least one component of remote NAA depression after TBI may be associated with a widespread and reversible metabolic depression that is unrelated to either DAI or cell death.
Energy restriction (ER) extends the life span and slows aging and age-related diseases in short-lived mammalian species. Although a wide variety of physiological systems have been studied using this paradigm, little is known regarding the effects of ER on skeletal health and reproductive aging. Studies in rhesus monkeys have reported that ER delays sexual and skeletal maturation in young male monkeys and reduces bone mass in adult males. No studies have examined the chronic effects on bone health and reproductive aging in female rhesus monkeys. The present cross-sectional study examined the effects of chronic (6 y) ER on skeletal and reproductive indices in 40 premenopausal and perimenopausal (7-27 y old) female rhesus macaques (Macaca mulatta). Although ER monkeys weighed less and had lower fat mass, ER did not alter bone mineral density, bone mineral content, osteocalcin, 25-hydroxyvitamin D, 1,25-hydroxyvitamin D or parathyroid hormone concentrations, menstrual cycling or reproductive hormone concentrations. Body weight and lean mass were significantly related to bone mineral density and bone mineral content at all skeletal sites (total body, lumbar spine, mid and distal radius; P: &lt; or = 0.04). The number of total menstrual cycles over 2 y, as well as the percentage of normal-length cycles (24-31 d), was lower in older than in younger monkeys (P: &lt; or = 0.05). Older monkeys also had lower estradiol (P: = 0.02) and higher follicle-stimulating hormone (P: = 0.02) concentrations than did younger monkeys. We conclude that ER does not negatively affect these indices of skeletal or reproductive health and does not alter age-associated changes in the same variables.
Much effort has been devoted in recent years to unravel the neuroendocrine mechanisms responsible for the initiation of mammalian puberty. The concept that has emerged is that puberty results from the unfolding of a centrally originated process involving the concerted influence of neuronal systems that utilize excitatory and inhibitory amino acids as transmitters and astroglial networks that produce growth factors able to affect LHRH secretion. We discuss the idea that an isolated alteration of each of these components may result in the precocious activation of pulsatile LHRH release, and thus lead to idiopathic sexual precocity. According to this notion, such a premature activation of LHRH neuronal function would be neither associated with structural damage of the neuroendocrine brain system, nor related to a generalized activation of the neuronal-glial mechanisms underlying the onset of puberty. On the contrary, localized activation of discrete cellular subsets functionally connected to LHRH neurons would suffice to promote an increase in LHRH release of sufficient magnitude and duration to initiate the pubertal process.
Schematic threatening, friendly, and neutral faces were used to test the hypothesis that humans preferentially orient their attention toward threat. Using a visual search paradigm, participants searched for discrepant faces in matrices of otherwise identical faces. Across 5 experiments, results consistently showed faster and more accurate detection of threatening than friendly targets. The threat advantage was obvious regardless of whether the conditions favored parallel or serial search (i.e., involved neutral or emotional distractors), and it was valid for inverted faces. Threatening angry faces were more quickly and accurately detected than were other negative faces (sad or &quot;scheming&quot;), which suggests that the threat advantage can be attributed to threat rather than to the negative valence or the uniqueness of the target display.
Our laboratory has developed a technique whereby radiolabeled long-chain fatty acids are injected intravenously in awake rats to pulse-label brain lipids, mainly phospholipids, to measure regional brain lipid metabolism by autoradiography. The brain incorporation of [(3)H]arachidonic acid ([(3)H]AA), a polyunsaturated fatty acid, may reflect regional changes in neurotransmitter signal transduction using phospholipase A(2). Using this radiotracer, we examined the brain dopamine system in rats with a chronic unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the substantia nigra pars compacta, a model of Parkinson's disease. Four weeks after lesioning, rats received either vehicle; SKF38393 or quinpirole (LY-171,555) (D(1)- and D(2)-dopamine-like agonists, respectively); or (+)-butaclamol (D(1)/D(2) antagonist) followed by either vehicle, SKF38393, or quinpirole. They then were infused with [(3)H]AA and their brains processed for autoradiography. SKF38393 increased [(3)H]AA incorporation into the lesioned side compared with the intact side in the caudate putamen, somatosensory and motor cortices and subthalamic nucleus, but decreased incorporation in the ipsilateral ventrolateral thalamus. Quinpirole increased ipsilateral [(3)H]AA incorporation in the caudate putamen and somatosensory and motor cortices, and decreased it in the ventrolateral thalamus. (+)-Butaclamol blocked this effect. The data suggest up-regulation in basal ganglia and cortical dopamine circuits mediated by phospholipase A(2) ipsilateral to the substantia nigra lesion.
Chemically altered hemoglobin-based oxygen carriers have been developed as prototype blood substitutes. Such molecules may affect numerous biological processes, since free hemoglobin scavenges nitric oxide (NO). Diaspirin cross-linked hemoglobin (DCLHb) is a chemically cross-linked molecule, which has a pressor effect on blood pressure, mainly mediated by NO scavenging. However, the effects of DCLHb on the gastrointestinal and biliary motility have not been reported. This study was conducted to investigate the effects of DCLHb on the duodenal and biliary motility and determine if the underlying mechanism involves a NO pathway. Blood pressure, duodenal, sphincter of Oddi and gallbladder motility and trans-sphincteric flow were recorded in anesthetized Australian Brush-tailed possums. The effects of intravenously administered DCLHb (10% solution) or oncotically matched human serum albumin (HSA) solution on these parameters were investigated. To determine the involvement of a NO-mediated pathway in these effects, animals were pretreated with N(omega)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) before DCLHb or HSA was given. DCLHb increased blood pressure and duodenal contraction frequency and slowed trans-sphincteric flow compared with the HSA control. The effects of DCLHb on blood pressure and trans-sphincteric flow were immediate and transient, whereas the effect on duodenal contraction frequency was delayed and long-lived. Pretreatment with L-NAME alone increased blood pressure and duodenal contraction frequency and slowed trans-sphincteric flow. DCLHb-induced changes were not evident in the presence of L-NAME. These findings suggest that DCLHb affects duodenal and trans-sphincteric flow predominantly by NO scavenging.
Using voltage-clamp procedures on Xenopus oocytes, agonist-evoked ionic currents by P2X receptors resulting from the coexpression of P2X(2) and P2X(3) subunits were compared against the agonist responses of homomeric P2X(2) and P2X(3) receptors. With the quantity of P2X(3) mRNA kept constant and quantity of P2X(2) mRNA progressively increased, expressed P2X receptors changed from a P2X(3)-like receptor to a P2X(2)-like receptor. In all cases, however, agonist-evoked responses comprised biphasic (fast and slow) currents-the former showing the properties of P2X(3) receptors and latter consistent with the presence of P2X(2) and P2X(2/3) receptors. Using desensitization procedures, the P2X(3)-like fast current was selectively removed to allow the slow current to be studied in isolation. P2X(2/3) receptors were then characterized by slowly inactivating inward currents that were reproducible within 30 s of washout and whose pharmacological profile [selective agonists, Ap(5)A &gt; alpha,beta-methylene ATP &gt; beta,gamma-methylene ATP &gt; UTP; antagonists, TNP-ATP &gt; suramin &gt; or = Reactive blue-2 (RB-2)] contrasted with the profile of P2X(2) receptors (Ap(5)A, alpha,beta-methylene ATP, beta,gamma-methylene ATP, and UTP inactive; antagonists, RB-2 &gt; TNP-ATP &gt; suramin). Thus, our experiments reveal that coexpression of two P2X subunits, which of themselves can generate functional homomeric receptors, results in a complex population of heterogeneous P2X receptors-in this case P2X(2), P2X(3), and P2X(2/3) receptors. Depending on the relative levels of P2X subunit coexpression, the operational profile of the resultant P2X receptors can change from one phenotype to another. This spectrum may explain the variability of agonist responses in small sensory neurons that also express P2X(2) and P2X(3) subunits in different amounts.
Lobeline interacts with the dopamine transporter and vesicular monoamine transporter, presynaptic proteins involved in dopamine storage and release. This study used rodent models to assess lobeline-induced inhibition of the neurochemical and behavioral effects of amphetamine. Rat striatal slices were preloaded with [(3)H]dopamine and superfused with lobeline for 30 min, and then with d-amphetamine (0.03-3.00 microM) plus lobeline for 60 min. As predicted, lobeline (1-3 microM) intrinsically increased (3)H overflow but did not inhibit d-amphetamine-evoked (3)H overflow. Consequently, the effect of lobeline on d-amphetamine-evoked endogenous dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid overflow was assessed. Lobeline (0.1-1 microM) inhibited d-amphetamine (1 microM)-evoked dopamine overflow but did not inhibit electrically evoked (3)H overflow, indicating a selective inhibition of this effect of d-amphetamine. To determine whether the in vitro results translated into in vivo inhibition, the effect of lobeline (0.3-10.0 mg/kg) pretreatment on d-amphetamine (0.1-1.0 mg/kg)-induced hyperactivity in rats and on d-methamphetamine (0.1-3.0 mg/kg)-induced hyperactivity in mice was determined. Doses of lobeline that produced no effect alone attenuated the stimulant-induced hyperactivity. Lobeline also attenuated the discriminative stimulus properties of d-methamphetamine in rats. Acute, intermittent, or continuous in vivo administration of lobeline (1-30 mg/kg) did not deplete striatal dopamine content. Thus, lobeline inhibits amphetamine-induced neurochemical and behavioral effects, and is not toxic to dopamine neurons. These results support the hypothesis that lobeline redistributes dopamine pools within the presynaptic terminal, reducing pools available for amphetamine-induced release. Collectively, the results support a role for lobeline as a potential pharmacotherapy for psychostimulant abuse.
The dopamine (DA) transporter (DAT) regulates dopaminergic synaptic transmission by controlling extracellular levels of DA. Thus, understanding signaling mechanisms that alter DAT function is critical for understanding dopaminergic neurotransmission. We have expressed the human DAT (hDAT) in Xenopus laevis oocytes to test the hypothesis that protein tyrosine kinases (PTKs) acutely regulate DAT function by altering cell surface expression of the transporter. Using a relatively high concentration of DA (10 microM), we found that several PTK inhibitors, namely, genistein, lavendustin A, and tyrphostin 25 (10 microM), decreased DA uptake velocity by 58, 41, and 30% of control, respectively. Furthermore, genistein potently inhibited DA uptake with a K(i) = 68 nM. Kinetic analysis confirmed that genistein decreased the V(max) of the DAT, with no change in K(m). The effects of PTK inhibition on hDAT-associated currents were also measured. All three PTK inhibitors attenuated substrate transport-associated currents to similar extents as DA uptake. In contrast, the potent Src inhibitor 4-amino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-7-(t-butyl)pyrazolo[3,4-d]pyrimidine (PP2) did not significantly inhibit either DA uptake or transport-associated currents. PTK inhibitors decreased hDAT-associated leak currents, however in a more variable manner than for uptake and transport-associated currents. Genistein also decreased cell surface binding of [(3)H]WIN 35,428 to hDAT by 48% of control. Together, these data provide several lines of evidence suggesting that PTK inhibition rapidly reduces hDAT activity via redistribution of the transporter away from the cell surface. Thus, PTKs likely represent another component of cellular signaling cascades that acutely regulate neurotransmitter transporters.
Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) are neurotransmitter-gated ion channels and like most such channels, ethanol and longer chain alcohols modulate their activity. In the present studies, the effects of alcohols were characterized on defined combinations of human neuronal nAChR subunits heterologously expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Short-chain alcohols, such as ethanol, propanol, and butanol potentiated ACh-induced currents in both alpha(2)beta(4) and alpha(4)beta(4) nAChRs. Longer chain alcohols, however, inhibited these receptor subtypes. Small increases in alcohol chain length were sufficient to produce a &quot;crossover&quot; from potentiation to inhibition. For the alpha(2)beta(4) receptor subunit combination, butanol clearly potentiated while pentanol inhibited ACh-induced current, whereas for alpha(4)beta(4) nAChR, propanol potentiated, butanol had no discernable effect, and pentanol inhibited receptor function. Fluorinated analogs of ethanol, propanol, and butanol were used to determine whether the effects of the alcohols were dependent upon chain length or whether another related attribute, such as molecular volume, was the defining characteristic. The experimental results support the hypothesis that for both alpha(2)beta(4) and alpha(4)beta(4) receptor subtypes, molecular volume appears to be the most important determinant of both the potency as well as the direction of modulation of nAChR function by n-alcohols and related compounds. Although it has been suggested that the inhibitory and facilitatory effects of alcohols are mediated by actions at different sites on the receptor molecule, the present data suggest the possibility that there may be a single site of alcohol action and that the nature of this action is dependent upon the physical properties of the molecule.
The effects of energy substrate removal and metabolic pathway block have been examined on neuronal and glial survival in organotypic slice cultures of rat hippocampus. Slice cultures resisted 24 h of exogenous energy substrate deprivation. Application of 0.5 mM alpha-cyano-4-hydroxycinnamate (4-CIN) for 24 h resulted in specific damage to neuronal cell layers, which could be reversed by co-application of 5 mM lactate. Addition of 10 mM 2-deoxyglucose in the absence of exogenous energy supply produced widespread cell death throughout the slice. This was partly reversed by co-application of 5 mM lactate. These effects of metabolic blockade on cell survival were qualitatively similar to the effects on population spikes recorded in the CA1 cell layer following 60 min application of these agents. The data suggest that monocarboxylate trafficking from glia to neurons is an essential route for supply of energy substrates to neurons particularly when exogenous energy supply is restricted.
The influence of melatonin on evoked potentials recorded from the CAI field of mouse hippocampal slices was investigated. Melatonin (0.1-2.0 mM) and its analog, 6-chloromelatonin (0.1-0.5 mM) depressed evoked potentials (EPSP and the population spike) in a concentration-dependent manner. The melatonin-induced depression was followed by a slow recovery phase. Since the fiber potential was not affected, it was concluded that melatonin influenced synaptic efficiency and/or cell excitability. Luzindole, an antagonist of MT2 melatonin receptors, although slightly depressing evoked potentials when applied by itself (100 microM), blocked any further inhibition by melatonin when added afterwards. We concluded that melatonin reduced synaptic efficiency and/or excitability of hippocampal neurons most likely through interaction with MT2 melatonin receptors, but other possible mechanisms of melatonin action are also considered.

We present the case of a 36-year-old man who presented with a clinically neuroleptic malignant-like syndrome involving disorientation, signs of autonomic dysfunction, rigidity and raised total creatine kinase level, but in the absence of any neuroleptic medication. He had, however, abruptly stopped taking his long-term baclofen in the days prior to presentation. He improved markedly after the reintroduction of baclofen, and we postulate that his clinical syndrome resulted from the sudden withdrawal of this drug. We concur with the concept that neuroleptic malignant syndrome represents a spectrum of disorders, and add it to the list of possible sequelae after abrupt withdrawal of baclofen.
The aim was to evaluate the inter-item consistency between corresponding items in the Functional Independent Measure (FIM) and Sunnaas index of ADL (SI) by means of a statistical approach that takes account of the nonmetric properties of ordinal data. The ADL dependence in 204 stroke patients was assessed by interview 3 months after the onset of stroke. The result showed that the inter-item consistency between the FIM and SI were high for many items, but operational differences between some FIM and SI items were also identified. The statistical evaluation demonstrated that some of the ordered categorical levels of the seven-point item scales in the FIM could be aggregated into four levels without loss of information.
This study tested the hypothesis that long-term hypertension impairs spatial learning and memory in rats. In 6-wk-old Sprague-Dawley rats, chronic hypertension was induced by placing one of three sizes of stainless steel clips around the descending aorta (above the renal artery), resulting in a 20-80-mm Hg increase of arterial pressure in all arteries above the clip, that is, the upper trunk and head. Ten months later, the rats were tested for 5 d in a repeated-acquisition water maze task, and on the fifth day, they were tested in a probe trial; that is, there was no escape platform present. At the end of the testing period, the nonsurgical and sham control groups had similar final escape latencies (16 +/- 4 sec and 23 +/- 9 sec, respectively) that were not significantly different from those of the three hypertensive groups. Rats with mild hypertension (140-160 mm Hg) had a final escape latency of 25 +/- 6 sec, whereas severely hypertensive rats (170-199 mm Hg) had a final escape latency of 21 +/- 7 sec and extremely hypertensive rats (&gt;200 Hg) had a final escape latency of 19 +/- 5 sec. All five groups also displayed a similar preference for the correct quadrant in the probe trial. Together, these data suggest that sustained, severe hypertension for over 10 mo is not sufficient to impair spatial learning and memory deficits in otherwise normal rats.
Familial combined hyperlipidemia (FCHL) is a common genetic dyslipidemia predisposing to premature coronary heart disease (CHD). We previously identified a locus for FCHL on human Chromosome (Chr) 1q21-q23 in 31 Finnish FCHL families. We also mapped a gene for combined hyperlipidemia (Hyplip1) to a potentially orthologous region of mouse Chr 3 in the HcB-19/Dem mouse model of FCHL. The human FCHL locus was, however, originally mapped about 5 Mb telomeric to the synteny border, the centromeric part of which is homologous to mouse Chr 3 and the telomeric part to mouse Chr 1. To further localize the human Hyplip1 homolog and estimate its distance from the peak linkage markers, we fine-mapped the Hyplip1 locus and defined the borders of the region of conserved synteny between human and mouse. This involved establishing a physical map of a bacterial artificial chromosome (BAC) contig across the Hyplip1 locus and hybridizing a set of BACs to both human and mouse chromosomes by fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH). We narrowed the location of the mouse Hyplip1 gene to a 1.5-cM region that is homologous only with human 1q21 and within approximately 5-10 Mb of the peak marker for linkage to FCHL. FCHL is a complex disorder and this distance may, thus, reflect the well-known problems hampering the mapping of complex disorders. Further studies identifying and sequencing the Hyplip1 gene will show whether the same gene predisposes to hyperlipidemia in human and mouse.
Tuberous sclerosis (TSC) is a bigenic autosomal dominant disease caused by mutations in one of two tumor-suppressor genes, TSC1 and TSC2, resulting in benign hamartomas and low grade neoplasms in multiple organs including brain, heart, kidney, and skin. We report the results of an immunohistochemical study of the expression of the TSC gene products, tuberin and hamartin, in multiple tissues obtained at autopsy from 12 non-TSC affected patients ranging in age from 20 weeks gestation to 8 years, and surgical specimens from some organs. Tuberin and hamartin are expressed and are colocalized in most tissues. Contrary to a previous report, immunostaining with our antisera detected hamartin in liver, small and large intestine, prostate, and testes. We did not detect significant developmental differences in tuberin or hamartin expression in comparable tissues from patients of different ages. Although tuberin and hamartin colocalize in most tissues and cell types, we provide data that hamartin is more abundantly expressed than tuberin in cells within some tissues including the distal nephron and a population of cells of the endocrine pancreas. These data support the hypothesis that hamartin and tuberin interact and may function together in many tissues where they are co-expressed, but also suggest that hamartin has a discrete and specialized function in certain cell types.
The luminal domains of membrane peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) are essential for peptide alpha-amidation, and the cytosolic domain (CD) is essential for trafficking. Overexpression of membrane PAM in corticotrope tumor cells reorganizes the actin cytoskeleton, shifts endogenous adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) from mature granules localized at the tips of processes to the TGN region, and blocks regulated secretion. PAM-CD interactor proteins include a protein kinase that phosphorylates PAM (P-CIP2) and Kalirin, a Rho family GDP/GTP exchange factor. We engineered a PAM protein unable to interact with either P-CIP2 or Kalirin (PAM-1/K919R), along with PAM proteins able to interact with Kalirin but not with P-CIP2. AtT-20 cells expressing PAM-1/K919R produce fully active membrane enzyme but still exhibit regulated secretion, with ACTH-containing granules localized to process tips. Immunoelectron microscopy demonstrates accumulation of PAM and ACTH in tubular structures at the trans side of the Golgi in AtT-20 cells expressing PAM-1 but not in AtT-20 cells expressing PAM-1/K919R. The ability of PAM to interact with P-CIP2 is critical to its ability to block exit from the Golgi and affect regulated secretion. Consistent with this, mutation of its P-CIP2 phosphorylation site alters the ability of PAM to affect regulated secretion.
The endoderm and much of the mesoderm arise from the EMS cell in the four-cell C. elegans embryo. We report that the MED-1 and -2 GATA factors specify the entire fate of EMS, which otherwise produces two C-like mesectodermal progenitors. The meds are direct targets of the maternal SKN-1 transcription factor; however, their forced expression can direct SKN-1-independent reprogramming of non-EMS cells into mesendodermal progenitors. We find that SGG-1/GSK-3beta kinase acts both as a Wnt-dependent activator of endoderm in EMS and an apparently Wnt-independent repressor of the meds in the C lineage, indicating a dual role for this kinase in mesendoderm development. Our results suggest that a broad tissue territory, mesendoderm, in vertebrates has been confined to a single cell in nematodes through a common gene regulatory network.
In the present study, the release of secreted beta-amyloid precursor protein (AbetaPPs) in response to thrombin stimulation in platelets has been investigated. Incubation of platelets with thrombin produced a concentration-dependent release of AbetaPPs with a concomitant reduction in the AbetaPP remaining in the lysates. The response to thrombin was not affected by pretreatment for 15 min with the phospholipase C inhibitor U-73122, with the protein kinase C inhibitor staurosporine, or with hydrogen peroxide (which at the concentrations used affects the phosphoinositide signalling system in human platelets). In contrast, pretreatment with wortmannin and sodium azide reduced the responses to thrombin. These data would suggest that thrombin may cause the release of AbetaPPs from human platelets via an activation of a phospholipase C-independent pathway. Thrombin-stimulated AbetaPPs release was also reduced by 4-hydroxynonenal. This finding, if it is a phenomenon also found for CNS cells, could be of relevance to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease, given that an accumulation of 4-hydroxynonenal is found in this disease.
Neurotrophins influence growth and survival of sympathetic and sensory neurons through activation of their receptors, Trk receptor tyrosine kinases. Previously, we identified Src homology 2-B (SH2-B) and APS, which are structurally similar adapter proteins, as substrates of Trk kinases. In the present study, we demonstrate that both SH2-B and APS exist in cells as homopentamers and/or heteropentamers, independent of Trk receptor activation. Structure-function analyses revealed that the SH2-B multimerization domain resides within its amino terminus, which is necessary for SH2-B-mediated nerve growth factor (NGF) signaling. Overexpression of SH2-B enhances both the magnitude and duration of TrkA autophosphorylation following exposure of PC12 cells to NGF, and this effect requires the amino-terminal multimerization motif. Moreover, the amino terminus of SH2-B is necessary for TrkA/SH2-B-mediated morphological differentiation of PC12 cells. Together, these results indicate that the multimeric adapters SH2-B and APS influence neurotrophin signaling through direct modulation of Trk receptor autophosphorylation.
Astrocytes respond to contact with neurons by cell-cycle arrest and complex process formation. In our effort to discover the molecular mechanisms that underlie this phenomenon we have identified a known tetraspanin, CD81, as a critical component of astrocyte responses to neuronal differentiation signals. Here we show that CD81 is expressed on the surface of the astrocyte and that its expression level can be modulated by contact with neurons. Further, using three separate antibodies, 2F7, Eat1, and Eat2, which recognize unique epitopes in the extracellular domains of the CD81 protein, we show that there is a unique domain, recognized by Eat1, that is required for astrocyte cell-cycle withdrawal in response to neurons. This is likely due to conformational changes in the CD81 molecule, as inclusion of 2F7 actually augments neuron-induced astrocyte growth arrest. The critical nature of CD81 in normal astrocyte-neuron biology was confirmed by using mice in which CD81 had been deleted by homologous recombination. Astrocytes null at the CD81 locus were blind to the proliferative arrest encoded on the neuronal cell surface. Taken together, these data strongly suggest that CD81 is a critical regulator of neuron-induced astrocytic differentiation.
We have developed a novel method in which antisense DNA is selectively electroporated into individual adult neural progenitor cells. By electroporation of antisense oligonucleotides against signal transducer and activator of transcription 3 (STAT3) we demonstrate that ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) is an instructive signal for astroglial type 2 cell fate specifically mediated via activation of STAT3. Activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) signaling pathway induced only a transient increase in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) expression, and inhibition of this signaling pathway did not block the induction by CNTF of glial differentiation in progenitor cells. In addition we show that microelectroporation is a new powerful method for introducing antisense agents into single cells in complex cellular networks.

The serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) transporter (SERT) is responsible for the inactivation of synaptic 5-HT and is also a target for multiple psychostimulants. Despite the critical role of SERT in 5-HT inactivation and psychostimulant response, many aspects of the transporter's recognition of ligands are poorly defined. We took advantage of sequence divergence of SERT species variants to identify structural determinants of substrate recognition. Tryptamine derivatives with substitutions at the 4 and 7 positions on the phenyl ring, the indole nitrogen, and the beta position show up to 40-fold potency differences for inhibiting [(3)H]5-HT transport in cells transfected with either human or Drosophila melanogaster SERT cDNAs. Species selectivities of these derivatives were largely recapitulated in antagonist binding. Human/D. melanogaster SERT chimera studies implicated the first two SERT transmembrane domains (TMDs) in the potency of the indole nitrogen-substituted compounds N-isopropyltryptamine (NIT), 5-methoxy-N-isopropyltryptamine (5-MNIT), and the 7-substituted compound 7-benzyloxytryptamine (7BT). Potency differences of analogs with substitutions at the 4 and beta positions are influenced by sequences distal to this region. Within TMD I-II, species-scanning mutagenesis implicated a single residue (Y95 in human SERT, F90 in D. melanogaster SERT) in the recognition of NIT, 5-MNIT, and 7BT. Remarkably, this is the same site we established previously in species-specific recognition of the antagonists citalopram and mazindol. These findings support a critical role for TMD I residues in defining shared aspects of SERT substrate and antagonist recognition.

The first genome scan conducted in early-onset obsessive-compulsive disorder used a non-parametric analysis to identify a peak in a region of chromosome 9 containing the gene SLC1A1, which codes for the neuronal and epithelial glutamate transporter EAAC1. Interaction between the glutamatergic and serotonergic systems within the striatum suggests EAAC1 as a functional candidate in OCD as well. We determined the genomic organization of SLC1A1 primarily by using primers designed from cDNA sequence to amplify from adaptor-ligated genomic DNA restriction fragments. In order to confirm SLC1A1 as a positional candidate in early-onset OCD, common single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were identified that enabled mapping of SLC1A1 within the region of the lod score peak. Based on the linkage evidence, the coding region was sequenced in the probands of the seven families included in the genome scan. No evidence was found for a functional mutation, but several SNPs were identified. Capillary electrophoresis SSCP typing of a haplotype consisting of two common SNPs within EAAC1 revealed no significant linkage disequilibrium.
Autistic disorder (MIM 209850) is currently viewed as a neurodevelopmental disease. Reelin plays a pivotal role in the development of laminar structures including the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, cerebellum and of several brainstem nuclei. Neuroanatomical evidence is consistent with Reelin involvement in autistic disorder. In this study, we describe several polymorphisms identified using RNA-SSCP and DNA sequencing. Association and linkage were assessed comparing 95 Italian patients to 186 ethnically-matched controls, and using the transmission/disequilibrium test and haplotype-based haplotype relative risk in 172 complete trios from 165 families collected in Italy and in the USA. Both case-control and family-based analyses yield a significant association between autistic disorder and a polymorphic GGC repeat located immediately 5' of the reelin gene (RELN) ATG initiator codon, as well as with specific haplotypes formed by this polymorphism with two single-base substitutions located in a splice junction in exon 6 and within exon 50. Triplet repeats located in 5' untranslated regions (5'UTRs) are indicative of strong transcriptional regulation. Our findings suggest that longer triplet repeats in the 5'UTR of the RELN gene confer vulnerability to autistic disorder.



Serum erythropoietin (EPO) levels are partially controlled by the sympathetic outflow to the kidney. We have studied whether patients with multiple system atrophy (MSA), known to be associated with dysautonomia, are EPO-deficient. Eighteen MSA patients were studied along with 32 idiopathic Parkinson's disease (PD) patients, 23 controls with iron-deficiency anaemia, and 18 healthy individuals. Serum creatinine was normal in all groups. Mean haemoglobin (Hb) concentration in MSA patients was 13.7 +/- 1.7 g/dL. Four MSA patients had unexplained anaemia (minimum Hb: 10.5 g/dL) and abnormal autonomic function tests including significant postural hypotension, whereas none of the PD patients was anaemic. Serum EPO levels were suppressed in relation to anaemia in MSA patients compared to elevated EPO levels in iron-deficiency anaemia patients (difference of regression lines P &lt; 0.001), indicating EPO deficiency in the anaemic MSA patients. Serum EPO levels in PD patients were within normal range. A subset of MSA patients has anaemia and postural hypotension, which may be associated with EPO deficiency. This may have therapeutic implications.
The differentiation between Parkinson's disease (PD), progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP), and multiple system atrophy (MSA) may be difficult but is important for prognostic and therapeutic purposes. Varying degrees of autonomic failure have been described in PD and MSA, whereas its involvement in PSP remains controversial. The aim of this study was to investigate autonomic function in patients fulfilling strict clinical diagnostic criteria for the disorders above, to evaluate the diagnostic capacity of laboratory autonomic tests. The study group was consecutively recruited among patients referred to a movement disorder unit. Thirty-four patients with PD, 15 patients with PSP, and 47 patients with MSA were compared with 18 healthy age-matched controls. Autonomic tests included analysis of heart rate variability (HRV) in temporal domain, at rest and during forced respiration, as well as blood pressure (BP) changes during 75 degrees head-up tilt. HRV did not differ between groups during quiet breathing but was significantly reduced during forced respiration in MSA (P &lt; 0.01), while PD and PSP groups did not differ from controls. Hypotensive responses during orthostatic provocation were seen in PD (P &lt; 0.01) and MSA (P &lt; 0.001), whereas BP remained stable in most PSP patients, not differing from the healthy control group. On an individual basis, decreased HRV and severe hypotensive responses were seen in MSA patients regardless of age and disease duration, whereas PD patients showed this combination only at high age and long duration. In PSP, only a few cases with decreased HRV and limited hypotensive responses were found. We conclude that cardiovascular reflex tests can supplement the clinical differentiation of Parkinsonian syndromes.
Oxygen-regulated protein 150 kD (ORP150) is a novel endoplasmic-reticulum-associated chaperone induced by hypoxia/ischemia. Although ORP150 was sparingly upregulated in neurons from human brain undergoing ischemic stress, there was robust induction in astrocytes. Cultured neurons overexpressing ORP150 were resistant to hypoxemic stress, whereas astrocytes with inhibited ORP150 expression were more vulnerable. Mice with targeted neuronal overexpression of ORP150 had smaller strokes compared with controls. Neurons with increased ORP150 demonstrated suppressed caspase-3-like activity and enhanced brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) under hypoxia signaling. These data indicate that ORP150 is an integral participant in ischemic cytoprotective pathways.
Even salient sensory stimuli are sometimes not detected. What goes wrong in the brain in that case? Here we show that a late (&gt; 100-ms) component of the neural activity in the primary visual cortex of the monkey is selectively suppressed when stimuli are not seen. As there is evidence that this activity depends on feedback from extrastriate areas, these findings suggest a specific role for recurrent processing when stimuli are reaching a perceptual level. Further results show that this perceptual level is situated between purely sensory and decision or motor stages of processing.
A modeling study shows that inhibitory synapse plasticity, guided by simple activity-dependent rules, can lead to appropriate phase relationships within an oscillating network.
The blood-brain barrier forms a buffer against the systemic circulation. Now drugs administered to the brain are shown to be exported by a transporter to act at peripheral sites.
Cognitive neuropsychiatry represents a systematic and theoretically driven approach to explain clinical psychopathologies in terms of deficits to normal cognitive mechanisms. A concern with the neural substrates of impaired cognitive mechanisms links cognitive neuropsychiatry to the basic neurosciences. The emergence of cognitive neuropsychiatry in the 1990s illustrates the growing rapprochement between cognitive neuropsychology, clinical medicine and the neurosciences in addressing common questions about disorders of the mind/brain. In reviewing recent applications, we highlight how this hybrid discipline will make a distinctive contribution to the science of psychopathology.
Eph receptor tyrosine kinases are largely known for their involvement in brain development but, as some of these receptor tyrosine kinases are also expressed in adults, their possible role in the mature nervous system has begun to be explored. Evidence for the involvement of Eph receptors in synaptic plasticity, learning and memory is only emerging and needs corroboration. However, it is likely that the actions of Eph kinases in the adult brain will attract significant attention and become a fertile research area, as occurred in the case of the neurotrophins.
Five important trends have emerged from recent work on computational models of focal visual attention that emphasize the bottom-up, image-based control of attentional deployment. First, the perceptual saliency of stimuli critically depends on the surrounding context. Second, a unique 'saliency map' that topographically encodes for stimulus conspicuity over the visual scene has proved to be an efficient and plausible bottom-up control strategy. Third, inhibition of return, the process by which the currently attended location is prevented from being attended again, is a crucial element of attentional deployment. Fourth, attention and eye movements tightly interplay, posing computational challenges with respect to the coordinate system used to control attention. And last, scene understanding and object recognition strongly constrain the selection of attended locations. Insights from these five key areas provide a framework for a computational and neurobiological understanding of visual attention.
Glutamate is the main excitatory neurotransmitter in the mammalian central nervous system and is removed from the synaptic cleft by sodium-dependent glutamate transporters. To date, five distinct glutamate transporters have been cloned from animal and human tissue: GLAST (EAAT1), GLT-1 (EAAT2), EAAC1 (EAAT3), EAAT4, and EAAT5 (refs 1-5). GLAST and GLT-1 are localized primarily in astrocytes, whereas EAAC1 (refs 8, 9), EAAT4 (refs 9-11) and EAAT5 (ref 5) are neuronal. Studies of EAAT4 and EAAC1 indicate an extrasynaptic localization on perisynaptic membranes that are near release sites. This localization facilitates rapid glutamate binding, and may have a role in shaping the amplitude of postsynaptic responses in densely packed cerebellar terminals. We have used a yeast two-hybrid screen to identify interacting proteins that may be involved in regulating EAAT4--the glutamate transporter expressed predominately in the cerebellum--or in targeting and/or anchoring or clustering the transporter to the target site. Here we report the identification and characterization of two proteins, GTRAP41 and GTRAP48 (for glutamate transporter EAAT4 associated protein) that specifically interact with the intracellular carboxy-terminal domain of EAAT4 and modulate its glutamate transport activity.
Excitatory amino-acid carrier 1 (EAAC1) is a high-affinity Na+-dependent L-glutamate/D,L-aspartate cell-membrane transport protein. It is expressed in brain as well as several non-nervous tissues. In brain, EAAC1 is the primary neuronal glutamate transporter. It has a polarized distribution in cells and mainly functions perisynaptically to transport glutamate from the extracellular environment. In the kidney it is involved in renal acidic amino-acid re-absorption and amino-acid metabolism. Here we describe the identification and characterization of an EAAC1-associated protein, GTRAP3-18. Like EAAC1, GTRAP3-18 is expressed in numerous tissues. It localizes to the cell membrane and cytoplasm, and specifically interacts with carboxy-terminal intracellular domain of EAAC1. Increasing the expression of GTRAP3-18 in cells reduces EAAC1-mediated glutamate transport by lowering substrate affinity. The expression of GTRAP3-18 can be upregulated by retinoic acid, which results in a specific reduction of EAAC1-mediated glutamate transport. These studies show that glutamate transport proteins can be regulated potently and that GTRAP can modulate the transport functions ascribed to EAAC1. GTRAP3-18 may be important in regulating the metabolic function of EAAC1.
In all synapses, Ca2+ triggers neurotransmitter release to initiate signal transmission. Ca2+ presumably acts by activating synaptic Ca2+ sensors, but the nature of these sensors--which are the gatekeepers to neurotransmission--remains unclear. One of the candidate Ca2+ sensors in release is the synaptic Ca2+-binding protein synaptotagmin I. Here we have studied a point mutation in synaptotagmin I that causes a twofold decrease in overall Ca2+ affinity without inducing structural or conformational changes. When introduced by homologous recombination into the endogenous synaptotagmin I gene in mice, this point mutation decreases the Ca2+ sensitivity of neurotransmitter release twofold, but does not alter spontaneous release or the size of the readily releasable pool of neurotransmitters. Therefore, Ca2+ binding to synaptotagmin I participates in triggering neurotransmitter release at the synapse.
Using evolutionary simulations, we develop autonomous agents controlled by artificial neural networks (ANNs). In simple lifelike tasks of foraging and navigation, high performance levels are attained by agents equipped with fully recurrent ANN controllers. In a set of experiments sharing the same behavioral task but differing in the sensory input available to the agents, we find a common structure of a command neuron switching the dynamics of the network between radically different behavioral modes. When sensory position information is available, the command neuron reflects a map of the environment, acting as a location-dependent cell sensitive to the location and orientation of the agent. When such information is unavailable, the command neuron's activity is based on a spontaneously evolving short-term memory mechanism, which underlies its apparent place-sensitive activity. A two-parameter stochastic model for this memory mechanism is proposed. We show that the parameter values emerging from the evolutionary simulations are near optimal; evolution takes advantage of seemingly harmful features of the environment to maximize the agent's foraging efficiency. The accessibility of evolved ANNs for a detailed inspection, together with the resemblance of some of the results to known findings from neurobiology, places evolved ANNs as an excellent candidate model for the study of structure and function relationship in complex nervous systems.
Chronic hypertension during aging is a serious threat to the cerebral vasculature. The larger brain arteries can react to hypertension with an abnormal wall thickening, a loss of elasticity and a narrowed lumen. However, little is known about the hypertension-induced alterations of cerebral capillaries. The present study describes ultrastructural alterations of the cerebrocortical capillary wall, such as thickening and collagen accumulation in the basement membrane of aging spontaneously hypertensive stroke-prone rats. The ratio of cortical capillaries with such vascular pathology occurred significantly more frequently in hypertensive animals. Nimodipine and nifedipine are potential drugs to decrease blood pressure in hypertension but their beneficial effects in experimental studies reach beyond the control of blood pressure. Nimodipine and nifedipine can alleviate ischemia-related symptoms and improve cognition. These drugs differ in that nifedipine, but not nimodipine reduces blood pressure at the here-used concentration while both drugs can penetrate the blood-brain barrier. Here we show that chronic treatment of aging hypertensive stroke-prone rats with nimodipine or nifedipine could preserve microvascular integrity in the cerebral cortex.
Changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) in eleven elderly subjects during pairings of tone and air puff were compared to rCBF changes during pairings in young subjects. Although all subjects reported being aware of the relationship between tone and air puff, elderly subjects did not condition as well as young subjects and their rCBF measures were attenuated. Covarying the performance differences between young and old subjects did not change this conclusion suggesting that differences in neural activation during learning are related to binding of CS-US information prior to the impact of the association on performance. Both groups showed learning-specific rCBF changes in cerebellum, inferior right prefrontal cortex and posterior cingulate. However, only in young subjects were there learning-specific changes in rCBF in left temporal cortex, midbrain, caudate, and inferior left prefrontal cortex. Analysis of learning-dependent patterns of functional connectivity of inferior left prefrontal cortex showed only young subjects had a strong left prefrontal functional connectivity with cerebellum, hippocampus, thalamus and temporal cortex. Thus, beyond changes in regional activity, these data also suggest that age may alter the operations of functional networks underlying learning and memory.
The question examined in this study is concerned with a possible functional dissociation between the hippocampal formation and the prefrontal cortex in spatial navigation. Wistar rats with hippocampal damage (inflicted by a bilateral lesion of the fimbria fornix), rats with damage to the medial prefrontal cortex, and control-operated rats were examined for their performance in either one of two different spatial tasks in a Morris water maze, a place learning task (requiring a locale system), or a response learning task (requiring a taxon system). Performance of the classical place learning (allocentric) task was found to be impaired in rats with lesions of the fimbria fornix, but not in rats with damage of the medial prefrontal cortex, while the opposite effect was found in the response learning (egocentric) task. These findings are indicative of a double functional dissociation of these two brain regions with respect to the two different forms of spatial navigation. When the place learning task was modified by relocating the platform, the impairment in animals with fimbria fornix lesions was even more pronounced than before, while the performance of animals with medial prefrontal cortex lesions was similar to that of their controls. When the task was again modified by changing the hidden platform for a clearly visible one (visual cue task), the animals with fimbria fornix lesions had, at least initially, shorter latencies than their controls. By contrast, in the animals with medial prefrontal cortex damage this change led to a slight increase in escape latency.
In the present study, effects of the alpha(2)- and beta-adrenoceptor agonists clonidine and isoproterenol on astrocytes in astroglial/neuronal cocultures from rat cerebral cortex were evaluated. The calcium- and potassium-sensitive dyes fura-2 and potassium-binding benzofuran isophtalate (PBFI) were used to study alterations in intracellular concentrations of calcium ([Ca(2+)](i)) and potassium ([K(+)](i)), respectively, while the perforated patch clamp technique was used to analyze transmembrane currents. Exposure to isoproterenol or clonidine elicited an immediate increase in [Ca(2+)](i) that was totally abolished in calcium-free extracellular media. Isoproterenol also decreased [K(+)](i), but clonidine did not. The reduction in [K(+)](i) was inhibited in Ca(2+)-free media. As evaluated with the perforated patch technique, isoproterenol (10(-6)-10(-4) M) induced a slowly developing and long lasting outward current that also was totally abolished in calcium-free buffer. This current was blocked by external tetraethylammonium (TEA, 10 mM) and charybdotoxin (ChTX, 10 nM), but was not affected by apamin (50 nM). The current-to-voltage (I-V) relationships for the isoproterenol-induced currents showed a markedly negative reversal potential, -96 mV+/-7, (mean+/-S.D., n=5). These results suggest that the stimulation of astroglial beta-adrenoceptors by isoproterenol opens calcium-activated potassium channels (K((Ca))). Preincubation with forskolin significantly increased the isoproterenol-induced currents compared with controls, indicating that the opening of astroglial K((Ca)) channels after beta-adrenergic stimulation not only depends on [Ca(2+)](i) but also synergistically involves the cAMP transduction system to which beta-adrenoceptors are known to be positively coupled.
Electrical stimulation has certain advantages over chemical stimulation methods for the study of neurotransmitter release in brain slices. However, measuring detectable quantities of electrically evoked release of endogenous or radiolabeled markers of excitatory amino acid neurotransmitters has required current intensities or frequencies much higher than those usually required to study other transmitter systems. We demonstrate here that [3H]-D-aspartate (D-ASP) release can be detected from hippocampal slices at lower stimulation intensities in the presence of a glutamate reuptake inhibitor. Subsequently, we optimized the electrical stimulus parameters for characterizing electrically evoked D-ASP release. Under the experimental conditions described, greater than 90% of electrically evoked D-ASP release is calcium-dependent. Evoked D-ASP release is markedly reduced by pre-treating slices with the synaptic vesicle toxin bafilomycin A1 (BAF A1) or in the presence of 10-mM magnesium. Evoked D-ASP release is also reduced to variable degrees by N- and P/Q type voltage-sensitive calcium channel antagonists. Neither spontaneous efflux nor evoked D-ASP release were affected by NMDA, AMPA or group I metabotropic glutamate receptor (mGluR) antagonists. Evoked D-ASP release was reduced in the presence of an adenosine A1 receptor agonist and potentiated by treatment with a group I mGluR5 agonist. Evoked [3H]-D-ASP release was similar in magnitude to evoked [3H]-L-glutamate (L-GLU) release. Finally, in separate experiments using the same electrical stimulus parameters, more than 90% of electrically evoked endogenous L-GLU release was calcium dependent, a pattern similar to that observed for evoked [3H]-D-ASP release. Taken together, these results indicate that electrically evoked [3H]-D-ASP release mimics evoked glutamate release in brain slices under the experimental conditions employed in these studies.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons terminating in the hypothalamus have been implicated in the neuroendocrine regulation of reproductive hormones, particularly luteinizing hormone (LH) and prolactin. The aim of this study was to examine whether GABAergic neuronal activity in the hypothalamus was modified during lactation, and whether any observed changes correlated with changes in secretion of these hormones. Animals were divided into three experimental groups: diestrous controls, lactating with pups present (with pups), and lactating with pups removed for 4 h (without pups). Animals were decapitated either without treatment, or 60 min after inhibition of GABA degradation by aminooxyacetic acid (AOAA) (100 mg/kg, i.p.). The rate of GABA accumulation in the tissue after AOAA is a measure of GABA turnover. GABA turnover was estimated in 13 microdissected brain regions, and serum prolactin and LH measured by radioimmunoassay. Suckling was associated with significantly increased prolactin and significantly decreased LH compared with diestrous rats. In lactating rats with pups, GABA turnover was significantly increased in the cingulate cortex compared with diestrous rats. GABA turnover was significantly increased in the ventrolateral preoptic nucleus of lactating rats with pups compared with diestrous rats or lactating rats without pups. There was significantly lower GABA turnover in the anterior hypothalamic area, ventromedial and dorsomedial hypothalamic nuclei in lactating rats without pups compared with diestrous rats. There were no significant changes in other brain regions examined. The results demonstrate that activity of GABAergic neurons in specific parts of the hypothalamus and cerebral cortex is altered during lactation.
Humans routinely make judgments about olfactory stimuli. However, few studies have examined the functional neuroanatomy underlying the cognitive operations involved in such judgments. In order to delineate this functional anatomy, we asked 12 normal subjects to perform different judgments about olfactory stimuli while regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured with PET. In separate conditions, subjects made judgments about the presence (odor detection), intensity, hedonicity, familiarity, or edibility of different odorants. An auditory task served as a control condition. All five olfactory tasks induced rCBF increases in the right orbitofrontal cortex (OFC), but right OFC activity was highest during familiarity judgments and lowest during the detection task. Left OFC activity increased significantly during hedonic and familiarity judgments, but not during other odor judgments. Left OFC activity was significantly higher during hedonicity judgments than during familiarity or other olfactory judgments. These data demonstrate that aspects of odor processing in the OFC are lateralized depending on the type of olfactory task. They support a model of parallel processing in the left and right OFC in which the relative level of activation depends on whether the judgment involves odor recognition or emotion. Primary visual areas also demonstrated a differential involvement in olfactory processing depending on the type of olfactory task: significant rCBF increases were observed in hedonic and edibility judgments, whereas no significant rCBF increases were found in the other three judgments. These data indicate that judgments of hedonicity and edibility engage circuits involved in visual processing, but detection, intensity, and familiarity judgments do not.
A quantitative analysis of the variability of human orbitofrontal anatomical landmarks is required if one is to describe properly the location of functional or structural changes within this brain region. The present study investigated the orbitofrontal sulci in 100 normal adult human cerebral hemispheres using magnetic resonance images that were transformed into the standardized proportional stereotaxic space most commonly used, that of Talairach and Tournoux (1988). Four orbitofrontal sulci were identified and marked on each hemisphere: the olfactory, the medial, the lateral, and the transverse orbital sulci. Probability maps were then constructed for each sulcus. These maps provide a statistical description of the variability of the location of each orbitofrontal sulcus within the three-dimensional coordinate system of Talairach and Tournoux (1988). These probability maps may be directly compared with any image transformed into the same standardized space, providing a valuable tool for identifying and describing the location of functional or structural changes in the orbitofrontal region of the human brain.
We aimed to use repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) to disrupt speech with the specific objective of dissociating speech disruption according to whether or not it was associated with activation of the mentalis muscle. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) was applied over two sites of the right and left hemisphere while subjects counted aloud and recited the days of the week, months of the year, and nursery rhymes. Analysis of EMG data and videotaped recordings showed that rTMS applied over a posterior site, lateral to the motor hand area of both the right and the left hemisphere resulted in speech disruption that was accompanied by activation of the mentalis muscle, while rTMS applied over an anterior site on the left but not the right hemisphere resulted in speech disruption that was dissociated from activation of the mentalis muscle. The findings provide a basis for the use of subthreshold stimulation over the extrarolandic speech disruption site in order to probe the functional properties of this area and to test psychological theories of linguistic function.
A young lady with residual polio, using axillary crutch since early childhood, presented with tingling, numbness and weakness in ulnar nerve distribution of five months duration. Ulnar motor conduction study revealed proximal conduction block near the axilla, at the point of pressure by the crutch while walking. Distal ulnar sensory conduction studies were normal but proximal ulnar sensory conduction studies showed absence of Erb's point potential. These findings suggested the presence of conduction block in sensory fibers as well. Proper use and change of axillary crutch resulted in clinical recovery and resolution of motor and sensory conduction block.
Two hundred patients with supratentorial glioma; astrocytoma (pilocytic, fibrillary, gemistocytic) 82, mixed glioma (oligoastrocytoma) 46, oligodendroglioma 8, malignant (anaplastic) astrocytoma 33 and glioblastoma multiforme 31, surgically treated for the tumours and followed up for one to sixteen years, were retrospectively analysed for the incidence of pre and postoperative epileptic seizures. 122 patients (61%) had seizures preoperatively. 62 (50.8%) of them had at least one or more seizures during follow up. Seizures were persistent in 22 patients. Doubtful, or one or two minor seizures occurred in 19 cases. Six patients in this group had seizure only at the time of CT confirmed recurrence, after a seizure free interval of one to nine years. Amongst 78 patients who did not have seizures preoperatively, 24 (30.6%) developed seizures during the postoperative follow up period. Recurrent attacks were reported only by 5 patients while 15 patients had seizure(s) only at the time of recurrence of tumour. Two patients had a few seizures in the early postoperative period and none thereafter, while doubtful seizures were reported by two patients.
Heterotopic ossification (HO) is an important cause of restriction in range of movements and secondary motor disability following neurotrauma, orthopaedic interventions and burns. It has not received focussed attention in non-traumatic neurological disorders. In a prospective study of 377 patients, on medical problems in neurological rehabilitation setting, 15 subjects (3.97%) had neurogenic heterotopic ossification. Their clinical diagnosis was: transverse myelitis (7), neurotuberculosis (4), traumatic myelopathy (2) and stroke (2). Hip (10), knee (4) and elbow joints (1) were involved. The risk factors included urinary tract infection (15), spasticity (6), pressure sores (13) and deep venous thrombosis (DVT) (6). The initial diagnosis was often other than HO and included DVT (3), haematoma (2) and arthritis (2). ESR and serum alkaline phosphatase levels were elevated in all but one subject. The diagnosis of HO was established using X-rays, CT Scan and three-phase bone scan. Following treatment with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, the range of motion improved in only four patients. HO resulted in significant loss of therapy time during rehabilitation. High index of suspicion about this complication is necessary for early diagnosis and prompt intervention.
Acute subdural haematoma is a well-entrenched nosological entity implying subdural collection of blood following acute head injury. Pathologically, it is usually associated with or, for that matter, secondary to cerebral contusion and laceration. Based on cumulated experience, clinical and pathological studies it is proposed that, for too long the neurosurgeons have put emphasis on the clot rather than the totality of the pathological anatomy and that they have focused their therapeutic strategy on removal of the accumulated blood, unmindful of the associated parenchymatous lesion. Not surprisingly, such attempts have been associated with a very high mortality. On the basis of nearly four decades of personal experience and critical review of the literature, evidence has been provided that to reduce the mortality associated with this condition, it is necessary to evolve a strategy, not only to evacuate the blood but comprehensively deal with the associated parenchymatous lesions and the cascade of secondary insult to the underlying brain.



The authors examined the occurrence of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT), senile plaques, spheroids in Goll's nucleus, grumose or foamy spheroid bodies (GFSB) in the basal ganglia, and hyaline inclusions in the brainstem nuclei in 62 patients under 40 years of age with non-progressive developmental brain disorders. Five cases had demonstrated NFT, which tended to be confined to the subcortical nuclei, whereas no senile plaques were identified in any case. Spheroids in Goll's nucleus were significantly increased in three cases of congenital brain anomalies and five cases of perinatal hypoxic ischemic encephalopathy. The GFSB-positive subjects were clinicopathologically divided into two subgroups consisting of four cases of congenital malformations, which were also associated with severe respiratory failure, and six cases of perinatal brain disorders in which the basal ganglia were severely affected. Eosinophilic intracytoplasmic inclusions, unlike the hyaline inclusions of the Lewy type, were found in the substantia nigra and/or locus ceruleus in two subjects. It is speculated that a variety of mechanisms, including accelerated aging and anoxic insults, may be involved in the increased occurrence of NFT and/or spheroids in non-progressive developmental disorders. A detailed investigation is useful to clarify the neuronal changes secondary to the brain damages early in development.
Activation of mGluRs has previously been reported to cause beta/gamma frequency oscillations in CA1 hippocampal slices. The present study reveals that pharmacological activation of mGluRs in vivo induces dentate EEG oscillations at the low end of the gamma frequency range, with peak activity just below 30 Hz.
Previous studies suggest that enhanced noradrenergic neurotransmission promotes functional recovery following cerebral lesions. The present study investigated whether systemic administration of an alpha(2)-adrenergic antagonist, atipamezole, facilitates recovery following transient focal cerebral ischemia in rats. The effect of atipamezole therapy on recovery from ischemia was compared with the effect of enriched-environment housing in rats. Ischemia was induced by occlusion of the right middle cerebral artery (MCA) for 120 min using the intraluminal filament model. Daily atipamezole treatment (1 mg/kg, subcutaneously) was started on day 2 after ischemia induction and drug administration stopped after 10 days. Another group of rats was housed in an enriched environment from day 2 following ischemia induction until the end of the experiment. Several different behavioral tests were used to measure functional recovery during the 26 days following the induction of focal cerebral ischemia. There was improved performance in the limb-placing test from the beginning of atipamezole treatment to day 8, and in wheel-running in the foot-slip test on days 2 and 4. Enriched-environment housing facilitated recovery in the foot-slip test in a later phase of the test period (days 8 to 10). Discovery of a hidden platform in a water-maze task was also facilitated in rats housed in the enriched environment, but this was probably due to the increased swimming speed of these rats. The present data suggest that the alpha(2)-adrenergic antagonist, atipamezole, facilitates sensorimotor recovery after focal ischemia, but has no effect on subsequent water-maze tests assessing spatial learning and memory, when assessed 11 days after the cessation of drug administration.
Human TASK-3 (hTASK-3) is a recently identified member of the two-pore domain potassium channel (2PDKC) family which in man is predominantly expressed in the cerebellum. Previous preliminary examination of this channel indicates that when expressed in Xenopus oocytes, it produces a K(+) selective background conductance and consequent shift in resting membrane potential, thus mimicking other 2PDKC. Here we describe some additional functional and pharmacological aspects of hTASK-3-mediated conductances expressed in both Xenopus oocytes and HEK293 cells. hTASK-3 expression produces steady-state currents that approximate Goldman--Hodgkin--Katz behaviour with respect to membrane potential. Despite this, voltage steps from -80 mV to potentials &gt; approximately -20 mV induce currents that exhibit a clear time-dependent increase in current amplitude. Kinetically, this increase in current was well fit by a single exponential, the time constant of which was approximately 10 ms and appeared independent of test potential, between -20 and +80 mV. In HEK293 cells hTASK-3 currents were inhibited by extracellular acidosis with a mid-point for inhibition of pH 6.4. Furthermore, the activity of TASK-3 was potentiated by the volatile anaesthetic halothane but inhibited by the local anaesthetic bupivacaine.
The present study examined whether housing in an enriched environment affects hippocampal function in responding to the challenge of a spatial water maze task in naive rats and following transient global ischemia. The enriched-environment housing was used for 11 days and was instituted the day after the induction of 20-min ischemia. Thereafter, the rats were tested in the water maze. The function of hippocampal neurons was assessed by Fos-immunostaining in ischemic and sham-operated rats 3 h after water maze testing. Rats housed in an enriched environment had an increased number of Fos-positive neurons per section in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus compared to rats housed individually in standard cages. This increase was observed in both ischemic and sham-operated rats. The experimental groups showed no differences in the number of Fos-positive cells in different hippocampal areas when the rats were placed in the enriched environment for the same period without the learning task. These results suggest that the number of neurons responding with altered gene expression in the dentate gyrus is increased in rats housed in an enriched environment following training in a water maze task. The altered gene expression is also preserved in ischemic rats.
Many lines of evidence implicate dysfunctional excitatory amino acid (EAA) transmission in schizophrenia. The present study examined alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole- 4-priopionate (AMPA) receptor expression in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) and nucleus accumbens (NAc) using a rat model of schizophrenia in which excitotoxic lesions of ventral hippocampus (VH) on postnatal day (PD) 7 lead to the postpubertal emergence of behavioral abnormalities that resemble schizophrenic symptoms. In situ hybridization histochemistry with 35S-labeled oligonucleotide probes was used to quantify mRNA levels for GluR1-3 flip and flop variants at prepubertal and postpubertal time-points (PD 35 and 60, respectively). Comparisons of PD 35 and PD 60 groups suggested that there may be changes in the relative expression of flip and flop isoforms during normal development. The most pronounced change was an apparent increase in the flip/flop ratio for GluR1 from PD 35 to PD 60 in both the PFC and the NAc. Neonatal VH lesions did not significantly alter GluR1-3 flip and flop mRNA levels in the NAc at either time-point. However, in the PFC, GluR3 flop mRNA levels were significantly decreased in lesioned rats at PD 60. AMPA receptors incorporating flop variants exhibit faster desensitization, so a shift towards flip incorporation might lead to increased neuronal excitability in the PFC, thereby influencing subcortical DA systems regulated by PFC efferents. In summary, an early developmental injury can predispose rats to abnormal development of EAA transmission in the PFC. This may contribute to the postpubertal onset of symptoms after neonatal VH lesions.
Eight mongrel white male rats were studied under urethane anesthesia, and neuron activity evoked by mechanical and/or electrical stimulation of the contralateral whiskers was recorded in the primary somatosensory cortex. Recordings were made using a digital USB chamber attached to the printer port of a Pentium 200MMX computer running standard programs. Optical images were obtained in the barrel-field zone using a differential signal, i.e., the difference signal for cortex images in control and experimental animals. The results obtained here showed that subtraction of averaged sequences of frames yielded images consisting of spots reflecting the probable position of activated groups of neurons. The most effective stimulation consisted of natural low-frequency stimulation of the whiskers. The method can be used for preliminary mapping of cortical zones, as it provides for rapid and reproducible testing of the activity of neuron ensembles over large areas of the cortex.
Currently available techniques used in neurosciences and particularly cerebral imaging are contributing to a better understanding of human perception and the treatment of sensorial information. In this field, the chemical senses (taste and smell) have received little attention when compared with the auditory, visual and tactile senses. Nevertheless, recent research has been trying to overcome this. Brain regions involved in the processing of olfactory information have been investigated in several studies including a large number dealing with the question of lateralization. However, functional asymmetry in olfaction has still not been resolved and the resulting data have not been homogeneous. In this field, the contribution of cerebral imaging studies is very important insofar as it shows that the processes of functional lateralization in olfaction depend on many factors (nature of stimulus, nature of task, characteristics of subjects ...) that future research will have to consider.
The morphological changes in the brain of diabetic rats were examined up to 8 weeks after transient forebrain ischemia produced by transient occlusion of both carotid arteries. Using histochemistry, we also examined the extent and rate of development of atrophic changes in the brain, appearance of astrocytes, activated microglia, and glucose transporter 1 (GLUT1) in streptozotocin-treated rat brains after forebrain ischemia. Atrophic changes appeared in the hippocampus in both non-diabetic-- and diabetic--ischemic groups 4 weeks after ischemia. In diabetic--ischemic rats, the atrophic changes were more severe and progressed more rapidly in the hippocampus, and were also observed in the frontal, temporal and parietal cortices, but not in any cortical areas of the non-diabetic--ischemic rats and non-ischemic--diabetic rats. We observed reduced density of GLUT1 in all cortical regions and hippocampus in ischemic-diabetic rats at 4--8 weeks, when the number of activated microglias and astroglias increased in all cortical regions. Although severe atrophic changes were observed in the gray matter, no serious injury was noted in the white matter in the diabetic-ischemic group. Our results indicate that brain ischemia in the presence of diabetes causes more severe late-onset damage culminating in brain atrophy, compared with non-diabetics.

The pediatric epilepsy management team in the Hospital for Sick Children, Toronto, Canada, consists of neurologists, neurophysiologists, neurosurgeons, neuropyschologists, clinical nurse specialist/nurse practitioners, social workers, EEG technologists and psychiatrists. The patients are initially referred to us for the diagnosis of seizure disorders. Epileptic foci and eloquent cortices are identified by neurophysiological studies such as EEG, MEG and SEP. Epileptogenic lesions can be visualized by MRI, the language, motor and sensory cortices by fMRI and the regions of hypoperfusion and hypometabolism in the epileptic foci, by SPECT and PET, respectively. The results of these studies are then discussed by members of the team. For patients with lesional epilepsy, an intraoperative image guided system and intraoperative electrocorticography are used, when lesionectomy, lobectomy and additional multiple subpial transection (MST) are performed. Patients without an identifiable lesion require intracranial invasive video EEG using subdural grids or depth electrodes, which are constructed based on MEG spike sources, seizure semiology and scalp video EEG. After the identification of the epileptogenic and functional zones, maximum cortical excision and MST are performed to control seizures and to minimize functional deficits. Pediatric neurologists should assess the intractability of epilepsy, identify the epileptogenic zone, determine the excisable epileptic region, and minimize postoperative side effects, thereby leading the epilepsy management team.
Self-renewing and multipotent neural stem cells are present in the adult human brain. We successfully harvested neural stem cells from mice and humans using misexpressed EGFP proteins under the control of the nestin second intron enhancer. High-level EGFP expressors derived from mouse embryos included a distinct subpopulation of cells that were self-renewable and multipotent. Further, we obtained that neural progenitor cells from rat fetal spinal cords using a neurosphere technique, and demonstrated their ability to divide and differentiate into neurons in vivo, where they were integrated into the host tissue in the injured rat spinal cord with resultant behavioral improvement of the recipient rat. We also harvested tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons from a transgenic mouse expressing GFP under the control of the tyrosine hydroxylase promoter, and successfully transplanted them into the striatum of rats with parkinsonism with marked improvement of the neurological symptoms. Since neural stem cells can adapt well in the host CNS, studies should focus on their application as a vector in gene therapy and on the introduction in vivo or ex vivo of genes to control their proliferation and differentiation. Neural stem cells are a potential, useful source for developing new therapy for CNS disorders.
Linkage and association analyses were performed to identify loci affecting disease susceptibility by scoring previously characterized sequence variations such as microsatellites and single nucleotide polymorphisms. Lack of markers in regions of interest, as well as difficulty in adapting various methods to high-throughput settings, often limits the effectiveness of the analyses. We have adapted the Escherichia coli mismatch detection system, employing the factors MutS, MutL and MutH, for use in PCR-based, automated, high-throughput genotyping and mutation detection of genomic DNA. Optimal sensitivity and signal-to-noise ratios were obtained in a straightforward fashion because the detection reaction proved to be principally dependent upon monovalent cation concentration and MutL concentration. Quantitative relationships of the optimal values of these parameters with length of the DNA test fragment were demonstrated, in support of the translocation model for the mechanism of action of these enzymes, rather than the molecular switch model. Thus, rapid, sequence-independent optimization was possible for each new genomic target region. Other factors potentially limiting the flexibility of mismatch scanning, such as positioning of dam recognition sites within the target fragment, have also been investigated. We developed several strategies, which can be easily adapted to automation, for limiting the analysis to intersample heteroduplexes. Thus, the principal barriers to the use of this methodology, which we have designated PCR candidate region mismatch scanning, in cost-effective, high-throughput settings have been removed.
This study elucidates environmental influences on lived illness experiences. For two consecutive years, persons with Parkinson's disease (PD) participated in 1 week of daily walking in the Swedish mountains. Daily, low-intensive walking that is free of intense effort or time pressures associated with group interaction characterized the week. Participants were interviewed 3 months after the mountain stay regarding experiences in the mountains, daily living, and how their experience in the mountains influenced their daily living after returning home. A phenomenological method was used for data analysis. Results point to the close connection between mind, body, and environment. The connection becomes highlighted when people are afflicted with sickness, such as PD, which causes impaired control of body language, impaired voluntary mobility, and lowered energy levels. The results also show how a social context in an environment with suitable physical challenges led to a change in individuals' perceptions of the manageability of their experienced sicknesses. These results provide a deepened understanding of how individuals with PD experience illness, its influences on daily life, and how a suitable environment opens opportunities for managing daily issues.
A prospective, controlled, observer-masked study was conducted to investigate the suitability of contact lenses for patients with diabetes mellitus. Forty diabetic patients and 40 non-diabetic control subjects were fitted with soft hydrogel contact lenses to be worn on a daily wear basis for 12 months. The ocular response was assessed using slit lamp biomicroscopy, ultrasonic pachometry, corneal aesthesiometry and visual acuity measures. Compared to non-diabetic subjects, diabetic patients displayed significantly reduced corneal transparency, variable vision and reduced comfort with the contact lenses (p &lt; 0.05). There were no significant differences between the two groups with respect to ocular hyperaemia, corneal staining, corneal thickness, corneal sensitivity or high contrast visual acuity. Contrary to previous reports, the response of the diabetic eye to contact lenses--as observed clinically--does not differ appreciably from that of the non-diabetic eye. These results suggest that current generation daily wear soft contact lenses can be a viable mode of vision correction for diabetic patients.
A newly released commercial autorefractor, the Shin-Nippon SRW-5000 (Japan), has been found to be valid compared to subjective refraction and repeatable over a wide prescription range. Its binocular open field-of-view allows the accommodative state to be monitored while a natural environment is viewed. In conventional static mode, the device can take up to 45 readings in 1 min using digital image analysis of the reflected retinal image of a measurement ring. Continuous on-line analysis of the ring provides high (up to 60 Hz) temporal resolution of the refractive state to an accuracy of &lt; 0.001 D. Pupil size can also be analysed to a resolution of &lt; 0.001 mm. The measurement of accommodation and pupil size was relatively unaffected by eccentricity of viewing up to +/- 10 degrees and instrument focusing inaccuracies of +/- 5 mm. The resolution properties of the analysis are shown to be ideal for measurement of dynamic accommodation and pupil responses.
A clinical evaluation of the Shin-Nippon SRW-5000 (Japan), a newly released commercial autorefractor, was undertaken to assess its repeatability and validity compared to subjective refraction. Measurements of refractive error were performed on 200 eyes of 100 subjects (aged 24.4 +/- 8.0 years) subjectively (non-cycloplegic) by one optometrist and objectively with the SRW-5000 autorefractor by a second. Repeatability was assessed by examining the differences between the seven autorefractor readings taken from each eye and by re-measuring the objective prescription of 50 eyes at a subsequent session. Although the SRW-5000 read slightly more plus than subjective refraction (mean spherical equivalent +0.16 +/- 0.44 D), it was found to be highly valid (accurate) compared to subjective refraction and repeatable over the prescription range of +6.50 to -15.00 D examined. The Shin-Nippon SRW-5000 autorefractor is therefore a valuable complement to subjective refraction and as it offers the advantage of a binocular open field-of-view, has a great potential benefit for accommodation research studies.

Individual differences in sensitivity to pain and analgesia are well appreciated, and increasing evidence has pointed towards a role of inherited genetic factors in explaining some proportion of such variability. It has long been known by practitioners of acupuncture, an ancient modality of analgesia, that some patients are 'responders' and others 'non-responders.' The present research was aimed at defining the inherited genetic influence on acupuncture analgesia in the mouse, using 10 common inbred strains. Two pairs of metallic needles were inserted into acupoints ST 36 and SP 6, fixed in situ and then connected to the output channel of an electric pulse generator. Electroacupuncture (EA) parameters were set as constant current output (intensity: 1.0-1.5-2.0 mA, 10 min each; frequency: 2 or 100 Hz) with alteration of a positive and negative square wave, 0.3 ms in pulse width. Tail-flick latencies evoked by radiant heat were measured before, during and after EA stimulation. Narrow-sense heritability estimates of 2 and 100 Hz EA were 0.37 and 0.16, respectively. We found that the C57BL/10 strain was the most sensitive, and the SM strain was the least sensitive to both 2 and 100 Hz EA. However, the relative sensitivities of other strains to these two EA frequencies suggested some genetic dissociation between them as well. These results demonstrate a role of inherited genetic factors in EA sensitivity in the mouse, although the low-to-moderate heritability estimates suggest that environmental factors may be of greater importance in predicting who will benefit from this analgesic modality.
The present review examine the role of neuropeptide (NPY) in the circadian system, focusing on the interactions between light and NPY, especially during the subjective night. NPY has two different effects on the circadian system of mammals. On one hand, NPY, similar to behavioral stimulation, can change the phase of the clock by itself during the subjective day. On the other hand, NPY, again similar to behavioral stimulation, can inhibit the phase-shifting effect of light during the night. These effects of NPY may occur through different receptor subtypes, the Y2 receptor mediating day-time effects and the Y5 receptor mediating night-time effects of NPY. Our results also indicate that there are differences between in vivo and in vitro studies: NPY inhibition of in vivo light-induced phase shifts was observed only late in the subjective night; however, NPY applied in vitro could block light-induced phase shifts early in the subjective night as well. Contrasting these in vivo and in vitro results led us to suggest that the time of day of maximal effect of NPY in the intact animal may be a time when exogenous administration of NPY has little effect, due to saturation of the system. This situation could be an example of how the measurable output of the clock can be affected by the behavioral state in a different way at different time points, depending not only on the clock itself but also on behavior. If verified in human beings, the ability of NPY to modulate the circadian-clock responses to light may be of clinical importance.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) and peptide YY (PYY) stimulate food intake after injection into the fourth cerebral ventricle, suggesting that NPY receptors in the hindbrain are targets for the stimulatory effect of these peptides on food intake. However, the NPY/PYY receptor subtype mediating the feeding response in the hindbrain is not known. To approach to this question we compared dose-effect of several NPY receptor agonists to stimulate food intake in freely-feeding rats 60- and 120-min after injection into the fourth cerebral ventricle. At the 120-min time point, PYY was 2- to 10-times as potent as NPY over the dose-response range and stimulated twice the total intake at the maximally effective dose (2-fold greater efficacy). NPY was 2-times as potent as the Y1, Y5 receptor agonist, [Leu(31)Pro(34)]NPY but acted with comparable efficacy. The Y5-, Y2-differentiating receptor agonist, NPY 2-36, was comparable in potency to PYY at low doses but equal in efficacy NPY and [Leu(31)Pro(34)]NPY. The Y2 receptor agonist, NPY 13-36, produced only a marginal effect on total food intake. The profile of agonist potency after fourth cerebral ventricle administration is similar to the profile obtained when these or related agonists are injected in the region of the hypothalamus. Agonists at both Y1 and Y5 receptors stimulated food intake with a rank order of potency that does not conclusively favor the exclusive involvement of a single known NPY receptor subtype. Thus it is possible that the ingestive effects of NPY and PYY are mediated by multiple or novel receptor subtypes in the hindbrain. And the relatively greater potency and efficacy of PYY raises the possibility that a novel PYY-preferring receptor in the hindbrain is involved in the stimulation of food intake.
A functional study has been performed to characterise the Y receptors responsible for NPY, PYY and PP-stimulated responses in mouse colonic mucosal preparations. Electrogenic ion secretion was stimulated with VIP following which NPY, PYY and PP analogues were, to varying degrees, inhibitory. PYY(3-36), hPP, Gln(23)hPP and rPP were effective but less potent than full length PYY, NPY or their Pro(34)-substituted analogues, while the Y(5) agonist Ala(31), Aib(32)hNPY was the least active peptide tested. The Y(1) antagonists, BIBP3226 and BIBO3304 virtually abolished Pro(34)PYY and PYY responses while PYY(3-36) responses were selectively inhibited by the Y(2) antagonist, BIIE0246. A combination of BIBO3304 and BIIE0246 also partially attenuated hPP responses, leaving residual effects that were most probably Y(4)-mediated. Thus we conclude that Y(1), Y(2) and Y(4) receptors attenuate ion secretion in mouse colon.
The Y5 receptor has been postulated to be the main receptor mediating NPY-induced food intake in rats, based on its pharmacological profile and mRNA distribution. To further characterize this important receptor subtype, we isolated the Y5 gene in the guinea pig, a widely used laboratory animal in which all other known NPY receptors (Y1, Y2, Y4, y6) [2,13,33,37] have recently been cloned by our group. Our results show that the Y5 receptor is well conserved between species; guinea pig Y5 displays 96% overall amino acid sequence identity to human Y5, the highest identity reported for any non-primate NPY receptor orthologue, regardless of subtype. Thirteen of the twenty substitutions occur in the large third cytoplasmic loop. The identities between the guinea pig Y5 receptor and the dog, rat, and mouse Y5 receptors are 93%, 89%, and 89% respectively. When transiently expressed in EBNA cells, the guinea pig Y5 receptor showed a high binding affinity to iodinated porcine PYY with a dissociation constant of 0.41 nM. Competition experiments showed that the rank order of potency for NPY-analogues was PYY = NPY = NPY2-36 &gt; gpPP &gt; rPP &gt; NPY 22-36. Thus the pharmacological profile of the guinea pig Y5 receptor agrees well with that reported for the Y5 receptor from other cloned species.
The neuropeptide Y-family receptor Y4 differs extensively between human and rat in sequence, receptor binding, and anatomical distribution. We have investigated the differences in binding profile between the cloned human, rat, and guinea pig Y4 receptors using NPY analogues with single amino acid replacements or deletion of the central portion. The most striking result was the increase in affinity for the rat receptor, but not for human or guinea pig, when amino acid 34 was replaced with proline; [Ahx(8-20),Pro(34)]NPY bound to the rat Y4 receptor with 20-fold higher affinity than [Ahx(8-20)]NPY. Also, the rat Y4 tolerates alanine in position 34 since p[Ala(34)]NPY bound with similar affinity as pNPY while the affinity for hY4 and gpY4 decreased about 50-fold. Alanine substitutions in position 33, 35, and 36 as well as the large loop-deletion, [Ahx(5-24)]NPY, reduced the binding affinity to all three receptors more than 100-fold. NPY and PYY competed with (125)I-hPP at Y4 receptors expressed in CHO cells according to a two-site model. This was investigated for gpY4 by saturation with either radiolabeled hPP or pPYY. The number of high-affinity binding-sites for (125)I-pPYY was about 60% of the receptors recognized by (125)I-hPP. Porcine [Ala(34)]NPY and [Ahx(8-20)]NPY bound to rY4 (but not to hY4 or gpY4) according to a two-site model. These results suggest that different full agonists can distinguish between different active conformations of the gpY4 receptor and that Y4 may display functional differences in vivo between human, guinea pig, and rat.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is a 36 amino acid peptide that is abundant in the brain and peripheral nervous system. NPY has a variety of effects when administered into the brain including a pronounced feeding effect, anxiolysis, regulation of neuroendocrine axes and inhibition of neurotransmitter release. These effects are mediated by up to 6 G protein coupled receptors designated Y1, Y2, Y3, Y4, Y5 and y6. To better understand the phylogeny and pharmacology of NPY in non-human primates, we have cloned and expressed the NPY Y1, Y2 and Y5 receptor subtypes from the Rhesus monkey. No cDNA sequence encoding a Y4 receptor was found suggesting substantial sequence differences when compared to the human sequence. Comparison of these sequences with those from human indicated strong sequence conservation of Y1, Y2 and Y5 between the two species. The displacement of (125)I-PYY binding to the Rhesus monkey and human receptors by various peptides was compared to evaluate the pharmacology of the two species. Similar pharmacologies were noted across the species at the various receptor subtypes. These results indicate the Rhesus monkey and human NPY receptor subtypes have a close amino acid sequence conservation and that the peptide recognition domains are conserved as well.
To characterize receptor subtypes in the mouse, we performed autoradiographic localization and pharmacological characterization studies using the selective radiolabeled agonists, [(125)I]-Leu(31), Pro(34)-PYY and [(125)I]-PYY 3-36. The pharmacology of [(125)I]-Leu(31), Pro(34)-PYY and [(125)I]-PYY 3-36 binding to mouse brain homogenates were consistent with Y1-like and Y2-like receptors, respectively. Using receptor autoradiography, high Y1-like binding was observed in the islands of Calleja and dentate gyrus. [(125)I]-PYY 3-36 binding was highest in the hippocampus, lateral septum, stria terminalis of the thalamus, and compacta and lateralis of the substantia nigra. In addition, there are differences in receptor distribution in mouse brain compared to other species that may translate into different functional roles for the NPY receptors within each species.
The NPY system has a multitude of effects and is particularly well known for its role in appetite regulation. We have found that the five presently known receptors in mammals arose very early in vertebrate evolution before the appearance of jawed vertebrates 400 million years ago. The genes Y(1), Y(2) and Y(5) arose by local duplications and are still present on the same chromosome in human and pig. Duplications of this chromosome led to the Y(1)-like genes Y(4) and y(6). We find evidence for two occasions where receptor subtypes probably arose before peptide genes were duplicated. These observations pertain to the discussion whether ligands or receptors tend to appear first in evolution. The roles of Y(1) and Y(5) in feeding may differ between species demonstrating the importance of performing functional studies in additional mammals to mouse and rat.
The glutamatergic system is deeply involved in the development of opiate dependence and in the manifestation of opiate abstinence syndrome. In this study the effect of the increase in the endogenous glutamate (GLU) release due to 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), a potassium channel blocker, during the development of morphine (M) physical dependence and during the naloxone (NL)-precipitated abstinence syndrome was investigated. For the development of physical dependence M was intraperitoneally (i.p.) injected for 9 days 105 min following i.p. saline administration to a group of rats. In the first 3 days the dose of M was 10 mg x kg(-1). In the second 3 days the initial dose was doubled (20 mg x kg(-1)) and in the last 3 days the dose of M was raised to 40 mg x kg(-1). On day 10, the rats were divided into three groups at random and these three groups were i.p. given saline 105 min before 80 mg x kg(-1)M, 2 mg x kg(-1) 4-AP 105 min after 80 mg x kg(-1) M, and 80 mg x kg(-1) M 105 min before 2 mg x kg(-1) 4-AP, respectively. In a second group of rats, the rats were i.p. given 2 mg x kg(-1) 4-AP 105 min prior to M administration, which was increased every 3 days (10 mg x kg(-1), 20 mg x kg(-1), 40 mg x kg(-1)). On day 10, the rats were divided into two groups whose first injection was saline and 2 mg x kg(-1) 4-AP, respectively. The second injections of both groups after an interval of 105 min following the first one contained 80 mg x kg(-1) M. In contrast, one group of rats received only i.p. saline at every other injection time (the control group). Furthermore, another group of rats was i.p. administered 2 mg x kg(-1) 4-AP once a day, as the first injection. At the second injection time they were i.p. given saline. After a period of 15 min following the last administration on day 10, the rats belonging to all groups were i.p. injected with 2 mg x kg(-1) NL and immediately placed in a metal cage. Body weight loss (g), teeth chattering, rearing, wet-dog shaking, grooming, and jumping were determined or counted for 15 min. Penile erection, defecation, and diarrhoea were separately scored with one point for every individual occurrence, and the total score was named 'total number of others'. The administration of 4-AP before M appeared to intensify the development of dependence, and was most probably due to the Ca2+-induced inactivation of NMDA receptors as a result of excess release of GLU when the 4-AP took effect. The inactivation of NMDA receptors should have acted as a transient blockade of the receptors during the chronic administration period, and as well as after a single administration on day 10 before M injection and before abstinence. The intensification of the abstinence syndrome may be dependent on the excessive GLU released by 4-AP.
The paradigm of stochastic resonance (SR)-the idea that signal detection and transmission may benefit from noise-has met with great interest in both physics and the neurosciences. We investigate here the consequences of reducing the dynamics of a periodically driven neuron to a renewal process (stimulation with reset or endogenous stimulation). This greatly simplifies the mathematical analysis, but we show that stochastic resonance as reported earlier occurs in this model only as a consequence of the reduced dynamics.
The odorant confusion matrix (OCM) is an odorant identification test in which the number of correct odorant identifications quantifies the level of olfactory function. As with other confusion matrices, the OCM reflects distortions of sensory perception as errors in identification. Previous work with the OCM suggests that, within an individual, hyposmia is associated with a stable shift in odorant perception. The current study examined whether consistent shifts in odorant perception are also characteristic of the various pathologies that lead to an olfactory loss. In a retrospective study, OCM response patterns for 135 hyposmic patients were fit into a five-dimensional space in which the distances between subjects reflected the dissimilarities between their OCM response patterns. Multivariate regression was performed relating position in the five-dimensional space to each of 11 factors representing 33 demographic and medical history variables. One factor, named congestion (gathering the variables of past polyposis, current polyposis, and current nasal obstruction due to swelling), was significantly indicative of patterns of responses on the OCM, independent of the level of hyposmia. These data suggest that conductive olfactory loss may be associated with alterations in odorant perception, which are reflected in consistent odorant confusions. Such alterations in perception may eventually serve as a basis for a clinical test to provide differential diagnoses as to the sources of olfactory losses.
To determine the effects of repeated, acute endotoxin exposure on locomotor behavior, male laboratory mice were injected intraperitoneally with lipopolysaccharide (LPS: 50, 100 or 200 microg/kg) or saline vehicle on experimental Days 1, 4 and 7. At 2 h after each treatment, locomotor activity was assessed in a nonnovel, automated open-field apparatus (Digiscan) for 30 min. On Day 1, all horizontal and vertical activity measures were significantly reduced to near zero values by each dose of LPS. Behavioral tolerance to LPS formed rapidly, as locomotor activity of the treated groups did not differ from the control group on Days 4 or 7. In a second study, mice were given LPS (50, 100 or 150 microg/kg ip) or saline vehicle on two test days, 28 days apart. Activity was assessed, 1 h after injection, in a novel open field on the first test day and in a nonnovel open field on the second test day. Significant locomotor activity decrements were readily apparent in LPS-treated mice only in the nonnovel open field. This latter finding indicates that environmental novelty mediates, at least partially, the locomotor-reducing effects of LPS in mice.
Many parameters exhibited by organisms show daily fluctuations that may persist when the organisms are held in constant environmental conditions. Rhythms that persist in constant conditions with a period close to 24 h are called circadian. Although nowadays most research in this field is focused on the molecular and genetic aspects--and therefore mostly on two animal models (Drosophila and mouse)--the study of alternative animal models still represent a useful approach to understanding how the vertebrate circadian system is organized, and how this fascinating time-keeping system has changed throughout the evolution of vertebrates. The present paper summarizes the current knowledge of the circadian organization of Reptiles. The circadian organization of reptiles is multioscillatory in nature. The retinas, the pineal, and the parietal eye (and, possibly, the suprachiasmatic nuclei of the hypothalamus, SCN) contain circadian clocks. Of particular interest is the observation that the role these structures play in the circadian organization varies considerably among species and within the same species in different seasons. Another remarkable feature of this class is the redundancy of circadian photoreceptors: retinas of the lateral eyes, pineal, parietal eye, and the brain all contain photoreceptors.
The effects of a 50% ethanol extract of the root of Plumbago zeylanica (P. zeylanica) were investigated on locomotor behaviour and central dopaminergic activity in rats. The effects on the ambulatory behaviour were assessed along with the levels of dopamine (DA) and its metabolite homovanillic acid (HVA) in the striatum after a single oral dose (100, 200 and 300 mg/kg body weight) of the extract. The extract significantly increased the spontaneous motility in animals. The ambulatory and rotatory behaviour in the treated groups were higher than in the control group (p &lt; 0.05). There were marked differences in the ambulatory behaviour between 100 and 300 mg/kg, indicating that the responses were stimulatory and dose-dependent. The stereotypic behaviour which is characteristic of a dopamine agonist showed biphasic effects. However, there was no significant difference between the groups (p &gt; 0.05). The results showed that the extract of the root of P. zeylanica specifically enhanced the spontaneous ambulatory activity without inducing stereotypic behaviour. The neurochemical estimations revealed elevated levels of DA and HVA in striatum compared with the control rats (p &lt; 0.01). The levels were higher for the 100 mg/kg treated group than the other groups. The levels declined by increasing the dosage of the extract to 200 mg/kg and 300 mg/kg, however, these levels remained higher than the control group. The relationship between motor activity and levels of dopamine are not parallel. These behavioural and biochemical results indicated stimulatory properties of the extract of the root of P. zeylanica, which may be mediated by dopaminergic mechanisms in the rat brain.
Studies of insect identified neurons over the past 25 years have provided some of the very best data on sensorimotor integration; tracing information flow from sensory to motor networks. General principles have emerged that have increased the sophistication with which we now understand both sensory processing and motor control. Two overarching themes have emerged from studies of identified sensory interneurons. First, within a species, there are profound differences in neuronal organization associated with both the sex and the social experience of the individual. Second, single neurons exhibit some surprisingly rich examples of computational sophistication in terms of (a) temporal dynamics (coding superimposed upon circadian and shorter-term rhythms), and also (b) what Kenneth Roeder called &quot;neural parsimony&quot;: that optimal information can be encoded, and complex acts of sensorimotor coordination can be mediated, by small ensembles of cells. Insect motor systems have proven to be relatively complex, and so studies of their organization typically have not yielded completely defined circuits as are known from some other invertebrates. However, several important findings have emerged. Analysis of neuronal oscillators for rhythmic behavior have delineated a profound influence of sensory feedback on interneuronal circuits: they are not only modulated by feedback, but may be substantially reconfigured. Additionally, insect motor circuits provide potent examples of neuronal restructuring during an organism's lifetime, as well as insights on how circuits have been modified across evolutionary time. Several areas where future advances seem likely to occur include: molecular genetic analyses, neuroecological syntheses, and neuroinformatics--the use of digital resources to organize databases with information on identified nerve cells and behavior.
Research on identified neurons during the last quarter century was forecast at a conference in 1973 that discussed &quot;neuronal mechanisms of coordination in simple systems.&quot; The focus of the conference was on the neuronal control of simple stereotyped behavioral acts. Participants discussing the future of such research called for a comparative approach; emphasis on structure-function interactions; attention to environmental and behavioral context; and the development of new techniques. Significantly, in some cases amazing progress has been made in these areas. Major conclusions of the last quarter century are that so-called simple behaviors and the neural circuitry underlying them tend to be less simple, more flexible, and more highly modulated than originally imagined. However, the comparative approach has, as yet, failed to reach its potential. Molluscan preparations, along with arthropods and annelids, have always been at the forefront of neuroethological studies. Circuitry underlying feeding has been studied in a handful of species of gastropod molluscs. These studies have contributed substantially to our understanding of sensorimotor organization, the hierarchical control of behavior and coordination of multiple behaviors, and the organization and modulation of central pattern generators. However, direct interspecific comparisons of feeding circuitry and potentially homologous neurons have been lacking. This is unfortunate because much of the vast radiation of the class Gastropoda is associated with variations in feeding behaviors and feeding apparatuses, providing ample substrates for comparative studies including the evolution of defined circuitry. Here, the neural organization of feeding in the snail, Helisoma, is examined critically. Possible direct interspecific comparisons of neural circuitry and potentially homologous neurons are made. A universal model for central pattern generators underlying rasping feeding is proposed. Future comparative studies can be expected to combine behavioral, morphological, electrophysiological, molecular and genetic techniques to identify neurons and define neural circuitry. Digital resources will undoubtedly be exploited to organize and interface databases allowing illumination of the evolution of homologous identified neurons and defined neural circuitry in the context of behavioral change.

A preparative proteomic approach, involving liquid phase isoelectric focusing (IEF) in combination with one-dimensional electrophoresis and electroelution followed by mass spectrometry and database searches, was found to be an important tool for identifying low-abundant proteins (microgram/L) in human cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and membrane proteins in human frontal cortex. Several neuron-related proteins, such as amyloid precursor-like protein, chromogranins A and B, glial fibrillary acid protein, beta-trace, transthyretin, ubiquitin, and cystatin C, were identified in CSF. Several types of proteins were also characterized from a detergent-solubilized human frontal cortex homogenate including membrane proteins such as synaptophysin, syntaxin and Na+/K+ ATPase. One-third of the identified proteins have not previously been identified in human CSF or human frontal cortex using proteomic techniques. The absence of these proteins in two-dimensional electrophoresis maps might be due to insufficient amounts or low solubility. The advantages of using preparative liquid phase electrophoretic separations for identifying proteins from complex biological mixtures are speed of analysis, high loadability in the IEF separation, nondiscrimination of membrane proteins or low abundance proteins, yielding sufficient amounts for characterization by mass spectrometry. The use of this strategy in proteome studies of CSF/brain tissue is expected to offer new perspectives in studies of the pathology of neurodegenerative diseases, and reveal new potential markers for brain disorders.
Human family and twin studies have established considerable heritable components influencing individual differences in personality traits as assessed by self-report questionnaires. We have investigated a trinucleotide repeat polymorphism in the androgen receptor gene and personality traits. Healthy Swedish subjects (n = 335) were assessed with the Karolinska Scales of Personality inventory. There were tendencies (P &gt; or = 0.006) in some scales indicating possible relationships between the androgen receptor allele length and personality traits related to dominance and aggression. However, after correction for multiple testing, no significant differences were found. We conclude that no significant association could be found between the androgen receptor polymorphism investigated and any personality trait, although the tendencies found are worthwhile subjects for replication attempts.
Among theories of biological underpinnings to personality traits, different mechanisms of the serotonergic system are perhaps the most common factors suggested to influence individual differences in personality traits. We have investigated two frequent variants in the serotonin 2A receptor gene (5-HT2A) and personality traits. Healthy Swedish subjects (n = 304) were assessed with the Karolinska Scales of Personality (KSP) inventory. After correction for multiple testing, no significant differences were found. We conclude that the investigated 5-HT2A gene variants do not significantly influence personality as assessed by the KSP in the present population.
A fundamental issue for psychological science concerns the extent to which people can simultaneously perform two perceptual-motor tasks. Some theorists have hypothesized that such dual-task performance is severely and persistently constrained by a central cognitive &quot;bottle-neck,&quot; whereas others have hypothesized that skilled procedural decision making and response selection for two or more tasks can proceed at the same time under adaptive executive control. The three experiments reported here support this latter hypothesis. Their results show that after relatively modest amounts of practice, at least some participants achieve virtually perfect time sharing in the dual-task performance of basic choice reaction tasks. The results also show that observed interference between tasks can be modulated by instructions about differential task priorities and personal preferences for daring (concurrent) or cautious (successive) scheduling of tasks. Given this outcome, future research should investigate exactly when and how such sophisticated skills in dual-task performance are acquired.

Brain noradrenergic systems have been shown to be altered in opioid dependence and to mediate aspects of opioid withdrawal. Pre-clinical and clinical studies by others have shown that yohimbine, which increases noradrenergic activity, also increases both baseline and fear enhancement of the magnitude of the acoustic startle response (ASR). In a separate report from this experiment, it was shown that yohimbine produced opioid withdrawal-like symptoms, including anxiety, in clinically stable methadone-maintained patients and also produced elevations in the norepinepherine (NE) metabolite, 3-methoxy-4 hydroxyphenethyleneglycol (MHPG), and cortisol serum levels. The current study reports the effects of intravenous yohimbine hydrochloride, 0.4 mg/kg versus saline (double-blind), on ASR magnitude, plasma MHPG, and cortisol levels in eight methadone-maintained patients and 13 healthy subjects in a double-blind fashion. Yohimbine increased startle magnitude in both groups. There was no basal (placebo day) difference between the startle response of the two groups, but methadone patients had a larger startle magnitude increase in response to yohimbine than healthy controls. Methadone-maintained patients had lower baseline plasma levels of MHPG and similar baseline plasma cortisol levels compared with normal subjects. Yohimbine caused significant elevation in cortisol and MHPG in both groups. Methadone-maintained subjects had higher elevations in cortisol levels and MHPG (methadone main effect) levels in response to yohimbine. However, when MHPG levels were corrected for baseline differences by analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), the yohimbine effect, but not the methadone effect remained statistically significant. These results are consistent with the previous report and support the hypothesis that abnormalities of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and of noradrenergic mechanisms of stress response persist in opioid-agonist maintenance. The ASR effect extends the previous report and provides an additional objective measure for perturbation of noradrenergic and stress responses in these patients.

A clinical sign is described consisting of a brief extension of the toes after upward tapping of the plantar surface of their terminal phalanges. Electrological data support the hypothesis of a long loop reflex, which we call the &quot;toe phasic posture reflex&quot; (TPPR). In a preliminary study, this sign was observed in patients with central nervous system disease, especially in subcortical brain disorders regardless of etiology. In Parkinson's disease, it was seen mostly in severe and postural forms. Among 237 healthy subjects, it was observed in none of those under 70 years old (n=116), and in 10p. cent of those over 69 years and doing no sport (n=132), but in none of those doing regularly gymnastics or swimming (n=29). TPPR could thus be a sign of motor and especially postural aging.
Several studies have reported decreasing time trends in first diagnosed schizophrenia patients. The aim of this study was to analyze time trends for first admissions with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or a diagnosis of either schizophrenia or paranoid psychosis during 1978-1994 in Stockholm County, Sweden, with a population of around 1.8million. Information about first psychiatric admission with the diagnosis schizophrenia or paranoid psychosis for residents of Stockholm County was obtained from the Swedish population-based psychiatric inpatient register. Age-adjusted average yearly changes in first hospitalization rates were estimated in a Poisson regression model. Time trends in first admission rates were calculated from 1978 to 1994, while admissions during 1971 to 1977 were observed only to eliminate later re-admissions. First admissions for schizophrenia declined by 1.9% annually for females and by 1.3% for males, while first admissions for schizophrenia and paranoid psychosis together were unchanged over the study period for both genders. Our results indicate that the incidence of schizophrenia and paranoid psychosis taken together was essentially the same over the studied time period in Stockholm County, and that the apparent decline in first admission rates for schizophrenia may be an effect of changes in clinical diagnosis over time.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and safety of gabapentin in patients with learning disabilities and resistant epilepsy, comparing the effects of gabapentin with lamotrigine on efficacy, behaviour and mood. An open-label, randomized, parallel group, multicentre add-on study comparing gabapentin with lamotrigine in 109 patients with drug-resistant localization-related epilepsy and learning disabilities was conducted: 39 patients were randomized to gabapentin and 44 to lamotrigine. The study population had a range of learning disabilities and severe partial epilepsy. The percentage of patients achieving a greater than or equal to 50% reduction in seizure frequency on gabapentin was 50%, (mean reduction in seizures was 51%). Compared to 48.6% of lamotrigine patients, no statistically significant treatment differences could be identified. The safety profile of both drugs was consistent with that seen in previous clinical trials. Carer-rated visual analogue scales detected significant improvements (P&lt; 0.05) for the gabapentin-treated patients in seizure severity, attention, general health and sleeping pattern, while for lamotrigine seizure severity improved significantly. For learning disabled patients with resistant epilepsy, gabapentin and lamotrigine provide safe and effective treatment, with positive benefits on behaviour.



Stress can either enhance or suppress aspects of the immune response, depending on the nature, duration, timing and intensity of the stressor. This paper focuses on the effects on inflammation of two behavioural stress paradigms: learned helplessness (La) and the open-field test (OF), and of the immunological stressor lipopolysaccharide (LPS). We have observed that the onset and severity of inflammation in adjuvant-induced arthritis (AA) in the rat can be altered by experience of the LH paradigm, or by priming with LPS, but not by OF.In the LH test, some rats escape (LH(-)) and others do not (LH(+)). Despite the LH(-) group demonstrating a greater corticosterone response to the LH stressor compared to the LH(+)rats, they exhibited earlier onset and greater seventy of AA. In contrast, intraperitoneal injection of LPS several weeks prior to induction of AA protected against inflammation. These results provide further evidence that environmental factors influence the etiology of at least one type of inflammation. The modulation of inflammation by a defined stressor suggests that understanding of the underlying mechanisms may provide a potential for novel therapies.







We studied the influence of cocaine use on the structure of neurons in brain regions that contribute to its rewarding effects by allowing rats to self-administer cocaine (0.33 mg/infusion) for 1 h a day for 1 month. Control animals were left undisturbed or allowed to work for food for the same period of time. After an additional 1 month drug-free period the brains were processed for Golgi-Cox staining. In rats that self-administered cocaine, but not rats that worked for food, there was a significant increase in dendritic branching and in the density of dendritic spines on medium spiny neurons in the shell of the nucleus accumbens and on pyramidal cells in the prefrontal and parietal (but not occipital) cortex. There was also a 2.6-fold increase in the incidence of spines with multiple heads (branched spines) on medium spiny neurons. Finally, in the prefrontal cortex some of the apical dendrites of pyramidal cells appeared misshaped, having large bulbous structures on their terminal tips. We speculate that cocaine self-administration experience alters patterns of synaptic connectivity within limbocortical circuitry that is thought to contribute to cocaine's incentive motivational effects and may have neuropathological effects in frontal areas involved in decision making and judgment. Together, these two classes of drug-induced neuroadaptations may contribute to the development of addiction.
Seizure induction tends to be followed by the development of a predisposition to future seizure activity and the concurrent sprouting of the mossy fiber pathway into the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, where recurrent excitatory synapses are formed. To determine whether synaptic remodeling of mossy fiber terminals within the hilus also occurs, rats were administered pentylenetetrazol and, 2 days later, control and experimental tissue was processed for the ultrastructural immunohistochemical identification of mossy fiber terminals. Examination of the structure of these terminals within random hilar fields indicated that selective changes had occurred, which were only observed in the ventral hilus, and which were specific to terminals forming synapses with mossy cell spines (vs. interneurons). This terminal population displayed significant parallel increases in both the total active zone area and the surface area of an average terminal (measured from random two-dimensional samples of terminal structure). Increases in total active zone area must reflect increases in the number and/or size of individual active zones. These findings suggest that changes in terminal size can subserve adjustments in the overall strength of a set of synaptic connections. In the context of the ventral hilus, a selective increase in the apparent strength of mossy fiber connections with mossy cells could support increases in excitability following seizure induction. Mossy cells form connections with granule cell proximal dendrites, providing another pathway for recurrent excitation.
The neurotoxic potential of amphetamine and related drugs is well documented. However, methylphenidate, an amphetamine derivative used in the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, and known to increase synaptic dopamine (DA) levels, seems to lack neurotoxic potential. It is hypothesized that both dopaminergic and serotonergic systems are involved in the neurotoxicity of amphetamine derivatives. The purpose of the present study was to evaluate the neurotoxic potential of methylphenidate and to test whether stimulation of the serotonergic system may confer neurotoxic properties to methylphenidate for DA or serotonin (5-HT) neurons. In addition, the present study was undertaken to evaluate the necessity to perform future SPECT studies in individuals using both methylphenidate and 5-HT-acting agents. We therefore measured monoaminergic transporters in rat brain using radioligands suitable for SPECT imaging ([123I]beta-CIT and [123I]FP-CIT). Groups of rats were treated with methylphenidate or saline for 4 days. Additional groups were treated with the selective 5-HT(2) receptor agonist quipazine or the selective 5-HT reuptake blocker fluoxetine, alone or in combination with methylphenidate. Binding studies were performed 5 days after the last treatment. In a second experiment, methylphenidate in combination with quipazine, along with a control group, was retested. In this experiment, monoaminergic terminal density was estimated 2 weeks (rather than 5 days) after drug treatment. Five days, but not 2 weeks, after treatment a significant reduction in specific [123I]FP-CIT binding was observed in the frontal cortex and hippocampus of rats treated with methylphenidate in combination with quipazine. These changes probably do not reflect neurotoxic changes of frontal cortex and hippocampal DA terminal markers, but a compensatory downregulation of DA transporters. These findings suggest potential harmful effects of concomitant use of drugs directly activating 5-HT2 receptors in patients using methylphenidate.
Gz is one of nine G proteins identified in platelets and its role in these cells is unknown. Our laboratory has generated a mouse deficient in the Gz-alpha gene in the hope of determining its in vivo function. Bleeding times from the tail tip of Gzalpha deficient mice was significantly longer than wild type mice. Platelet aggregation and ATP secretion did not differ between wild type and Gzalpha deficient mice. When mice were presented with a thromboembolism challenge no differences were observed in the survival or mortality of wild type or Gzalpha deficient mice, however a strain difference was observed. Ignoring the genetic background of a mutant mouse might lead to a misinterpretation of results and thus it is absolutely critical to take the genetic background into account when assessing any aspect of a mutant mouse.

The fast inactivation of voltage-dependent Ca(2+) channels is a key mechanism that contributes to the precise control of Ca(2+) entry into excitable cells. Recent advances have revealed that multiple structural elements contribute to the intrinsic inactivation properties of the alpha(1) subunit, including its cytoplasmic and transmembrane regions. Another major determinant of Ca(2+) channel inactivation is the association with one of four types of ancillary beta subunits that differentially modulate the intrinsic inactivation properties of the alpha(1) subunit. This could occur partly via interactions with the N-terminal region of the alpha(1) subunit and through lipid modification of the beta subunit. However, the latest findings suggest a mechanism in which fast Ca(2+) channel inactivation could occur through physical occlusion of the pore of the channel in a manner reminiscent of Na(+) and K(+) channel inactivation.
Retroviruses represent an important group of RNA viruses that cause a spectrum of nervous system diseases. Furthermore, newly recognized retroviral infections of the nervous system and some retroviral vectors or proteins used for gene delivery raise potential safety concerns. This article highlights different retroviruses and their causative mechanisms of nervous system disease, or neurovirulence. Specific sequences within retroviral genes might determine the development of neurovirulence. Conversely, neurovirulent retroviruses also activate host immune responses, resulting in a neuropathogenic cascade that is mediated by pro-inflammatory and neurotoxic molecules, ultimately culminating in neuronal death. Thus, retroviral infections of the nervous system illustrate a molecular interplay between distinct infectious agents and pathogenic host responses, which results in neurovirulence.
Neuromodulation provides considerable flexibility to the output of neural networks. In spite of the extensive literature documenting the presence of modulatory peptide co-transmitters in many neurons, considerably less is known about the specific roles of co-transmission in circuit function. This review describes some of the potential consequences of peptide co-transmission in functional circuits, using specific examples from recent work on the actions of identified peptidergic projection neurons acting on the multifunctional neural network within the crustacean stomatogastric ganglion. This system reveals that co-transmission provides projection neurons with a rich assortment of strategies for eliciting multiple outputs from a multifunctional network.
The function of sleep remains a long-standing mystery in neurobiology. The presence of a sleep-like state has recently been demonstrated in the fruit fly, Drosophila melanogaster, meeting the essential behavioral criteria for sleep and also showing pharmacological and molecular correlates of mammalian sleep. This development opens up the possibility of applying genetic analysis to the identification of key molecular components of sleep. A mutant of monoamine metabolism has already been found to affect the homeostatic regulation of sleep-like behavior in the fly. The record of Drosophila in laying the foundations for subsequent studies in mammals argues in favor of the force of this new approach.
In less than a decade our knowledge of the GABA(C) receptor, a new type of Cl(-)-permeable ionotropic GABA receptor, has greatly increased based on studies of both native and recombinant receptors. Careful comparison of properties of native and recombinant receptors has provided compelling evidence that GABA receptor rho-subunits are the major molecular components of GABA(C) receptors. Three distinct rho-subunits from various species have been cloned and the pattern of their expression in the retina, as well as in various brain regions, has been established. The pharmacological profile of GABA(C) receptors has been refined and more specific drugs have been developed. Molecular determinants that underlie functional properties of the receptors have been assigned to specific amino acid residues in rho-subunits. This information has helped determine the subunit composition of native receptors, as well as the molecular basis underlying subtle variations among GABA(C) receptors in different species. Finally, GABA(C) receptors play a unique functional role in retinal signal processing via three mechanisms: (1) slow activation; (2) segregation from other inhibitory receptors; and (3) contribution to multi-neuronal pathways.
The present study has examined the effects of early ganglion cell elimination upon the organization of the inner retina in the ferret. The population of retinal ganglion cells was removed by optic nerve transection on the second postnatal day, and retinas were subsequently studied in adulthood. Numbers of amacrine and bipolar cells were compared in the nerve-transected and nerve-intact retinas of operated ferrets, while stratification patterns within the inner plexiform layer were compared in these and in normal ferret retinas. Early ganglion cell elimination was found to produce a 25% reduction in the population of glycine transporter-immunoreactive amacrine cells, and 18 and 15% reductions in the populations of parvalbumin and calbindin-immunoreactive amacrine cells, respectively. GABAergic amacrine cells were also reduced by 34%. The number of calbindin-immunoreactive displaced amacrine cells, by contrast, had increased in the ganglion cell-depleted retina, being three times their normal number. Other amacrine and bipolar cell types were unaffected. Despite these changes, the stratification patterns associated with these cell types remained largely intact within the inner plexiform layer. The present results demonstrate a class-specific dependency of inner retinal neurons upon the ganglion cell population in early postnatal life, but the ganglion cells do not appear to provide any critical signals for stratification within the inner plexiform layer, at least not after birth. Since they themselves do not produce stratified dendritic arbors until well after birth, the signals for stratification of the bipolar and amacrine cell processes should arise from other sources.
In this study, we show that glutamate regulates the viability of cultured retinal cells upon transient glucose deprivation. At low concentrations (10-100 microM) glutamate decreased MTT [3-(4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl)-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide] reduction to about 50% of control and decreased intracellular ATP levels (about 4-fold) after transient glucose removal. Under these conditions, the decrease in MTT reduction was associated with the activation of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors. Upon exposure to high (10 mM) glutamate and transient glucose deprivation, the intracellular levels of glutamate increased. High glutamate significantly counteracted the decrease in MTT reduction and ATP production observed in the presence of low glutamate concentrations. AOAA (aminooxyacetic acid), a non-specific inhibitor of mitochondrial transaminases, enhanced the intracellular glutamate levels, but did not largely affect glutamate-mediated changes in MTT reduction or ATP production. Furthermore, the intracellular levels of pyruvate were not significantly altered, suggesting that changes in ATP production were not due to an increase in glycolysis. Thus, the recovery from glucose deprivation seems to be facilitated in retinal neuronal cells that had been exposed to high glutamate, in comparison with low glutamate, suggesting a role for high glutamate and glucose in maintaining retinal cell function following conditions of glucose scarcity.
The signal-to-noise ratio of a direction-selective neuron for 'detecting' visual motion is highest when the motion direction is close to the neuron's preferred direction. But because these neurons show a bell-shaped tuning for direction, they have the highest signal-to-noise ratio for 'discriminating' the direction of motion when their preferred direction is off the direction to be discriminated. In this paper, we demonstrate with an adaptation paradigm that the visual system shows a corresponding task-specific ability to select neurons depending on whether it is performing a detection or a discrimination task, relying preferentially on different neuronal populations in the two tasks. Detection is based on neuronal populations tuned to the test direction, while direction discrimination is based on neurons preferring directions 40-60 degrees off the test direction.
We investigated whether the development of the vertebrate crystalline lens is sensitive to visual input. The optical properties of fish lenses were examined as a function of lens size and the optical rearing conditions. Fish (Haplochromis burtoni, Cichlidae) were reared in white light (control group), under spectral deprivation (monochromatic lights), deprivation of the cone system (scotopic illumination), and complete visual deprivation (darkness). Longitudinal spherical aberrations (LSAs) and refractive index profiles of the lenses were measured with thin laser beams. The performance of the lens was modeled by ray-tracing calculations from measured LSAs. In lenses from the control group, LSA and f/R (focal length relative to lens radius) decreased as a function of age. The optical properties of the lenses were modified after rearing in darkness, scotopic illumination, and in monochromatic lights due to changes in the refractive index profile. Rearing in darkness and scotopic illumination reduced the optical quality of the lens. In animals reared under spectral deprivation, the lens did not create well-focused images for all spectral cone types in the same plane, as it does in animals reared in white light. We conclude that visual input seems to play an important role in the development of the lens. The control mechanisms remain unknown.
1. The aim was to see whether mefenamic acid and salicylic acid had different inhibition profiles for SULT1A1 (substrate: 4-nitrophenol) and SULT1A3 (dopamine) activities and on (-)-salbutamol and minoxidil sulphation rates in the human adult and mid-gestational foetal livers. 2. The activity (pmolmin(-1) mg(-1) of SULT1A1 was 662 +/- 78 (adult) and 246 +/- 159 (foetus; p = 0.003) and that of SULT1A3 was 24 +/- 4 (adult) and 121 +/- 90 (foetus; p = 0.030). The rate (pmol min(-1) mg(-1)) of (-)-salbutamol sulphation was 109 +/- 27 (adult) and 117 +/- 34 (foetus; p = (0.144) and that of minoxidil sulphation was 202 +/- 38 (adult) and 108 +/- 44 (foetus; p = 0.001). 3. With mefenamic acid as an inhibitor, the IC50 (microM) for SULT1A1 was 0.2 +/- 0.004 (adult) and 0.01 +/- 0.002 (foetus; p = 0.001); for SULT1A3 it was 76 +/- 6 (adult) and 77 +/- 13 (foetus; p = 0.889); for the rate of ( )-salbutamol sulphation it was 0.07 +/- 0.005 (adult) and not determinable (foetus) and for minoxidil sulphation it was 1.6 +/- 0.7 (adult) and 0.15 +/- 0.04 (foetus; p = 0.076). 4. With salicylic acid as an inhibitor, the IC50 (microM) for SULT1A1 was 30 +/- 2 (adult) and 25 +/- 1 (foetus; p = 0.011); for SULT1A3 it was 690 +/- 36 (adult) and 570 +/- 16 (foetus; p = 0.229); for the rate of ( )-salbutamol sulphation it was 93 +/- 11 (adult) and 344 +/- 42 (foetus; p = 0.010); with minoxidil as substrate, the IC50 was not determinable. 5. In summary, SULT1A1, SULT1A3 and the sulphotransferases towards (-)-salbutamol and minoxidil had measurable activities in the mid-gestational human foetal liver. Mefenamic acid was a more potent inhibitor than salicylic acid of both human adult and foetal liver SULT1A1 and SULT1A3 activities. Foetal liver SULT1A1 was more susceptible than adult liver SULT1A1 to inhibition by mefenamic acid and salicylic acid. These results are consistent with the view that sulphotransferases develop early in the human foetal liver and drugs may inhibit their activities.
Analysis of only the postsynaptic responses seems to be insufficient for studying the synaptic plasticity in learning, because they reflect not only synaptic modifications. The adequacy of brain slices application for investigation of the synaptic plasticity in learning per se has not been strictly specified. Learning processed can be adequately studied only in awake animals. However, traditional methods of field potential recording in response to stimulation of certain inputs that are well interpretable in vitro studies seem to be inadequate for in vivo testing synaptic plasticity. Single unit activity recording in pre- and postsynaptic fields during learning and direct threshold stimulation of monosynaptic inputs to a postsynaptic cell are suggested as a promising strategy for investigation of synaptic plasticity. Since the recording area is not deafferrented in a freely moving animal (as distinct from brain slices), the spontaneous activity in the neural network can interfere with responses to a testing stimulus. Computer simulation demonstrates that the interaction between spontaneous afferentation and testing stimulation can produce an illusion of synaptic modifications. Computer simulation of a neurophysiological experiment is proposed as a preliminary method for the reduction of the effect of spontaneous afferentation on the probability of the postsynaptic response.
Digitized Human Brain Atlas is an important tool for visualization of medical images and investigation of brain science. This paper describes its fundamentals, development, construction and applications in surgical planning, model-driven segmentation and neuroanatomy teaching.
Phytoestrogens are extensively investigated for their potential to prevent many hormone-dependent cancers and age-related diseases, however little is known about their effects in brain. Brain aromatase and plasma phytoestrogen levels were determined in Sprague-Dawley rats fed a phytoestrogen-rich diet during pregnancy/lactation. Ingested phytoestrogens cross the placenta and become concentrated in maternal milk as evident from high infantile plasma concentrations. Dietary phytoestrogens, however, do not alter brain aromatase during pregnancy/lactation or perinatal development.
Staggerer (Rora(sg/sg)) is an autosomal mutation in an orphan nuclear hormone receptor gene, RORalpha, that acts intrinsically within the Purkinje cells and causes dysgenesis of the cerebellar cortex. Purkinje cell number is severely reduced, and the surviving cells are small with poorly developed dendrites. In contrast, the cytoarchitecture of the cerebellar cortex of the heterozygous staggerer (Rora(+/sg)) appears to be normal. However, quantitative studies have revealed a premature loss of Purkinje cells with advancing age. Most of the loss (25--30%) is complete by 13 months with little change thereafter. To address the question of whether all Purkinje cells, even the surviving ones, are affected by aging even though their cell bodies remain intact, we studied the evolution with age of the dendritic arbor through a semi-quantitative analysis of Golgi-impregnated Purkinje cells. A total of ten different morphological parameters were measured in 4-, 12- and 22-month-old wild type and heterozygous Rora(+/sg) mice. While the effects of the aging process are apparent in the wild type cerebellum, they are considerably accelerated in the Rora(+/sg) mouse. By 12 months the Rora(+/sg) Purkinje cell dendrite is as atrophic as a wild type dendrite from a 22-month-old and the dendritic regression continues well beyond the period of cell death in the heterozygous Rora(+/sg) mouse.
The plasma and nuclear membranes of neural cells have been shown to express gangliosides to a limited extent before, and at increasing levels during, differentiation. Recent studies employing qualitative cytochemistry have shown that GM1 expression in particular is significantly elevated in both membranes by specific neuritogenic agents. The present study provides a more complete description of ganglioside patterns of the 2 membranes of NG108-15 cells and a mutated form of the latter lacking gangliotetraose gangliosides. Nuclei of wild type NG108-15 cells were found to contain predominantly GM1 and GD1a, whereas whole cells had those in addition to substantial amounts of GM2 and GM3. GM1 and GD1a levels increased 2--3.5-fold in both whole cells and nuclei following axonogenic stimulation, but changed little in response to dendritogenic agents. GM2 expression, limited to the plasma membrane, showed little if any change with axonogenic stimuli but a 1.5--2-fold increase following treatment with dendritogenic agents. GM3 resembled GM2 in being virtually absent from the nuclear membrane, while its presence in the plasma membrane showed only modest change at most with any of the stimuli. The gangliotetraose ganglioside-deficient mutant cell line, NG-CR72, had significantly higher basal levels of GM2 in the plasma membrane compared to wild type NG108-15 cells, and this level increased significantly on treatment with dendritogenic agents. Basal GM3 levels were greatly reduced in the mutant cells and changed little with any of the stimuli. As expected, nuclei of NG-CR72 cells were virtually devoid of gangliosides. These mutant cells were previously shown to extend well defined dendritic neurites but were incapable of forming stable axonal processes. This study thus demonstrates major differences in the ganglioside content of wild type and mutated NG108-15 cells and their nuclei, and in their response to different neuritogenic stimuli.
The effects of depolarizing stimuli on neurite outgrowth have been shown to depend on an influx of extracellular calcium. However, the role of calcium under non-stimulated growth conditions is less well established. Here we investigated the contribution of calcium signaling to early neuronal morphogenesis of rat cerebral cortex neurons at three levels by blocking L-type voltage sensitive calcium channels, by depleting intracellular calcium or by blocking myosin light chain kinase. Detailed quantitative morphological analysis of neurons treated for 1 day revealed that depletion of intracellular calcium strongly decreased the density of filopodia, arrested axonal outgrowth and strongly decreased dendritic branching. Preventing calcium influx through L-type voltage sensitive calcium channels and blocking of myosin light chain kinase activity selectively decreased dendritic branching. Our observations support an essential role for basal intracellular calcium levels in axonal elongation. Furthermore, under non-stimulated conditions calcium entry through L-type voltage sensitive calcium channels and myosin light chain kinase play an important role in dendritic branching.
Developmental expressions of GABA transporters 1 and 3 (GAT1 and GAT3) were investigated in the rat olfactory bulb by using in situ hybridization histochemistry. We found that the expression of GAT1 and GAT3 mRNAs was dramatically changed in the granule cell layer (GCL), external plexiform layer (EPL) and glomerular layer (GL) during postnatal development. Among bulbar neurons, granule cells and periglomerular cells are GABAergic and they are localized in the GCL and GL, respectively. In the EPL, granule cells make GABAergic synapses with mitral cell dendrites. Thus, the changes seen in the GCL, EPL and GL seemed related to the development of the GABAergic system in the olfactory bulb. On the whole, our results demonstrated that expression patterns of GAT1 and GAT3 mRNAs have become similar to adult patterns on postnatal day 14 (P14), suggesting that GABA transporters may play a pivotal role in GABAergic neurotransmission after P14. However, expression patterns of GAT1 and GAT3 mRNAs in early postnatal days were quite distinct from those in adulthood. For example, in the GCL, immature granule cells already exhibited strong levels of GAT1 mRNA on P1 and the expression level was higher than that of granule cells in adulthood. GAT3 mRNA was strongly expressed in presumable radial glial cells surrounding the subependymal layer. In the EPL, few signals for the two transcripts were detected on P1 but they were markedly increased by P14. Our results indicate that GAT1 and GAT3 may play important roles in the development of the GABAergic system in the olfactory bulb.
The hSWI/SNF complex remodels the chromatin structure to modulate gene expression. The hSWI/SNF complex is a multiprotein complex with at least 10 different proteins in mammals. In this study, we identified the 45 kDa subunit of the hSWI/SNF complex as ArpN, an actin-related protein. ArpN has a 36% identity and 50% similarity with the human beta-actin, but cannot be classified into any known class of actin-related proteins. ArpN is exclusively localized within the nucleus and appears as the unbound, chromatin-associated, or nuclear matrix associated forms in the nucleus. In the chromatin immunoprecipitation (ChIP) assay, we found the associations of ArpN with the Ets-2 and c-mycP2 promoter regions in HeLa cells. The promoter regions of the hsp70, cyclophilin, beta-globin, TdT, and cd4 genes, however, were not associated with ArpN. The Ets-2 and c-mycP2 genes are expressed actively in HeLa cells, but beta-globin, TdT, and cd4 genes are inactive. The hsp70 and cyclophilin genes have a feature of stress-inducibility. These selective associations of ArpN with a subset of active genes support the proposition that the requirement of hSWI/SNF complex in gene activation is gene specific.
The authors report the data relative to the clinical effectiveness of bilateral deep brain stimulation of the subthalamic nucleus in 16 patients with PD 3 months after the surgery. The comparison of the Unified PD Rating Scale scores in the different conditions of medication and stimulation, and the lack of significant surgical complications, confirm the effectiveness and the safety of the subthalamic nucleus deep brain stimulation for the treatment of advanced PD.
Cerebral cavernous malformations (CCM) are vascular anomalies, sometimes inherited as an autosomal dominant trait, which can cause strokes and seizures. Recently, mutations of the CCM1 gene (chromosome 7q) have been found in a subset of families. The authors found 10 new mutations by screening 29 families and five seemingly sporadic cases of CCM. The mutations predicted truncation of the Krit1 mRNA encoded by CCM1, supporting the contention that CCM result from loss of Krit1 protein function and the possibility that this protein acts as a tumor suppressor.
FKBP12, the 12-kDa FK506-binding protein, is a ubiquitous abundant protein that acts as a receptor for the immunosuppressant drug FK506, binds tightly to intracellular calcium release channels and to the transforming growth factor beta (TGF-beta) type I receptor. We now demonstrate that cells from FKBP12-deficient (FKBP12(-/-)) mice manifest cell cycle arrest in G(1) phase and that these cells can be rescued by FKBP12 transfection. This arrest is mediated by marked augmentation of p21(WAF1/CIP1) levels, which cannot be further augmented by TGF-beta1. The p21 up-regulation and cell cycle arrest derive from the overactivity of TGF-beta receptor signaling, which is normally inhibited by FKBP12. Cell cycle arrest is prevented by transfection with a dominant-negative TGF-beta receptor construct. TGF-beta receptor signaling to gene expression can be mediated by SMAD, p38, and ERK/MAP kinase (extracellular signal-regulated kinase/mitogen-activated protein kinase) pathways. SMAD signaling is down-regulated in FKBP12(-/-) cells. Inhibition of ERK/MAP kinase fails to affect p21 up-regulation. By contrast, activated phosphorylated p38 is markedly augmented in FKBP12(-/-) cells and the p21 up-regulation is prevented by an inhibitor of p38. Thus, FKBP12 is a physiologic regulator of cell cycle acting by normally down-regulating TGF-beta receptor signaling.
Using a consensus sequence in inositol phosphate kinase, we have identified and cloned a 44-kDa mammalian inositol phosphate kinase with broader catalytic capacities than any other member of the family and which we designate mammalian inositol phosphate multikinase (mIPMK). By phosphorylating inositol 4,5-bisphosphate, mIPMK provides an alternative biosynthesis for inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate [Ins(1,4,5)P(3)]. mIPMK also can form the pyrophosphate disphosphoinositol tetrakisphosphate (PP-InsP(4)) from InsP(5). Additionally, mIPMK forms InsP(4) from Ins(1,4,5)P(3) and InsP(5) from Ins(1,3,4,5)P(4).
The identification and characterization of a potentially ischemia-selective and orally-active sulfoxide based NMDA ion-channel blocker showing good neuroprotective activity, (R)-(+)-N-(2-chloro-5-methylthiophenyl)-N'-(3-methylsulfinylphenyl)-N'-methylguanidine (CNS 5788), is described.
The gap junction protein connexin 26 (Cx26) has been detected previously in the parenchyma of the developing brain and in the developing and adult meninges, but there is no clear evidence for the presence of this connexin in adult brain parenchyma. Confocal mapping of Cx26 through serial sections of the meningeal-intact rat brain with four antibodies revealed an intense Cx26 immunoreactivity in both parenchyma and extraparenchyma. In the extraparenchyma, a continuum of Cx26-immunoreactive puncta was observed throughout the three meningeal layers, the perineurium of cranial nerves, and meningeal projections into the brain, including sheaths of blood vessels and stroma of the choroid plexus. In the parenchyma, Cx26-immunoreactive puncta were located primarily in subependymal, subpial, and perivascular zones and were associated primarily with glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive (GFAP+) astrocytes, the nuclei of which are strongly immunoreactive for basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). Although it was found to a lesser extent than in astrocytes, bFGF immunoreactivity also was intense in the nuclei of meningeal fibroblasts. In addition, we have found a close correlation between the distribution of Cx26 and vimentin immunoreactivities in the meninges and their projections into the brain. We previously showed vimentin and S100beta immunoreactivities through a network of meningeal fibroblasts in the three layers of meninges, perivascular cells, and ependymocytes and in a population of astrocytes. The related topography of this network with GFAP+ astrocytes has also been demonstrated. Considering that connexin immunoreactivity may reflect the presence of functional gap junctions, the present results are consistent with our hypothesis that all of these various cell types may communicate in a cooperative network.

The phenotypic modulation of smooth muscle cells (SMCs) is closely associated with the development and progression of various SMC diseases. We investigated the molecular mechanism of phenotypic modulation triggered by EGF family ligands using a primary culture system of differentiated SMCs. Among four EGF-receptor (EGFR) family members, the EGFR was solely activated by EGF, heparin-binding EGF (HB-EGF), transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha), epiregulin (ER), and betacellulin (BTC), resulting in induction of phenotypic modulation of SMCs. This effect was mediated through the coordinated activation of the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) and p38 mitogen-activated protein kinase (p38MAPK) pathways. These results suggest that EGF family ligand- and EGFR-triggered signaling pathways are critically involved in the phenotypic modulation of SMCs.
The first exposure to the odors of carbon tetrachloride, isopentenyl methyl sulfide, methyl ethyl ketone, 2-propylthietane, salicylaldehyde, toluene, 2,4,5-trimethyl thiazoline, or xylene elicits a weakly developed 20 Hz wave response (beta-waves) in central olfactory structures in the rat. Repeated presentations of these odors produces a gradual enhancement or sensitization of olfactory beta-waves over 5-10 trials given in 1-3 min. The odors of 2-aminoacetophenone and 2-hydroxyacetophenone produce sensitization after an average of 15-17 presentations. The sensitized beta-wave response to the odors of 2-propylthietane and xylene persists for at least 5 days and probably much longer. Sensitization to one odor transfers partially or not at all to other novel odors even though repeated presentation of the new odor also produces sensitization. Since the initial negative response of the olfactory mucosa (presumably due to receptor depolarization) is not enhanced by repeated olfactory stimulation, it is presumed that the altered responsivity is due to synaptic changes in central olfactory structures such as the olfactory bulb or pyriform cortex. Finally, data are presented to show that behavioral antifeedant activity by an odorant does not invariably mean that the odorant has the ability to elicit an olfactory beta-wave response.
The effects of psychogenic stressors, rat exposure and fox urine odor, on central monoamine functioning was assessed in two inbred strains of mice, BALB/cByJ and C57BL/6ByJ, thought to be differentially reactive to stressors. These stressors markedly increased NE utilization, as reflected by MHPG accumulation, in the locus coeruleus, hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and central amygdala. Likewise, the 5-HT metabolite, 5-HIAA, was elevated in hippocampus, prefrontal cortex and central amygdala, and to some extent DOPAC accumulation was increased in the prefrontal cortex. In most brain regions, the neurochemical effects of the stressors were comparable in the two mouse strains. However, central amygdala 5-HIAA elevations as well as DOPAC increases in the prefrontal cortex elicited by fox odor were greater in C57BL/6ByJ than in BALB/cByJ mice. Although BALB/cByJ mice are more behaviorally reactive than C57BL/6ByJ mice, and also show greater corticosterone elevations in response to neurogenic and systemic stressors, it was previously shown that differential corticosterone changes were not elicited by a predator exposure. Taken together with earlier findings, it appears that despite greater behavioral reactivity/anxiety, the strain-specific neurochemical changes elicited may be situation-specific such that the profile apparent in response to neurogenic and systemic stressors may not be evident in response to predator-related threats.

Prompted by conflicting literature, this study compared the pharmacology of human 5-hydroxytryptamine2 (5-HT2) receptors expressed in SH-SY5Y cells using a fluorometric imaging plate reader (FLIPR) based Ca2+ assay. 5-Hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) increased intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) at 5-HT2A, 5-HT2B and 5-HT2C receptors (pEC(50)=7.73+/-0.03, 8.86+/-0.04 and 7.99+/-0.04, respectively) and these responses were inhibited by mesulergine (pKB=7.42+/-0.06, 8.77+/-0.10 and 9.52+/-0.11). A range of selective agonists and antagonists displayed the expected pharmacology at each receptor subtype. Sodium butyrate pretreatment increased receptor expression in SH-SY5Y/5-HT2B (15-fold) and SH-SY5Y/5-HT2C cells (7-fold) and increased agonist potencies and relative efficacies. In contrast, sodium butyrate pretreatment of SH-SY5Y/5-HT(2A) cells did not affect receptor expression. The present study provides a direct comparison of agonist and antagonist pharmacology at 5-HT(2) receptor subtypes in a homogenous system and confirms that agonist potency and efficacy varies with the level of receptor expression.
The tyrosine kinase, activated Cdc42Hs-associated kinase-1 (ACK-1), is a specific effector of the Rho family GTPase Cdc42. GTP-bound Cdc42 has been shown to facilitate neurite outgrowth elicited by activation of muscarinic cholinergic receptors (mAChRs). Because tyrosine kinase activity is a requirement for neuritogenesis in several cell systems, we investigated whether endogenous mAChRs (principally of the M3 subtype) expressed in human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cells would signal to ACK-1. Incubation of cells with the cholinergic agonist oxotremorine-M (Oxo-M) induced an approximately 6-fold increase in the tyrosine phosphorylation of ACK-1 which was inhibited by atropine. ACK-1 phosphorylation was blocked by Clostridium difficile toxin B, an inhibitor of Rho family GTPases. In contrast, disruption of the actin cytoskeleton with cytochalasin D stimulated ACK-1 phosphorylation, and moreover, addition of Oxo-M to cells preincubated with this agent elicited a further increase in phosphorylation, indicating that an intact cytoskeleton is not required for mAChR signaling to ACK-1. Although stimulation of M3 mAChRs induces both an increase in intracellular Ca2+ and activation of protein kinase C (PKC), neither of these second messenger pathways was required for receptor-stimulated ACK-1 phosphorylation. Instead, inhibition of PKC resulted in a 2-fold increase in Oxo-M-stimulated ACK-1 phosphorylation, whereas acute activation of PKC with phorbol ester decreased ACK-1 phosphorylation. The agonist-induced tyrosine phosphorylation of ACK-1 was blocked by inhibitors of Src family kinases, and ACK-1 was coprecipitated with Fyn (but not Src) in an agonist-dependent manner. Finally, scrape loading cells with glutathione S-transferase fusion proteins of either the Fyn-SH2 or Fyn-SH3 domain significantly attenuated mAChR-stimulated ACK-1 tyrosine phosphorylation. The data are the first to show phosphorylation of ACK-1 after stimulation of a receptor coupled to neurite outgrowth and indicate that a Rho family GTPase (i.e. Cdc42) and Fyn are essential upstream elements of this signaling pathway.
In rat striata, DOPA released is a causal factor for glutamate release and resultant delayed neuron death by four-vessel occlusion. Nanomolar DOPA cyclohexyl ester (CHE), a potent and relatively stable competitive DOPA antagonist, protects these events. We tried to clarify whether DOPA CHE protects these events in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell layers most vulnerable against ischemia. Five to 10 min ischemia caused slight to mild glutamate release in 10 min samples during microdialysis and mild to severe neuron death 96 h after reperfusion. DOPA and dopamine were under assay limit in this design, but were basally detected by 20 min sampling and released by 20 min ischemia. In 10 min samples, intrahippocampal perfusion of 100 nM DOPA CHE 10 min before ischemia for 70 min did not inhibit glutamate release by 10 min ischemia, while it abolished glutamate release and protected delayed neuron death by 5 min ischemia. DOPA CHE is neuroprotective under a mild ischemic condition in rat hippocampus CA1.

Recent studies showing that single taste bud cells express multiple bitter taste receptors have reignited a long-standing controversy over whether single gustatory receptor cells respond selectively or broadly to tastants. We examined calcium responses of rat taste receptor cells in situ to a panel of bitter compounds to determine whether individual cells distinguish between bitter stimuli. Most bitter-responsive taste cells were activated by only one out of five compounds tested. In taste cells that responded to multiple stimuli, there were no significant associations between any two stimuli. Bitter sensation does not appear to occur through the activation of a homogeneous population of broadly tuned bitter-sensitive taste cells. Instead, different bitter stimuli may activate different subpopulations of bitter-sensitive taste cells.
Tropomyosin (Tm) binds along actin filaments, one molecule spanning four to seven actin monomers, depending on the isoform. Periodic repeats in the sequence have been proposed to correspond to actin binding sites. To learn the functional importance of length and the internal periods we made a series of progressively shorter Tms, deleting from two up to six of the internal periods from rat striated alpha-TM (dAc2--3, dAc2--4, dAc3--5, dAc2--5, dAc2--6, dAc1.5--6.5). Recombinant Tms (unacetylated) were expressed in Escherichia coli. Tropomyosins that are four or more periods long (dAc2--3, dAc2--4, and dAc3--5) bound well to F-actin with troponin (Tn). dAc2--5 bound weakly (with EGTA) and binding of shorter mutants was undetectable in any condition. Myosin S1-induced binding of Tm to actin in the tight Tm-binding &quot;open&quot; state did not correlate with actin binding. dAc3--5 and dAc2--5 did not bind to actin even when the filament was saturated with S1. In contrast, dAc2--3 and dAc2--4 did, like wild-type-Tm, requiring about 3 mol of S1/mol of Tm for half-maximal binding. The results show the critical importance of period 5 (residues 166--207) for myosin S1-induced binding. The Tms that bound to actin (dAc2--3, dAc2--4, and dAc3--5) all fully inhibited the actomyosin ATPase (+Tn) in EGTA. In the presence of Ca(2+), relief of inhibition by these Tms was incomplete. We conclude (1) four or more actin periods are required for Tm to bind to actin with reasonable affinity and (2) that the structural requirements of Tm for the transition of the regulated filament from the blocked-to-closed/open (relief of inhibition by Ca(2+)) and the closed-to-open states (strong Tm binding to actin-S1) are different.
The physiological functions of structured spontaneous activity in the brain, such as the slow oscillations characteristic of certain sleep states, remain unclear, but new studies using brain slices or slabs are starting to shed light on the underlying neural mechanisms.
Music may be the food of love but it is also good fodder for cognitive scientists. Here we highlight a recent study of a neuropsychological patient who has lost her ability to read music, but not text, in the absence of any other musical deficit.
Apoptosis is an important cause of secondary cell death in spinal cord injury (SCI). SCI induces the expression of the low affinity neurotrophin receptor p75 (p75NTR), that in the absence of the high affinity component, TrkA, can promote cell death by apoptosis. We therefore hypothesized that a reduction of p75NTR expression in SCI may increase tissue sparing and therefore improve recovery of function. As a tool to test our hypothesis we used the synthetic glucocorticoid dexamethasone (DEX) to down-regulate p75NTR expression. A standardized thoracic spinal cord contusion injury was produced in female rats. Laminectomized and SCI rats received various doses of DEX immediately after injury and the treatment was continued daily for 7 days. DEX, given at high doses (20 mg/kg, s.c.) but not at low doses (1 or 8 mg/kg) prevented the increase in p75NTR mRNA and protein in SCI rats, without affecting the expression of TrkA. High doses of DEX also reduced cellular apoptosis both in white and gray matters. This effect correlated with the ability of DEX to accelerate behavioral recovery of function measured by a combined behavioral score. These data suggest that reduction of p75NTR in SCI may be a therapeutic strategy to limit cell and tissue damage and therefore to improve recovery of function in SCI patients.
In addition to its documented role in the proteolytic processing of Notch-1 and the beta-amyloid precursor protein, presenilin 1 (PS1) associates with beta-catenin. In this study, we show that this interaction plays a critical role in regulating beta-catenin/T Cell Factor/Lymphoid Enhancer Factor-1 (LEF) signaling. PS1 deficiency results in accumulation of cytosolic beta-catenin, leading to a beta-catenin/LEF-dependent increase in cyclin D1 transcription and accelerated entry into the S phase of the cell cycle. Conversely, PS1 specifically represses LEF-dependent transcription in a dose-dependent manner. The hyperproliferative response can be reversed by reintroducing PS1 expression or overexpressing axin, but not a PS1 mutant that does not bind beta-catenin (PS1Deltacat) or by two different familial Alzheimer's disease mutants. In contrast, PS1Deltacat restores Notch-1 proteolytic cleavage and Abeta generation in PS1-deficient cells, indicating that PS1 function in modulating beta-catenin levels can be separated from its roles in facilitating gamma-secretase cleavage of beta-amyloid precursor protein and in Notch-1 signaling. Finally, we show an altered response to Wnt signaling and impaired ubiquitination of beta-catenin in the absence of PS1, a phenotype that may account for the increased stability in PS1-deficient cells. Thus, PS1 adds to the molecules that are known to regulate the rapid turnover of beta-catenin.
The term rapidly adapting pulmonary stretch receptor (RAR) refers to one of the major pulmonary sensory receptors that responds to inflation and deflation of the lungs as well as to irritant stimuli with rapidly adapting irregular discharges. The functional role and central pathways are largely unknown. The aim of this study was to elucidate morphological characteristics of second-order neurons (RAR cells) activated by vagal afferent fibers originating from RARs. A mixture of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) and Neurobiotin was injected intracellularly into physiologically identified RAR cells in Nembutal-anesthetized, immobilized, and artificially ventilated Wister rats. Direct visualization of individual RAR cells (n = 12), including their somata, dendritic arborizations, and fine axonal branches with terminal boutons, was possible for the first time. Their somata were located in the commissural or medial subdivision of the nucleus of the solitary tract, caudal to the level of the area postrema. The RAR cells had, in addition to dendrites extending into the NTS area, one or two long dendrites extending laterally and/or ventrolaterally into the medullary reticular formation. The stem axons issuing from the RAR cells first coursed ventrolaterally toward the reticular formation in the vicinity of the ambiguus nucleus and then bifurcated into ascending and descending axons: three RAR cells possessed only ascending axons. Some of the ascending axons could be traced as far as the level of the facial nucleus and some of the descending axons beyond the spinomedullary junction. These ascending and/or descending axons gave off extensive axon collaterals distributing boutons within and in the vicinity of the ambiguus nucleus. These results, showing an anatomical substrate for the network implicated in RAR-evoked reflexes, provide useful clues for study of the RAR system.
Studies indicate that metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) may play a role in spinal sensory transmission. We examined the cellular and subcellular distribution of the mGluR subtype 4a in spinal tissue by means of a specific antiserum and immunocytochemical techniques for light and electron microscopy. A dense plexus of mGluR4a-immunoreactive elements was seen in the dorsal horn, with an apparent accumulation in lamina II. The immunostaining was composed of sparse immunoreactive fibres and punctate elements. No perikaryal staining was seen. Immunostaining for mGluR4a was detected in small to medium-sized cells but not in large cells in dorsal root ganglia. At the electron microscopic level, superficial dorsal horn laminae demonstrated numerous immunoreactive vesicle-containing profiles. Labelling was present in the cytoplasmic matrix, but accretion of immunoreaction product to presynaptic specialisations was commonly observed. Axolemmal labelling was confirmed by using a preembedding immunogold technique, which revealed distinctive deposits of gold immunoparticles along presynaptic thickenings with an average centre-to-centre distance of 41 nm (41.145 +/- 13.59). Immunoreactive terminals often formed synaptic contacts with dendritic profiles immunonegative for mGluR4a. Immunonegative dendritic profiles were observed in apposition to both mGluR4a-immunoreactive and immunonegative terminals. Diffuse immunoperoxidase reaction product was also detected in dendritic profiles, some of which were contacted by mGluR4a-immunoreactive endings, but only occasionally were they observed to accumulate immunoreaction product along the postsynaptic density. Terminals immunoreactive for mGluR4a also formed axosomatic contacts. The present results reveal that mGluR4a subserves a complex spinal circuitry to which the primary afferent system seems to be a major contributor.
We compared morphine analgesia ED(50) values of male and female mice prior to (Day 1) and after (Day 4) 3 days of intracerebroventricular morphine injections. Increases in ED(50) values from Day 1 to Day 4, indicating tolerance, were of similar magnitude in both sexes. The data suggest that spinal opioid analgesic mechanisms, acting alone or in synergy with supraspinal loci, may contribute to pharmacodynamic explanations of sex differences in systemic morphine tolerance.
We have demonstrated that FK960 [N-(4-acetyl-1-piperazinyl)-p-fluorobenzamide monohydrate], a novel putative anti-dementia drug of piperazine derivative, ameliorates memory deficits in a variety of animal models of dementia in rats and monkeys, and also augments long-term potentiation (LTP) in the mossy fiber-CA3 pathway in guinea-pig hippocampal slices. Our recent studies have further suggested that somatostatin activation could be a primary mechanism of the pharmacological action of FK960. To clarify the mode of action of FK960 on somatostatinergic neurotransmission, FK960 was examined for its effects on somatostatin release from rat hippocampal slices. FK960 significantly enhanced high K(+)-evoked release, but not basal release, of somatostatin with similar concentration-dependency to its LTP augmenting action. On the other hands, FK960 had no effects on the release of neurotransmitters such as acetylcholine, 5-HT, D-aspartate or GABA from hippocampal slices. Our results provide compelling evidence that FK960 exerts specific and facilitatory actions on neural mechanisms involved in the activity-dependent release of somatostatin from nerve terminals of the hippocampus. These results also strengthen the view that FK960 regulates cognitive functions and augments LTP through an activation of the somatostatinergic nervous system in the hippocampus.
We have cloned and functionally expressed the human orthologue of the mouse TRAAK gene. When cDNA for hTRAAK is expressed in either Xenopus oocytes or HEK293 cells it forms a K(+)-selective conductance and hyperpolarises the resting membrane potential. Quantitative mRNA expression analysis using Taqman revealed that hTRAAK mRNA is predominantly present in the central nervous system where it exhibits a regionally diverse pattern of expression. Like the related channel TREK-1, the activity of TRAAK was potentiated by arachidonic acid. The neuroprotective agent sipatrigine (10 microM) inhibited both hTREK-1 (73.3+/-4.4%) and hTRAAK (45.1+/-11.2%) in a reversible, voltage-independent manner. Inhibition of both channels was dose-dependent and for TREK-1 occurred with an IC(50) of 4 microM. The related compound lamotrigine, which is a better anticonvulsant but weaker neuroprotective agent than sipatrigine, was a far less effective antagonist of both channels, producing &lt;10% inhibition at a concentration of 10 microM.
In anesthetized spinalized rat, electrical stimulation of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) synchronizes the EEG by increasing the power of 4-6-Hz waves (&gt;100%; P&lt;0.01), and elevates cerebral blood flow (rCBF) by 18+/-5% (P&lt;0.05). The coordinated response appears within seconds, is global, reversible, graded, evoked from the commissural sub-nucleus, and replicated by L-glutamate. The responses are markedly reduced by bilateral lesions or muscimol microinjections restricted to a region of ventral medullary reticular formation, the medullary cerebral vasodilator area (MCVA), a region from which stimulation elicits identical responses and mediates the comparable responses to hypoxic/ischemic excitation of sympathoexcitatory neurons of rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). We conclude that: (a) excitation of intrinsic neurons of commissural NTS synchronizes the EEG and coordinately elevates rCBF; (b) the responses are mediated by excitation of neurons in MCVA; (c) the MCVA may be a common final pathway mediating cerebrovascular and EEG responses from multiple areas of CNS; and (d) the NTS-MCVA pathway may be a part of the anatomical substrate for behaviors, including slow-wave sleep and seizure suppression evoked by stimulation of visceral afferents terminating in NTS.
Recent studies have suggested that the substance P (tachykinin NK(1)) receptor may be a pharmacological target for the treatment of mood disorders. Here, the effects of electroconvulsive shock on tachykinin NK(1) receptor gene expression in the rat brain was investigated. Rats received either a single electroconvulsive shock or five shocks on alternate days. Quantitative autoradiography with [(125)I]Bolton Hunter-substance P, and in situ hybridisation histochemistry, were used to measure tachykinin NK(1) receptor-binding site densities and mRNA abundance, respectively. Densities of tachykinin NK(1) receptor-binding sites were significantly increased in the cerebral cortex following repeated electroconvulsive shock compared to sham treated animals. Densities remained unchanged in the hippocampus, striatum and amygdala. Neither single nor repeated electroconvulsive shock altered tachykinin NK(1) receptor mRNA in the brain regions examined. Hence, repeated electroconvulsive shock increases tachykinin NK(1) receptors in the rat brain in a regionally specific way. Upregulation of receptor-binding sites without a change in mRNA indicates that translational or post-translational mechanisms underlie this process.
We investigated the involvement of striatal dopamine release in electrographic and motor seizure activity evoked by kainic acid in the guinea pig. The involvement of the dopamine receptor subtypes was studied by systemic administration of the dopamine D(1) receptor antagonist, R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine hydrochloride (SCH 23390; 0.5 mg kg(-1)), or the dopamine D(2) antagonist, (5-aminosulphonyl)-N-[(1-ethyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)-methyl]-2-methoxybenzamide (sulpiride, 30 mg kg(-1)). Microdialysis and high performance liquid chromatography were used to monitor changes in extracellular levels of striatal dopamine and its metabolites, glutamate, aspartate and gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA). These data were correlated with changes in the striatal and cortical electroencephalographs and clinical signs. We found that, although neither dopamine receptor antagonist inhibited behavioural seizure activity, blockade of the dopamine D(1)-like receptor with SCH 23390 significantly reduced both the 'power' of the electrical seizure activity and the associated change in extracellular striatal concentration of glutamate, whilst increasing the extracellular striatal concentration of GABA. In contrast, blockade of the dopamine D(2)-like receptor with sulpiride significantly increased the extracellular, striatal content of glutamate and the dopamine metabolites. These results confirm previous evidence in other models of chemically-evoked seizures that antagonism of the dopamine D(1) receptor tends to reduce motor and electrographic seizure activity as well as excitatory amino-acid transmitter activity, while antagonism of the dopamine D(2) receptor has relatively less apparent effect.
Functional roles of the NH(2)-terminal region of RGS (regulators of G protein signaling) 8 in G protein signaling were studied. The deletion of the NH(2)-terminal region of RGS8 (DeltaNRGS8) resulted in a partial loss of the inhibitory function in pheromone response of yeasts, although Galpha binding was not affected. To examine roles in subcellular distribution, we coexpressed two fusion proteins of RGS8-RFP and DeltaNRGS8-GFP in DDT1MF2 cells. RGS8-RFP was highly concentrated in nuclei of unstimulated cells. Coexpression of constitutively active Galpha(o) resulted in translocation of RGS8 protein to the plasma membrane. In contrast, DeltaNRGS8-GFP was distributed diffusely through the cytoplasm in the presence or absence of active Galpha(o). When coexpressed with G protein-gated inwardly rectifying K(+) channels, DeltaNRGS8 accelerated both turning on and off similar to RGS8. Acute desensitization of G protein-gated inwardly rectifying K(+) current observed in the presence of RGS8, however, was not induced by DeltaNRGS8. Thus, we, for the first time, showed that the NH(2) terminus of RGS8 contributes to the subcellular localization and to the desensitization of the G protein-coupled response.
The signaling capabilities and biological functions of activin receptor-like kinase 7 (ALK7), a type I receptor serine/threonine kinase predominantly expressed in the nervous system, are unknown. We have constructed a cell line derived from the rat pheochromocytoma PC12 in which expression of a constitutively active mutant of ALK7 (T194D) is under the control of a tetracycline-inducible promoter. For comparison, another cell line was engineered with tetracycline-regulated expression of a constitutively active variant of the transforming growth factor-beta type I receptor ALK5. Expression of activated ALK7 in PC12 cells resulted in activation of Smad2 and Smad3, but not Smad1, as well as the mitogen-activated protein kinases extracellular signal-regulated kinase and c-Jun N-terminal kinase. Reporter assays demonstrated that ALK7 activation stimulates transcription from the Smad-binding element of the Jun-B gene, the plasminogen activator inhibitor-1 gene, and AP-1 elements. In addition, ALK7 activation induced expression of endogenous gene products, including Smad7, c-fos mRNA, and plasminogen activator inhibitor-1. Thymidine incorporation assays revealed an anti-proliferative effect of ALK7 activation in PC12 cells, which correlated with increased transcription from the promoters of cycline-dependent kinase inhibitors p15(INK4B) and p21. Unexpectedly, ALK7 signaling produced a remarkable change in cell morphology characterized by cell flattening and elaboration of blunt, short cell processes. Interestingly, no such changes were observed upon induction of activated ALK5. The alterations in cell morphology upon ALK7 activation were more pronounced in cultures grown in full serum, were accompanied by rearrangements of actin filaments, and were maintained for several days after withdrawal of treatment. PC12 cultures that had been &quot;primed&quot; in this way showed an accelerated and augmented differentiation response to nerve growth factor. These results indicate that ALK7 may participate in the control of proliferation of neuronal precursors and morphological differentiation of postmitotic neurons.
Survival factors suppress apoptosis by activating the serine/threonine kinase Akt. To investigate the molecular mechanism underlying activated Akt's ability to protect neurons from hypoxia or nitric oxide (NO) toxicity, we focused on the apoptosis-related functions of p53 and caspases. We eliminated p53 by employing p53-deficient neurons and increased p53 by infection with recombinant adenovirus capable of transducing p53 expression, and we now show that p53 is implicated in the apoptosis induced by hypoxia or NO treatments of primary cultured hippocampal neurons. Although hypoxia and NO induced p53, treatment with insulin-like growth factor-1 significantly inhibited caspase-3-like activation, neuronal death and transcriptional activity of p53. These insulin-like growth factor-1 effects are prevented by wortmannin, a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase inhibitor. Adenovirus-mediated expression of activated-Akt kinase suppressed p53-dependent transcriptional activation of responsive genes such as Bax, suppressed caspase-3-like protease activity and suppressed neuronal cell death with no effect on the cellular accumulation and nuclear translocation of p53. In contrast, overexpression of kinase-defective Akt failed to suppress these same activities. These results suggest a mechanism where Akt kinase activation reduces p53's transcriptional activity that ultimately rescues neurons from hypoxia- or NO-mediated cell death.
The ternary complex factor Elk-1, a major nuclear target of extracellular signal-regulated kinases, is a strong transactivator of serum-responsive element (SRE) driven gene expression. We report here that mature brain neurons and nerve growth factor (NGF)-differentiated PC12 cells also express a second, smaller isoform of Elk-1, short Elk-1 (sElk-1). sElk-1 arises from an internal translation start site in the Elk-1 sequence, which generates a protein lacking the first 54 amino acids of the DNA-binding domain. This deletion severely compromises the ability of sElk-1 to form complexes with serum response factor on the SRE in vitro and to activate SRE reporter genes in the presence of activated Ras. Instead, sElk, but not a mutant that cannot be phosphorylated, inhibits transactivation driven by Elk-1. More pertinent to the neuronal-specific expression of sElk-1, we show it plays an opposite role to Elk-1 in potentiating NGF-driven PC12 neuronal differentiation. Overexpression of sElk-1 but not Elk-1 increases neurite extension, an effect critically linked to its phosphorylation. Interestingly, in the presence of sElk-1, Elk-1 loses its strictly nuclear localization to resemble the nuclear/cytoplasm pattern observed in the mature brain. This is blocked by mutating a normally cryptic nuclear export signal in Elk-1. These data provide new insights into molecular events underlying neuronal differentiation of PC12 cells mediated by the NGF-ERK signaling cascade.
The influence of different, nitric oxide-containing ruthenium complexes on the evoked potentials recorded from the CA1 region of the mouse hippocampus in vitro has been investigated. Of the compounds tested, only trans-[(NO)(P(OEt)3)(NH3)4Ru](PF6)3 (1-2.5 mM) exerted a strong facilitatory action on the population spike, the EPSP, and the spontaneous activity. Its activity probably depends upon its ability to release NO following reduction. The phosphito ligand is important both in terms of adjusting the reduction potential of the complex to be biologically accessible and in labilizing the coordinated NO. The effects of this compound could not be reversed by perfusion. Scavenging NO in slices preincubated with oxyhemoglobin prior to the addition of this compound eliminated its neurophysiological effects. The control molecules trans-[(P(OEt)3)2(NH3)4Ru](PF6)2, trans-[(H2O)(P(OEt)3) (NH3)4Ru](PF6)3, and [(NO)(NH3)5Ru]Cl3, which are structurally similar, but unable to generate NO, were ineffective. NaNO2 suppressed neuronal firing. Attempts to induce Long-Term Potentiation (LTP) at the time of maximal effect of trans-[(NO)(P(OEt)3)(NH3)4Ru](PF6)3 were unsuccessful, suggesting that the mechanism of amplification induced by trans-[(NO)(P(OEt)3)(NH3)4Ru](PF6)3 and LTP may share common pathways.
Pick's disease (PiD) is a rare neurodegenerative condition and is a member of a heterogeneous group of disorders known as tauopathies, so-called because of the predominantly neuronal aberrant tau accumulations found in these diseases. The tauopathy, familial frontotemporal dementia (FTD), is caused by mutations in the tau gene. Moreover, progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP) is associated with the tau H1 haplotype. In certain familial forms of FTD and in PSP the microtubule-binding four repeat tau isoform principally accumulates in neuropathological lesions. However, in PiD three repeat tau accumulations are found. We therefore investigated whether either the tau H1 or H2 haplotype was associated with PiD. Our results indicate a slight increase in H2H2 frequency in Pick's cases which is not statistically significant.
Galanin (3 nmol/rat), 2 h after its intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration to male rats, attenuated the passive avoidance (PA) retention deficit induced by the 5-hydroxytryptamine (HT)(1A) receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamino)tetraline (8-OH-DPAT) (0.2 mg/kg) The reduction in the postjunctional 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated response after i.c.v. galanin was not associated with changes in the mRNA levels and agonist binding properties of cortical limbic 5-HT(1A) receptors, believed to be the target receptors mediating the PA deficit caused by 8-OH-DPAT. These results suggest that acute increases of galanin transmission in vivo even after 2 h can counteract limbic 5-HT(1A) receptor-mediated responses of relevance for affective disorders without significantly affecting gene expression and binding characteristics of cortical limbic 5-HT(1A) receptors.
Chronic activation of opioid receptors in cultured mammalian cells is known to induce adenylyl cyclase (AC) supersensitization via the pertussis toxin-sensitive G(i/o) proteins. To examine the role of G(i1) and G(i3) in opioid-induced AC supersensitization, pertussis toxin-resistant mutants of Galpha(i1) and Galpha(i3) (Galpha(i1)CG and Galpha(i3)CG) were stably co-expressed with different opioid receptors (mu, delta or kappa) in human embryonic kidney (HEK 293) cells. Although the opioid receptors were capable of inhibiting AC via Galpha(i1)CG and Galpha(i3)CG in pertussis toxin-treated cells, AC supersensitization induced by chronic opioid treatment remained sensitive to pertussis toxin. Our results demonstrated that despite their ability to interact with opioid receptors, the pertussis toxin-sensitive G(i1) and G(i3) proteins on their own are incapable of supporting opioid-induced AC supersensitization.
The synapsins constitute a family of synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins essential for regulating neurotransmitter release and synaptogenesis. The molecular mechanisms underlying the selective targeting of synapsin I to synaptic vesicles are thought to involve specific protein-protein interactions, while the high-affinity binding to the synaptic vesicle membrane may involve both protein-protein and protein-lipid interactions. The highly hydrophobic N-terminal region of the protein has been shown to bind with high affinity to the acidic phospholipids phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylinositol and to penetrate the hydrophobic core of the lipid bilayer. To precisely identify the domains of synapsin I which mediate the interaction with lipids, synapsin I was bound to liposomes containing the membrane-directed carbene-generating reagent 3-(trifluoromethyl)-3-(m-[125I]iodophenyl)diazirine and subjected to photolysis. Isolation and N-terminal amino acid sequencing of 125I-labelled synapsin I peptides derived from CNBr cleavage indicated that three distinct regions in the highly conserved domain C of synapsin I insert into the hydrophobic core of the phospholipid bilayer. The boundaries of the regions encompass residues 166-192, 233-258 and 278-327 of bovine synapsin I. These regions are surface-exposed in the crystal structure of domain C of bovine synapsin I and are evolutionarily conserved among isoforms across species. The present data offer a molecular explanation for the high-affinity binding of synapsin I to phospholipid bilayers and synaptic vesicles.
Neurocognitive deficits have become increasingly important defining features of schizophrenia and its treatment. Multiple domains of neurocognitive functions are impaired in schizophrenia patients, and these impairments are considered to be core features of the disorder. Many recent reports support the importance of the relationship of these neurocognitive deficits to measures of &quot;functional outcome&quot; such as social skills acquisition, social problem solving, and community outcome. Neurocognitive deficits appear to be improved with newer (atypical) antipsychotic medications across a broad range of domains in schizophrenia patients. Together with clinical neuroscience advances, basic research in cognitive neuroscience ranging from animal models of gating functions to early gene expression induced by antipsychotic medications has illuminated the specific neural basis of neurocognitive deficits in schizophrenia and the neurobiology of antipsychotic actions. These translational basic and clinical studies provide powerful screening tools and strategies for drug development and the subsequent assessment of the clinical efficacy of new antipsychotic medications. These interlocking clinical and basic research findings have substantial implications for improving both drug development and improving clinical trials methodology for antipsychotic medications. Thus, there is an informed translation and cross-fertilization between basic and clinical research focused on the development and assessment of putative new antipsychotic compounds.


Pheochromocytoma (PC12) cell cultures exhibited a loss of cells and increase in intracellular oxidative stress when exposed to ethanol (EtOH) for 24 h. Catalase, an enzyme that hydrolyzes hydrogen peroxide (H(2)O(2)) to O(2) and H(2)O can attenuate EtOH-induced cell loss and oxidative stress in PC12 cells. This study provides the first clear evidence that oxidative stress in the form of elevated intracellular H(2)O(2) is a primary mechanism of EtOH neurotoxicity in PC12 cells.
Significant advances in cognitive neuroscience can be achieved by combining techniques used to measure behavior and brain activity with neural modeling. Here we apply this approach to the initiation of rapid eye movements (saccades), which are used to redirect the visual axis to targets of interest. It is well known that the superior colliculus (SC) in the midbrain plays a major role in generating saccadic eye movements, and physiological studies have provided important knowledge of the activity pattern of neurons in this structure. Based on the observation that the SC receives localized sensory (exogenous) and voluntary (endogenous) inputs, our model assumes that this information is integrated by dynamic competition across local collicular interactions. The model accounts well for the effects upon saccadic reaction time (SRT) due to removal of fixation, the presence of distractors, execution of pro- versus antisaccades, and variation in target probability, and suggests a possible mechanism for the generation of express saccades. In each of these cases, the activity patterns of &quot;neurons&quot; within the model closely resemble actual cell behavior in the intermediate layer of the SC. The interaction structure we employ is instrumental for producing a physiologically faithful model and results in new insights and hypotheses regarding the neural mechanisms underlying saccade initiation.
The goal of this article is to illustrate the application of self-organizing dynamics in the design of a model of lexical access. We focus particularly on the mapping of sound structure on to the lexicon and the influence of that structure on lexical access. The approach is tested in a series of two sets of simulations that explicate how lexical access might occur in normal subjects and aphasic patients. Both sets of simulations address the behavioral effects of both phonological and phonetic variability of prime stimuli on the magnitude of semantic priming. Results show that the model can successfully account for the behavioral effects associated with several kinds of acoustic manipulation, competitor presence, and the unfolding of those effects over time--primarily because it balances three important control parameters: resting lexical activation, positive feedback, and negative feedback. These simulations are offered as support (in the form of an existence proof) that deficits in the degree of lexical activation can account for the lexical processing impairments shown by Broca's aphasics who have reduced lexical activation, and Wernicke's aphasics who have increased lexical activation. Overall, results suggest that the present approach promises to offer a coherent theoretical framework within which to link empirical evidence in language processing and cognitive neuroscience in terms of possible underlying mechanisms.
When HLA-DR, -DQ, and -DP were cross-linked by solid-phase mAbs, monocytes produced monokines and only anti-DR markedly activated mitogen-activated protein (MAP) kinase extracellular signal-related kinase, whereas anti-DR, anti-DQ, and anti-DP all activated MAP kinase p38. Activation of extracellular signal-related kinase was not inhibited by neutralizing Ab to TNF-alpha. Anti-DR and DR-restricted T cells stimulated monocytes to produce relatively higher levels of proinflammatory monokines, such as IL-1beta, whereas anti-DQ/DP and DQ-/DP-restricted T cells stimulated higher levels of anti-inflammatory monokine IL-10. IL-10 production was abrogated by the p38 inhibitor SB203580, but rather enhanced by the MAP/extracellular signal-related kinase kinase-I-specific inhibitor PD98059, whereas IL-1beta was only partially abrogated by SB203580 and PD98059. Furthermore, DR-restricted T cells established from PBMC, which are reactive with mite Ags, purified protein derivative, and random 19-mer peptides, exhibited a higher IFN-gamma:IL-4 ratio than did DQ- or DP-restricted T cells. These results indicate that HLA-DR, -DQ, and -DP molecules transmit distinct signals to monocytes via MAP kinases and lead to distinct monokine activation patterns, which may affect T cell responses in vivo. Thus, the need for generation of a multigene family of class II MHC seems apparent.

The control of neuronal number is critical for coordinating innervation and target organ requirements. Although basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) is known to regulate neuron number in the developing embryonic cortex, its potential role during postnatal brain development remains undefined. To address this issue, the cerebellum, a site of postnatal neurogenesis, was used. Previously, we found that a single peripheral injection of bFGF in newborn rats elicited mitosis of neuronal precursors in the external germinal layer (EGL) 8 h after administration. We now define the sustained effects of bFGF treatment on postnatal granule cell production and cerebellar growth. Seventy-two h after a single injection of bFGF (20 ng/g) in newborn rats, the fraction of BrdU-labeled cells in the EGL increased by 46% without altering apoptotic cell number, consistent with enhanced precursor proliferation. Moreover, bFGF increased mitotically labeled cells by 100% and total cell density by 33% in the internal granular layer (IGL), the final destination of the EGL precursors. Because cerebellar volume also increased by 22%, bFGF-induced proliferation enhanced generation of total IGL neurons and increased cerebellar growth. These morphometric measures were corroborated independently by using DNA quantitation: cerebellar DNA content increased 16% after bFGF injection, consistent with increased neuron number. Furthermore, using DNA quantitation as an index, increased total cerebellar cell number elicited by bFGF injection persisted beyond the neurogenetic period, until P35. We conclude that a single postnatal injection of bFGF increases granule neuron number and enhances cerebellar growth following mitotic stimulation.
Synaptic transmission in the superior cervical ganglion (SCG) is mediated by nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR). After transection of the postganglionic nerves of the SCG in the adult rat, the transcript levels of four of the five nAChR subunits present in the ganglion, alpha3, alpha5, alpha7, and beta4, decrease dramatically. In the present study, the effect of axotomy on nAChR subunit expression was examined at the protein level, focusing on the alpha7 and beta4 subunits. Immunohistochemistry with monoclonal antibody mAb306 (for the alpha7 subunit) and polyclonal antibody 4886 (for the beta4 subunit) showed that immunoreactivities for both alpha7 and beta4 subunits were concentrated in neurons in the intact ganglion. Results from double staining with antibodies to these subunits and to tyrosine hydroxylase, the enzyme that catalyzes the rate-limiting step in the biosynthesis of the sympathetic neurotransmitter norepinephrine, demonstrated that most neurons in the SCG express both the alpha7 and beta4 subunits. Three days after axotomy, the number of immunolabeled neurons and the intensity of the immunostaining per labeled neuron were decreased for both subunits. Decreases in subunit levels were also observed by Western blot analysis. Observing changes in these subunits over time after surgery revealed that, while the protein level of the alpha7 subunit recovered substantially within 2 weeks after the lesion, that of the beta4 subunit stayed low. These data demonstrate that decreases in nicotinic receptor subunits are among the changes in proteins that occur in axotomized sympathetic neurons, and suggest that these decreases may contribute to the depression in ganglionic synaptic transmission observed in axotomized ganglia.
Juvenile myoclonic epilepsy (JME) is a common idiopathic generalized epileptic syndrome distinctively characterized by myoclonic jerks often associated to generalized tonic-clonic seizures (GTCS) and typical absence seizures. In spite of typical clinical and EEG profiles, JME is widely underdiagnosed. In the present study we retrospectively revised clinical and EEG data of JME patients referring to our Epilepsy Service. A diagnosis of JME could be made in 63 patients, that is 5.7% of all the epileptic patients referring to our Service and 25.9% of those suffering from an idiopathic generalized epilepsy. General features as well as modality of onset and course of the syndrome of our JME subjects were in accordance with literature. Regarding EEG findings, asymmetries were detected in 38.1% of cases. At referral to our Service only 31.7% of JME patients were correctly diagnosed. Main factors responsible for misdiagnosis were failure in eliciting a history of myoclonic jerks and misinterpretation of myoclonic jerks as simple partial seizures. EEG asymmetries were misleading in 13 patients. In conclusion, a correct JME diagnosis is strictly dependent on the knowledge of the syndrome leading the interviewer to look for and correctly interpret myoclonic jerks whereas EEG is just an ancillary diagnostic tool.
Alpha-2-macroglobulin (A2M) deletion polymorphism was recently reported to be associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD) in a way comparable to apolipoprotein E (APOE) polymorphism in a family-based study. However, the association of A2M deletion polymorphism with AD has not been consistently replicated in successive case-controlled studies. In order to evaluate whether this A2M polymorphism is associated with AD in Koreans, we examined the frequencies of the A2M deletion (D) allele and D-bearing genotypes in a group of Koreans composed of 100 sporadic AD patients and 203 control subjects. The frequency of the deletion (D) allele (P=0.046) was significantly different between the total group of AD patients and the controls, although the frequency of the D-bearing genotypes did not attain significance (P=0.078). When the subjects were stratified according to age at onset, there was significant difference in the frequencies of the D allele (P=0.044) and D-bearing genotypes (P=0.041) between late-onset AD patients (&gt; or =65 years) and the controls. However, no significant difference was observed between early-onset AD patients (&lt;65 years) and the control group. Additionally, when we divided the late-onset AD and control subjects by APOE epsilon4 status, the difference of the A2M D allelic frequency was significant only in the APOE epsilon4 negative subjects (P=0.015). In conclusion, our data suggests that the A2M D allele is a modest risk factor for late-onset sporadic AD in Koreans, and the AD risk conferred by the A2M D allele increases in APOE epsilon4 negative subjects.
The hippocampus is one of the brain regions involved in cognitive functions, including learning and memory. Extensive studies have unveiled how information is processed within this system. However, the mechanisms by which hippocampal activity is translated into action remain unsolved. One important target of hippocampal projections is the nucleus accumbens, which has been described as the motivation-to-action interface. Previous experiments indicate that these projections can control information processing in this region by setting neurons into a depolarized state. Here, we report that membrane potential transitions in nucleus accumbens neurons are correlated with electrical activity in the ventral hippocampus, suggesting that hippocampal neural activity can determine ensembles of active accumbens neurons.
Studies in rats have shown that intermittent footshock stress reinstates drug seeking after prolonged drug-free periods. Recently, we found that another environmental stressor, acute 1 d food deprivation, potently reinstates heroin seeking in rats. Here we report that this effect of food deprivation can be blocked by leptin, a hormone involved in the regulation of energy balance and food intake. Rats were trained to self-administer heroin (0.05-0.1 mg/kg, i.v., per infusion, three 3 hr sessions per day) for 8-10 d. The heroin-reinforced behavior was then extinguished for 10-13 d, during which lever presses had no reinforced consequences. Subsequently, rats were tested for reinstatement after 1 d of food deprivation (experiment 1) or exposure to intermittent footshock (15 min, 0.6 mA) and heroin priming injections (0.25 mg/kg, s.c.) (experiment 2). Acute food deprivation reinstated heroin seeking, an effect that was attenuated by leptin (2 or 4 microgram/rat, i.c.v.; two infusions, given 21 hr and 20-30 min before the start of the test sessions). In contrast, leptin had no effect on reinstatement of heroin seeking induced by intermittent footshock or priming injections of heroin. These data indicate that food deprivation can provoke relapse to heroin seeking via a leptin-dependent mechanism, which is not involved in relapse induced by footshock stress or reexposure to heroin.
In studies of the cellular basis of learning, much attention has focused on plasticity in synaptic transmission in terms of transmitter release and the number or responsiveness of neurotransmitter receptors. However, changes in postsynaptic excitability independent of receptors may also play an important role. Changes in excitability of a single interneuron in the leech, the S-cell, were measured during non-associative learning of the whole-body shortening reflex. This interneuron was chosen because it is known to be necessary for sensitization and full dishabituation of the shortening response. During sensitization, S-cell excitability increased, and this enhancement corresponded to facilitation of the shortening reflex and increased S-cell activity during the elicited response. During habituation training, there was a decrement in both the shortening reflex and the elicited S-cell activity, along with decreased S-cell excitability. Conversely, dishabituation facilitated both the shortening response and S-cell activity during shortening, with an accompanying increase in S-cell excitability. Bath application of 1-10 micrometer serotonin (5HT), a modulatory neurotransmitter that is critical for sensitization, for full dishabituation, and for associative learning, increased S-cell excitability. S-cell excitability also increased after stimulation of the serotonergic Retzius cells. However, focal application of serotonin onto the S-cell soma hyperpolarized the interneuron, and bath application of a lower dose of serotonin (0.1 micrometer) decreased excitability. The observed changes in postsynaptic excitability appear to contribute to non-associative learning, and modulatory neurotransmitters, such as serotonin, evidently help regulate excitability. Such changes in S-cell excitability may also be relevant for more complex, associative forms of learning.
We studied the role of acetylcholine (ACh) in creating learning-related long-lasting modifications in the rat cortex. Rats were trained to discriminate positive and negative cues in pairs of odors, until they demonstrated rule learning and entered a mode of high capability for learning of additional odors. We have previously reported that pyramidal neurons in olfactory (piriform) cortex from trained rats had reduced spike afterhyperpolarization (AHP) for 3 d after rule learning. In the present study we examined the mechanism underlying this long-lasting modification. The cholinergic agonist carbachol reduced both slow AHP and firing adaptation in neurons from pseudotrained rats, but had no effect on neurons from trained rats, suggesting pre-existing cholinergic effect. Intracellular application of the calcium chelator BAPTA abolished the difference in slow AHP and in adaptation between groups, suggesting that the difference resulted from reduction in the ACh-sensitive, Ca(2+)-dependent potassium current, I(AHP). At the behavioral level, application of the muscarinic blocker scopolamine before each training session delayed rule learning but had no effect on further acquisition of odor memory. We suggest that intense ACh activity during rule learning enhances neuronal excitability in the piriform cortex by reducing I(AHP) and that the effect outlasts the stage of rule learning, so that ACh activity is not crucial for further odor learning.
GABA(B) receptors are G-protein-coupled receptors that mediate slow synaptic inhibition in the brain and spinal cord. These receptors are heterodimers assembled from GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) subunits, neither of which is capable of producing functional GABA(B) receptors on homomeric expression. GABA(B1,) although able to bind GABA, is retained within the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) when expressed alone. In contrast, GABA(B2) is able to access the cell surface when expressed alone but does not couple efficiently to the appropriate effector systems or produce any detectable GABA-binding sites. In the present study, we have constructed chimeric and truncated GABA(B1) and GABA(B2) subunits to explore further GABA(B) receptor signaling and assembly. Removal of the entire C-terminal intracellular domain of GABA(B1) results in plasma membrane expression without the production of a functional GABA(B) receptor. However, coexpression of this truncated GABA(B1) subunit with either GABA(B2) or a truncated GABA(B2) subunit in which the C terminal has also been removed is capable of functional signaling via G-proteins. In contrast, transferring the entire C-terminal tail of GABA(B1) to GABA(B2) leads to the ER retention of the GABA(B2) subunit when expressed alone. These results indicate that the C terminal of GABA(B1) mediates the ER retention of this protein and that neither of the C-terminal tails of GABA(B1) or GABA(B2) is an absolute requirement for functional coupling of heteromeric receptors. Furthermore although GABA(B1) is capable of producing GABA-binding sites, GABA(B2) is of central importance in the functional coupling of heteromeric GABA(B) receptors to G-proteins and the subsequent activation of effector systems.
Reactive microglia associated with the beta-amyloid plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains initiate a sequence of inflammatory events integral to the disease process. We have observed that fibrillar beta-amyloid peptides activate a tyrosine kinase-based signaling response in primary mouse microglia and the human monocytic cell line, THP-1, resulting in production of neurotoxic secretory products, proinflammatory cytokines, and reactive oxygen species. We report that most of the amyloid-induced tyrosine kinase activity was stimulated after activation of Src family members such as Lyn. However, transduction of the signaling response required for increased production of the cytokines TNFalpha and IL1-beta was mediated by the nonreceptor tyrosine kinase, Syk. Additionally, beta-amyloid stimulated an NFkappaB-dependent pathway in parallel that was required for cytokine production. Importantly, TNFalpha generated by the monocytes and microglia was responsible for the majority of the neuorotoxic activity secreted by these cells after beta-amyloid stimulation but must act in concert with other factors elaborated by microglia to elicit neuronal death. Moreover, we observed that the neuronal loss was apoptotic in nature and involved increased neuronal expression of inducible nitric oxide synthase and subsequent peroxynitrite production. Selective inhibitors of inducible nitric oxide synthase effectively protected cells from toxicity associated with the microglial and monocytic secretory products. This study demonstrates a functional linkage between beta-amyloid-dependent activation of microglia and several characteristic markers of neuronal death occurring in Alzheimer's disease brains.
Rocker (gene symbol rkr), a new neurological mutant phenotype, was found in descendents of a chemically mutagenized male mouse. Mutant mice display an ataxic, unstable gait accompanied by an intention tremor, typical of cerebellar dysfunction. These mice are fertile and appear to have a normal life span. Segregation analysis reveals rocker to be an autosomal recessive trait. The overall cytoarchitecture of the young adult brain appears normal, including its gross cerebellar morphology. Golgi-Cox staining, however, reveals dendritic abnormalities in the mature cerebellar cortex characterized by a reduction of branching in the Purkinje cell dendritic arbor and a &quot;weeping willow&quot; appearance of the secondary branches. Using simple sequence length polymorphism markers, the rocker locus was mapped to mouse chromosome 8 within 2 centimorgans of the calcium channel alpha1a subunit (Cacna1a, formerly known as tottering) locus. Complementation tests with the leaner mutant allele (Cacna1a(la)) produced mutant animals, thus identifying rocker as a new allele of Cacna1a (Cacna1a(rkr)). Sequence analysis of the cDNA revealed rocker to be a point mutation resulting in an amino acid exchange: T1310K between transmembrane regions 5 and 6 in the third homologous domain. Important distinctions between rocker and the previously characterized alleles of this locus include the absence of aberrant tyrosine hydroxylase expression in Purkinje cells and the separation of the absence seizures (spike/wave type discharges) from the paroxysmal dyskinesia phenotype. Overall these findings point to an important dissociation between the seizure phenotypes and the abnormalities in catecholamine metabolism, and they emphasize the value of allelic series in the study of gene function.
Voltage-dependent G-protein inhibition of presynaptic Ca(2+) channels is a key mechanism for regulating synaptic efficacy. G-protein betagamma subunits produce such inhibition by binding to and shifting channel opening patterns from high to low open probability regimes, known respectively as &quot;willing&quot; and &quot;reluctant&quot; modes of gating. Recent macroscopic electrophysiological data hint that only N-type, but not P/Q-type channels can open in the reluctant mode, a distinction that could enrich the dimensions of synaptic modulation arising from channel inhibition. Here, using high-resolution single-channel recording of recombinant channels, we directly distinguished this core contrast in the prevalence of reluctant openings. Single, inhibited N-type channels manifested relatively infrequent openings of submillisecond duration (reluctant openings), which differed sharply from the high-frequency, millisecond gating events characteristic of uninhibited channels. By contrast, inhibited P/Q-type channels were electrically silent at the single-channel level. The functional impact of the differing inhibitory mechanisms was revealed in macroscopic Ca(2+) currents evoked with neuronal action potential waveforms (APWs). Fitting with a change in the manner of opening, inhibition of such N-type currents produced both decreased current amplitude and temporally advanced waveform, effects that would not only reduce synaptic efficacy, but also influence the timing of synaptic transmission. On the other hand, inhibition of P/Q-type currents evoked by APWs showed diminished amplitude without shape alteration, as expected from a simple reduction in the number of functional channels. Variable expression of N- and P/Q-type channels at spatially distinct synapses therefore offers the potential for custom regulation of both synaptic efficacy and synchrony, by G-protein inhibition.
Fast IPSCs in the brain are predominantly caused by presynaptic release of GABA that activates GABA(A) receptor (GABA(A)R) channels. The IPSCs are shaped by the gating and desensitization properties of postsynaptic GABA(A)Rs. Specifically, fast desensitization has been suggested to decrease IPSC amplitude and to increase IPSC duration by slowing deactivation; however, the mechanisms underlying desensitization, deactivation, and their coupling are poorly understood. Consistent with this suggestion, alpha1beta3gamma2L GABA(A)Rs desensitize with a prominent fast phase and deactivate slowly, whereas alpha1beta3delta GABA(A)Rs desensitize without a fast phase and deactivate rapidly. Using the concentration-jump technique applied to excised patches, we studied GABA(A)Rs containing chimeras or exchange mutants between delta and gamma2L subunits to gain insight into the structural bases for fast desensitization and its coupling to deactivation. We demonstrated that the N terminus and two adjacent residues (V233, Y234) in the first transmembrane domain (TM1) of the delta subunit were both required to abolish fast desensitization. Additionally, these residues in TM1 of the gamma2L subunit (Y235, F236) were critical for desensitized states to prolong deactivation after removal of GABA, because mutations resulted in accelerated deactivation despite unaltered desensitization time course. Interestingly, control of desensitization and deactivation was independent of the identity (gamma2L or delta subunit sequence) of TM2, indicating that structures related to the putative channel gate may play a less direct role in desensitization than previously suggested.
Recently, the cannabinoid (CB) receptor agonist anandamide (AEA) has been shown to excite perivascular terminals of primary sensory neurons via activation of the vanilloid receptor-1 (VR-1). To determine whether AEA stimulates central terminals of these neurons, via VR-1 activation, we studied the release of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)- and substance P (SP)-like immunoreactivities (LI) from slices of rat dorsal spinal cord. Mobilization of Ca(2+) in rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in culture was also studied. AEA (0.1-10 micrometer) increased the outflow of CGRP-LI and SP-LI from slices of the rat dorsal spinal cord in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner and increased [Ca(2+)](i) in capsaicin-sensitive cultured DRG neurons. Both effects of AEA were abolished by capsaicin pretreatment and by the VR-1 antagonist capsazepine but not affected by the CB receptor antagonists AM281 or AM630. Both neuropeptide release and Ca(2+) mobilization induced by electrical field stimulation (EFS) were inhibited by a low concentration of AEA (10 nm). Inhibition by AEA of EFS-induced responses was reversed by AM281 and AM630, but was not affected by capsazepine. Results indicate that stimulation of VR-1 with high concentrations of AEA excites central terminals of capsaicin-sensitive DRG neurons, thus causing neuropeptide release in the dorsal spinal cord. This novel activity opposes the CB receptor-mediated inhibitory action of low concentrations AEA. However, only if large amounts of endogenous AEA could be produced at the level of the dorsal spinal cord, they may not inhibit, but rather activate, nociceptive sensory neurons.
The KCNQ family of K(+) channels has been implicated in several cardiac and neurological disease pathologies. KCNQ2 (Q2) is a brain-derived gene, which in association with KCNQ3 (Q3) has been shown to provide a molecular basis for the neuronal M current. We have cloned a long (Q2L) and a short (Q2S) splice variant of the human KCNQ2 gene; these variants differ in their C-terminal tail. Northern blot analysis reveals that Q2L is preferentially expressed in differentiated neurons, whereas the Q2S transcript is prominent in fetal brain, undifferentiated neuroblastoma cells, and brain tumors. Q2L, transfected into mammalian cells, produces a slowly activating, noninactivating voltage-gated K(+) current that is blocked potently by tetraethylammonium (TEA; IC(50), 0.14 mm). Q2S on the other hand produces no measurable potassium currents. Cotransfection of Q2S with either Q2L, Q3, or Q2L/Q3 heteromultimers results in attenuation of K(+) current, the suppression being most profound for Q3. Inclusion of Q2S in the heteromultimer also positively shifts the voltage dependence of current activation and alters affinity for the TEA block, suggesting that under these conditions, some Q2S subunits incorporate into functional channels on the plasma membrane. In view of the crucial role of M currents in modulating neuronal excitability, our findings provide important insight into the functional consequences of differential expression of KCNQ2 splice variants: dampened potassium conductances in the developing brain could shape firing repertoires to provide cues for proliferation rather than differentiation.
Recently, a full length cDNA for the epsilon (epsilon) isoform of protein kinase C (PKC) was cloned and sequenced from a cDNA library for the horseshoe crab, Limulus polyphemus. This multifunctional enzyme has been implicated in the modulation of the choline cotransporter in Limulus and the epsilon isoform has been identified in homogenates from its central nervous system (CNS). RT-PCR has proven to be a very useful method for quantifying even a few molecules of mRNA in tissue samples. A modified competitive RT-PCR was used here to quantify a putative PKC epsilon mRNA in Limulus CNS preparations. First, we replaced normally used oligo dT and random primers generated from mRNA with a PKC epsilon specific (3' end) primer P4. Then we used modified nucleotides to extend sample life in storage and finally, we used only annealing and denaturing temperatures during PCR to reduce background. The modified method was used for the first time to quantify PKC epsilon mRNA from three distinct areas of the CNS in Limulus. Results revealed high levels of PKC epsilon mRNA in the corpora pedunculata, in the abdominal ganglia and in the brain ring. These results indicate that PKC epsilon mRNA is broadly distributed throughout the Limulus CNS. Importantly, this modified competitive RT-PCR technique was successfully applied to the quantitation of specific mRNA from Limulus nervous tissue for which no internal standard is available commercially.
Here we present a two-compartment in vitro model in which embryonic rat dorsal root ganglia (DRG) neurons are cultured separately from their target dorsal horn neurons. Although separated, synaptic contact can be established between the peripheral and central neurons since the system allows the DRG axons to project into the other compartment, which contains a network of dorsal horn neurons. The efficacy of the model was evaluated by immunocytochemical, calcium imaging and electrophysiological experiments. The results showed that a subpopulation of the DRG neurons had nociceptor characteristics and that these made synaptic contact with the dorsal horn network. Application of current pulses, according to the stimulus paradigm used, evoked action potentials in DRG axons selectively. This in turn gave rise to increased postsynaptic activity in the network of dorsal horn neurons. The model offers a high degree of efficiency since large numbers of DRG axons can be stimulated simultaneously, thus permitting recording of strong output responses from the dorsal horn neurons. This in vitro model provides a means for studying the mechanisms by which modulatory factors, such as immunoregulatory molecules, applied at either the PNS or the CNS level, can affect synaptic activity and nociceptive transmission in single neurons or network of neurons in the dorsal horn.
Cognate interactions between human adult microglia and activated T lymphocytes induce the production of inflammatory cytokines. Since this interaction can occur in a non-antigen-dependent manner, it is relevant to a variety of CNS diseases where activated T cells, regardless of specificities, come into contact with microglia; these disorders include multiple sclerosis, trauma, stroke and Alzheimer's disease. A model cell line would facilitate studies of the engagement between T cells and human adult microglia, since the latter are difficult to obtain in substantial quantity or frequency. This study shows that the PMA/IFN gamma-treated U937 cell line shows similarities to microglia in its interaction with activated T lymphocytes, in that the production of tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-4, IL-10 and IL-12 is induced. Morphological features and mechanisms of cytokine production resemble those observed in microglia--T cell co-cultures since CTLA-4 and CD40--CD40L blockades reduce TNF-alpha and IL-10 levels, while anti-CD23 inhibits IL-10 only in U937--T cell interactions. We propose that PMA/IFN gamma-treated U937 cells can serve as a model of human adult microglia to study cytokine generation in response to interactions with activated T cells.
GABA exists in at least two different intracellular pools, i.e., a cytoplasmic or metabolic pool and a vesicular pool. This study was performed to gain information about the quantitative role of the tricarboxylic acid (TCA) cycle in biosynthesis of GABA from glutamine when GABA was selectively released from either one of these two pools. Cultured cerebral cortical neurons (GABAergic) were incubated in a medium containing 0.5 mM [U-13C]glutamine and subsequently depolarized for release of GABA from either the vesicular or the cytoplasmic pool. The vesicular release was induced by 55 mM K+ in the presence of tiagabine, a nontransportable inhibitor of the plasma membrane GABA carriers, whereas the cytoplasmic release via a reversal of the GABA carrier was induced by exposure to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA; 50 microM) in the presence of (RS)-2-amino-3-(3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazol-4-yl)propionate (AMPA; 50 microM). Cell extracts were analyzed by 13C magnetic resonance spectroscopy subsequent to the incubation or depolarization. The percentage of GABA generated from glutamine via the TCA cycle decreased from 60% to 46% during depolarization, inducing GABA release from the cytoplasmic pool, whereas a significant change in this parameter was not observed after release from the vesicular pool. These observations indicate that, during release from the cytoplasmic pool, the fraction of GABA synthesized directly from glutamine without involvement of the TCA cycle is more pronounced than that occurring during resting conditions and when release occurs from the vesicular pool. This might be explained by differences in the regulation of the two isoforms of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD(65) and GAD(67)), which presumably play different roles in the maintenance of GABA in the two pools. Both isoforms were found in the cultured cerebral cortical neurons, as shown by Western blotting employing an antibody recognizing GAD(65) as well as GAD(67).
1. Electrophysiological and microinjection methods were used to examine the role of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase A (PKA) in regulating transmitter release at the squid giant synapse. 2. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) evoked by presynaptic action potentials were not affected by presynaptic injection of an exogenous active catalytic subunit of mammalian PKA. 3. In contrast, presynaptic injection of PKI-amide, a peptide that inhibits PKA with high potency and specificity, led to a reversible inhibition of EPSPs. 4. Injection of several other peptides that serve as substrates for PKA also reversibly inhibited neurotransmitter release. The ability of these peptides to inhibit release was correlated with their ability to serve as PKA substrates, suggesting that these peptides act by competing with endogenous substrates for phosphorylation by active endogenous PKA. 5. We suggest that the phosphorylation of PKA substrates is maintained at a relatively high state under basal conditions and that this tonic activity of PKA is to a large degree required for evoked neurotransmitter release at the squid giant presynaptic terminal.


In order to clarify the central mechanisms of thermal hyperalgesia produced by peripheral nerve injury, Fos protein-like immunoreactive (Fos-LI) cells in spinal dorsal horn neurons were studied in rats with chronic constriction nerve injury (CCI) following graded thermal stimulation of the hind paw. The graded thermal stimuli (cold: 5, 10 and 15 degrees C, heat: 42, 46 and 54 degrees C) were applied to the plantar surface of the operated hind paw 14 days after CCI or sham operation, and the number of Fos-LI cells in the spinal dorsal horn was quantified. Many Fos-LI cells were expressed in the superficial laminae of the spinal dorsal horn both in sham-operated and CCI rats following thermal stimulation. Fos-LI cells were mainly restricted to the medial half of the superficial laminae of the spinal dorsal horn, and were sparsely distributed in the deeper laminae. The number of Fos-LI cells in the superficial laminae (laminae I--II) of the dorsal horn was significantly higher in CCI rats after stimulation at 10 and 46 degrees C, but not at the other stimulating temperatures (5, 15, 42, and 54 degrees C) as compared to that in sham-operated rats. In laminae III-IV, the number of Fos-LI cells was significantly higher at all stimulus temperatures in CCI rats when compared to the sham-operated rats. No distribution difference of Fos-LI cells was observed between CCI and sham-operated rats in laminae V--VI. Thus, in the spinal dorsal horn of the CCI rats, there was a selective increase in thermal stimulus-induced Fos-LI cells in the superficial dorsal horn after stimulating at near noxious threshold intensities and a non-selective increase in Fos-LI cells in laminae III--IV after both noxious and innocuous thermal stimuli. The increase of Fos-LI cells in the superficial laminae may be related to hypersensitivity to noxious stimuli while the increase of Fos-LI cells in laminae III--IV may be related to an increased sensitivity to both noxious and innocuous stimuli that leads to increased reflex activity following nerve injury.
Somatostatin (SST) is in primary afferent neurons and reduces vascular and nociceptive components of inflammation. SST receptor (SSTR) agonists provide analgesia following intrathecal or epidural administration in humans, but neurotoxicity in the central nervous system (CNS) has been reported in experimental animals. With the rationale that targeting peripheral SSTRs would provide effective analgesia while avoiding CNS side effects, the goals of the present study are to investigate the presence of SSTRs on peripheral primary afferent fibers and determine the behavioral and physiological effects of the SST agonist octreotide (OCT) on formalin-induced nociception and bradykinin-induced primary afferent excitation and sensitization in the rat. The results demonstrate that: (1) SSTR2as are present on 11% of peripheral primary afferent sensory fibers in rat glabrous skin; (2) intraplantar injection of OCT reduces formalin-induced nociceptive behaviors; (3) OCT reduces, in a dose-dependent fashion, responses to thermal stimulation in C-mechanoheat sensitive fibers; and (4) OCT reduces the responses of C-mechanoheat fibers to bradykinin-induced excitation and sensitization to heat. Each of these actions can be reversed following co-injection of OCT with the SSTR antagonist cyclo-somatostatin (c-SOM). Thus, activation of peripheral SSTRs reduces both inflammatory pain and the activity of sensitized nociceptors, avoids deleterious CNS side effects and may be clinically useful in the treatment of pain of peripheral origin.
Individual differences in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, the type of pain and the method of drug administration can account for the response variability to analgesics. By integrating a clinical and an experimental approach, we report here that another important source of variability is represented by individual differences in non-specific (placebo) activation of endogenous opioid systems. In the first part of this study, we analyzed the effectiveness of buprenorphine, tramadol, ketorolac and metamizol in the clinical setting, where the placebo effect was completely eliminated by means of hidden infusions. We found that the hidden injections were significantly less effective and less variable compared with open injections (in full view of the subject), suggesting that part of the response variability was due to non-specific factors (placebo). Since we could not administer the opioid antagonist, naloxone, to these patients, in the second part of this study, we induced experimental ischemic arm pain in healthy volunteers and found that, as occurred in clinical pain, the analgesic response to a hidden injection of the non-opioid ketorolac was less effective and less variable than an open injection. Most importantly, we obtained the same effects by adding naloxone to an open injection of ketorolac, thus blocking the opioid-mediated placebo component of analgesia. These findings indicate that both the psychological (hidden injection) and pharmacological (naloxone) blockade of the placebo response reduce the effectiveness of, and the response variability to, analgesic drugs. Therefore, an important source of response variability to analgesics appears to be due to differences in non-specific activation of endogenous opioid systems.
There have been a number of studies on smooth pursuit eye movement (SPEM) dysfunction in schizophrenia. However, the association between SPEM dysfunction and particular clinical symptoms remains unclear. We examined SPEM dysfunction in relation to schizophrenic symptoms using both the positive/negative dichotomy and the three-syndrome model. Subjects included 78 patients with schizophrenia and 60 healthy control subjects. SPEM performance was indexed by root mean square error. Symptom profiles were assessed using the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale (PANSS), and the three-primary syndromes were identified by factor analysis of PANSS ratings (Psychomotor poverty: deficit negative symptoms; Disorganization: defined primarily by thought disorder; and Reality distortion: hallucinations and delusions). Compared with controls, the schizophrenia group showed significant impairment in global SPEM function. The three-syndrome approach produced more specific findings than the dichotomous model. Of the three syndromes, only the Disorganization dimension showed a significant association with increased global SPEM dysfunction. The specificity of SPEM dysfunction to Disorganization was verified in comparisons among schizophrenia subgroups and the control group. By contrast, the general domains of positive and negative symptoms were both found to be modestly associated with SPEM dysfunction. The separation of positive and negative symptoms that contribute to Disorganization from those that define Reality Distortion and Psychomotor Poverty has revealed significant new associations between SPEM and schizophrenic symptoms. These findings are interpreted in light of the proposal that the Disorganization syndrome is the central form of pathology in schizophrenia.



Normal aging is associated with a significant reduction in cognitive function across primate species. However, the structural and molecular basis for this age-related decline in neural function has yet to be defined clearly. Extensive cell loss does not occur as a consequence of normal aging in human and nonhuman primate species. More recent studies have demonstrated significant reductions in functional neuronal markers in subcortical brain regions in primates as a consequence of aging, including dopaminergic and cholinergic systems, although corresponding losses in cortical innervation from these neurons have not been investigated. In the present study, we report that aging is associated with a significant 25% reduction in cortical innervation by cholinergic systems in rhesus monkeys (P &lt; 0.001). Further, these age-related reductions are ameliorated by cellular delivery of human nerve growth factor to cholinergic somata in the basal forebrain, restoring levels of cholinergic innervation in the cortex to those of young monkeys (P = 0.89). Thus, (i) aging is associated with a significant reduction in cortical cholinergic innervation; (ii) this reduction is reversible by growth-factor delivery; and (iii) growth factors can remodel axonal terminal fields at a distance, representing a nontropic action of growth factors in modulating adult neuronal structure and function (i.e., administration of growth factors to cholinergic somata significantly increases axon density in terminal fields). These findings are relevant to potential clinical uses of growth factors to treat neurological disorders.
Sequences that control translation of mRNA may play critical roles in regulating protein levels. One such element is the internal ribosome entry site (IRES). We previously showed that a 9-nt segment in the 5' leader sequence of the mRNA encoding Gtx homeodomain protein could function as an IRES. To identify other short sequences with similar properties, we designed a selection procedure that uses a retroviral vector to express dicistronic mRNAs encoding enhanced green and cyan fluorescent proteins as the first and second cistrons, respectively. Expression of the second cistron was dependent upon the intercistronic sequences and was indicative of IRES activity. B104 cells were infected with two retroviral libraries that contained random sequences of 9 or 18 nt in the intercistronic region. Cells expressing both cistrons were sorted, and sequences recovered from selected cells were reassayed for IRES activity in a dual luciferase dicistronic mRNA. Two novel IRESes were identified by this procedure, and both contained segments with complementarity to 18S rRNA. When multiple copies of either segment were linked together, IRES activities were dramatically enhanced. Moreover, these synthetic IRESes were differentially active in various cell types. These properties are similar to those of the previously identified 9-nt IRES module from Gtx mRNA. These results provide further evidence that short nucleotide sequences can function as IRESes and support the idea that some cellular IRESes may be composed of shorter functional modules. The ability to identify IRES modules with specific expression properties may be useful in the design of vectors for biotechnology and gene therapy.
The lectin peanut agglutinin (PNA) and antibodies to short (S)- and medium to long wavelength (M/L)-sensitive cones were utilized in order to define the relative distributions of the two spectral types of cone across the domestic cat's retina. These values, in turn, were compared to those from retinas that had been experimentally detached from the retinal pigment epithelium. The pattern of cone distribution in the normal cat's retina is established by the preponderance of M-cones that constitute between 80% and 90% of all cones. Their peak density of over 26,000 cells/mm(2) resides at the area centralis. Though M-cone density decreases smoothly to the ora serrata where they have densities as low as 2,200 cells/mm(2), the density decrease along the nasotemporal axis is slower,creating a horizontal region of higher cone density. S-cones constitute between 10% and 20% of all cones, the number being quite variable even between individual animals of similar age. The highest S-cone densities are found in three distinct locations: at the superior far periphery near the ora serrata, immediately at the area centralis itself, and in a broad zone comprising the central and lower half of the inferior hemiretina. S-cones in the cat retina do not form a regular geometrical array at any eccentricity. As for the detached cat retina, the density of labeled S-cone outer segments (OS) decreases rapidly as early as 1 day postdetachment and continues decreasing to day 28 when the density of cones labeling with anti-S opsin has dropped to less than 10% of normal. This response points to a profound difference between rods and cones; essentially all rods, including those without OS, continue to express their opsin even in long-term detachments. The implications of these results for visual recovery after retinal reattachment are discussed.
Emotional facial expression can be discriminated despite extensive lesions of striate cortex. Here we report differential performance with recognition of facial stimuli in the intact visual field depending on simultaneous presentation of congruent or incongruent stimuli in the blind field. Three experiments were based on inter-hemispheric summation. Redundant stimulation in the blind field led to shorter latencies for stimulus detection in the intact field. Recognition of the expression of a half-face expression in the intact field was faster when the other half of the face presented to the blind field had a congruent expression. Finally, responses to the expression of whole faces to the intact field were delayed for incongruent facial expressions presented in the blind field. These results indicate that the neuro-anatomical pathways (extra-striate cortical and sub-cortical) sustaining inter-hemispheric summation can operate in the absence of striate cortex.
This study investigated the effects of pretest injection of modafinil on delayed spontaneous alternation rates (SA) used to evaluate working memory in C57 Bl/6 mice. In a first experiment, systemic modafinil at 64 mg/kg, but not at 8 mg/kg or 32 mg/kg doses produced a significant increase of alternation scores (intertrial interval (ITI) 60s) when compared with controls. In a second experiment, modafinil (64 mg/kg) enhanced the alternation rates mainly at long (60 s and 180 s) but not at short (5 s) ITIs. Exploratory latencies and activity in a four hole-board apparatus were not modified by modafinil administration. These experiments are the first to demonstrate a delay-dependent working memory-enhancing effect of modafinil.
Neural processing of stereoscopic depth is conventionally associated with the dorsal (spatial) pathway in primate visual cortex. The role of depth information in the ventral (object) pathway has been less certain. We found prominent tuning for stereoscopic disparity in area V4, an intermediate stage in the ventral pathway. Eighty percent of the cells in our sample exhibited significant disparity tuning over the -1.0 degree to 1.0 degree range, and the majority showed &gt; 2:1 response differences. Tuning function shapes were similar to those reported previously in other visual areas. We observed a significant tuning bias towards crossed (near) disparities. This could reflect an emphasis in the ventral pathway on foreground objects or parts of objects projecting towards the viewer.
The temporal lobe regions involved in memory retrieval were examined using fMRI. During an associative recognition test, participants made memory judgments about the study color of previously presented drawings of objects, and during item recognition tests they made old/new judgments about previously studied objects or new objects. Associative recognition compared with old item recognition led to activations in bilateral hippocampal and parahippocampal regions, as well as in the left middle occipital gyrus. Old item recognition compared with new item recognition led to activation in the left middle occipital gyrus and the left middle temporal gyrus, and relative deactivations in bilateral hippocampal regions. The results indicate that partially distinct temporal lobe regions are involved during recognition memory for item and associative information.
Developmental dyslexia, characterized by difficulty in reading, has been associated with phonological and orthographic processing deficits. fMRI was performed on dyslexic and normal-reading children (8-12 years old) during phonological and orthographic tasks of rhyming and matching visually presented letter pairs. During letter rhyming, both normal and dyslexic reading children had activity in left frontal brain regions, whereas only normal-reading children had activity in left temporo-parietal cortex. During letter matching, normal-reading children showed activity throughout extrastriate cortex, especially in occipito-parietal regions, whereas dyslexic children had little activity in extrastriate cortex during this task. These results indicate dyslexia may be characterized in childhood by disruptions in the neural bases of both phonological and orthographic processes important for reading.
Early endosomal antigen 1 (EEA1) is known to be a marker of early endosomes and in cultured hippocampal neurons it preferentially localizes to the dendritic but not the axonal compartment. We show in cultured dorsal root ganglia and superior cervical ganglia neurons that EEA1 localizes to the cell bodies and the neurites of both sensory and sympathetic neurons. We then show in vivo using a ligated rat sciatic nerve that EEA1 significantly accumulates on the proximal side and not on the distal side of the ligation. This suggests that EEA1 is transported in the anterograde direction in axons either as part of the homeostatic process or to the nerve ligation site in response to nerve injury.
The localisation of particulate and soluble guanylyl cyclase was studied in hippocampal astrocytes. Counting the colocalisation of cGMP immunoreactivity with the astrocytic marker glial fibrillary acidic protein after stimulation of brain slices with sodium nitroprusside (0.1 mM) or atrial natriuretic peptide (100 nM), we were able to show that at least 67% of the hippocampal astrocytes contained both guanylyl cyclase isoforms. In addition, it was shown that a large number of atrial natriuretic peptide, brain-derived natriuretic peptide or sodium nitroprusside responsive cells contain the beta1-subunit of the soluble guanylyl cyclase. The results show that, in at least a subset of hippocampal astrocytes, soluble and particulate guanylyl cyclases are simultaneously present in the same cells.
Methylmercury (MeHg) is highly neurotoxic with an apparent dose-related latency period between time of exposure and the appearance of symptoms. Astrocytes are known targets for MeHg toxicity and a site of mercury localization within the central nervous system (CNS). Glutamine synthetase (GS) is an enzyme localized predominately within astrocytes. GS converts two potentially toxic molecules, glutamate and ammonia, to the relatively non-toxic amino acid, glutamine. During prolonged exposure to MeHg, inorganic mercury (I-Hg) accumulates within the brain, suggesting in situ demethylation of MeHg to I-Hg. To determine if speciation of mercurials would differentially alter GS activity and expression, neonatal rat primary astrocyte cultures were exposed to MeHg or mercuric chloride (HgCl2) for 1 or 6 h. MeHg produced no changes in GS activity, protein, or mRNA at any time or dose tested. In contrast, HgCl2 produced a dose dependent decrease in astrocytic GS activity at both 1 and 6 h. There were no changes in GS protein or mRNA levels following HgCl2 exposure. Additional studies were carried out to determine GS activity in cell lysates incubated with HgCl2 or MeHg. In cell lysates, HgCl2 was three-times more potent than MeHg in inhibiting GS activity. The inhibition of GS activity in cell lysates by HgCl2 was reversed by the addition of dithiothreitol (DTT), while DTT did not restore GS activity following MeHg. These data suggest that astrocytic GS activity is not inhibited by physiologically relevant concentrations of MeHg, but is inhibited by I-Hg, which is present in CNS following chronic MeHg exposure.
Raphe pallidus/parapyramidal neurons control cutaneous vasoconstriction induced by noxious stimuli. To determine whether they mediate forebrain-induced cutaneous vasoconstriction, we assessed changes in ear pinna blood flow elicited by electrical stimulation of amygdala and hypothalamus before and after injection of muscimol into the raphe/parapyramidal region. We compared ear flow with simultaneously recorded mesenteric flow. Experiments were performed in rabbits anesthetized with urethane (1.25-1.5 g/kg), paralysed and mechanically ventilated. Amygdala stimulation reduced skin conductance from 0.32+/-0.06 to 0.10+/-0.02 cm/s per mmHg (P&lt;0.05, n=9), without effect on mesenteric conductance. Hypothalamic stimulation caused vasoconstriction in both cutaneous and mesenteric beds (conductances fell from 0.27+/-0.05 to 0.05+/-0.02 cm/s per mmHg and from 0.27+/-0.06 to 0.14+/-0.04 cm/s per mmHg (P&lt;0.05, n=9), respectively). Muscimol microinjection (5 nmol in 100 nl) to raphe/parapyramidal region eliminated amygdala- and hypothalamus-induced skin vasoconstriction (pre-stimulus conductance 0.42+/-0.13 and 0.41+/-0.11 cm/s per mmHg, post-stimulus 0.41+/-0.12 and 0.39+/-0.10 cm/s per mmHg, respectively), but not hypothalamically-induced mesenteric vasoconstriction (pre-stimulus 0.29+/-0.06, post-stimulus 0.16+/-0.03 cm/s per mmHg, P&lt;0.05, n=8). The latter was strongly attenuated by bilateral injection of muscimol to the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Data suggest that descending hypothalamo-spinal and amygdala-spinal pathways constricting the cutaneous vascular bed relay in the raphe/parapyramidal area. A relay in the rostral ventrolateral medulla contributes substantially to mesenteric vasoconstriction elicited from the hypothalamus.
Migraine headache is proposed to be mediated by nitric oxide (NO). Suitable mechanisms for eliciting increases in brain NO concentration in migraineurs have not yet been identified, although, animal models highlight cortical spreading depression (CSD) as a potential candidate. These studies have focused on CSD-associated NO release at highly acute time points (min-hours) and have not employed markers of NO metabolism with direct clinical application e.g. cGMP. The current study evaluated changes in plasma cGMP concentrations 3 h, 24 h and 3 days post-CSD and compared these to cortical and brainstem cGMP concentrations at 3 days. Moreover, this study also examined the effect of sumatriptan, a clinically effective antimigraine agent, and tonabersat (SB-220453) a potential novel antimigraine agent, on any observed changes in cGMP. Following pre-treatment with vehicle (n=3), sumatriptan (300 microg kg(-1) i.v, n=3) or tonabersat (SB-220453 10 mg kg(-1) i.p., n=3), CSD was evoked in anaesthetised rats by a 6-min KCl application to the parietal cortex. In the vehicle-treated group a median of eight depolarisations, were observed. Sumatriptan had no effect on the number of depolarisations, whereas tonabersat significantly reduced the number of events (median=2). No depolarisation events were observed throughout the recording period in the sham group. Following KCl application plasma cGMP concentrations were reduced up to 24 h post-CSD, but not significantly different from sham animals at 3 days. CSD in vehicle-treated animals produced a highly significant elevation in cGMP concentration in the brain stem 3 days after application of KCl. cGMP concentration increased 2.3-fold from 68+/-8 fmol/mg in sham animals (n=3) to 158+/-28 fmol/mg in the vehicle group. This increase in brain stem cGMP was abolished by tonabersat pre-treatment but not by sumatriptan.
We have recorded human medial temporal lobe electrocorticogram during wakefulness and natural sleep in epileptic patients with subdural electrodes. From these recordings, we have found gamma (30-150 Hz) [Neuroscience 90 (1999) 1149] and beta-1 (10-20 Hz) [NeuroReport 10 (1999) 3055] activities during wakefulness in human medial temporal lobe. In this paper, we will report changes of these frequencies across wake and natural sleep. Electrocorticograms during wake, slow wave sleep and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep were subjected to fast Fourier transformation analysis. During wake two spectral enhancements, beta-1 and gamma, were consistently observed across subjects. In the raw signal, beta-1 was observed as a regular rhythmic oscillation. In slow wave sleep, the beta-1 peak disappeared but gamma remained, although slightly reduced in power. During REM sleep, beta-1 appeared again, but the peak frequency was significantly lower than during wake (mean frequency: wake=16.6, REM=12.8 Hz). The gamma peak was also present in REM sleep. It has been known that the rhythmic slow activity (RSA) or theta is observed in some animals. However, it is unclear whether the human hippocampus displays similar activity. Since human beta-1 appears during wake and REM sleep when RSA is observed in other species, and since beta-1 is also a regular rhythmic oscillation, we propose that beta-1 may be the functional equivalent of hippocampal RSA (theta) observed in some animals. Functional significances of the gamma activity should be further investigated.
The mechanisms by which neural stem cells give rise to neurons, astrocytes, or oligodendrocytes are beginning to be elucidated. However, it is not known how the specification of one cell lineage results in the suppression of alternative fates. We find that in addition to inducing neurogenesis, the bHLH transcription factor neurogenin (Ngn1) inhibits the differentiation of neural stem cells into astrocytes. While Ngn1 promotes neurogenesis by functioning as a transcriptional activator, Ngn1 inhibits astrocyte differentiation by sequestering the CBP-Smad1 transcription complex away from astrocyte differentiation genes, and by inhibiting the activation of STAT transcription factors that are necessary for gliogenesis. Thus, two distinct mechanisms are involved in the activation and suppression of gene expression during cell-fate specification by neurogenin.
Previous reports have shown that catecholamine regulated proteins (CRP) are central nervous system specific and covalently bind to catecholamines. In the present study, we report the subcellular localization and differential modulation of a 40-kDa catecholamine regulated protein (CRP40) by dopamine D1 and D2 receptor antagonists. CRP40 was found to be localized with nuclear and synaptosomal/mitochondrial and fractions. Chronic treatment with dopamine D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol in rats significantly increased the levels of CRP40 in the striatum, whereas, chronic R(+)-7-chloro-8-hydroxy-3-methyl-1-phenyl-2,3,4,5-tetrahydro-1H-3-benzazepine (SCH 23390) dopamine D1 receptor antagonist administration significantly decreased striatal CRP40 levels. Moreover, acute haloperidol treatment did not alter the levels of CRP40 in any of the brain regions. Despite a sequence homology with the heat shock protein 70 (HSP70), levels of HSP70 remained unchanged after either drug treatment, suggesting a distinct function of CRP40 than HSP70. These results further suggest that CRP40 play an important role in dopaminergic neuronal function and the dopamine D1 receptor-mediated signaling pathway may be involved in the regulation of CRP40.
In this study, we examined the contribution made by CD45 to B cell antigen receptor (BCR)-induced activation of mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) family members. We found that CD45 negatively regulated BCR-induced c-Jun NH(2)-terminal kinase (JNK) and p38 activation in immature WEHI-231 cells, whereas in mature BAL-17 cells, CD45 positively regulated JNK and p38 activation and negatively regulated extracellular signal-regulated kinase activity. Furthermore, cooperative action of JNK and p38 dictated BCR-induced inhibition of growth. Thus, CD45 appears to differentially regulate BCR-induced activation of MAPK members, and can exert opposing effects on JNK and p38 in different cellular milieu, controlling the B cell fate.
Haloperidol and clozapine have been widely used to alleviate schizophrenic symptoms, but their physiological effects in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) are not known. Effects of haloperidol and clozapine on single unit activity were investigated in the medial PFC of anesthetized rats. Injection (intraperitoneal) of haloperidol (1 mg/kg) or clozapine (20 mg/kg) significantly elevated discharge rates of PFC neurons. Considering that hypofrontality is one characteristic of schizophrenic symptoms, these results raise the possibility that enhancement of PFC neural activity contributes to therapeutic effects of haloperidol and clozapine.
Self-paced voluntary movements are reflected in scalp recordings of electrical potentials. Here the cerebral sources of the electrical wave forms related to human mouth movement and vocalization were identified non-invasively. Seven healthy volunteers performed vocalization and silent puckering movements. Movement-related cortical potentials (MRCP) were recorded with 30 electrodes. Source analysis of 404 ms window of MRCP revealed eight sources for vocalization and seven sources for puckering. A left frontal source (not present in puckering) accounted for 23% of the vocalization activity. Other active brain areas were the same in the two tasks. This evidence supports the idea that the left frontal lobe is activated before vocalization but not before motor act alone.
Interactions between selective opioid agonists acting at mu- and delta-opioid receptors were evaluated by co-administering a low-effective dose of the selective mu-opioid receptor agonist ohmefentanyl (OMF) with sequentially increasing doses of the selective delta-opioid receptor agonist [D-Pen(2), D-Pen(5)] enkephalin (DPDPE). Microphysiometer was used to measure the extracellular acidification rate (ECAR) of living cells in real-time, which reflected the functional activity after agonist-receptor binding. The synergy (i.e. a more than additive effect) was observed with combinations of these two opioid agonists on differentiated SH-SY5Y cells functionally expressing both mu- and delta-opioid receptors. The demonstration of the synergy suggests that the agonists of the subtypes of opioid receptors can interact at cellular level.
It has been found that heterodimers of kappa- and delta-opioid receptors can occur in vitro, but it has been unclear whether they also occur in intact animals. In the present study we examined whether kappa-delta heterodimers might occur in vivo by staining for these receptors with two-color fluorescence immunocytochemistry. Sections of rat spinal cord were double-stained using rabbit anti-kappa opioid receptor combined with rat anti-delta-opioid receptor. It was found that axons in the superficial dorsal horn of the spinal cord were double-labeled. In addition, structures within axonal varicosities were sometimes double-labeled. We conclude that single axons, and single structures within axons, express both kappa- and delta-opioid receptors. These observations are consistent with heterodimers of these receptors existing in vivo.
Neurological and psychiatric illnesses are among the most common and most serious health problems in developed societies. The most promising advances in neurological and psychiatric diseases will require advances in neuroscience for their elucidation, prevention, and treatment. Technical advances have improved methods for identifying brain regions involved during various types of cognitive activity, for tracing connections between parts of the brain, for visualizing individual neurons in living brain preparations, for recording the activities of neurons, and for studying the activity of single-ion channels and the receptors for various neurotransmitters. The most significant advances in the past 20 years have come from the application to the nervous system of molecular genetics and molecular cell biology. Discovery of the monogenic disorder responsible for Huntington disease and understanding its pathogenesis can serve as a paradigm for unraveling the much more complex, polygenic disorders responsible for such psychiatric diseases as schizophrenia, manic depressive illness, and borderline personality disorder. Thus, a new degree of cooperation between neurology and psychiatry is likely to result, especially for the treatment of patients with illnesses such as autism, mental retardation, cognitive disorders associated with Alzheimer and Parkinson disease that overlap between the 2 disciplines.
Adenylyl cyclases possess complex structures like those of the ATP binding cassette (ABC) transporter family, which includes the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator, the P-glycoprotein, and ATP-sensitive K(+) channels [1-4]. These structures comprise a cytosolic N terminus followed by two tandem six-transmembrane cassettes, each associated with a highly homologous (ATP binding) cytosolic loop [5-8]. The catalytic domains, which are located in the two large cytoplasmic loops, are highly conserved and well studied. The crystal structure of these domains has even been described recently [9, 10]. However, nothing is known of the function or organization of the 12 transmembrane segments. In the present study we adopted a range of strategies including live-cell fluorescence resonance energy transfer (FRET) microscopy, coimmunoprecipitation, and functional assays of various truncated and substituted, fluorescently-tagged molecules to analyze the trafficking and activity of this molecule. When expressed as individual peptides, the two transmembrane domains - largely independently of any cytosolic region - formed a tight complex that was delivered to the plasma membrane. This cooperation between the two intact transmembrane domains was essential and sufficient to target the enzyme to the plasma membrane of the cell. The extracellular loop between the ninth and tenth transmembrane segments, which contains an N-glycosylation site, was also necessary. Furthermore, the interaction between the two transmembrane clusters played a critical role in bringing together the cytosolic catalytic domains to express functional adenylyl cyclase activity in the intact cell.
The dystrophin-associated protein (DAP) complex spans the sarcolemmal membrane linking the cytoskeleton to the basement membrane surrounding each myofiber. Defects in the DAP complex have been linked previously to a variety of muscular dystrophies. Other evidence points to a role for the DAP complex in formation of nerve-muscle synapses. We show that myotubes differentiated from dystroglycan-/- embryonic stem cells are responsive to agrin, but produce acetylcholine receptor (AChR) clusters which are two to three times larger in area, about half as dense, and significantly less stable than those on dystroglycan+/+ myotubes. AChRs at neuromuscular junctions are similarly affected in dystroglycan-deficient chimeric mice and there is a coordinate increase in nerve terminal size at these junctions. In culture and in vivo the absence of dystroglycan disrupts the localization to AChR clusters of laminin, perlecan, and acetylcholinesterase (AChE), but not rapsyn or agrin. Treatment of myotubes in culture with laminin induces AChR clusters on dystroglycan+/+, but not -/- myotubes. These results suggest that dystroglycan is essential for the assembly of a synaptic basement membrane, most notably by localizing AChE through its binding to perlecan. In addition, they suggest that dystroglycan functions in the organization and stabilization of AChR clusters, which appear to be mediated through its binding of laminin.
Previous anatomic studies of the geniculocortical projection showed that ocular dominance columns emerge by 3 weeks of age in cat visual cortex, but recent optical imaging experiments have revealed a pattern of physiologic eye dominance by the end of the second week of life. We used two methods to search for an anatomic correlate of this early functional ocular dominance pattern. First, retrograde labeling of lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) inputs to areas of cortex preferentially activated by one eye showed that the geniculocortical projection was already partially segregated by eye at postnatal day 14 (P14). Second, transneuronal label of geniculocortical afferents in flattened sections of cortex after a tracer injection into one eye showed a periodic pattern at P14 but not at P7. In the classic model for the development of ocular dominance columns, initially overlapping geniculocortical afferents segregate by means of an activity-dependent competitive process. Our data are consistent with this model but suggest that ocular dominance column formation begins between P7 and P14, approximately a week earlier than previously believed. The functional and anatomic data also reveal an early developmental bias toward contralateral eye afferents. This initial developmental bias is not consistent with a strictly Hebbian model for geniculocortical afferent segregation. The emergence of ocular dominance columns before the onset of the critical period for visual deprivation also suggests that the mechanisms for ocular dominance column formation may be partially distinct from those mediating plasticity later in life.


To obtain insight into the molecular mechanisms underlying the metabolism and functions of endogenous d-serine, we have explored d-serine-regulated transcripts in the neocortex of the infant rat treated with acute d-serine administration by using an RNA fingerprinting technique. Cloning and sequence analysis of the corresponding cDNAs to the identified transcripts have revealed that the dsr-1 (d-serine responsive transcript-1) mRNA is presumed to contain a novel sequence at the 5'-region, while the 631-base nucleotide sequence of its 3'-end is identical with that of rat M9.2 mRNA encoding a subunit of vacuolar type proton-ATPase. The predicted two open reading frames and their deduced amino acid sequences suggest that the dsr-1 product has a membrane spanning domain. The dsr-1 transcript was detected as a single band around 2.1 kb on the Northern blot. RT-PCR analyses have indicated that the dsr-1 transcript is expressed predominantly in the brain, lung, and testis, and that acute intraperitoneal injection of d-serine significantly upregulates dsr-1 expression in the neocortex 3 and 15 h later without affecting the levels of the M9.2 gene transcript. These results suggest that dsr-1 products may be involved in the d-serine-related metabolic or signaling pathways in mammalian brains.
Cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (cdk5) is believed to be involved in the phosphorylation of tau protein. We studied the expression of the protein levels of cdk5 and the neuron-specific cdk5 activator p35 as well as cdk5 activity and tau phosphorylation during apoptosis in rat hippocampal neuronal cultures. We observed that in cells treated with etoposide, cyclosporin A, 4-hydroxynonenal (HNE), or okadaic acid, there was an early reduction in the protein levels of p35, and later also in cdk5 with all treatments except etoposide. The level of p25, a calpain cleavage product of p35 suggested to have increased ability to activate cdk5, was reduced paralleling the amount of p35. The changes in the p35 and p25 protein levels coincided with decreases in cdk5 activity and tau phosphorylation after treatment with HNE and etoposide. However, the relationship between the p35 and p25 levels and cdk5 activity was complex. We conclude that neuronal apoptosis is accompanied with a decrease in the levels of p35, p25, and cdk5, and tau phosphorylation. These changes may reinforce the neuronal damage.
Several studies have shown that the central nucleus of amygdala is involved in cardiovascular regulation. The control of this function may be mediated by activation of the ventrolateral medulla neurons that project to preganglionic neurons located in the intermediolateral nucleus of the spinal cord. The aim of the present study was to examine whether stimulation of the central nucleus of amygdala activated ventrolateral medulla neurons projecting to the intermediolateral nucleus. For this purpose, the injection of a retrograde tracer, the cholera toxin b subunit (CTb), into the intermediolateral nucleus of the T2 segment was combined with immunohistochemical detection of Fos protein following chemical stimulation of the central nucleus of amygdala. Results showed that retrogradely labeled neurons were found throughout the ventrolateral medulla. Moreover, chemical stimulation of the central nucleus of amygdala induced: (1) a decrease of arterial blood pressure; (2) an expression of Fos protein mainly in sub-populations of neurons located in the intermediate and caudal parts of the ventrolateral medulla; (3) a significantly higher number of double labeled neurons (CTb-immunoreactive/Fos-immunoreactive) in the rostral part of the ventrolateral medulla than in the other parts of this region. These results show that the central nucleus of amygdala influences the activity of brainstem neurons projecting to the intermediolateral nucleus. Data were discussed in terms of descending amygdalofugal pathways involved in the hypotension.
Potassium chloride (KCl)-depolarization has been used to study the properties of L-type Ca2+ channel-mediated signal transduction in hippocampal neurons. Calcium influx through L-type Ca2+ channels stimulates a second messenger pathway that transactivates genes under the regulatory control of the Ca2+-and cyclic AMP-responsive element (CRE). Here, we show that in striatal neurons, but not in hippocampal neurons, CRE binding protein (CREB) phosphorylation and CRE-mediated gene expression after KCl-depolarization depends on functional NMDA receptors. This difference in NMDA receptor dependence is not due to different properties of L-type Ca2+ channels in either neuronal type, but rather to different neuron-intrinsic properties. Despite this variation, the second messenger pathway activated by KCl requires Ca2+/calmodulin (CaM) kinase for CREB phosphorylation in both neuronal types. We conclude that depolarization by KCl works differently in striatal and hippocampal neurons.
Since copper ions catalyse the oxidation of nitroxyl anion to nitric oxide, we investigated whether this might explain the vasodilator actions of the nitroxyl generator, Angeli's salt, in rat aorta. Parallel studies were conducted with S-nitroso-N-acetyl-D,L-penicillamine (SNAP), since Cu ions catalyse the liberation of nitric oxide from this compound. Copper sulphate enhanced relaxation to Angeli's salt and SNAP but this resulted from reduced destruction of nitric oxide by superoxide rather than from enhanced generation of nitric oxide, since it was mimicked by superoxide dismutase and by the superoxide dismutase mimetic, MnCl2. Results with the selective Cu2+ chelators, neocuproine and bathocuproine disulfonate, and the Cu2+ chelators, EDTA, cuprizone and diethyldithiocarbamate, confirmed an important role for endogenous copper in mediating relaxation to SNAP but suggested only a minor role for Angeli's salt. Relaxation to Angeli's salt was, however, powerfully blocked by proadifen, suggesting an important role for cytochrome P450.
(S)-(-)-3-(3-(methylsulfonyl)phenyl)-1-propylpiperidine ((-)-OSU6162) is a phenylpiperidine derivative which exhibits low affinity to the dopamine D2 receptor in vitro. However, in vivo, positron emission tomography scanning studies show that the compound displaces the selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist, raclopride. We have evaluated, in this study, the effect of (-)-OSU6162, on L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA)-induced dyskinesias in a primate model of Parkinson's disease. Five 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-treated cynomolgus monkeys with a stable parkinsonian syndrome and reproducible dyskinesias to L-DOPA were used in this study. The monkeys were housed in observation cages equipped with an electronic motility monitoring system. They were injected subcutaneously (s.c.) with L-DOPA methyl ester (125 mg per animal) plus benserazide (50 mg per animal; L-DOPA/benserazide) alone or in combination with (-)-OSU6162 (1.0, 3.0, 6.0 or 10 mg/kg, s.c.). Subcutaneous injection of sterile saline was used as control. L-DOPA/benserazide increased locomotion and improved parkinsonism but also induced dyskinesias. Co-administration of (-)-OSU6162 with L-DOPA/benserazide produced a significant reduction in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias. This improvement in L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias occurred mainly at the onset of the L-DOPA/benserazide effect as reflected by an increase in the duration of the &quot;ON&quot; state without dyskinesias up to 3.4 fold after (-)-OSU6162 co-administration as compared to L-DOPA/benserazide alone. The anti-dyskinetic effect of (-)-OSU6162 was maintained during 14 days and no tolerance to this effect was observed. Our data suggests that (-)-OSU6162 could be of significant clinical value to reduce L-DOPA-induced dyskinesias in fluctuating advanced Parkinson's disease patients.
The pharmacological characteristics of [3H]dofetilide binding in SHSY5Y, HEK293 and CHO-K1 cells were examined, and in parallel whole cell recordings used to characterise HERG-like K+ currents. Dofetilide affinity was similar in the human cell lines, SHSY5Y (Kd=99.6 nM) and HEK293 (Kd=102.9 nM), but 10 times lower in CHO-K1 cells (Kd=1200 nM). In contrast, clofilium and E4031 had a similar affinity in all three cell lines, whereas WAY 123,398 had no effect. Electrophysiological studies showed that SHSY5Y cells contained a HERG-like K+ current blocked by application of dofetilide to either side of the membrane. Block was faster when dofetilide was applied intracellularly. In contrast, HEK293 and CHO-K1 cells contained no such current, despite the presence of a partial cDNA for HERG in the former. That [3H]dofetilide is specific for I(Kr)/HERG may be questionable, as HEK293 and CHO-K1 cells contain no such functional K+ current.
High resolution structural studies of models of glutamate receptors (GluRs) have been limited to monomeric models of the ligand-binding site. To obtain oligomeric models of glutamate receptors that can reveal more complete structural information, we examined the assembly and ligand binding properties of two truncated versions of the GluR1 subunit. The first version, GluR1-WS, consisted of only the N-terminal extracellular segment (Ala(1)-Glu(520)) bridged by a synthetic linker to the second extracellular domain (Asn(615)-Gly(790)). The second version, GluR1-M1, consisted of the first N-terminal extracellular domain (Ala(1)-Glu(520)) bridged by a synthetic linker to a second segment containing the second extracellular domain, the third transmembrane domain, and the intracellular C-terminal domain (Asn(615)-Leu(889)). When expressed in Xenopus oocytes, GluR-WS was secreted and water-soluble; GluR1-M1 was displayed on the surface of oocytes. GluR1-WS exhibited a velocity sedimentation profile that was consistent with assembly of homooligomers and bound the glutamate receptor agonist alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid with high affinity. These findings show that the extracellular domains of GluR1 that are sufficient for ligand binding apparently are sufficient for subunit assembly and might be a suitable target for structural studies of a water-soluble GluR1 oligomer.
Unlike the neuroendocrine cell lines widely used to study trafficking of soluble and membrane proteins to secretory granules, the endocrine cells of the anterior pituitary are highly specialized for the production of mature secretory granules. Therefore, we investigated the trafficking of three membrane proteins in primary anterior pituitary endocrine cells. Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM), an integral membrane protein essential to the production of many bioactive peptides, is cleaved and enters the regulated secretory pathway even when expressed at levels 40-fold higher than endogenous levels. Myc-TMD/CD, a membrane protein lacking the lumenal, catalytic domains of PAM, is still stored in granules. Secretory granules are not the default pathway for all membrane proteins, because Tac accumulates on the surface of pituitary endocrine cells. Overexpression of PAM is accompanied by a diminution in its endoproteolytic cleavage and in its BaCl(2)-stimulated release from mature granules. Because internalized PAM/PAM-antibody complexes are returned to secretory granules, the endocytic machinery of the pituitary endocrine cells is not saturated. As in corticotrope tumor cells, expression of PAM or Myc-TMD/CD alters the organization of the actin cytoskeleton. PAM-mediated alterations in the cytoskeleton may limit maturation of PAM and storage in mature granules.
Inheritance of the epsilon4 allele of the apolipoprotein E gene (APOE4) is a major risk factor for the development of Alzheimer's disease (AD). Although the association between APOE4 and AD is well documented, the mechanism by which apolipoprotein E exerts an isoform-specific effect on neurons in disease is unknown. In this report, we demonstrate that apoE4 stimulates the transcriptional activity of cAMP-response element-binding protein (CREB) by activating the extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) cascade in rat primary hippocampal neurons. In contrast, apoE3 was unable to stimulate CREB transcriptional activity and unable to activate the ERK pathway. Elevation of intracellular Ca(2+) levels are also involved because treatment with receptor-associated protein, nifedipine, MK801, removal of Ca(2+) from the medium and dantrolene all served to inhibit calcium elevation and attenuate the activation of CREB. Treatment with an apoE peptide was also found to facilitate transcription of the CREB-dependent genes, c-fos and Bcl-2. In contrast to treatment with apoE3, our findings suggest apoE4 and apoE-peptide induce a novel signaling pathway.
Huntington's disease is caused by an expanded CAG trinucleotide repeat coding for a polyglutamine stretch within the huntingtin protein. Currently, the function of normal huntingtin and the mechanism by which expanded huntingtin causes selective neurotoxicity remain unknown. Clues may come from the identification of huntingtin-associated proteins (HAPs). Here, we show that huntingtin copurifies with a single novel 40-kDa protein termed HAP40. HAP40 is encoded by the open reading frame factor VIII-associated gene A (F8A) located within intron 22 of the factor VIII gene. In transfected cell extracts, HAP40 coimmunoprecipitates with full-length huntingtin but not with an N-terminal huntingtin fragment. Recombinant HAP40 is cytoplasmic in the presence of huntingtin but is actively targeted to the nucleus in the absence of huntingtin. These data indicate that HAP40 is likely to contribute to the function of normal huntingtin and is a candidate for involvement in the aberrant nuclear localization of mutant huntingtin found in degenerating neurons in Huntington's disease.
Previous studies suggest a delay of pattern visual evoked potentials (PVEPs) in multiple sclerosis (MS) depending on grating orientation. We examined a group of 14 patients with definite MS recording PVEPs to vertical and horizontal grating and analysing latency and amplitude of P60, N70 and P100 waves. We evaluated contrast sensitivity (CS) to dark and bright bars of several spatial frequencies (SF). The aim was to evaluate the diagnostic value of evoked responses and CS in revealing involvement of cortical structures. PVEPs to 1 degrees cycle/degree (c/d) vertical bars were abnormal in 25% for P60, in 32% for N70 and in 36%, for P100; in 25%, 36% and 42% respectively at 4 c/d; as regards horizontal bars at 1 c/d we found alterations of P60, N70 and P100 in 11%, 19% and 27% respectively; at 4 c/d in 19%, 27%) and 35%. CS resulted more abnormal for vertical grating, with a maximum impairment for 3.7 c/d SF. We may conclude that the use of vertical grating in clinical routine is more reliable both for PVEPs and CS testing; in addition CS can be abnormal even with normal PVEPs: this could mean an early impairment of CS and provide useful indications about a subclinical involvement of visual cortex.
Recent findings have underlined the significance of beta-amyloid protein (betaA4) in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease (AD). In 60 patients with AD, the amount of betaA4 deposition, estimated applying immunohistochemical techniques, was shown to be significantly influenced by apolipoprotein E (ApoE) genotype (epsilon4/epsilon4 &gt; epsilon4/x &gt; x/x), by the age at onset (presenile &gt; senile), by the age at death (younger &gt; older patients) and by the duration of the disease (long &gt; short). Morphometric analysis revealed that the betaA4 load was highest in the superficial layer of the cortex and a significant influence on the vertical distribution was seen in females but not in males, in familial but not in sporadic cases and in senile but not in presenile cases. Our findings indicate that not only the load but also the vertical distribution of betaA4 within cortex is influenced by risk factors such as ApoE genotype and gender.
We report a 73-year-old woman with sporadic inclusion body myositis (s-IBM) and a T-cell chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (T-CLL). The s-IBM diagnosis was based on clinical symptoms and muscle biopsy showing inflammatory infiltrates and rimmed vacuoles with 15 18 nm diameter tubulofilamentous inclusions on ultrastructural examination. The inflammatory infiltrates consisted of CD8+ T-lymphocytes and macrophages. The diagnosis of a CD8+ T-CLL was based on peripheral blood samples and bone marrow aspiration. The postmortem analysis of skeletal muscle showed fascicular atrophy, which may support a neurogenic component in s-IBM and the analysis of the brain showed only a few diffuse plaques in different cortical regions and occasionally neuritic plaques. A pathophysiological analogy between s-IBM and Alzheimer's has been suggested on the basis of similarities in protein accumulation in muscle of s-IBM patients and brain of Alzheimer's patients. However, we were unable to detect any changes suggestive of Alzheimer's disease in the brain of the s-IBM patient presented here.

The present study was conducted to evaluate the effect of low doses of ethanol on motor activity in selectively bred Sardinian alcohol-preferring (sP) and Sardinian alcohol-nonpreferring (sNP) rats. Ethanol was acutely administered at the doses of 0, 0.25, and 0.5 g/kg (i.p.) immediately before rat exposure to an open-field arena for 15 min. The number of square crossings, used as index of motor activity, was significantly lower in saline-treated sP than in saline-treated sNP rats, suggestive of a genetically determined higher emotional state in sP than in sNP rats. Ethanol administration resulted in a dose-dependent, significant increase in the number of square crossings in sP rats, whereas it was completely ineffective in sNP rats. These results suggest to us that a positive relationship exists between ethanol preference and ethanol-induced motor stimulation in sP/sNP rat lines.
Various explanations for the dependence on alcohol are attributed to the development of tolerance to some of alcohol's effects, alterations in sensitivity to its rewarding effects, and unknown pathologic consequences of repeated exposure. All these aspects of dependence have been modeled in laboratory rodents, and these studies have consistently shown a significant influence of genetics. Genetic mapping studies have identified the genomic location of the specific genes for some of these contributing phenotypes. In addition, studies have shown that some genes in mice seem to affect both alcohol self-administration and alcohol withdrawal severity: genetic predisposition to high levels of drinking covaries with genetic predisposition to low withdrawal severity, and vice versa. Finally, the role of genetic background on which genes are expressed is important, as are the specifics of the environment in which genetically defined animals are tested. Understanding dependence will require disentangling the multiple interactions of many contributing phenotypes, and genetic analyses are proving very helpful. However, rigorous understanding of both gene-gene and gene-environment interactions will be required to interpret genetic experiments clearly.
Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative disorder originally described in families of Portuguese-Azorean ancestry. The cloning of the MJD1 gene allowed identification of the disease in many other populations, and MJD is now known to be the most common cause of dominant spinocerebellar ataxia. The hypothesis that its present world distribution could result from the spread of an original founder mutation has been raised, both at historical and molecular levels. In the present study, we tested this hypothesis by linkage-disequilibrium analysis of tightly linked polymorphisms and by haplotype comparison, in 249 families from different countries. We typed five microsatellite markers surrounding the MJD1 locus (D14S1015, D14S995, D14S973, D14S1016, and D14S977), and three intragenic single-base-pair polymorphisms (A(669)TG/G(669)TG, C(987)GG/G(987)GG, and TAA(1118)/TAC(1118)). The results show two different haplotypes, specific to the island of origin, in families of Azorean extraction. In families from mainland Portugal, both Azorean haplotypes can be found. The majority of the non-Portuguese families also share the same intragenic haplotype seen in the families coming from the island of Flores, but at least three other haplotypes were seen. These findings suggest two introductions of the mutation into the Portuguese population. Worldwide, the sharing of one intragenic haplotype by the majority of the families studied implies a founder mutation in MJD.
The atypical beta3-adrenergic receptor (AR) agonist CGP-12177 has been used to define a novel atypical beta-AR subtype, the putative beta4-AR. Recent evaluation of recombinant beta-AR subtypes and beta-AR-deficient mice, however, has established the identity of the pharmacological beta4-AR as a novel state of the beta1-AR protein. The ability of aryloxypropanolamine ligands like CGP-12177 to independently interact with agonist and antagonist states of the beta1-AR has important implications regarding receptor classification and the potential development of tissue-specific beta-AR agonists.
The peptide human urotensin-II (hUT-II) and its receptor have recently been cloned. The vascular function of this peptide in humans, however, has yet to be determined. Vasoconstrictor and vasodilator responses to hUT-II were investigated in human small muscular pulmonary arteries [approximately 70 microm internal diameter (ID)] and human abdominal resistance arteries (approximately 200 microm ID). Vasodilator responses were investigated in endothelin-1 (3 nM) precontracted vessels and, in the small pulmonary vessels, compared with the known vasodilators adrenomedullin, sodium nitroprusside, and acetylcholine. In human small pulmonary arteries, hUT-II did not induce vasoconstriction but was a potent vasodilator [-log M concentration causing 50% of the maximum vasodilator effect (pIC(50)) 10.4 +/- 0.5; percentage of reduction in tone (E(max)) 81 +/- 8% (vs. 23 +/- 11% in time controls), n = 5]. The order of potency for vasodilation was human urotensin-II = adrenomedullin (pIC(50) 10.1 +/- 0.4, n = 6) &gt; sodium nitroprusside (pIC(50) 7.4 +/- 0.2, n = 6) = acetylcholine (pIC(50) 6.8 +/- 0.3, n = 6). In human abdominal arteries, hUT-II did not induce vasoconstriction but was a potent vasodilator [pIC(50) 10.3 +/- 0.7; E(max) 96 +/- 8% (vs. 43 +/- 16% in time controls), n = 4]. This is the first report that hUT-II is a potent vasodilator but not a vasoconstrictor of human small pulmonary arteries and systemic resistance arteries.
Cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain supply the neocortex with ACh and play a major role in regulating behavioral arousal and cortical electroencephalographic activation. Cortical ACh release is greatest during waking and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and reduced during non-REM (NREM) sleep. Loss of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons contributes to sleep disruption and to the cognitive deficits of many neurological disorders. ACh release within the basal forebrain previously has not been quantified during sleep. This study used in vivo microdialysis to test the hypothesis that basal forebrain ACh release varies as a function of sleep and waking. Cats were trained to sleep in a head-stable position, and dialysis samples were collected during polygraphically defined states of waking, NREM sleep, and REM sleep. Results from 22 experiments in four animals demonstrated that means +/- SE ACh release (pmol/10 min) was greatest during REM sleep (0.77 +/- 0.07), intermediate during waking (0.58 +/- 0.03), and lowest during NREM sleep (0.34 +/- 0.01). The finding that, during REM sleep, basal forebrain ACh release is significantly elevated over waking levels suggests a differential role for basal forebrain ACh during REM sleep and waking.


The distribution of neuropeptide Y (NPY) immunoreactivity was studied in the brain of the chameleon. Cell bodies and fibers displaying NPY-like immunoreactivity were widely dispersed throughout the brain and at the highest density in the telencephalon and diencephalon. Immunolabeled cell bodies were numerous in the medial and dorsomedial cortex and in the dorsal ventricular ridge, while the striatum and basal telencephalon only contained sparsely scattered NPY-positive somata. Immunopositive neurons were densely distributed in the dorsal thalamus (particularly in the perirotundal belt), the area triangularis, the nucleus geniculatus lateralis pars dorsalis, the periventricular hypothalamus and the medial eminence. In the pretectum, NPY-immunoreactive cell bodies were limited to the nucleus posterodorsalis, while in the mesencephalon immunolabeled somata were found in the stratum album centrale of the optic tectum and in the substantia nigra. Immunopositive fibers and terminals were particularly dense in the dorsomedial cortex, the periventricular hypothalamus, the nuclei accumbens, suprachiasmaticus and griseus tectalis, in the substantia nigra and in the torus semicircularis. These findings show that the NPY system in the chameleon has the same basic organization as in other vertebrate species, and indicate that this peptide could be also implicated in the regulation of several aspects of cerebral functions. In addition, and of particular interest, is the observation of numerous NPY-immunoreactive neurons and fibers in several visual nuclei, suggesting an important involvement of this substance in the visual function.
We describe a French amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) family with two distinct mutations in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene. The D90A mutation has been well described and clearly shown to cause recessive ALS. In this family, affected individuals are heterozygous for the D90A mutation and also carry a single copy of a novel SOD1 mutation, D96N. We propose that in this family both mutations are required for the development of disease.
The release of potentially neurotoxic molecules by HIV-infected brain macrophages is accompanied by neuronal injury and death that results in the development of HIV-associated dementia (HAD). Among the potential neurotoxins implicated in the development of HAD is the HIV-1 transactivating protein, Tat. To investigate the mechanism by which Tat causes neurotoxicity, brain-derived Tat sequences from nondemented (Tat-ND) and demented (Tat-HAD) AIDS patients, which differed primarily in the augmenting region of Tat, were expressed in U937 monoblastoid cells and primary human macrophages. Cells expressing Tat-HAD protein exhibited elevated matrix metalloproteinase (MMP)-2 and -7 release and activation, but cells expressing Tat-ND did not exhibit enhanced MMP expression. Conditioned media from Tat-HAD-transfected cells caused significantly greater neuronal death (15.4 +/- 4.3%) than did Tat-ND (4.4 +/- 2.1%) or nontransfected (2.1 +/- 0.8%) cell-derived conditioned media. The neurotoxicity induced by Tat-HAD was inhibited by anti-MMP-2 or -7 antibodies (p &lt; 0.005) but not by antibodies against MMP-9 or Tat. Similarly, scid/nod mice receiving striatal implants of Tat-HAD-transfected cells exhibited greater neurobehavioral abnormalities and neuronal loss (p &lt; 0.005) than did animals receiving Tat-ND or nontransfected cells, which were reduced by treatment with the MMP inhibitor prinomastat (p &lt; 0.005). These findings indicate that Tat causes neuronal death through an indirect mechanism that is Tat sequence dependent and involves the induction of MMPs.
We measured regional cerebral blood flow with H2 15O and positron emission tomography (PET) scanning at rest and during a motor task to study the mechanism of motor improvement induced by deep brain stimulation of the internal globus pallidus in Parkinson's disease. Six right-handed patients with Parkinson's disease were scanned while performing a predictable paced sequence of reaching movements and while observing the same screen displays and tones. PET studies were performed ON and OFF stimulation in a medication-free state. Internal globus pallidus deep brain stimulation improved off-state United Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale motor ratings (37%, p &lt; 0.002) and reduced timing errors (movement onset time, 55%, p &lt; 0.01) as well as spatial errors (10%, p &lt; 0.02). Concurrent regional cerebral blood flow recordings revealed a significant enhancement of motor activation responses in the left sensorimotor cortex (Brodmann area [BA] 4), bilaterally in the supplementary motor area (BA 6), and in the right anterior cingulate cortex (BA 24/32). Significant correlations were evident between the improvement in motor performance and the regional cerebral blood flow changes mediated by stimulation. With internal globus pallidus deep brain stimulation, improved movement initiation correlated with regional cerebral blood flow increases in the left sensorimotor cortex and ventrolateral thalamus and in the contralateral cerebellum. By contrast, improved spatial accuracy correlated with regional cerebral blood flow increases in both cerebellar hemispheres and in the left sensorimotor cortex. These results suggest that internal globus pallidus deep brain stimulation may selectively improve different aspects of motor performance. Multiple, overlapping neural pathways may be modulated by this intervention.
Degeneration and death of neurons is the fundamental process responsible for the clinical manifestations of many different neurological disorders of aging, incuding Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and stroke. The death of neurons in such disorders involves apoptotic biochemical cascades involving upstream effectors (Par-4, p53 and pro-apoptotic Bcl-2 family members), mitochondrial alterations and caspase activation. Both genetic and environmental factors, and the aging process itself, contribute to intiation of such neuronal apoptosis. For example, mutations in the amyloid precursor protein and presenilin genes can cause Alzheimer's disease, while head injury is a risk factor for both Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. At the cellular level, neuronal apoptosis in neurodegenerative disorders may be triggered by oxidative stress, metabolic compromise and disruption of calcium homeostasis. Neuroprotective (antiapoptotic) signaling pathways involving neurotrophic factors, cytokines and &quot;conditioning responses&quot; can counteract the effects of aging and genetic predisposition in experimental models of neurodegenerative disorders. A better understanding of the molecular underpinnings of neuronal death is leading directly to novel preventative and therapeutic approaches to neurodegenerative disorders.
We report a new procedure for assessing complex self-motion perception. In three experiments, subjects manipulated a 6 degree-of-freedom magnetic-field tracker which controlled the motion of a virtual avatar so that its motion corresponded to the subjects' perceived self-motion. The real-time animation created by this procedure was stored using a virtual video recorder for subsequent analysis. Combined real and illusory self-motion and vestibulo-ocular reflex eye movements were evoked by cross-coupled angular accelerations produced by roll and pitch head movements during passive yaw rotation in a chair. Contrary to previous reports, illusory self-motion did not correspond to expectations based on semicircular canal stimulation. Illusory pitch head-motion directions were as predicted for only 37% of trials; whereas, slow-phase eye movements were in the predicted direction for 98% of the trials. The real-time computer-generated animations procedure permits use of naive, untrained subjects who lack a vocabulary for reporting motion perception and is applicable to basic self-motion perception studies, evaluation of motion simulators, assessment of balance disorders and so on.
Traumatic brain injury (TBI) is the commonest cause of acquired disability in childhood. A major obstacle to the evaluation of acute and rehabilitative therapies after TBI is the lack of simple descriptors of outcome. We developed the King's Outcome Scale for Childhood Head Injury (KOSCHI), as a specific paediatric adaptation of the original adult Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS). The KOSCHI expands the five category GOS to provide increased sensitivity at the milder end of the disability range. The GOS category of &quot;persistent vegetative state&quot; was replaced by &quot;vegetative&quot;. &quot;Good recovery&quot; was allocated two categories, in acknowledgement of the long term importance of relatively minor sequelae in a developing child. The scale was quick and easy to use. Inter-rater reliability studies show that even with such an apparently simple scale, some training may be required. The KOSCHI provides a practical scale for paediatric head injury which will enable clinicians to describe rate and extent of recovery, and evaluate the effects of service and research interventions.
We previously demonstrated that lysosomal cysteine proteinases, cathepsins B, H, and L were localized in lysosomes of alveolar macrophages and bronchial epithelial cells in the rat lung, while cathepsin H, a typical aminopeptidase, was additionally distributed in lamellar bodies containing surfactant in type II alveolar epithelial cells (ISHII et al., 1991). The present immunohistochemical study further examined the localization of lysosomal aminopeptidases, cathepsin C, and tripeptidyl peptidase I (TPP-I) in the rat lung. Western blotting confirmed the presence of cathepsin C and TPP-I as active forms in the pulmonary tissue, showing 25 kD and 47 kD, respectively. Immunohisto/cytochemical observations demonstrated that positive staining for cathepsin C and TPP-I was more intensely localized in alveolar epithelial regions than in bronchial or bronchiolar epithelial cells. By double immunostaining using confocal laser microscopy, immunoreactivity for cathepsin H was found to be co-localized with that for cathepsin C or TPP-I in both type II cells and macrophages. Moreover, when doubly stained with anti-cathepsin C and ED2, single-positive type II cells could be clearly distinguished from double-positive macrophages in the alveolar region. Immunoelectron microscopy revealed the gold labeling of cathepsin C or TPP-I in multivesicular and composite bodies, and lamellar bodies of Type II cells. These results showing that lysosomal aminopeptidases such as cathepsin H, cathepsin C and TPP-I are localized in lamellar bodies of type II alveolar epithelial cells strongly argue for the participation of lysosomal aminopeptidases in the formation process of surfactant containing specific proteins.
CED-9 prevents apoptosis in embryonic cells of Caenorhabditis elegans but not in mammalian cells. We show here that the prevention of apoptosis in mammalian cells requires a CED-3-cleaved form (68-280) of CED-9 which is localized in the inner mitochondrial membrane. The viability of PC12 and HeLa cells was significantly increased after death stimuli when truncated CED-9 was expressed in these cells but full-length CED-9 did not. The truncated CED-9 expressed in these cells was largely localized to the inner mitochondrial and the endoplasmic reticulum membranes, while full-length CED-9 was detected mainly in endoplasmic reticulum fractions. Moreover, truncated CED-9 in purified mitochondria was resistant to trypsin digestion, but full-length CED-9 was not. These results suggest that the CED-3-cleaved form of CED-9 prevents apoptosis in mammalian cells by localizing to the inner mitochondrial membrane.
Biomechatronics concerns the interdisciplinary field of interaction with the human neuromuscular-skeletal system with the objective to assist impaired human motor control. In this field technology is developed that integrates neuroscience, robotics, interface and sensor technology, dynamic systems and control theory. The primary issue in this field concerns the concepts of assisting impaired human motor function. The secondary, derived, issue concerns possible methods of interfacing with the human body at all hierarchical levels of the human motor system. The application of motor assist systems may serve several goals: it can take over part of the affected motor control, enable the physiological motor system to perform the desired function or aid in training the impaired physiological system. The progress in these issues are reviewed and their potential implications for assistance of the impaired human motor system are discussed.
Rats with bilateral ibotenic acid lesions centered on the hippocampus (HPC) or perirhinal cortex (PRC) and sham-operated controls were tested in a series of object recognition and spatial memory tasks. Both HPC and PRC rats displayed reduced habituation in a novel environment and were impaired in an object-location task. HPC rats were severely impaired in both the reference and working-memory versions of the water maze and radial arm maze tasks. In contrast, although PRC rats displayed mild deficits in the reference memory version of the water maze and radial arm maze tasks, they were markedly impaired in the working-memory version of both the tasks. These findings demonstrate that under certain conditions both the HPC and PRC play a role in the processing of spatial memory. Further investigation of these conditions will provide important new insights into the role of these structures in memory processes.
This study examined the effect of repeated ethanol (EtOH) injections that induced behavioral sensitization on subsequent acquisition of EtOH- and lithium chloride (LiCl)-induced conditioned taste aversion (CTA). CTA acquisition was assessed in independent groups of EtOH-sensitized and nonsensitized genetically heterogeneous female mice after injections of saline; 1, 2, or 4 g/kg EtOH; or 2 or 4 mEq/kg LiCl. Saline and 1 g/kg EtOH did not induce CTA. Four g/kg EtOH and 4 mEq/kg LiCl induced similar levels of CTA in EtOH-sensitized and nonsensitized groups. CTA induced by 2 g/kg EtOH and 2 mEq/kg LiCl was attenuated in EtOH-sensitized mice compared with nonsensitized counterparts. Thus, a sensitizing regimen of EtOH preexposure resulted in both a decrease in EtOH and LiCl aversion and an increase in EtOH locomotor sensitivity; such changes could ultimately contribute to enhanced EtOH intake and potentially to EtOH abuse.
Rats with bilateral ibotenic acid lesions centered on the pre- and parasubiculum and control rats were tested in a series of spatial memory and object recognition memory tasks. Lesioned rats were severely impaired relative to controls in both the reference and working memory versions of the water maze task and displayed a delay-dependent deficit in a delayed nonmatch to place procedure conducted in the T-maze. Lesioned rats also displayed reduced exploration in a novel environment, and performance was altered in an object recognition procedure as compared with the control group. These findings indicate that the pre- and parasubiculum plays an important role in the processing of both object recognition and spatial memory.


Several lines of evidence indicated that overexpression or aberrant processing of amyloid precursor protein (APP) is causally related to Alzheimer's disease (AD). Amyloid precursor protein is principally cleaved within the amyloid beta protein domain to release a large soluble ectodomain (APPs), known to have a wide range of trophic functions. The central hypothesis guiding this review is that nicotine may play an important role in APP secretion and protection against toxicity induced by APP metabolic fragments (beta-amyloid [Abeta], carboxyl terminal [CT]). Findings from our experiments have shown that nicotine enhances the release of APPs, which has neurotrophic and neuroprotective activities in concentration-dependent (&gt;50 micromol/L) and time-dependent (&gt;2 hours) manners. In addition, pretreatment of nicotine (&gt;10 micromol/L for 24 hours) partially prevented Abeta or CT(105)-induced cytotoxicity in primary cultured neuron cells, and the effects of nicotine-induced protection were inhibited by the pretreatment with a nicotine alpha-bungarotoxin. Nicotine (&gt;10 micromol/L for 24 hours) partially inhibited CT(105)-induced cytotoxicity when PC12 cells was transfected with CT(105). From these results, we proposed that nicotine or nicotinic receptor agonist treatment might improve the cognitive functions not only by supplementation of cholinergic neurotransmission, but also by protecting Abeta- or CT(105)-induced neurotoxicity probably through the increased release of APPs and the activation of nicotinic receptors.
Studies on the neurobiology of nerve growth factor (NGF) reveal a diverse range of actions. Through alterations in gene expression, NGF is important in maintaining and regulating the phenotype of neurons that express the high-affinity receptor, trkA. Nerve growth factor also has a rapid action, revealed by its role in pain signaling in bladder and in skin. In the central nervous system (CNS), NGF has an intimate relationship with the cholinergic system. It promotes cholinergic neuron survival after experimental injury but also maintains and regulates the phenotype of uninjured cholinergic neurons. In addition to these effects mediated by gene expression, NGF has a rapid neurotransmitter-like action to regulate cholinergic neurotransmission and neuronal excitability. Consistent with its actions on the cholinergic system, NGF can enhance function in animals with cholinergic lesions and has been proposed to be useful in humans with Alzheimer's disease (AD); however, the problems of CNS delivery and of side effects (particularly pain) limit the clinical efficacy of NGF. Drug treatment strategies to enhance production of NGF in the CNS may be useful in the treatment of AD. Nicotine is one such agent, which, when administered directly to the hippocampus in rats, produces long-lasting elevation of NGF production.
Alzheimer's disease is a complex disorder affecting multiple neurotransmitters. In particular, the degenerative progression is associated with loss within the cholinergic systems. It should be anticipated that both muscarinic and nicotinic mechanisms are affected as cholinergic neurons are lost. This review focuses on the basic roles of neuronal nicotinic receptors, some subtypes of which decrease during Alzheimer's disease. Nicotinic acetylcholine receptors belong to a superfamily of ligand-gated ion channels that play key roles in synaptic transmission throughout the central nervous system. Neuronal nicotinic receptors, however, are not a single entity, but rather there are many different subtypes constructed from a variety of nicotinic subunit combinations. This structural diversity and the presynaptic, axonal, and postsynaptic locations of nicotinic receptors contribute to the varied roles these receptors play in the central nervous system. Presynaptic and preterminal nicotinic receptors enhance neurotransmitter release, and postsynaptic nicotinic receptors mediate a small minority of fast excitatory transmission. In addition, some nicotinic receptor subtypes have roles in synaptic plasticity and development. Nicotinic receptors are distributed to influence many neurotransmitter systems at more than one location, and the broad, but sparse, cholinergic innervation throughout the brain ensures that nicotinic acetylcholine receptors are important modulators of neuronal excitability.
Steroid hormones, particularly 17beta-estradiol (E2), regulate the development and expression of neural structures and sexual behavior. Recently, we demonstrated that E2-regulated responses are controlled by quantitative trait loci. In this study, we quantified 1) volume of the sexually dimorphic nucleus (SDN) of the preoptic area (POA); 2) medial basal hypothalamic (MBH)-POA aromatase and 5alpha-reductase enzyme activities during prenatal development and in adults; 3) serum LH, testosterone, FSH, E2, prolactin (PRL), and corticosterone levels; 4) reproductive organ (i.e., testis and ventral prostate) weights; and 5) male mating behavior in Noble (NB/Cr) and Wistar-Furth (WF/NCr) rat strains to determine the genetic influence on the measured parameters. Maximal phenotypic divergence in male SDN-POA volumes was seen between NB/Cr versus WF/NCr and BDIX/Cr rats (among nine rat strains initially examined), with the average SDN-POA volume of NB/Cr male rats being significantly greater ( approximately 30%) than that of either WF/NCr or BDIX/Cr males. Subsequent experiments investigated WF/NCr versus NB/Cr male rats in further detail. Significantly higher MBH-POA aromatase activity was seen in adult WF/NCr versus NB/Cr males, while MBH-POA 5alpha-reductase rates were not significantly different (within or between sex) for the two rat strains assayed. Serum LH levels were significantly higher (by greater than sixfold) in WF/NCr versus NB/Cr males, whereas testis organ:body weight and ventral prostate:body weight ratios in WF/NCr versus NB/Cr males were significantly smaller (by approximately 6-fold for testis and approximately 1.5-fold for prostate values). Serum FSH levels were significantly higher (by twofold) in WF/NCr versus NB/Cr males. However, serum testosterone levels were not significantly different, whereas E2 levels were approximately twofold higher (but not significantly different) in WF/NCr versus NB/Cr animals. No significant differences were found in basal (i.e., nonstress) serum PRL or corticosterone levels between the WF/NCr and NB/Cr males. In male copulatory tests, NB/Cr males exhibited significantly more aggressive sexual behavior (e.g., in mounting, intromission, and ejaculation parameters) compared with WF/NCr males. Taken together, these findings indicate that WF/NCr males are, in general, low responders, whereas NB/Cr males are high responders to hormonal signals. The obtained data suggest that the correlative, phenotypic variation in SDN-POA volume (i.e., structure) and reproductive hormone patterns and mating behavior (i.e., function) of WF/NCr versus NB/Cr males is regulated by potentially E2-mediated mechanisms that are genetically controlled.
Several reports support the concept that bile acids may be cytotoxic during cholestatic disease process by causing mitochondrial dysfunction. Here we report additional data and findings aimed at a better understanding of the involvement of the permeability transition pore (PTP) opening in bile acids toxicity. The mitochondrial PTP is implicated as a mediator of cell injury and death in many situations. In the presence of calcium and phosphate, chenodeoxycholic acid (CDCA) induced a permeability transition in freshly isolated rat liver mitochondria, characterized by membrane depolarization, release of matrix calcium, and osmotic swelling. All these events were blocked by cyclosporine A (CyA) and the calcium uniporter inhibitor ruthenium red (RR). The results suggest that CDCA increases the sensitivity of isolated mitochondria in vitro to the calcium-dependent induction of the PTP.
The effects of the endogenous cannabinoid anandamide were studied on peripheral, polymodal nociceptors recorded from normal and chronically inflamed (Freund's adjuvant) knee joint afferents in rats anaesthetized with pentobarbitone. Anandamide (860 nmol) caused a rapid, short lasting excitation of a sub-population of capsaicin-sensitive nociceptive afferents in normal knee joints (7.2+/-2.3 impulses s(-1); n=15 units from five animals). In arthritic joints there were 9.7+/-3.0 impulses s(-1) (n=11 from six animals), which was not significantly different from normal joints. The excitation was dose dependent (8.6 - 2900 nmol) and mediated by activation of the vanilloid receptor (VR(1)) as it was abolished by the VR1 antagonist capsazepine (1 mg kg(-1)). Our results show that anandamide, at high doses, can activate nociceptive afferents innervating the rat knee joints, in contrast with its widely described analgesic actions.
Research on attention is concerned with selective processing of incoming sensory information. To some extent, our awareness of the world depends on what we choose to attend, not merely on the stimulation entering our senses. British psychologists have made substantial contributions to this topic in the past century. Celebrated examples include Donald Broadbent's filter theory of attention, which set the agenda for most subsequent work; and Anne Treisman's revisions of this account, and her later feature-integration theory. More recent contributions include Alan Allport's prescient emphasis on the relevance of neuroscience data, and John Duncan's integration of such data with psychological theory. An idiosyncratic but roughly chronological review of developments is presented, some practical and clinical implications are briefly sketched, and future directions suggested. One of the biggest changes in the field has been the increasing interplay between psychology and neuroscience, which promises much for the future. A related change has been the realization that selection attention is best thought of as a broad topic, encompassing a range of selective issues, rather than as a single explanatory process.
Perceptual phenomena and their interpretations have fashioned the course of psychology. This article surveys how theories of visual perception and methodologies have developed during the lifetime of the British Psychological Society. The experimental study of vision was instigated by British natural philosophers in the early nineteenth century but this impetus was not maintained thereafter. Not until the 1930s and 1940s did research on perception resume in earnest within British universities. The adoption of concepts (such as schema) potentially grounded in neural organization, particularly by Bartlett and Craik, accelerated experimental, theoretical and applied vision research. From mid-century the influence of information processing models of perception became increasingly dominant, and they were often integrated with the rapidly expanding understanding of neurophysiological underpinnings. The epitome of these developments was Marr's model of vision which, in our view, marked the start of the modern era of vision research. Computers have transformed the nature of stimulus control and response measurement in perceptual experiments. More naturalistic stimuli can be presented and manipulated, and complex behavioural responses, such as patterns of eye movements, fractionated. Non-invasive recording of brain activity to visual stimulation has similarly been transformed with a variety of methods for imaging brain activity. Neuroimaging has been applied to localizing perceptual and cognitive functions and in studying patients with known deficits in visual recognition. However, the eagerness with which the computer has been adopted by perceptual psychologists is likely to be tempered by a growing awareness of the differences between viewing scenes and simulations of them.
Research on attention is concerned with selective processing of incoming sensory information. To some extent, our awareness of the world depends on what we choose to attend, not merely on the stimulation entering our senses. British psychologists have made substantial contributions to this topic in the past century. Celebrated examples include Donald Broadbent's filter theory of attention, which set the agenda for most subsequent work; and Anne Treisman's revisions of this account, and her later feature-integration theory. More recent contributions include Alan Allport's prescient emphasis on the relevance of neuroscience data, and John Duncan's integration of such data with psychological theory. An idiosyncratic but roughly chronological review of developments is presented, some practical and clinical implications are briefly sketched, and future directions suggested. One of the biggest changes in the field has been the increasing interplay between psychology and neuroscience, which promises much for the future. A related change has been the realization that selection attention is best thought of as a broad topic, encompassing a range of selective issues, rather than as a single explanatory process.
A century of research in memory has generated a wealth of knowledge encompassing theoretical developments within a number of distinct domains of memory. The aim of this article is to explore the progress made in memory research during the 20th century, to indicate critical influences on the direction of research, and to illustrate the important contribution made by British researchers. This article is confined to human memory research, and reviews research findings from the various psychological disciplines studied over the past 100 years.
Actions are part of the way that the mind controls the body. Two fundamental psychological questions about actions are 'Where do they come from?' and 'How does the mind produce them?' These may be called the 'internal generation problem' and the 'information expansion problem' respectively. The importance of these questions was appreciated at the birth of the British Psychological Society (BPS) a century ago, though the experimental methods to study them were lacking. This article falls into two halves. The first half discusses some of the major epochs in the psychology of action over the last 100 years; the second half outlines some currently prominent research questions, and considers their historical antecedents. Finally, I offer some speculations regarding where future contributions to the psychology of action will be most fruitful.
Neuroimaging studies have implicated the prefrontal cortex and medial temporal areas in the successful encoding of verbal material into episodic memory. The present study used event-related functional MRI to investigate whether the brain areas associated with successful episodic encoding of words in a semantic study task are a subset of those demonstrating depth of processing effects. In addition, we tested whether the brain areas associated with successful episodic encoding differ depending on the nature of the study task. At study, 15 volunteers were cued to make either animacy or alphabetical decisions about words. A recognition memory test including confidence judgements followed after a delay of 15 min. Prefrontal and medial temporal regions showed greater functional MRI activations for semantically encoded words relative to alphabetically encoded words. Two of these regions (left anterior hippocampus and left ventral inferior frontal gyrus) showed greater activation for semantically encoded words that were subsequently recognized confidently. However, other regions (left posterior hippocampus and right inferior frontal cortex) demonstrated subsequent memory effects, but not effects of depth of processing. Successful memory for alphabetically encoded words was also associated with greater activation in the left anterior hippocampus and left ventral inferior frontal gyrus. The findings suggest that episodic encoding for words in a semantic study task involves a subset of the regions activated by deep relative to shallow processing. The data provide little evidence that successful episodic encoding during a shallow study task depends upon regions different from those that support the encoding of deeply studied words. Instead, the findings suggest that successful episodic encoding during a shallow study task relies on a subset of the regions engaged during successful encoding in a deep task.
There have been recent suggestions that the amygdala may be involved in the development or mediation of 'theory of mind'. We report a patient, B.M., with early or congenital left amygdala damage who, by adulthood, had received the psychiatric diagnoses of schizophrenia and Asperger's syndrome. We conducted a series of experimental investigations to determine B.M.'s cognitive functioning. In line with his diagnoses, B.M. was found to be severely impaired in his ability to represent mental states. Following this, we conducted a second series of studies to determine B.M.'s executive functioning. In the literature, there have been frequent claims that theory of mind is mediated by general executive functioning. B.M. showed no indication of executive function impairment, passing 16 tests assessing his ability to inhibit dominant responses, create and maintain goal-related behaviours, and temporally sequence behaviour. The findings are discussed with reference to models regarding the role of the amygdala in the development of theory of mind and the degree of dissociation between theory of mind and executive functioning. We conclude that theory of mind is not simply a function of more general executive functions, and that executive functions can develop and function on-line, independently of theory of mind. Moreover, we conclude that the amygdala may play some role in the development of the circuitry mediating theory of mind.
Current emphasis on biochemical and molecular aspects of cochlear anatomy underscores the necessity for high quality cryostat sections of the inner ear. The large volume of fluid space within the cochlea makes cryoembedding and sectioning of the organ more problematic than that of other, more homogeneous tissues. Our method for cryoembedding of cochleas for immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization uses slow infiltration with increasing concentrations of sucrose followed by degassed embedding medium before final orientation and freezing. This method permits high quality cryosections to be cut which preserve overall structure and cellular resolution.
We describe a method that has allowed us to measure the synthesis, turnover and assembly of alpha- and beta-erythroid and nonerythroid spectrins in cultured rat hippocampal neurons. For these studies, rat hippocampal cultures containing 74.5-83.0% neurons were established. B-27 (Gibco) supplement has been used to obtain an excellent long-term viability (up to 5 weeks) of hippocampal neurons in culture. For the synthesis, turnover, and assembly experiments the neurons were labeled with [35S]methionine, and chased with 10-fold excess of cold methionine for the turnover experiments. The cells were then lysed and immunoprecipitated with alpha, beta-erythroid, alpha, and beta-nonerythroid spectrin antibodies. Immunoprecipitated [35S]methionine-labeled spectrins of hippocampal neurons grown in vitro produced bands in 5% polyacrylamide minigels strong enough to be detected by the high sensitivity screens of a phosphorimager to generate graphs from which the synthesis or half-lives of alpha, beta-erythroid, alpha, and beta-nonerythroid spectrins were calculated. This method can be used to study the role of calpain, caspase-3, and the ubiquitin-proteasome system on the synthesis and turnover of erythroid and nonerythroid spectrins in resting and depolarized rat hippocampal neurons in culture.
Our laboratory has developed a one-step quantitative reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) procedure in which the reverse transcriptase enzyme and Taq DNA polymerase are combined in the one tube and a single, non-interrupted, thermal cycling program is performed. In the past, RT-PCR has been carried out with two separate steps: (1) reverse transcription of RNA to generate a cDNA pool and (2) polymerase chain reaction amplification of the cDNA. The two-step method can affect the accuracy of the procedure as the total number of manipulations is greater, thereby allowing a greater chance for pipetting errors. Quantitation by our method is achieved in a single reaction by the use of a competitive internal standard that is identical in sequence to the target RNA except for a deletion of 107 base pairs and uses identical primers and cycling conditions. Using this method, we have been able to quantify the amount of message of a G protein (G(zalpha)), in small amounts of tissue, such as dorsal root ganglia, from embryonic as well as postnatal mice.
Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) measurements with positron emission tomography (PET) were made on 10 volunteers in rest condition as well as while the subjects, with closed eyes, (i) internally listed the letters of the alphabet and cited the first verse of the Hungarian national anthem, (ii) visualised the capital letters of the alphabet, and (iii) visualised the capital letters of the first verse of the Hungarian national anthem. Significant changes in rCBF indicated various networks of cortical neuronal populations active during the tasks. Internal listing, as compared to the rest condition, activated the left precentral gyrus. Visualising the letters of the alphabet, when compared to the rest condition, activated a cortical network comprising fields along the banks of the left and right intraparietal sulci, the left medial frontal, precentral and occipital sulci, and the right superior frontal gyrus. Visualising the letters of the anthem, when compared to the rest condition, activated a cortical network comprising fields along the banks of the left and right intraparietal sulci, the left medial and inferior frontal gyri, and the right anterior cingulate gyrus. Contrasting the two visualisation tasks revealed task specific activation in the left lateral occipital gyrus (alphabet vs. anthem visualisation) and in the left anterior cingulate gyrus (anthem vs. alphabet visualisation). The data indicate that visual imagery of letters of the alphabet or a text engages a widespread network of cortical fields in the visual association cortices and the frontal cortex, without the engagement of the primary (V1) and secondary (V2) visual cortical areas. This finding supports the hypothesis that neuronal populations engaged by visual imagery and visual perception only partially overlap. The networks, activated in the visualisation tasks, have a core which is identical in the different visualisation tasks. The core network is complemented in a task-specific manner by the recruitment of additional cortical neuronal populations.
from the first contact of an odor molecule with a receptor in the olfactory epithelium, to the coding and processing of this information in the central nervous system, the arousal of feelings and the storage of memories. The present chapter gives a short overview over the major components of these processes in humans.
This article is a transcription of an electronic symposium sponsored by the Brazilian Society of Neuroscience and Behavior (SBNeC). Invited researchers from the European Union, North America and Brazil discussed two issues on anxiety, namely whether panic is a very intense anxiety or something else, and what aspects of clinical anxiety are reproduced by animal models. Concerning the first issue, most participants agreed that generalized anxiety and panic disorder are different on the basis of clinical manifestations, drug response and animal models. Also, underlying brain structures, neurotransmitter modulation and hormonal changes seem to involve important differences. It is also common knowledge that existing animal models generate different types of fear/anxiety. A challenge for future research is to establish a good correlation between animal models and nosological classification.
At the Second Canadian Consensus Conference on Dementia (CCCD) (February, 1998), a group of neurologists, geriatricians, and psychiatrists met to consider guidelines for evaluation of dementia in Canada. This review paper formed a background paper for their discussion of dementia diagnosis. These experts from across the country concluded that diagnosis of suspected dementia cases continued to rest on skilled clinical assessment. Mental status exam, preferably in some quantifiable form, has become an essential part of the assessment. Selected laboratory tests are advisable in all cases (CBC, TSH, electrolytes, calcium, and glucose), but the CCCD continued to advise that CT scanning was mandatory only in selected cases where clinical findings pointed to another possibility besides Alzheimer's disease. The growing list of other diagnostic measures with potential usefulness in diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease or dementia in general was reviewed, but the evidence was judged as insufficient to support routine use of these tests by physicians. As new treatments for Alzheimer's disease become available, neurologists face new diagnostic challenges--differentiating Mild Cognitive Impairment, Frontotemporal dementias and Mixed dementias, and Lewy Body Dementia. Guidelines to aid in differential diagnosis are presented.
This paper explores and describes occupational therapy practice patterns during two periods for 89 elderly persons living at home. Occupational therapists working in one social welfare district in Stockholm, Sweden documented and reported every occupational therapy intervention provided. The results revealed that the elderly persons who received occupational therapy services during an extended period had an age span of 30 years, with a mean age over 80 years. They had several medical problems and were living in different types of settings. Occupational therapists provided a wide range of interventions, most frequently categorised as treatment, especially related to leisure activities. Irrespective of level of care, the median of interventions per person increased or was the same over time, and 72% of the elderly persons remained at the same level of care. Enabling occupation for elderly disabled person living in their home involves constantly adjusting to the current situation since the clients' capacities, goals and environment change over time. Therefore, occupational therapists need to have a client-centred approach working in home health community services.
Although the idea that aggression has biological components is not a new one, recent research in genetics, neuropsychopharmacology, and neuroimaging has helped clarify the biological contributions to aggression. Studies to date have focused on serotonergic function and impulsive aggression. Reduced levels of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) are associated with impulsive aggression. Pharmacochallenge studies have found decreased serotonergic responsiveness associated with impulsive aggression. Neuroimaging studies suggest a role for the prefrontal cortex, along with other regions of the brain, in the expression of aggression. Serotonin is not the only aspect of brain function implicated in impulsive aggression, and further work is being done on other neurotransmitters and neuropeptides.
1. The elevation of intracellular Ca2+ levels ([Ca2+]i) in immortalized hypothalamic neurons (GT1-7 cells) after exposure to Alzheimer's beta-amyloid protein (AbetaP[25-35]) was investigated using a multisite fluorometry system. 2. The marked rise in [Ca2+]i appeared after exposure to 5-20-microM AbetaP[25-35]. Analysis of the spatiotemporal patterns of [Ca2+]i changes revealed that the magnitude and the latency of the response to AbetaP in each cell were highly heterogeneous. 3. The preadministration of 17beta-estradiol, 17alpha-estradiol, phloretin and cholesterol, which influence the properties of membranes, such as membrane fluidity or membrane potential, significantly decreased the rise in [Ca2+]i. 4. These findings support the idea that disruption of calcium homeostasis by AbetaP channels may be the molecular basis of the neurotoxicity of AbetaP and of the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. It is also suggested that membrane properties may play key roles in the expression of neurotoxicity.
Cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) is a recently discovered isoform of cyclooxygenase that is inducible by various types of inflammatory stimuli. Although this enzyme is considered to play a major role in inflammation processes by catalyzing the production of prostaglandins, the precise location, distribution, and regulation of prostaglandin synthesis remains unclear in several tissues. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we investigated the induction of COX-1 and COX-2 mRNA expression after systemic administration of a pyrogen, lipopolysaccharide (LPS), in kidney and adrenal gland in the rat. The COX-2 mRNA signals dramatically increased 1 h after LPS treatment in the kidney outer medulla and adrenal cortex, where almost no or little expression was observed in nontreated animals, and returned to control levels within 24 h. COX-2 mRNA levels increased in the kidney inner medulla 6 h after treatment. There was also a significant increase in mRNA levels in the kidney cortex and adrenal medulla. On the other hand, COX-1 mRNA levels did not show any detectable changes except in the kidney inner medulla, where a significant downregulation of mRNA expression was observed after LPS treatment. Light and electron immunocytochemistry using COX-2 antibodies showed that strong COX-2 immunoreactivity was localized to certain cortical cells of the thick ascending limb of Henle. In addition, based on double-staining with antiserum to nitric oxide synthase (NOS) four further cell populations could be identified in kidney cortex, including weakly COX-2-positive, NOS-positive macula densa cells. After LPS treatment, changes in COX-2 immunoreactivity could be observed in interstitial cells in the kidney medulla and in inner cortical cells in the adrenal gland. These results show that COX-2 is a highly induced enzyme that can be up-regulated in specific cell populations in kidney and adrenal gland in response to inflammation, leading to the elevated levels of prostaglandins seen during fever. In contrast COX-1 mRNA levels remained unchanged in this experimental situation, except for a decrease in kidney inner medulla.
Rats explore their surroundings through rhythmic movement of their mystacial vibrissae. At any given moment, multiple whiskers are simultaneously moved and may contact the surface of an object. The aim of this work is to understand how simultaneous multiple-whisker deflections are processed in the somatosensory cortex. Arrays of 25 electrodes were inserted into the vibrissal representation of barrel cortex of adult rats. Multi-unit responses were recorded during (i) stimulation of single whiskers, and (ii) simultaneous stimulation of two, three or four whiskers of a whisker arc or whisker row. The whole-array response elicited by the simultaneous stimulation of multiple-whiskers (observed response) was compared to a multiple-whisker response predictor, defined as the sum of the whole-array responses to the separate stimulation of the corresponding single whiskers. The observed response to stimulation of four whiskers was nearly always less than the predicted response, indicating a sublinear summation of multiple coincident inputs. Examining the poststimulus time course of sublinearity, we found that the earliest cortical response to whisker deflection - reflecting the thalamocortical volley - was linear, whereas the successive cortical response was highly sublinear. This suggests a cortical origin of the phenomenon.
Successful behavioral genetic studies require precise definition of a homogenous phenotype. This study searched for anatomical markers that might restrict variability in the reading disability phenotype. The subjects were 15 college students (8 male/7 female) diagnosed with a reading disability (RD) and 15 controls (8 males/7 females). All subjects completed a cognitive and reading battery. Only 11 of the RD subjects had a phonological deficit [phonological dyslexia (PD): pseudo word decoding scores &lt; 90 (27th percentile)]. Thirteen RD (9 PD) and 15 controls received a volumetric MRI scan. Four anatomical measures differentiated the PD group from the remainder of the subjects: (i) marked rightward cerebral asymmetry, (ii) marked leftward asymmetry of the anterior lobe of the cerebellum, (ii) combined leftward asymmetry of the planum and posterior ascending ramus of the sylvian fissure, and (iv) a large duplication of Heschl's gyrus on the left. When these four measures were normalized and summed, the resulting variable predicted short- and long-term phonological memory. By contrast, oral and written comprehension skills were predicted by a different anatomical variable: low cerebral volume. These findings provide neurobiological support for an RD phenotype characterized by phonological deficits in the presence of normal or superior comprehension. The study of individual variation in cortical structure may provide a useful link between genotype and behavior.
In situ hybridization histochemistry and immunocytochemistry were used to examine GABA(B)R1a,b receptor mRNA and protein expression in areas 17 and 18 of the visual cortex of normal macaque monkeys and of monkeys that had been deprived of vision in one eye. In addition, the normal patterns of GABA(B)R1a,b protein expression were immunocytochemically studied in the human visual cortex. Overall levels of GABA(B)R1a,b transcript were higher in area 17 than in area 18. In area 17 GABA(B)R1a,b mRNA levels were highest in layers IVC and VI, moderate in layers II-IVA and low in layers I, IVB and V. In area 18 GABA(B)R1a,b transcript expression was high in layers II and III, moderate in layers IV and VI and low in layers I and V. Immunocytochemistry revealed nearly identical patterns of GABA(B)R1a,b protein expression in areas 17 and 18 in monkey and human. Both pyramidal and non-pyramidal neurons were GABA(B)R1a,b immunoreactive. The majority of intensely immunoreactive neurons in layers II, III, V and VI were pyramidal cells. Numerous non-pyramidal cells were intensely immunoreactive in layer IV of area 17 but layer IV cells were only lightly immunoreactive in area 18. Following 10 day periods of monocular deprivation, induced by intravitreal injections of tetrodotoxin, levels of GABA(B)R1a,b mRNA and protein were decreased in the deprived eye dominance columns of layers IVC and VI.
The invertebrate odorant-binding proteins consist of a large family of low-molecular-weight, highly divergent proteins expressed exclusively in the chemosensory sensilla of insects. Each member of this family studied to date is secreted into the sensillum lymph of a small subset of sensilla by non-neuronal support cells. These expression patterns suggests an odor-specific function for these proteins as opposed to a general role in sensillum biology. Consistent with this notion, mutants defective for LUSH, a Drosophila member of this family, have odor-specific defects in olfactory behavior. The Drosophila genome contains at least 32 members of this gene family, rivaling the number of odorant receptors in this species. The relationship between these two protein families and how they act to determine odor specificity of olfactory neurons will be the topic of future studies.
Executive functions are difficult to assess in preschool children, yet the preschool period is particularly important, both in the development of behavioral control and of the brain, particularly the prefrontal cortex. Several tasks were adapted from developmental and neuroscience literature and then administered to 98 preschool children (30-, 36-, 42-, 48- and 60-month age groups). Executive function task performance was related largely to age group, but not to sex or intelligence. These tasks, then, were sensitive in this age range and may be useful to delineate distinct cognitive profiles among preschool children with various neurological and developmental disorders.
Both Drosophila neuroblasts and Caenorhabditis elegans zygotes use a conserved protein complex to establish cell polarity and regulate spindle orientation. Mammalian epithelia also use this complex to regulate apical/basal polarity. Recent results have allowed us to compare the mechanisms regulating asymmetric cell division in Drosophila neuroblasts and the C. elegans zygote.
The microtubule-associated protein tau was originally identified as a protein that co-purified with tubulin in vitro, stimulated assembly of tubulin into microtubules and strongly stabilized microtubules. Recognized now as one of the most abundant axonal microtubule-associated proteins, a convergence of evidence implicates an overlapping in vivo role of tau with other axonal microtubule-associated proteins (e.g. MAP1B) in establishing microtubule stability, axon elongation and axonal structure. Missense and splice-site mutations in the human tau gene are now known to be causes of inherited frontotemporal dementia and parkinsonism linked to chromosome 17, a cognitive disorder of aging. This has provided direct evidence for the hypothesis that aberrant, filamentous assembly of tau, a frequent hallmark of a series of human cognitive diseases, including Alzheimer's disease, can directly provoke neurodegeneration.
Dendritic patterning exerts a profound influence on neuronal connectivity. Recent studies indicate that mammalian Notch receptors are expressed by postmitotic neurons and that Notch signaling has a considerable influence on dendritic growth and branching. Investigations into the intracellular effectors of dendritic development have revealed that dendritic growth and branching are differentially affected by activation of the Rho-family GTPases, RhoA, Rac1, and Cdc42. These observations suggest that the differential activation of Notch receptors and Rho-family GTPases by extracellular signals may be important in the generation of morphological diversity in the developing nervous system.

Major progress in our understanding of the mechanisms of anaesthesia has been made during the past year. Several key advances in defining very specific sites of action on ligand-gated ion channels have been described. Furthermore, new techniques have become available for addressing the identification of binding sites and transduction mechanisms on these receptors. The discovery that anaesthetics affect a recently identified family of potassium channels could also lead to major new findings in the next few years.
Neuropathic pain is a debilitating consequence of nerve damage. Existing treatment is largely ineffective. Current models of neuropathic pain recognise the importance of ectopic activity in primary sensory neurones impinging on a sensitised central nervous system. Neurotrophic factors have been shown to be neuroprotective for damaged sensory neurones, providing a rationale for testing their effects in neuropathic pain states. Recent data have demonstrated potent analgesic effects of one factor (glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor) in animal models of neuropathy, and implicated changes in sodium channel alpha-subunits in the generation of afferent ectopic activity. The new findings provide a rational basis for the use of neurotrophic factors as a novel therapeutic treatment for neuropathic pain states.
Glutamate receptors (GluRs) are localized in the periphery on nociceptive primary afferent terminals. Studies in animal models of pain demonstrate that peripheral glutamate is involved in nociceptive transmission in the normal and the inflamed state and that modulation of peripheral GluRs reduces pain behaviors and nociceptor activity. These data provide strong motivation to develop new pharmacological agents that will target peripheral GluRs, offering novel approaches to treatment of pain of peripheral origin.
Neurosurgeons have successfully used punctate midline myelotomy to relieve visceral cancer pain in human patients. Animal experiments demonstrate a visceral nociceptive pathway in the posterior column that is more effective than the spinothalamic tract in activating thalamic neurons, eliciting behavioral responses and triggering increases in regional cerebral blood flow. This visceral nociceptive pathway involves postsynaptic dorsal column neurons in the central, visceral processing region of the spinal cord. Axons from the sacral cord ascend near the midline and from the thoracic cord at the junction of the gracile and cuneate fasciculi.

In ventricular cells of the mouse telencephalon, differential expression of cadherin cell adhesion molecules defines neighbouring regions; R-cadherin delineates the future cerebral cortex, while cadherin-6 delineates the lateral ganglionic eminence. By using cell labelling analyses in the whole embryo culture system, we demonstrated that the interface between R-cadherin and cadherin-6 expression is a boundary for cell lineage restriction at embryonic day 10.5. Interestingly, when a group of cells with exogenous cadherin-6 were generated to straddle the cortico-straital boundary by electroporation at embryonic day 11.0, ectopic cadherin-6-expressing cortical cells were sorted into the striatal compartment, and the reverse was the trend for ectopic R-cadherin-expressing striatal cells. Although cadherin-6 gene knockout mice engineered in this study showed no obvious phenotype in telencephalic compartmentalisation, the preferential sorting of ectopic cadherin-6-expressing cells was abolished in this mutant background. Thus, the differential expression pattern of cadherins in the embryonic telencephalon is responsible for maintaining the cortico-striatal compartment boundary.
Cell death in the developing retina is regulated, but so far little is known about what factors regulate the cell death. Several neurotrophic factors and receptors, including the neurotrophins and Trk receptors, are expressed during the critical time. We have studied the developing avian retina with respect to the role of nerve growth factor (NGF) in these processes. Our starting point for the work was that NGF and its receptor TrkA are expressed in a partially overlapping pattern in the inner nuclear layer of the developing retina. Our results show that TrkA and NGF-expressing cells are postmitotic. The first NGF-expressing cells were found on the vitreal side of the central region of E5.5-E6 retina. This pattern changed and NGF-expressing cells identified as horizontal cells were later confined to the external inner nuclear layer. We show that these horizontal cells co-express TrkA and NGF, unlike a subpopulation of amacrine cells that only expresses TrkA. In contrast to the horizontal cells, which survive, the majority of the TrkA-expressing amacrine cells die during a period of cell death in the inner nuclear layer. Intraocular injections of NGF protein rescued the dying amacrine cells and injection of antisense oligonucleotides for NGF that block its synthesis, caused death among the TrkA-expressing horizontal cells, which normally would survive. Our results suggest that NGF supports the survival of TrkA expressing avian horizontal cells in an autocrine mode of action in the retina of E10-E12 chicks. The cells co-express TrkA and NGF and the role for NGF is to maintain the TrkA-expressing horizontal cells. The TrkA-expressing amacrine cells are not supported by NGF and subsequently die. In addition to the effect on survival, our results suggest that NGF plays a role in horizontal cell plasticity.
A key factor in the genetically programmed development of the nervous system is the death of massive numbers of neurons. Therefore, genetic mechanisms governing cell survival are of fundamental importance to developmental neuroscience. We report that inner ear sensory neurons are dependent on a basic helix-loop-helix transcription factor called NeuroD for survival during differentiation. Mice lacking NeuroD protein exhibit no auditory evoked potentials, reflecting a profound deafness. DiI fiber staining, immunostaining and cell death assays reveal that the deafness is due to the failure of inner ear sensory neuron survival during development. The affected inner ear sensory neurons fail to express neurotrophin receptors, TrkB and TrkC, suggesting that the ability of NeuroD to support neuronal survival may be directly mediated through regulation of responsiveness to the neurotrophins.
Recent evidence suggests that projection neurons and interneurons of the cerebral cortex are generally derived from distinct proliferative zones. Cortical projection neurons originate from the cortical ventricular zone (VZ), and then migrate radially into the cortical mantle, whereas most cortical interneurons originate from the basal telencephalon and migrate tangentially into the developing cortex. Previous studies using methods that label both proliferative and postmitotic cells have found that cortical interneurons migrate from two major subdivisions of the developing basal telencephalon: the medial and lateral ganglionic eminences (MGE and LGE). Since these studies labeled cells by methods that do not distinguish between the proliferating cells and those that may have originated elsewhere, we have studied the contribution of the MGE and LGE to cortical interneurons using fate mapping and genetic methods. Transplantation of BrdU-labeled MGE or LGE neuroepithelium into the basal telencephalon of unlabeled telencephalic slices enabled us to follow the fate of neurons derived from each of these primordia. We have determined that early in neurogenesis GABA-expressing cells from the MGE tangentially migrate into the cerebral cortex, primarily via the intermediate zone, whereas cells from the LGE do not. Later in neurogenesis, LGE-derived cells also migrate into the cortex, although this migration occurs primarily through the subventricular zone. Some of these LGE-derived cells invade the cortical plate and express GABA, while others remain within the cortical proliferative zone and appear to become mitotically active late in gestation. In addition, by comparing the phenotypes of mouse mutants with differential effects on MGE and LGE migration, we provide evidence that the MGE and LGE may give rise to different subtypes of cortical interneurons.
This study examined the relationship between novelty seeking between treatment retention and among heroin dependent cocaine users. Participants were treated with buprenorphine maintenance and contingency management. The Tridimensional Personality Questionnaire's (TPQ) Novelty Seeking scale was administered to 68 participants prior to buprenorphine induction. Demographics, mood and anxiety disorders, antisocial personality disorder, and substance use were also assessed. Variables with significant relationships with overall retention were entered into a logistic regression analysis. In addition, using a survival analysis, all variables with significant relationships with time to drop-out were entered into a multivariate proportional hazards regression with time dependent covariates. Results demonstrated that although high novelty seekers, in comparison to low novelty seekers, were more likely to drop-out by the end of treatment, they had higher retention rates during the early phases of treatment. It is suggested that buprenorphine and contingency management were viewed by participants as novel treatment components and thus facilitated high novelty seekers' success early in treatment. If replicated, results suggest that inclusion of novel treatment components might facilitate retention among this at-risk group.
The meeting on Designing Drugs for Nervous System Disorders, held February 22, 2001, in a town that houses two major neuroscience research centers (GlaxoSmithKline and Merck) and that is close to several other companies working in this field, was ideally located to attract a good attendance by active neuroscientists. The selection of speakers presented a fascinating perspective of new approaches, early-stage programs and the treatment of CNS disorders.

An increase in pulsatile release of LHRH is essential for the onset of puberty. However, the mechanism controlling the pubertal increase in LHRH release is still unclear. In primates the LHRH neurosecretory system is already active during the neonatal period but subsequently enters a dormant state in the juvenile/prepubertal period. Neither gonadal steroid hormones nor the absence of facilitatory neuronal inputs to LHRH neurons is responsible for the low levels of LHRH release before the onset of puberty in primates. Recent studies suggest that during the prepubertal period an inhibitory neuronal system suppresses LHRH release and that during the subsequent maturation of the hypothalamus this prepubertal inhibition is removed, allowing the adult pattern of pulsatile LHRH release. In fact, y-aminobutyric acid (GABA) appears to be an inhibitory neurotransmitter responsible for restricting LHRH release before the onset of puberty in female rhesus monkeys. In addition, it appears that the reduction in tonic GABA inhibition allows an increase in the release of glutamate as well as other neurotransmitters, which contributes to the increase in pubertal LHRH release. In this review, developmental changes in several neurotransmitter systems controlling pulsatile LHRH release are extensively reviewed.
To investigate trafficking in neuroendocrine cells, green fluorescent protein (GFP) tags were fused to various portions of the preproneuropeptide Y (NPY) precursor. Two neuroendocrine cell lines, AtT-20 corticotrope tumor cells and PC-12 pheochromocytoma cells, along with primary anterior pituitary cells, were examined. Expression of chimeric constructs did not disrupt trafficking or regulated secretion of endogenous ACTH and prohormone convertase 1 in AtT-20 cells. Western blot and immunocytochemical analyses demonstrated that the chimeric constructs remained intact, as long as the Lys-Arg cleavage site within preproNPY was deleted. GFP was stored in, and released from, regulated granules in cells expressing half of the NPY precursor fused to GFP, and also in cells in which only the signal sequence of preproNPY was fused to GFP. Thus, in neuroendocrine cells, entering the lumen of the secretory pathway is sufficient to target GFP to regulated secretory granules.
Recently, we demonstrated that estradiol (E(2)) modulates cross-talk between protein tyrosine kinases and norepinephrine (NE) receptor signaling in the hypothalamus (HYP) and preoptic area (POA), brain areas that govern female reproductive function. We are now investigating the identity of protein tyrosine kinase(s) that modify NE receptor signaling in the HYP and POA. Incubation of POA and HYP slices with insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I), which signals via a receptor (IGF-IR) with endogenous tyrosine kinase activity, enhances NE-stimulated cAMP accumulation only in tissue derived from ovariectomized, E(2)-primed animals. JB-1, an antagonist for IGF-IR, prevents the IGF-I enhancement of NE-stimulated cAMP accumulation in both POA and HYP slices. IGF-I enhances NE-stimulated cAMP accumulation via modulation of alpha(1)-adrenoceptor potentiation of adenylyl cyclase. Binding studies in membranes demonstrate that ovariectomized, E(2)-primed animals show a significant increase in the density of [(125)I]IGF-I-binding sites in both POA and HYP compared with ovariectomized control animals. Neither the IC(50) for [(125)I]IGF-I displacement by IGF-I nor the levels of IGF-I binding proteins in serum or brain tissue are affected by E(2). RIA results showed that E(2) does not modify serum or brain IGF-I levels. These results indicate that E(2) regulation of NE receptor function in the POA and HYP involves increased expression of IGF-IR, and that after E(2) treatment, IGF-IR activation augments alpha(1)-adrenoceptor signaling.

Four sarcoglycan subunit proteins, alpha-, beta-, gamma- and delta-sarcoglycans, form a complex on the skeletal muscle cell surface membrane and a gene defect in any one of them causes the loss or marked decrease of whole sarcoglycan complex, resulting in an autosomal recessive muscular dystrophy, sarcoglycanopathy. To characterize the regulation of sarcoglycan transcription during myocyte differentiation, we isolated the promoter regions for all sarcoglycan transcripts and measured the level of transcriptional activity of these promoter regions in the C2C12 skeletal muscle cell line. The promoters of gamma-sarcoglycan and one of two promoters of alpha-sarcoglycan exhibited marked transcriptional activation following differentiation to myotubes. Then, we characterized the 1.5-kb region of the gamma-sarcoglycan promoter by generating reporter-constructs having various deletions and measuring their transcriptional activities. In this promoter, we identified a basal promoter region and two enhancer regions dependent on differentiation. We also showed that A/T-rich and E box elements in the upstream enhancer region are essential for the activation of gamma-sarcoglycan transcription following myotube formation. Furthermore, from the identification of binding proteins to these elements together with the cotransfection experiments with the gamma-sarcoglycan promoter reporter construct and cDNAs encoding these binding factors to 10T1/2 fibroblast cell line, it was suggested that MyoD directs the transcription of gamma-sarcoglycan gene as one of the trans activators.
In a mutant form of Neurospora crassa, in which sheltered RIP (repeat induced point mutation) was used to deplete Tom19, protein transport through the TOM/TIM pathway is arrested by the addition of p-fluorophenylalanine (FPA). Using intermediate-voltage electron tomography, we have generated three-dimensional reconstructions of 28 FPA-treated mitochondria at four time points (0-32 h) after the addition of FPA. We determined that the cristae surface area and volume were lost in a roughly linear manner. A decrease in mitochondrial volume was not observed until after 16 h of FPA treatment. The inner boundary membrane did not appear to shrink or contract away from the outer membrane. Interestingly, the close apposition of these membranes remained over the entire periphery, even after all of the cristae had disappeared. The different dynamics of the shrinkage of cristae membrane and inner boundary membrane has implications for compartmentalization of electron transport proteins. Two structurally distinct types of contact sites were observed, consistent with recently published work. We determined that the cristae in the untreated (control) mitochondria are all lamellar. The cristae of FPA-treated mitochondria retain the lamellar morphology as they reduce in size and do not adopt tubular shapes. Importantly, the crista junctions exhibit tubular as well as slot-like connections to the inner boundary membrane, persisting until the cristae disappear, indicating that their stability is not dependent on continuous protein import through the complex containing Tom19.
To understand the underlying basis for the strong IL-4- and CD154-mediated Igamma1 promoter activity in Ramos 2G6 B cells, we carried out transient transfection assays with luciferase-based constructs containing approximately 2.2 kb and 500 bp of the human Igamma1 proximal promoter region. As a comparison, the corresponding regions of the human Igamma3 promoter were tested under identical conditions. We found that both Igamma1 and Igamma3 promoter constructs were activated upon transfection into Ramos B cells and that activity was significantly up-regulated by CD154 and IL-4 signals. However, the Igamma1 promoter was measurably stronger than the Igamma3 promoter with respect to both basal and induced responses. Sequence comparison revealed a divergent 36-bp region containing multiple putative transcription factor binding sites in the Igamma1 but not the Igamma3 promoter. A mutational &quot;swap&quot; of this sequence resulted in a marked decrease and increase in Igamma1 and Igamma3 basal and induced promoter activity, respectively. Gel retardation assays with Igamma1-specific probes revealed CREB-containing complexes that were not observed with the corresponding Igamma3 probes. Mutation of a single nucleotide in overlapping CREB sites in the Igamma1 sequence resulted in a significant decrease in basal activity with a corresponding reduction in the level of IL-4- and CD154-mediated transcription.
In the striatum, dopamine release is inhibited by activation of dopamine D(2) autoreceptors. Changes in dopamine release have been attributed to changes in the synthesis of dopamine, which is regulated via phosphorylation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the rate-limiting enzyme in the synthesis of catecholamines. Here, we have studied the involvement of dopamine D(2) receptors in the regulation of TH phosphorylation at distinct seryl residues, using phosphorylation site-specific antibodies and a preparation of rat striatal slices. The D(2) receptor agonist, quinpirole, reduced basal TH phosphorylation at Ser40 but not at Ser19 or Ser31. Quinpirole was also able to reduce the increase in Ser40 phosphorylation caused by forskolin, an activator of adenylyl cyclase, without affecting the increase in Ser19 phosphorylation produced by the glutamate receptor agonist, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). In addition, the dopamine D(2) receptor agonist reduced both basal and forskolin-stimulated activity of TH, measured as 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) accumulation. Quinpirole decreased phosphorylation of Ser40 induced by okadaic acid, an inhibitor of protein phosphatase 1 and 2A and Ro-20-1724, a phosphodiesterase inhibitor. In contrast, quinpirole did not affect the increase in Ser40 phosphorylation caused by the cAMP analogue, 8-Br-cAMP. These data indicate that, in the striatum, activation of dopamine D(2) receptors results in selective inhibition of TH phosphorylation at Ser40 via reduction of the activity of adenylyl cyclase. They also provide a molecular mechanism accounting for the ability of dopamine D(2) autoreceptors to inhibit dopamine synthesis and release from nigrostriatal nerve terminals.
The rhythmic firing of dopaminergic (DA) neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNc) is thought to be mediated by nifedipine-sensitive Ca(2+) channels, although an involvement of omega-conotoxin-sensitive Ca(2+) channels is also suggested. In an attempt to localize such Ca(2+) channels at both the regional and cellular levels, their expression and distribution patterns were immunohistochemically investigated in the rat SNc. The three distinct subtypes of voltage-gated Ca(2+) channels were tested: the class B N-type alpha 1 subunit (CNB1), the class C L-type alpha 1 subunit (CNC1) and the class D L-type alpha 1 subunit (CND1). A large number of SNc neurons showed intense immunoreactivity against CND1 and they were distributed throughout the entire extent. By contrast, many fewer neurons displayed less intense CNC1 immunoreactivity and many of them were located in the lateral aspect of the SNc. No immunoreactivity against CNB1 was detected in the SNc. Moreover, double immunofluorescence analysis in combination with tyrosine hydroxylase staining revealed that virtually all DA neurons were CND1-immunoreactive whereas many DA neurons especially in the medial SNc exhibited only faint or no immunoreactivity against CNC1. Both CNC1 and CND1 were expressed in cell bodies and proximal dendrites of SNc DA neurons, whilst their distal dendrites that penetrated into the substantia nigra pars reticulata expressed CND1 alone. Thus, the ubiquitously and intensely expressed class D alpha 1 subunit of L-type Ca(2+) channels that is sensitive to both nifedipine and omega-conotoxin may be responsible for the pacemaker activity of SNc DA neurons.
Brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) messenger RNA (mRNA) expression in the rat visual cortex of young and postnatal day 90 (P90) animals is developmentally regulated and influenced by visual experience. In the present paper we compared the expression of BDNF mRNA to the actual changes of BDNF protein occurring during postnatal development and verified whether BDNF protein distribution is controlled by visual activity. To achieve this aim we analysed BDNF mRNA and/or BDNF protein cellular distribution in the rat visual cortex at different postnatal ages by using immunohistochemistry and highly sensitive in situ hybridization. We found that before eye opening (P13), in all cortical layers a large number of visual cortical neurons contain BDNF mRNA with no detectable amount of BDNF protein. At later ages (P23 and P90), the number of BDNF-immunostained cells increases; most neurons are double labelled for BDNF mRNA and protein, and a small group of neurons is labelled only for BDNF protein. The cellular increase of BDNF immunolabelling is blocked in animals deprived of visual experience from birth (dark rearing), with a large population of neurons containing BDNF mRNA but not BDNF protein. This is similar to what is observed before eye opening. Exposure of dark-reared rats to a brief period (2 h) of light restores a good match between BDNF mRNA and BDNF protein cellular expression. We propose that visual experience controls the neuronal content of BDNF mRNA and BDNF protein in developing visual cortex.
We studied the effect of olfactory learning on the dendritic spine density of pyramidal neurons in the rat piriform (olfactory) cortex. Rats were trained to distinguish between two pairs of odours in an olfactory discrimination task. Three days after training completion, rats were killed and layer II pyramidal neurons identified by Golgi impregnation were examined with a light microscope. Counts of visible spines were performed along the secondary and tertiary branches of both the apical dendrites and the basal dendrites, which are the sites of intracortical synaptic inputs. An estimate of the true spine density was obtained using Feldman and Peters' method (1979, The Journal of Comparative Neurology, 188, 527--542). The estimated true spine density along apical dendrites was higher in neurons from trained rats than those in pseudotrained and naive rats by 15%. As length of spiny dendrites did not change significantly after learning, the learning-related increase in spine density in neurons from trained rats may indicate on an increased number of excitatory synapses interconnecting pyramidal neurons in the piriform cortex, following olfactory learning.
Difficulty in filtering relevant auditory information in background noise is one of the features of autism. Auditory filtering processes can be investigated at the peripheral level as they are hypothesized to involve active cochlear mechanisms which are regulated by the efferent activity of the medial olivocochlear (MOC) system. The aim of the present work was therefore to assess these peripheral auditory processes in 22 children and adolescents with autism compared with age- and gender-matched normal controls. Active cochlear mechanisms were evaluated with transiently evoked otoacoustic emissions (TEOAEs) and MOC system efficiency was assessed via TEOAEs which are decreased when stimulating the contralateral ear with noise. The MOC system evaluation was performed on 18 of the 22 children. In both studies, results were analysed according to age (from 4 to 10 years and from 11 to 20 years). The main result concerns the asymmetry of the efferent system which differs in individuals with autism. Several neural processes might be hypothesized as involved in the results obtained as the MOC system which originates in the brainstem received regulating controls from upper brain structures including auditory cortex. Lateralization abnormalities at the auditory periphery may reflect indirectly a problem at a higher level of auditory processing. A second important result shows a decrease in TEOAE amplitude with age, in patients, that may correspond to a decrease in hearing sensitivity.
We have investigated the hypothesis that the chemorepellent Semaphorin3A may be involved in the failure of axonal regeneration after injury to the ascending dorsal columns of adult rats. Following transection of the thoracic dorsal columns, fibroblasts in the dorsolateral parts of the lesion site showed robust expression of Semaphorin3A mRNA. In addition, dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons with projections through the dorsal columns to the injury site persistently expressed both Semaphorin3A receptor components, neuropilin-1 and plexin-A1. These ascending DRG collaterals failed to invade scar regions occupied by Semaphorin3A-positive fibroblasts, even in animals which had received conditioning lesions of the sciatic nerve to enhance regeneration. Other axon populations in the dorsal spinal cord were similarly unable to penetrate Semaphorin3A-positive scar tissue. These data suggest that Semaphorin3A may create an exclusion zone for regenerating dorsal column fibres and that enhancing the intrinsic regenerative response of DRG neurons has only limited effects on axonal regrowth. Tenascin-C and chondroitin sulphate proteoglycans were also detected at the injury site, which was largely devoid of central nervous system (CNS) myelin, showing that several classes of inhibitory factors, including semaphorins, with only partially overlapping spatial and temporal patterns of expression are in a position to participate in preventing regenerative axonal growth in the injured dorsal columns. Interestingly, conditioning nerve injuries enabled numerous ascending DRG axons to regrow across areas of strong tenascin-C and chondroitin sulphate proteoglycan expression, while areas containing Semaphorin3A and CNS myelin were selectively avoided by (pre)primed axonal sprouts.
Neurodevelopmental disorders in medial temporal lobe structures may underlie psychopathological diseases such as schizophrenia and autism. To construct an animal model for these developmental disorders, social and non-social behavioural responses were assessed in rats with ibotenic acid lesions of the (baso-)lateral and central amygdala or ventral hippocampus, induced early in life. Lesioning the amygdala on day 7 after birth resulted in a variety of behavioural disturbances later in life, whereas after similar lesions on day 21 after birth no disturbances developed, except for deficits in social behaviours. Lesioning the hippocampus led to much less disturbances. The results show that amygdala and hippocampus damage at a specific point early in life results in enduring behavioural disturbances that become more manifest after puberty. In particular, lesions of the amygdala on day 7 of life may serve as a rat model with face and construct validity for neurodevelopmental disorders in studying psychopathology.
Nitric oxide (NO)-mediated cGMP synthesis is localized throughout the rat brain in close proximity to the NO-synthase-containing structures. However, characterization of the cGMP synthesizing structures in terms of co-localization with the classical neurotransmitter systems has not yet been reported. Here we present evidence, using double immunostaining for cGMP and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter, that virtually all of the cholinergic fibers in the cerebral cortex and the majority of the cholinergic fibers in the basal ganglia accumulate cGMP in response to a NO donor. In these areas, only few cGMP-containing fibers were observed not to be part of the cholinergic system. Co-localization between cGMP and the vesicular acetylcholine transporter was only observed to a minor degree in the ventral forebrain, the hippocampus, the reticular thalamic nucleus, and the nucleus ambiguus. No association of cGMP synthesis with the cholinergic system was observed to a similar extent in other brain areas. These results, in combination with literature data on the distribution of cholinergic receptors in the rat brain, suggest that NO has an anterograde and/or retrograde signaling function on subsets of cholinergic neurons.
This cross-sectional study examined electromyographic (EMG) and kinetic variables during reactive balance responses in children grouped according to developmental level as compared with chronological age. Purposes were to explore relationships between the two types of variables and the effectiveness of the two grouping methods. Forty-four children between 9 months and 10 years old were tested for reactive balance control on a moveable platform. Surface electrodes measured EMG activity in the gastrocnemius (GA), hamstrings (HA), paraspinals (PS), tibialis anterior (TA), quadriceps (QA), and abdominal (AB) muscles. Timing and distance of center-of-pressure (COP) movements and peak muscle torques at the ankle, knee, and hip were also examined. Significant relationships and group differences were found between postural muscle activity and both the torque generated in the lower limbs and the timing and distance of COP adjustments employed to restabilize balance. As postural muscle activity increased and became more coordinated in timing, peak torque at the ankle and hip also increased, while the distance of and time to complete COP readjustments decreased. Children in younger/developmentally lower groups had smaller-magnitude and less-synergic muscle activity, lower peak torques, longer times to restabilize the COP, and greater COP paths than older/higher developmental groupings. Grouping by developmental level produced more statistical differences than did grouping by age. The correspondence of GA, HA, and PS muscle activity with COP measures and joint peak torques confirms that these muscles are key contributors to the balance synergy correcting for induced forward sway. Additionally, developmental level appears to be a much better predictor of balance improvement than chronological age.
The effects of selective blockade of group I metabotropic glutamate receptor subtype 1 (mGluR1) on neuronal cell survival and post-traumatic recovery was examined using rat in vitro and in vivo trauma models. The selective mGluR1 antagonists (RS)-1-aminoindan-1,5-dicarboxylic acid (AIDA), 7-(hydroxyimino)cyclopropa[b]chromen-1a-carboxylate ethyl ester (CPCCOEt), and (S)-(+)-alpha-amino-4-carboxy-2-methylbezeneacetic acid (LY367385) provided significant neuroprotection in rat cortical neuronal cultures subjected to mechanical injury, in both pretreatment or posttreatment paradigms. Administration of the antagonists also attenuated glutamate-induced neuronal cell death in the cultures. Coapplication of these antagonists with the N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist (5R,10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK-801) had additive neuroprotective effects in glutamate injured cultures. Intracerebroventricular administration of AIDA to rats markedly improved recovery from motor dysfunction after lateral fluid percussion induced traumatic brain injury (TBI). Treatment with mGluR1 antagonists also significantly reduced lesion volumes in rats after TBI, as evaluated by MRI. It appears that these compounds mediate their neuroprotective effect through an mGluR1 antagonist action, as demonstrated by inhibition of agonist induced phosphoinositide hydrolysis in our in vitro system. Moreover, AIDA, CPCCOEt, and LY367385, at concentrations shown to be neuroprotective, had no significant effects on the steady state NMDA evoked whole cell current. Taken together, these data suggest that modulation of mGluR1 activity may have substantial therapeutic potential in brain injury.
There is growing evidence that mitochondrial dysfunction is an important factor in a cascade of neurotoxic events as observed during pathogenesis of various neurodegenerative diseases. In the neurodegenerative disease amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) both spinal and cortical motoneurons degenerate, but in experimental studies most attention so far has been focussed on the spinal motoneurons. In order to study the role of mitochondrial dysfunction in the pathways leading to cortical (upper) motoneuron (CMN) death, a long-term culture system of rat cortical explants was used. CMNs were visualized by immunocytochemical labeling with antibodies directed against nonphosphorylated neurofilament, SMI-32, and for their identification we also used their location in layer V of the explant, their size, and their morphological appearance. In this model the effect of mitochondrial inhibition was studied through chronic malonate treatment. For 2 weeks, low doses of complex II inhibitor malonate were added to the cultures twice a week. The malonate-induced chronic mitochondrial inhibition resulted in a dose-dependent increase of CMN death in the slices. Neuroprotection was achieved with the NMDA antagonist MK-801 and the non-NMDA antagonist CNQX indicating the involvement of glutamate in the malonate-induced CMN death. Furthermore, our data indicate that chronic mitochondrial inhibition results in CMN death, which is mediated by glutamate excitotoxicity via both non-NMDA and NMDA receptors. In this respect the present in vitro approach may act as a model for understanding mechanisms underlying CMN death in ALS.
Selegiline (l-deprenyl) is an irreversible monoamine oxidase B (MAO-B) inhibitor that is suggested to have neuroprotective and neuronal rescuing properties. The present study investigated whether systemic administration of selegiline facilitates behavioral recovery after transient focal cerebral ischemia in rats using a combination of different behavioral tests (limb placing, foot slip, water maze, and Montoya's staircase test) to measure the outcome of recovery. Selegiline (0.5 mg/kg, SC) or 0.9% NaCl was administered once a day, beginning on the second day after induction of ischemia and continuing for 30 days. Selegiline administration combined with enriched-environment housing attenuated ischemia-induced spatial learning deficits in a water-maze task and enhanced performance of both the contralateral affected and ipsilateral nonaffected forelimbs in a staircase test. Selegiline administration alone was not beneficial in any of the tests. Subsequent histologic examination revealed that the infarct volumes were not different between the experimental ischemic groups. Thus, these results suggest that selegiline combined with enriched-environment housing reduces behavioral and cognitive deficits without affecting infarct size.
Galanin is a peptide normally expressed at low levels both in sensory and in sympathetic neurons. It is strongly upregulated after peripheral nerve lesions, and it has been proposed that nerve growth factor (NGF) plays a role in this regulation. In the present study the effect of both sciatic nerve transection and lumbar sympathectomy on galanin in lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) was examined in mice overexpressing NGF (NGFOE) in the skin under the keratin promoter. The superior cervical ganglia (SCG) were also studied. In the DRG pericellular baskets containing tyrosine hydroxylase- (TH) and galanin-like immunoreactivity (LI) were found, mostly in the same fibers. Galanin-positive baskets were also found in the trigeminal ganglia. However, only single neuropeptide Y (NPY)-positive baskets were observed within the DRGs. No marked difference in number of galanin-positive neurons was seen between wild-type and NGFOE mice. After sciatic nerve transection galanin was upregulated in DRG neurons to about the same extent in NGFOE mice as in wild-type mice. Galanin-, but not TH-LIs decreased in the pericellular baskets. After lumbar sympathectomy both galanin- and TH-immunoreactive baskets disappeared, suggesting a sympathetic origin. In the SCG the very low galanin mRNA levels were strongly increased after lesion of the carotid nerves, both in wild-type and in NGFOE mice. However, whereas NPY mRNA levels decreased in the SCG after axotomy in the wild-type mice, there was a distinct increase in the NGFOE mice. Our results show that high NGF levels in skin induce formation of pericellular baskets in DRGs expressing galanin- and TH-LI and that galanin in these baskets is strongly influenced by peripheral axotomy. However, overexpression of NGF did not markedly influence galanin expression in DRG neurons, neither normally nor after nerve lesions. Finally, expression of NPY in sympathetic ganglia is differently regulated in NGFOE compared to wild-type mice.
Sphingosine-1-phosphate (SPP) is a polar sphingolipid metabolite that has received increasing attention as both an extracellular mediator and an intracellular second messenger. SPP is the ligand of a family of specific cell surface G-protein coupled receptors (GPCR), known as the endothelial differentiation gene-1 (EDG-1) family. These receptors, which include EDG-1, -3, -5, -6 and -8, regulate diverse processes including cell migration, angiogenesis, vascular maturation, heart development, neurite retraction and soma rounding. In addition, abundant evidence indicates that SPP also acts as an intracellular lipid messenger, regulating calcium mobilisation, cell growth and survival. The relative intracellular level of SPP and ceramide, another sphingolipid metabolite associated with cell death and cell growth arrest, is an important factor in determining cell fate. Changes in SPP and ceramide have been implicated in a number of pathological conditions in which apoptosis plays an important role, including cancer and neurodegenerative disorders, as well as in atherosclerosis and allergic responses. This review will examine the biosynthesis, metabolism and potential functions of SPP in diverse diseases in order to illuminate targets for the pharmaceutical and therapeutic manipulation of SPP levels.
Brainstem of rats were stabbed with a needle and pathological changes of neurons and axons in brainstem were observed at different time after injury with Nissl's body staining, silver staining and modified trichrome staining. It was found that, by silver staining, the axons showed irregular swelling and disconnection at 1-3 h, marked swelling of the severe end at 6 h, retraction ball at 15 h and remarkable retraction ball at 24 h. By modified trichrome staining, the space between myelin sheaths and axons was widened at 3-6 h, and tortuous myelin sheaths adhered incompletely on axons, or even peeled off at 15 h to 24 h. Perinuclear lysis of Nissl's bodies at 24 h after injury could be seen by Nissl body staining. The results indicated that, the pathological changes in injured brainstem could be observed with histochemical staining, which might be used for timing brainstem injuries.
Monocyte chemoattractant protein (MCP)-1 is expressed by astrocytes in diverse inflammatory states and is a key regulator of monocyte recruitment to the central nervous system (CNS). In the current study, we addressed mechanisms by which transcription of the human MCP-1 gene (hMCP-1) was terminated, after induction by interferon (IFN)-gamma. Our results demonstrated that IFN-gamma-induced transcription of hMCP-1 was followed by a refractory state, during which hMCP-1 was resistant to restimulation by either IFN-gamma or heterologous activators such as TNF-alpha. This refractory state affected the hMCP-1 gene selectively, as other IFN-gamma-inducible genes remained responsive to restimulation. The IFN-gamma-induced hMCP-1 refractory state was governed at the transcriptional level and was sensitive to protein synthesis inhibitors, suggesting a requirement for newly expressed components. A minimal 213 base pair hMCP-1 regulatory element directed both IFN-gamma-mediated transcription and the subsequent refractory state. We previously demonstrated that IFN-gamma treatment resulted in coordinate protein occupancy in vivo of two hMCP-1 promoter elements, a gamma-activated site (GAS) and a GC-rich element. During the refractory state, IFN-gamma treatment failed to induce protection of either the hMCP-1 GAS element or the GC box. These results furnish insight into the expression of hMCP-1 during CNS inflammation and provide the first delineation of an IFN-gamma-induced transcriptional refractory state.
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is the most common disorder diagnosed by gastroenterologists and one of the more common ones encountered in general practice. The overall prevalence rate is similar (approximately 10%) in most industrialized countries; the illness has a large economic impact on health care use and indirect costs, chiefly through absenteeism. IBS is a biopsychosocial disorder in which 3 major mechanisms interact: psychosocial factors, altered motility, and/or heightened sensory function of the intestine. Subtle inflammatory changes suggest a role for inflammation, especially after infectious enteritis, but this has not yet resulted in changes in the approach to patient treatment. Treatment of patients is based on positive diagnosis of the symptom complex, limited exclusion of underlying organic disease, and institution of a therapeutic trial. If patient symptoms are intractable, further investigations are needed to exclude specific motility or other disorders. Symptoms fluctuate over time; treatment is often restricted to times when patients experience symptoms. Symptomatic treatment includes supplementing fiber to achieve a total intake of up to 30 g in those with constipation, those taking loperamide or other opioids for diarrhea, and those taking low-dose antidepressants or infrequently using antispasmodics for pain. Older conventional therapies do not address pain in IBS. Behavioral psychotherapy and hypnotherapy are also being evaluated. Novel approaches include alosetron; a 5-HT(3) antagonist, tegaserod, a partial 5-HT(4) agonist, kappa-opioid agonists, and neurokinin antagonists to address the remaining challenging symptoms of pain, constipation, and bloating. Understanding the brain-gut axis is key to the eventual development of effective therapies for IBS.

We have recently identified a novel RING finger protein expressed in the rat brain, which associates with myosin V and alpha-actinin-4. Here we have cloned and characterized the orthologous human BERP cDNA and gene (HGMW-approved symbol RNF22). The human BERP protein is encoded by 11 exons ranging in size from 71 to 733 bp, and fluorescence in situ hybridization shows that the BERP gene maps to chromosome 11p15.5, 3' to the FE65 gene. The human BERP protein is 98% identical to the rat and mouse proteins, and we have identified a highly conserved potential orthologue in Caenorhabditis elegans. BERP belongs to the RING finger-B-box-coiled coil (RBCC) subgroup of RING finger proteins, and a cluster of these RBCC protein genes is present in chromosome 11p15. Chromosome region 11p15 is thought to harbor tumor suppressor genes, and deletions of this region occur frequently in several types of human cancers. These observations indicate that BERP may be a novel tumor suppressor gene.
The anatomy and function of the dorsal ligaments of the wrist have received increased attention over the past decade. The anatomy, variability, osseous attachments, and function of the dorsal radiocarpal (DRC) and the dorsal intercarpal (DIC) ligaments have been studied. More detailed anatomic and mechanical studies of the subregions of the intercarpal ligaments have also been recently reported. The DRC and the DIC form a lateral V configuration that allows normal carpal kinematics while maintaining an indirect dorsal stabilizing effect on the scaphoid throughout the range of motion of the wrist. The DRC and the DIC together, in their lateral V configuration, act effectively as a dorsal radioscaphoid ligament that has the ability to vary its length three-fold by changing the angle between two arms of the V.
Over the past decade there has been an increased interest in and study of the skeletal anatomy of the wrist. Different morphologic patterns of carpal anatomy have been identified and classified in the wrist. Certain morphologic types of carpal bones have been shown to have a correlation with the development of arthritis in joints of the wrist. Different shapes of carpal bones have also been shown to determine and affect the type of kinematics that they demonstrate.

This study examined whether menstrual cycle phase was associated with performance on the Primary Mental Abilities Test of Spatial Relations, a test of mental rotation, in undergraduate students (N = 82). As cortisol levels also vary across the menstrual cycle under conditions of stress and influence cognitive performance, saliva samples were obtained before and after the test session to examine whether cortisol levels were related to between- and within-group differences in spatial performance. Men scored higher on the spatial test than all the groups of women, although the difference between men and women in the menstrual phase was not significant. Women in the luteal phase scored lower than the menstrual, follicular, and oral contraceptive user groups of women. There were no sex or menstrual cycle differences in cortisol levels, and no association between cortisol levels and spatial performance. The poorer performance of women in the luteal phase was not related to differences in ratings of perceived stress, perceived success on the test, or mood. Although menstrual cycle phase accounted for a significant proportion of the variance (15%) in performance on the spatial test, this does not explain why men outperformed women regardless of the phase of the cycle. Thus, there are clearly several other variables, sociocultural and physiological, involved in mediating individual differences in spatial performance.
In this study, we examined the hypothesis that two distinct sets of cortical areas subserve two dissociable neurophysiological mechanisms of visual recognition. We posited that one such mechanism uses category specific cues extractable from the viewed pattern for the purpose of recognition. The other mechanism matches the pattern to be recognized with a pre-encoded memory representation of the pattern. In order to distinguish the cortical areas active in these two strategies, we measured changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) with positron emission tomography (PET) and (15)O Butanol as the radiotracer. Ten subjects performed pattern recognition tasks based on three different short-term memory conditions and a condition based on visual categories of the patterns. When subjects used representations of the patterns held in short-term memory for the purpose of recognition, the precunei were bilaterally activated. Recognition based on visual categories of the patterns activated the right (R) angular gyrus, left (L) inferior temporal gyrus, and L superior parieto-occipital cortex. These findings demonstrate that the R angular gyrus, the L inferior temporal gyrus, and the L superior parieto-occipital cortex are associated with recognition of patterns based on visual categories, whereas recognition of patterns using memory representations is associated with the activity of the precunei. This study is the first to show functional dual dissociation of active cortical fields for different mechanisms of visual pattern recognition.
The role of reduced leptin signaling in the regulation of cardiovascular responses to negative energy balance is not known. We tested the hypothesis that central infusion of leptin would attenuate the cardiovascular and metabolic responses to fasting. Male Sprague-Dawley rats, instrumented with telemetry devices and intracerebroventricular cannulas, were housed in metabolic chambers for continuous (24 hours) measurement of dark-phase (active) and light-phase (inactive) mean arterial pressure, heart rate, oxygen consumption, and respiratory quotient. Rats received central infusions of either saline (0.5 microL/h) or leptin (42 ng/h) for 6 days through osmotic pumps and were either fed ad libitum or were fasted for 48 hours followed by refeeding for 4 days. In ad lib animals, continuous intracerebroventricular leptin infusion significantly reduced caloric intake, body weight, and respiratory quotient compared with saline controls while having no effect on mean arterial pressure or heart rate. Fasting reduced mean arterial pressure, heart rate, oxygen consumption, and respiratory quotient in rats receiving saline infusions. Fasting-induced reductions in mean arterial pressure were specific to the active phase and were not attenuated by central leptin infusion. In contrast, intracerebroventricular leptin, at a dose that had no cardiovascular effects in ad lib control animals, completely prevented fasting-induced decreases in light-phase heart rate and oxygen consumption and blunted fasting-induced reductions in dark-phase heart rate and oxygen consumption. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that reductions in central leptin signaling contribute to the integrated cardiovascular and metabolic responses to acute caloric deprivation.
RANTES and MCP-1 represent a link between the activation of monocytes, lymphocytes, basophils, mast cells and eosinophils in inflammatory disorders, such as the late phase allergic reaction. These C-C chemokines also play a role in regulating Th cell cytokine production and leukocyte trafficking. In this study, we determined the expression and secretion of RANTES and MCP-1 from PHA-activated PBMC of healthy and atopic subjects with no symptoms. Levels of RANTES from PHA-activated PBMC of atopic patients were higher, at 18 and 24 h incubations (42+/-5.5 and 48+/-4), compared to controls (20+/-4 and 35+/-4), respectively; while MCP-1 was not (12+/-3 and 17+/-3) compared to controls (10.5+/-3 and 15+/-2), respectively. This effect was also revealed on RANTES mRNA expression, as determined by reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) analysis. In addition, PHA-activated PBMC of atopic subjects produce more IL-4 (five times more) than healthy subjects, while IFN-gamma did not vary. RANTES, compared to MCP-1, may have more influence on signal transduction pathways, either in physiologic or inflammatory states and may induce profound effects on the regulation of cell activity. The differential production of RANTES and MCP-1 may lead to diverse regulation of the function and development of cells involved in the allergic response. These studies emphasize the importance of chemokine selectivity during inflammation.
The pathologic features of cerebral Listeria monocytogenes infection strongly suggest that besides hematogenous spread, bacteria might also spread via a neural route. We propose that after snout infection of recombination activating gene 1 (RAG-1)-deficient mice, L. monocytogenes spreads to the brain via a neural route. The neural route of invasion is suggested by (i) the immunostaining of L. monocytogenes in the trigeminal ganglia (TG) and brain stem but not in other areas of the brain; (ii) the kinetics of bacterial loads in snout, TG, and brain; and (iii) the increased resistance of mice infected with a plcB bacterial mutant (unable to spread from cell to cell). Gamma interferon (IFN-gamma) plays a protective role in neuroinvasion; inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) accounts only partially for the protection, as shown by a comparison of the susceptibilities of IFN-gamma receptor (IFN-gamma R)-deficient, iNOS-deficient, and wild-type mice to snout infection with L. monocytogenes. The dramatically enhanced susceptibility of RAG-1-deficient, IFN-gamma R gene-deficient mice indicated the overall importance of innate immune cells in the release of protective levels of IFN-gamma. The source of IFN-gamma appeared to be NK cells, as shown by use of RAG-1-deficient, gamma-chain receptor gene-deficient mice; NK cells played a relevant protective role in neuroinvasion through a perforin-independent mechanism. In vitro evidence indicated that IFN-gamma can directly induce bacteriostatic mechanisms in neural tissue.
Notch signaling plays an important role in cell-fate specification in multicellular organisms by regulating cell-cell communication. The Drosophila deltex gene encodes a modulator of the Notch pathway that has been shown to interact physically with the Ankyrin repeats of Notch. We isolated four distinct cDNAs corresponding to mouse homologs of deltex - mouse Deltex1 (MDTX1), mouse Deltex2 (MDTX2), mouse Deltex2DeltaE (MDTX2DeltaE), and mouse Deltex3 (MDTX3). Deduced amino acid sequences of these four cDNAs showed a high degree of similarity to Drosophila Deltex and its human homolog, DTX1 throughout their lengths, even though they possess distinct structural features. MDTX proteins formed homotypic and heterotypic multimers. We found that these genes were expressed in the central, peripheral nervous system and in the thymus, overlapping with those of mouse Notch1. In mammalian tissue culture cells, overexpression of any of the four mouse deltex homologs suppressed the transcriptional activity of E47, a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) protein, in a manner similar to suppression by an activated form of human Notch1 or human DTX1. In addition, overexpression of MDTX2 and MDTX2DeltaE in C2C12 cells under differentiation-inducing conditions suppressed the expression of myogenin, one of the myogenic transcriptional factors; this was also similar to a previously reported activity of constitutively activated Notch. Furthermore, misexpression of any of the MDTX genes in Xenopus embryos resulted in an expansion of the region expressing the neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) gene, a marker for the neuroepithelium. Collectively, our results suggest that these mouse deltex homologs are involved in vertebrate Notch signaling and regulation of neurogenesis.
The physiological significance and subcellular distribution of voltage dependent calcium channels was defined using calcium channel blockers to inhibit potassium induced rises in cytosolic calcium concentration in cultured mouse neocortical neurons. The cytosolic calcium concentration was measured using the fluorescent calcium chelator fura-2. The types of calcium channels present at the synaptic terminal were determined by the inhibitory action of calcium channel blockers on potassium-induced [3H]GABA release in the same cell preparation. L-, N-, P-, Q- and R-/T-type voltage dependent calcium channels were differentially distributed in somata, neurites and nerve terminals. omega-conotoxin MVIIC (omega-CgTx MVIIC) inhibited approximately 40% of the Ca(2+)-rise in both somata and neurites and 60% of the potassium induced [3H]GABA release, indicating that the Q-type channel is the quantitatively most important voltage dependent calcium channel in all parts of the neuron. After treatment with thapsigargin the increase in cytosolic calcium was halved, indicating that calcium release from thapsigargin sensitive intracellular calcium stores is an important component of the potassium induced rise in cytosolic calcium concentration. The results of this investigation demonstrate that pharmacologically distinct types of voltage dependent calcium channels are differentially localized in cell bodies, neurites and nerve terminals of mouse cortical neurons but that the Q-type calcium channel appears to predominate in all compartments.
It is widely assumed that all exercise, regardless of the degree of difficulty or strenuousness, is good (no pain-no gain). In this speculative review of the literature and our research findings we highlight the fact that strenuous exercise taken to the extreme initiates an immune and vascular proinflammatory situation. However, mild cyclic exercise appears to produce health benefits for an individual. In part, this is due to vascular cyclic pulsations, occurring in mild exercise, stimulating constitutive nitric oxide synthase derived nitric oxide release. This in turn down-regulates vascular endothelial cells and immunocytes, as well as their interaction and inhibits the disassociation of NF-kappaB, preventing the production of proinflammatory cytokines. The nitric oxide so generated may even scavenge excess free radicals, preventing tissue damage. Prolonged strenuous exercise appears to limit these positive phenomena because of the maintained and prolonged high blood pressure that reduces the cyclic pulsations, limiting nitric oxide production. We further note that pathological conditions, i.e., Parkinson's disorder, may benefit from mild exercise, i.e., cyclic nitric oxide production, since the inactivity associated with this disease may lead to compromised nitric oxide production, initiating a progressive deterioration of tissues, including peripheral adrenergic neurons, due to a lack of adequate basal nitric oxide levels required to maintain the vascular microenvironment in a mild state of inhibition. We conclude that mild exercise represents an alternate and economical therapy to preserve health and/or diminish the rate of decline of the normal physiological processes that may even be associated with aging.


Synaptic damage is an early pathological event common to many neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease (AD) and is the best correlate to the cognitive impairment. Several molecules involved in AD and in other neurodegenerative disorders play an important role in synaptic function and when misfolded aggregate and form amyloid fibrils. Synaptic proteins with an amyloid domain include amyloid beta-protein precursor, prion protein, huntingtin, ataxin-1 and alpha-synuclein. Two of the possible mechanisms by which alterations in synaptic proteins lead to synapse damage are: 1) misfolded or aggregated synaptic molecules have lost their normal function and/or 2) they have gained a toxic capacity. Recent studies support the possibility that while oligomers are toxic, polymers might be inactive. The mechanisms by which oligomers trigger synapse loss could be related to their ability to triggers stress signals once they enter the nucleus and/or accumulate at the endoplasmic reticulum.

Professor George Gray, who died in August 1999, had a notable career as a pioneer electron microscopist of neural tissues. His name is still attached to synapses, which can be classified as Gray type 1 (symmetric) or type 2 (asymmetric), and in addition he made a number of other profound contributions to our knowledge of synaptic structures.He started his academic career late, having worked before the second World War as a bank clerk, and then serving in the Navy, patrolling for U-boats in the North Sea and Atlantic for 4 years during the latter part of the war. He had an early interest in zoology, particularly in marine biology and microscopy and when he left the Navy he took the opportunity to work for a degree in Zoology at the University of Wales in Aberystwyth. A first class honours degree was followed by a PhD on melanophores in teleosts. It was fortunate that the external examiner for the thesis was J. Z. Young, who was impressed by the work and by George, and who invited George to work as his assistant in the preparation of The Life of the Mammals in the Anatomy Department at University College London.
Previous studies suggest that prostaglandins may contribute to exercise-induced increases in muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA). To test this hypothesis, MSNA was measured at rest and during exercise before and after oral administration of ketoprofen, a cyclooxygenase inhibitor, or placebo. Twenty-one subjects completed two bouts of graded dynamic and isometric handgrip to fatigue. Each exercise bout was followed by 2 min of postexercise muscle ischemia. The second exercise bouts were performed after 60 min of rest in which 11 subjects were given ketoprofen (300 mg) and 10 subjects received a placebo. Ketoprofen significantly lowered plasma thromboxane B(2) in the drug group (from 36 +/- 6 to 22 +/- 3 pg/ml, P &lt; 0.04), whereas thromboxane B(2) in the placebo group increased from 40 +/- 5 to 61 +/- 9 pg/ml from trial 1 to trial 2 (P &lt; 0.008). Ketoprofen and placebo did not change sympathetic and cardiovascular responses to dynamic handgrip, isometric handgrip, and postexercise muscle ischemia. There was no relationship between thromboxane B(2) concentrations and MSNA or arterial pressure responses during both exercise modes. The data indicate that physiological increases or decreases in prostaglandins do not alter exercise-induced increases in MSNA and arterial pressure in humans. These findings suggest that contraction-induced metabolites other than prostaglandins mediate MSNA responses to exercise in humans.
1. Compared with the effects of adenosine 5' triphosphate (ATP) on the nervous system, the actions of pyrimidine nucleosides and their 5'-nucleotides, such as uridine 5' triphosphate (UTP), have received less attention. In part, this is because there is a need for a selective antagonist for responses mediated by UTP-activated receptors. The objective of this study was to discover such an antagonist. 2. Superior cervical ganglia isolated from male rats were superfused with a physiological salt solution. Responses to alpha,beta-methylene-ATP (alpha,beta-Me-ATP), potassium, adenosine and UTP were determined before and in the presence of 1-300 microM methyl orange. 3. Methyl orange at 1-100 microM did not alter resting potential or depolarizing responses to alpha,beta-Me-ATP, potassium, or adenosine-evoked hyperpolarizations, but at 10 and 100 microM methyl orange significantly antagonized UTP-evoked depolarizations (P &lt; 0.05). 4. Although the antagonistic effects of methyl orange were not dramatic, this is the first report of a putative pyrimidinoceptor antagonist. These observations also support the idea of distinct receptors for UTP and ATP on rat superior cervical ganglia.

The flightless I protein contains an actin-binding domain with homology to the gelsolin family and is likely to be involved in actin cytoskeletal rearrangements. It has been suggested that this protein is involved in linking the cytoskeletal network with signal transduction pathways. We have developed antibodies directed toward the leucine rich repeat and gelsolin-like domains of the human and mouse homologues of flightless I that specifically recognize expressed and endogenous forms of the protein. We have also constructed a flightless I-enhanced green fluorescent fusion vector and used this to examine the localization of the expressed protein in Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts. The flightless I protein localizes predominantly to the nucleus and translocates to the cytoplasm following serum stimulation. In cells stimulated to migrate, the flightless I protein colocalizes with beta-tubulin- and actin-based structures. Members of the small GTPase family, also implicated in cytoskeletal control, were found to colocalize with flightless I in migrating Swiss 3T3 fibroblasts. LY294002, a specific inhibitor of PI 3-kinase, inhibits the translocation of flightless I to actin-based structures. Our results suggest that PI 3-kinase and the small GTPases, Ras, RhoA and Cdc42 may be part of a common functional pathway involved in Fliih-mediated cytoskeletal regulation. Functionally, we suggest that flightless I may act to prepare actin filaments or provide factors required for cytoskeletal rearrangements necessary for cell migration and/or adhesion.
Retrograde tracing and immunohistochemistry was used in rats to investigate whether the ganglia in the cavernous sinus contribute to cerebrovascular innervation. The cavernous sinus ganglia in rat include the cavernous part of the pterygopalatine ganglion (PGC) and small cavernous ganglia (CG). The tracers, fluorogold and fast blue, were applied to the middle cerebral artery in eight rats. After 1 to 4 days, the cavernous sinuses were dissected out and studied as whole mount preparations and sections. A moderate number of labeled neurons were visible in the ipsilateral PGC and CG. Furthermore, fibers in the cavernous nerve plexus and abducens nerve were labeled, suggesting that the pathway from the cavernous sinus ganglia to the cerebral arteries runs through the cavernous plexus and then retrogradely along the abducens nerve to the internal carotid artery. Selected sections were immunohistochemically stained for the cholinergic marker, vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT). Most cells in the PGC and CG were VAChT-immunoreactive, some of which also contained tracer. It is concluded that in rat, the cavernous sinus ganglia, consisting of the PGC and small CG, contribute to parasympathetic cerebrovascular innervation and that the cavernous nerve plexus and abducens nerve are involved in the pathway from these ganglia to the cerebral arteries.
Non-peptide antigens (e.g. glycolipids of microbial origin) presented by monocyte-associated CD1 molecules to T cells appear to play an important role in host immunity against tuberculosis and other pathogenic bacteria. Since vaccination with Bacillus Calmette-Guerin (BCG) has limited efficacy, the influence of viable BCG organisms on the induction of CD1b antigen by granulocyte macrophage-colony stimulating factor (GM-CSF) has been tested in adherent mononuclear cells obtained from peripheral blood of healthy donors. The results indicate that the vaccine reduces substantially CD1b induction by GM-CSF. On the other hand, BCG was found to promote a slight increase in the expression of this molecule on target cells not exposed to GM-CSF. Attempts to reverse the antagonistic effects of BCG on GM-CSF with high concentrations of GM-CSF, alone, or associated with IL-4, were unsuccessful. Moreover, mycobacteria suppression by 10 microg/ml of rifampin, did not affect BCG influence on CD1b induction. The present results suggest that mycobacterium-induced impairment of the CD1 system could play a role in the unsatisfactory results obtained with BCG vaccination.

In a previous study we found androgen receptor (AR) sex differences in several regions throughout the human hypothalamus. Generally, men had stronger nuclear AR immunoreactivity (AR-ir) than women. The strongest nuclear labeling was found in the caudal hypothalamus in the mamillary body complex (MBC), which is known to be involved in aspects of cognition and sexual behavior. The present study was carried out to investigate whether the sex difference in AR-ir of the MBC is related to sexual orientation or gender identity (i.e. the feeling of being male or female) or to circulating levels of androgens, as nuclear AR-ir is known to be up-regulated by androgens. Therefore, we studied the MBC in postmortem brain material from the following groups: young heterosexual men, young homosexual men, aged heterosexual castrated and noncastrated men, castrated and noncastrated transsexuals, young heterosexual women, and a young virilized woman. Nuclear AR-ir did not differ significantly between heterosexual and homosexual men, but was significantly stronger than that in women. A female-like pattern of AR-ir (i.e. no to weak nuclear staining) was observed in 26- to 53-yr-old castrated male-to-female transsexuals and in old castrated and noncastrated men, 67--87 yr of age. In analogy with animal studies showing strong activational effects of androgens on nuclear AR-ir, the present data suggest that nuclear AR-ir in the human MBC is dependent on the presence or absence of circulating levels of androgen. The group data were, moreover, supported by the fact that a male-like AR-ir (i.e. intense nuclear AR-ir) was found in a 36-yr-old bisexual noncastrated male-to-female transsexual and in a heterosexual virilized woman, 46 yr of age, with high levels of circulating testosterone. In conclusion, the sexually dimorphic AR-ir in the MBC seemed to be clearly related to circulating levels of androgens and not to sexual orientation or gender identity. The functional implications of these alterations are discussed in relation to reproduction, cognition, and neuroprotection.


The dendritic morphology in neocortical grafts was studied with three-dimensional confocal laser scanning microscopy after microinjection of Lucifer Yellow into individual cells. The grafts had been implanted into infarct cavities in the neocortex of hypertensive rats 46 weeks earlier. The carbocyanine dye method was used to identify afferent (host to transplant) and efferent (transplant to host) connections. Pyramidal, nonpyramidal and glial cells were present in the transplants. Some dendrites had an almost normal appearance, but abnormalities (atypical orientation of apical, basal or oblique apical dendrites) were observed. Some bi-apical pyramidal neurons and pyramidal neurons with obliquely oriented apical dendrites were also observed. Carbocyanine dye-labelled fibres of different diameter formed a dense network in the transplant, enabling the border between transplant and host tissue to be clearly recognized. No labelled fibres were observed to enter the host brain. Fibres with &quot;boutons en passant&quot; and no preferential orientation were noted. It is proposed that Lucifer Yellow microinjection may be a useful method in studies aimed at improving graft morphology. Failure to demonstrate host to transplant connections with the carbocyanine dye method was contrary to earlier studies in which tracers were applied in vivo. A combined use of in-vivo and post-mortem tracer techniques is needed to establish the reason for the discrepancy.
Evidence is accumulating which supports a role for ATP in the initiation of pain by acting on P2X receptors, in particular P2X3, expressed on nociceptive afferent nerve terminals. To investigate whether this receptor plays a role in dental pain, we studied the presence and distribution of P2X3 receptors in human dental pulp, and their co-localization with other neural markers. Pulps were removed from extracted third molars and immunohistochemically stained with an antibody against P2X3 receptors. P2X3 immunoreactive (-ir) nerve fibers were detected in the main body of the pulp, in the sub-odontoblastic plexus of Raschkow, and within the odontoblastic area. Co-localization of the P2X3-ir neurons with neurofilament protein (NF) showed that the majority of the fibers were positive for both NF and P2X3. Double labeling with isolectin B4 (IB4) showed that all P2X3-ir neurons also bind IB4. We conclude that P2X3 receptors are present on both myelinated and unmyelinated nerve fibers in human dental pulp and may play a role in dental pain mechanisms.
The entire DNA sequence for human chromosome 21 is now complete, and it is predicted to contain only about 225 genes, which is approximately three-fold fewer than the number initially predicted just 10 years ago. Despite this remarkable achievement, very little is known about the mechanism(s) whereby increased gene copy number (gene dosage) results in the characteristic phenotype of Down syndrome. Although many of the phenotypic traits show large individual variation, neuromotor dysfunction and cognitive and language impairment are observed in virtually all individuals. Currently, there are no efficacious biomedical treatments for these central nervous system-associated impairments. To develop novel therapeutic strategies, the effects of gene dosage imbalance need to be understood within the framework of those critical biological events that regulate brain organization and function.
Animals can actively influence the content and quality of sensory information they acquire from the environment through the positioning of peripheral sensory surfaces. This study investigated receptor surface positioning during prey-capture behavior in weakly electric gymnotiform fish of the genus Apteronotus. Infrared video techniques and three-dimensional model-based tracking methods were used to provide quantitative information on body position and conformation as black ghost (A. albifrons) and brown ghost (A. leptorhynchus) knifefish hunted for prey (Daphnia magna) in the dark. We found that detection distance depends on the electrical conductivity of the surrounding water. Best performance was observed at low water conductivity (2.8 cm mean detection distance and 2 % miss rate at 35 microS cm(-)(1), A. albifrons) and poorest performance at high conductivity (1.5 cm mean detection distance and 11 % miss rate at 600 microS cm(-)(1), A. albifrons). The observed conductivity-dependence implies that nonvisual prey detection in Apteronotus is likely to be dominated by the electrosense over the range of water conductivities experienced by the animal in its natural environment. This result provides the first evidence for the involvement of electrosensory cues in the prey-capture behavior of gymnotids, but it leaves open the possibility that both the high-frequency (tuberous) and low-frequency (ampullary) electroreceptors may contribute. We describe an electrosensory orienting response to prey, whereby the fish rolls its body following detection to bring the prey above the dorsum. This orienting response and the spatial distribution of prey at the time of detection highlight the importance of the dorsal surface of the trunk for electrosensory signal acquisition. Finally, quantitative analysis of fish motion demonstrates that Apteronotus can adapt its trajectory to account for post-detection motion of the prey, suggesting that it uses a closed-loop adaptive tracking strategy, rather than an open-loop ballistic strike strategy, to intercept the prey.

Several studies have indicated that a number of different mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations may be responsible for human pathologies. Sensorineural Hearing Loss (SNHL) may be associated with known syndromes (syndromal SNHL) or represent the only manifestation of mitochondrial damage (non-syndromal hearing loss). Moreover, mtDNA alterations may be responsible for aminoglycoside-induced deafness. We describe a patient harbouring a single sporadic mtDNA deletion, who presented with sudden adult-onset bilateral, although non-simultaneous SNHL, that was partially responsive to corticosteroids. Increased values of rest, and exercise, blood lactic acid were decisive for diagnosis, prompting muscle biopsy that revealed the mtDNA deletion. The case underscores the importance of investigating a mitochondrial disease in cases of SNHL of unknown origin and points out the importance of an increased blood level of lactic acid as a screening test.
Dietary restriction (DR) increases the lifespan of rodents and increases their resistance to several different age-related diseases including cancer and diabetes. Beneficial effects of DR on brain plasticity and neuronal vulnerability to injury have recently been reported, but the underlying mechanisms are unknown. We report that levels of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) are significantly increased in the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, and striatum of rats maintained on a DR regimen compared to animals fed ad libitum (AL). Seizure-induced damage to hippocampal neurons was significantly reduced in rats maintained on DR, and this beneficial effect was attenuated by intraventricular administration of a BDNF-blocking antibody. These findings provide the first evidence that diet can effect expression of a neurotrophic factor, demonstrate that BDNF signaling plays a central role in the neuroprotective effect of DR, and proffer DR as an approach for reducing neuronal damage in neurodegenerative disorders.
In mammals, cyclic GMP and cGMP-dependent protein kinases (cGKs) have been implicated in the regulation of many neuronal functions including long-term potentiation and long-term depression of synaptic efficacy. To develop Caenorhabditis elegans as a model system for studying the neuronal function of the cGKs, we cloned and characterized the cgk-1 gene. A combination of approaches showed that cgk-1 produces three transcripts, which differ in their first exon but are similar in length. Northern analysis of C. elegans RNA, performed with a probe designed to hybridize to all three transcripts, confirmed that a major 3.0 kb cgk-1 transcript is present at all stages of development. To determine if the CGK-1C protein was a cGMP-dependent protein kinase, CGK-1C was expressed in SF:9 cells and purified. CGK-1C shows a K(a) of 190 +/- 14 nM for cGMP and 18.4 +/- 2 microM for cAMP. Furthermore, CGK-1C undergoes autophosphorylation in a cGMP-dependent manner and is inhibited by the commonly used cGK inhibitor, KT5823. To determine which cells expressed CGK-1C, a 2.4-kb DNA fragment from the promoter of CGK-1C was used to drive GFP expression. The CGK-1C reporter construct is strongly expressed in the ventral nerve cord and in several other neurons as well as the marginal cells of the pharynx and intestine. Finally, RNA-mediated interference of CGK-1 resulted in movement defects in nematode larvae. These results provide the first demonstration that cGMP-dependent protein kinase is present in neurons of C. elegans and show that this kinase is required for normal motility.
We have previously described catecholamine-regulated proteins of molecular masses 47, 40 and 26 kDa (CRP47/40/26). In mammals, these proteins are detected only in brain and have been implicated as playing a role in dopaminergic neurotransmission. In this report, we have cloned the cDNA encoding CRP40 from bovine brain. Analysis of the predicted amino acid sequence revealed that the CRP40 product contains an hsp70 motif and shares homology with heat-shock protein hsp70. Immunolocalization studies using mAbs to dopamine show that it colocalizes with CRP40 in the vesicles of dopaminergic neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells. The constitutive expression of CRP40 was increased by exposure to heat shock similar to inducible heat-shock protein hsp70 in SH-SY5Y cells. Dopamine significantly modulated the levels of CRP40, whereas, the expression of hsp70 remained unchanged upon dopamine treatment of these cells. Moreover, CRP40 is able to prevent the thermal aggregation of luciferase in vitro, similar to hsp70, suggesting that CRP40 encodes a dopamine-inducible protein with properties similar to heat-shock proteins. The immunofluorescence analyses show that in SH-SY5Y cells, CRP40 translocates to the nucleus during dopamine-induced apoptosis. These results suggest that CRP40 could play a protective role against the harmful effects of catecholamine metabolites.
Oxidative stress has been shown to play a role in aging and in neurodegenerative disorders. Some of the consequences of oxidative stress are DNA base modifications, lipid peroxidation, and protein modifications such as formation of carbonyls and nitrotyrosine. These events may play a role in apoptosis, another factor in aging and neurodegeneration, in response to uncompensated oxidative stress. Bcl-2 is a mitochondrial protein that protects neurons from apoptotic stimuli including oxidative stress. Using immunohistochemistry and western blot analysis, here we show that Bcl-2 is up-regulated in the hippocampus and cerebellum of aged (24 months) Fisher 344 rats. Treatment with the free radical spin trap N-tert-butyl-alpha-phenylnitrone (PBN) effectively reverses this age-dependent Bcl-2 up-regulation indicating that this response is redox sensitive. This conclusion was further supported by inducing the same regional Bcl-2 up-regulation in young (3 months) Fisher 344 rats exposed to 100% normobaric O(2) for 48 h. Our results indicate that Bcl-2 expression is increased in the aged brain, possibly as a consequence of oxidative stress challenges. These results also illustrate the effectiveness of antioxidants in reversing age-related changes in the CNS and support further research to investigate their use in aging and in age-related neurodegenerative disorders.
Recent etiological study in twins (Tanner et al. 1999) strongly suggests that environmental factors play an important role in typical, non-familial Parkinson's disease (PD), beginning after age 50. Epidemiological risk factor analyses of typical PD cases have identified several neurotoxicants, including MPP(+) (the active metabolite of MPTP), paraquat, dieldrin, manganese and salsolinol. Here, we tested the hypothesis that these neurotoxic agents might induce cell death in our nigral dopaminergic cell line, SN4741 (Son et al. 1999) through a common molecular mechanism. Our initial experiments revealed that treatment with both MPP(+) and the other PD-related neurotoxicants induced apoptotic cell death in SN4741 cells, following initial increases of H(2)O(2)-related ROS activity and subsequent activation of JNK1/2 MAP kinases. Moreover, we have demonstrated that during dopaminergic cell death cascades, MPP(+), the neurotoxicants and an oxidant, H(2)O(2) equally induce the ROS-dependent events. Remarkably, the oxidant treatment alone induced similar sequential molecular events: ROS increase, activation of JNK MAP kinases, activation of the PITSLRE kinase, p110, by both Caspase-1 and Caspase-3-like activities and apoptotic cell death. Pharmacological intervention using the combination of the antioxidant Trolox and a pan-caspase inhibitor Boc-(Asp)-fmk (BAF) exerted significant neuroprotection against ROS-induced dopaminergic cell death. Finally, the high throughput cDNA microarray screening using the current model identified downstream response genes, such as heme oxygenase-1, a constituent of Lewy bodies, that can be the useful biomarkers to monitor the pathological conditions of dopaminergic neurons under neurotoxic insult.
Light stimulates dopamine release in the retina and has been shown to rapidly up-regulate rod opsin mRNA. In the present study, we tested the effect of dopamine on rod opsin mRNA expression and examined the hypothesis that dopamine can mediate a light-evoked increase in opsin gene expression. Northern blots showed that a 30-min light-exposure increased rod opsin mRNA expression 27%. In situ hybridization on isolated rods showed that 500 nM dopamine and 1 microM quinpirole (dopamine D2/D3/D4 agonist) increased opsin mRNA 45% and 26%, respectively. The effect of quinpirole was selectively blocked by the D4 antagonist, L750,667 (20 microM). In very low density cultures, quinpirole increased opsin expression 46%, suggesting a direct effect on rod photoreceptors. Consistent with a dopamine D4 receptor mechanism, 1 microM H-89 (protein kinase A inhibitor) increased opsin mRNA 39%. Finally, intravitreal injection of quinpirole increased opsin mRNA 21% whereas injection of L750,667 (10 microM) blocked the light-evoked increase in opsin expression. These data show that rod opsin mRNA is up-regulated by dopamine binding a D4-like receptor on rods, possibly through inhibition of protein kinase A, and that endogenous dopamine can mediate the light-evoked increase in opsin mRNA expression.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDAR) is an ionotropic glutamate receptor, which plays crucial roles in synaptic plasticity and development. We have recently shown that potentiation of NMDA receptor function by protein kinase C (PKC) appears to be mediated via activation of non-receptor tyrosine kinases. The aim of this study was to test whether this effect could be mediated by direct tyrosine phosphorylation of the NR2A or NR2B subunits of the receptor. Following treatment of rat hippocampal CA1 mini-slices with 500 nM phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate (PMA) for 15 min, samples were homogenized, immunoprecipitated with anti-NR2A or NR2B antibodies and the resulting pellets subjected to Western blotting with antiphosphotyrosine antibody. An increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of both NR2A (76 +/- 11% above control) and NR2B (41 +/- 11%) was observed. This increase was blocked by pretreatment with the selective PKC inhibitor chelerythrine, with the tyrosine kinase inhibitor Lavendustin A or with the Src family tyrosine kinase inhibitor PP2. PMA treatment also produced an increase in the phosphorylation of serine 890 on the NR1 subunit, a known PKC site, at 5 min with phosphorylation returning to near basal levels by 10 min while tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2A and NR2B was sustained for up to 15 min. These results suggest that the modulation of NMDA receptor function seen with PKC activation may be the result of tyrosine phosphorylation of NR2A and/or NR2B.
The neuroblastoma x glioma NG108-15 hybrid cell line, a widely used model for the study of neuronal differentiation, contains a variety of gangliosides including GM1 and its sialosylated derivative, GD1a. To investigate the role of these a-series gangliotetraose gangliosides in neuritogenesis, we have obtained a mutated subclone of NG108-15 that is deficient in that family of gangliosides. NG108-15 cells were grown in the presence of cholera toxin, which killed the large majority of cells, and from the cholera-resistant survivors we isolated a clone, NG-CR72, that lacks GM1 and GD1a in the plasma and nuclear membranes. GM2 concentration was significantly higher in the plasma membrane. Enzyme assay indicated deficiency of UDP-Gal:GM2 galactosyltransferase (GM1 synthase), which was confirmed by incorporation studies with [3H]sphingosine. These cells resembled wild-type NG108-15 in extending dendritic processes in response to dendritogenic agents (retinoic acid, dibutyryl cAMP) but responded aberrantly to axonogenic stimuli (KCl, ionomycin) by extending unstable neurites that showed the cytoskeletal staining characteristic of dendrites. Moreover, mutant cells treated with the Ca2+ elevating axonogenic agents underwent apoptosis over time, attributed to dysfunction of Ca2+ regulatory mechanisms normally mediated by GM1. Such agents caused dramatic and sustained elevation of intracellular Ca2+ in mutant cells, in contrast to modest and temporary elevation in wild-type cells. Exogenous GM1, inserted into the plasma membrane, had no discernable protective effect on NG-CR72 cells whereas LIGA-20, a membrane-permeant derivative of GM1 that entered both plasma and nuclear membranes, blocked apoptosis, permitted extension of stable neurites, and attenuated the abnormal elevation of intracellular Ca2+.
By immunocytochemical study by both light and electron microscopy of the hippocampus of patients with mesial temporal lobe epilepsy, we have shown that mGluR2/3 and mGluR4alpha immunoreaction product was mainly localised in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus and CA2 area. Electron microscopy showed that most of the immunoreaction product due to mGluR2/3, 4a and 8 was deposited in the postsynaptic elements of the CA2 pyramidal layer and the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. Only mGluR8 immunoreaction product in the CA2 area and mGluR2/3 in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus were demonstrated in presynaptic elements, suggesting that mGluR2/3 and 8 may be involved in presynaptic inhibition of glutamate release in these areas. The demonstration of some degenerating axon terminals in the inner molecular layer of the dentate gyrus suggests that degeneration of interneurons caused by repeated seizures was still in progress. The finding of mGluR2/3, 4 and 8 immunoreactive astrocytes in patient hippocampus suggests that mGluR2/3, 4 and 8 receptors may be involved in gliosis.
It is essential that the environment for a developing foetus is optimal for normal growth and maturation. Small perturbations in this environment may put that child at risk for developing cardiovascular, metabolic and cognitive deficits later in life. Evidence is accumulating that chronic stress while pregnant may result in lower birthweight babies and a heightened risk of mood disorders and cognitive deficits. Elevated glucocorticoid hormones, induced in the mother in response to the stress, appear to be mediators of events 'programming' the developing central nervous system of the foetus and rendering it susceptible to dysfunction in later life.
The effects of testosterone on the electrical properties and nicotinic activation of prevertebral ganglion neurones were investigated in vitro on the male rat major pelvic ganglion and rabbit coeliac ganglion. The electrical activity of the neurones was recorded using intracellular recording techniques. Nicotinic activation was triggered for neurones of the major pelvic ganglion by stimulating the hypogastric, pelvic and cavernous nerves and for coeliac neurones by stimulating the splanchnic nerves. Testosterone modified the resting membrane potential of neurones in the major pelvic ganglion by triggering a slow depolarization, and was without significant effect on the resting membrane potential of coeliac ganglion neurones. In neurones of the major pelvic and coeliac ganglia, testosterone had no significant effect on the firing pattern, on the characteristics of the action potential (firing threshold, duration, overshoot) and on the after-hyperpolarization (amplitude and duration). Testosterone affected, in opposite ways, the nicotinic activation of neurones of the two prevertebral ganglia. In the major pelvic ganglion, testosterone triggered an increase in the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials induced by stimulation of the hypogastric, pelvic and cavernous nerves with a single pulse, revealing a facilitation of nicotinic activation. On coeliac ganglion neurones, testosterone elicited a decrease in the amplitude of excitatory postsynaptic potentials induced by stimulation of the splanchnic nerves, indicating an inhibition of nicotinic activation. Our study shows that testosterone acts differently on neurones of prevertebral ganglia involved in the nervous control of different functions, its facilitatory action being exerted on neurones of the major pelvic ganglion which is particularly involved in the control of the urogenital tract. Our study reinforces the concept, derived from neuroanatomical and pharmacological studies, of the major pelvic ganglion as a major peripheral target for testosterone.
Small cell lung carcinoma (SCLC) is a tumour of neuroendocrine origin often found in association with autoimmune paraneoplastic neurological disorders. We established a SCLC cell line from a woman with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome (LEMS) who developed antibodies to both the P/Q-type voltage-gated calcium channels (VGCC) and the muscle acetycholine receptor (AChR). We used a range of techniques to establish which neuronal antigens were expressed in her tumour cell line. The results show that many proteins involved in exocytosis are present in the SCLC cells, and that depolarisation-dependent release of [(3)H]-serotonin is linked to calcium influx through P/Q-type VGCCs. In addition, some of the subunits encoding the AChR and both agrin and ARIA, molecules released from the motor nerve during development, were expressed. These results suggest that many potential antigenic targets are present in SCLC, and indicate a surprising 'motor nerve terminal'-like characteristic of this line.
A woman developed brain stem encephalopathy in association with serum anti-Ma2 antibodies and left upper lobe lung mass. T2 weighted MRI of the brain showed abnormalities involving the pons, left middle and superior cerebellar peduncles, and bilateral basal ganglia. Immunohistochemical analysis for serum antineuronal antibodies was confounded by the presence of a non-neuronal specific antinuclear antibody. Immunoblot studies showed the presence of anti-Ma2 antibodies. A premortem tissue diagnosis of the lung mass could not be established despite two CT guided needle biopsies, and the patient died as a result of rapid neurological deterioration. The necropsy showed that the lung lesion was an adenocarcinoma which expressed Ma2 immunoreactive protein. Neuropathological findings included prominent perivascular inflammatory infiltrates, glial nodules, and neuronophagia involving the brain stem, basal ganglia, hippocampus and the dentate nucleus of the cerebellum. Ma2 is an autoantigen previously identified in patients with germ cell tumours of the testis and paraneoplastic brain stem and limbic encephalitis. Our patient's clinical and immunopathological findings indicate that this disorder can affect women with lung adenocarcinoma, and that the encephalitic changes predominate in those regions of the brain known to express high concentrations of Ma proteins.

Zinc has been reported to potentiate glycine receptors (GlyR), but the physiological significance of this observation has been put in doubt by the relatively high values of the EC(50), 0.5-1 microM, since such concentrations may not be attained in the synaptic cleft of glycinergic synapses. We have re-evaluated this observation in the frame of the hypothesis that contaminant heavy metals present in usual solutions may have lead to underestimate the affinity of the zinc binding site, and therefore to underestimate the potential physiological role of zinc. Using chelators either to complex heavy metals or to apply zinc at controlled concentrations, we have examined the action of zinc on GlyR kinetics in outside-out patches from 50-h-old zebrafish Mauthner cells. Chelating contaminating heavy metals with tricine or N,N,N',N'-tetrakis-(2-pyridylmethyl)-ethylenediamine (TPEN) decreased the duration of the currents evoked by glycine, confirming that traces of heavy metals alter the GlyR response in control conditions. Using tricine- (10 mM) buffered zinc solution, we then showed that zinc increases the amplitude of outside-out responses evoked by 0.1-0.5 mM glycine with an EC(50) of 15 nM. In contrast zinc had no effect on the amplitude of currents evoked by a saturating concentration (3-10 mM) of glycine. This suggests that zinc enhances GlyR apparent affinity for glycine. The study of the effects of zinc on the kinetics of the response indicates that this increase of apparent affinity is due to a decrease of the glycine dissociation rate constant. We then analyzed the effects of zinc on postsynaptic GlyRs in whole cell recordings of glycinergic miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents (mIPSCs). Chelation of contaminant heavy metals decreased the amplitude and the duration of the mIPSCs; inverse effects were observed by adding zinc in buffered solutions containing nanomolar free zinc concentrations. Zinc plus tricine or tricine alone did not change the coefficient of variation ( approximately 0.85) of the mIPSC amplitude distributions. These results suggest that postsynaptic GlyRs are not saturated after the release of one vesicle.
A moving background alters the perceived direction of target motion (the Duncker illusion). To test whether this illusion also affects pointing movements to remembered/extrapolated target locations, we constructed a display in which a target moved in a straight line and disappeared behind a band of moving random dots. Subjects were required to touch the spot where the target would emerge from the occlusion. The four directions of random-dot motion induced pointing errors that were predictable from the Duncker illusion. Because it has been previously established that saccadic direction is influenced by this illusion, gaze was subsequently recorded in a second series of experiments while subjects performed the pointing task and a similar task with eye-tracking only. In the pointing task, subjects typically saccaded to the lower border of the occlusion zone as soon as the target disappeared and then tried to maintain fixation at that spot. However, it was particularly obvious in the eye-tracking-only condition that horizontally moving random dots generally evoked an appreciable ocular following response, altering the gaze direction. Hand-pointing errors were related to the saccadic gaze error but were more highly correlated with final gaze errors (resulting from the initial saccade and the subsequent ocular following response). The results suggest a model of limb control in which gaze position can provide the target signal for limb movement.
When reaching movements are made during passive constant velocity body rotation, inertial Coriolis accelerations are generated that displace both movement paths and endpoints in their direction. These findings directly contradict equilibrium point theories of movement control. However, it has been argued that these movement errors relate to subjects sensing their body rotation through continuing vestibular activity and making corrective movements. In the present study, we evaluated the reaching movements of five labyrinthine-defective subjects (lacking both semicircular canal and otolith function) who cannot sense passive body rotation in the dark and five age-matched, normal control subjects. Each pointed 40 times in complete darkness to the location of a just extinguished visual target before, during, and after constant velocity rotation at 10 rpm in the center of a fully enclosed slow rotation room. All subjects, including the normal controls, always felt completely stationary when making their movements. During rotation, both groups initially showed large deviations of their movement paths and endpoints in the direction of the transient Coriolis forces generated by their movements. With additional per-rotation movements, both groups showed complete adaptation of movement curvature (restoration of straight-line reaches) during rotation. The labyrinthine-defective subjects, however, failed to regain fully accurate movement endpoints after 40 reaches, unlike the control subjects who did so within 11 reaches. Postrotation, both groups' movements initially had mirror image curvatures to their initial per-rotation reaches; the endpoint aftereffects were significantly different from prerotation baseline for the control subjects but not for the labyrinthine-defective subjects reflecting the smaller amount of endpoint adaptation they achieved during rotation. The labyrinthine-defective subjects' movements had significantly lower peak velocity, higher peak elevation, lower terminal velocity, and a more vertical touchdown than those of the control subjects. Thus the way their reaches terminated denied them the somatosensory contact cues necessary for full endpoint adaptation. These findings fully contradict equilibrium point theories of movement control. They emphasize the importance of contact cues in adaptive movement control and indicate that movement errors generated by Coriolis perturbations of limb movements reveal characteristics of motor planning and adaptation in both healthy and clinical populations.
Neurons in the monkey inferior temporal cortex (IT) have been shown to respond to shapes defined by luminance, texture, or motion. In the present study, we determined whether IT neurons respond to shapes defined solely by binocular disparity, and if so, whether signals of disparity and other visual cues to define shape converge on single IT neurons. We recorded extracellular activity from IT neurons while monkeys performed a fixation task. Among the neurons that responded to at least one of eight random-dot stereograms (RDSs) containing different disparity-defined shapes, 21% varied their responses to different RDSs. Responses of most of the neurons were positively correlated between two sets of RDSs, which consisted of different dot patterns but defined the same set of eight shapes, whereas responses to RDSs and their monocular images were not correlated. This indicates that the response modulation for the eight RDSs reflects selectivity for shapes (or their component contours) defined by disparity, although responses were also affected by dot patterns per se. Among the neurons that showed selectivity for shapes defined by luminance or disparity, 44% were activated by both cues. Responses of these neurons to luminance-defined shapes and those to disparity-defined shapes were often positively correlated to each other. Furthermore the stimulus rank, which was determined by the magnitude of responses to shapes, generally matched between these cues. The same held true between disparity and texture cues. The results suggest that the signals of disparity, luminance, and texture cues to define the shapes converge on a population of single IT neurons to produce the selectivity for shapes.
In this study, we characterize the electrophysiological and morphological properties of spiny principal neurons in the rat lateral amygdala using whole cell recordings in acute brain slices. These neurons exhibited a range of firing properties in response to prolonged current injection. Responses varied from cells that showed full spike frequency adaptation, spiking three to five times, to those that showed no adaptation. The differences in firing patterns were largely explained by the amplitude of the afterhyperpolarization (AHP) that followed spike trains. Cells that showed full spike frequency adaptation had large amplitude slow AHPs, whereas cells that discharged tonically had slow AHPs of much smaller amplitude. During spike trains, all cells showed a similar broadening of their action potentials. Biocytin-filled neurons showed a range of pyramidal-like morphologies, differed in dendritic complexity, had spiny dendrites, and differed in the degree to which they clearly exhibited apical versus basal dendrites. Quantitative analysis revealed no association between cell morphology and firing properties. We conclude that the discharge properties of neurons in the lateral nucleus, in response to somatic current injections, are determined by the differential distribution of ionic conductances rather than through mechanisms that rely on cell morphology.
The properties of immature cortex that may enable it to exhibit large-scale wavelike activity during a brief critical developmental period were investigated by imaging neuronal calcium signals in neonatal cortical slices under conditions of artificially enhanced excitability, conditions that produce a more frequent and robust version of the naturally occurring waves. Using pharmacological manipulation to probe the underlying mechanisms, I show that waves can propagate effectively when excitatory synaptic transmission is blocked. In contrast, propagation is very sensitive to reductions in gap junctional communication. In the barrel field cortex wave propagation is affected by the underlying cytoarchitecture in a way that is consistent with a role for dendrodendritic gap junctions. The ability of cortex to sustain wave activity ends around postnatal day 12, precisely when a major reduction in neuronal gap junctions takes place in cortex. These results suggest that in immature cortex gap junctions link neurons into extensive networks that may allow electrical activity to spread over long distances.
The effect of stance width on postural responses to 12 different directions of surface translations was examined. Postural responses were characterized by recording 11 lower limb and trunk muscles, body kinematics, and forces exerted under each foot of 7 healthy subjects while they were subjected to horizontal surface translations in 12 different, randomly presented directions. A quasi-static approach of force analysis was done, examining force integrals in three different epochs (background, passive, and active periods). The latency and amplitude of muscle responses were quantified for each direction, and muscle tuning curves were used to determine the spatial activation patterns for each muscle. The results demonstrate that the horizontal force constraint exerted at the ground was lessened in the wide, compared with narrow, stance for humans, a similar finding to that reported by Macpherson for cats. Despite more trunk displacement in narrow stance, there were no significant changes in body center of mass (CoM) displacement due to large changes in center of pressure (CoP), especially in response to lateral translations. Electromyographic (EMG) magnitude decreased for all directions in wide stance, particularly for the more proximal muscles, whereas latencies remained the same from narrow to wide stance. Equilibrium control in narrow stance was more of an active postural strategy that included regulating the loading/unloading of the limbs and the direction of horizontal force vectors. In wide stance, equilibrium control relied more on an increase in passive stiffness resulting from changes in limb geometry. The selective latency modulation of the proximal muscles with translation direction suggests that the trunk was being actively controlled in all directions. The similar EMG latencies for both narrow and wide stance, with modulation of only the muscle activation magnitude as stance width changed, suggest that the same postural synergy was only slightly modified for a change in stance width. Nevertheless, the magnitude of the trunk displacement, as well as of CoP displacement, was modified based on the degree of passive stiffness in the musculoskeletal system, which increased with stance width. The change from a more passive to an active horizontal force constraint, to larger EMG magnitudes especially in the trunk muscles and larger trunk and CoP excursions in narrow stance are consistent with a more effortful response for equilibrium control in narrow stance to perturbations in all directions.
The spatial distribution of learned information within a sensory system can shed light on the brain mechanisms of sensory-perceptual learning. It has been argued that tactile memories are stored within a somatotopic framework in monkeys and rats but within a widely distributed network in humans. We have performed experiments to reexamine the spread of tactile learning across the fingertips. In all experiments, subjects were trained to use one fingertip to discriminate between two stimuli. Experiment 1 required identification of vibration frequency, experiment 2 punctate pressure, and experiment 3 surface roughness. After learning to identify the stimuli reliably, subjects were tested with the trained fingertip, its first and second neighbors on the same hand, and the three corresponding fingertips on the opposite hand. As expected, for all stimulus types, subjects showed retention of learning with the trained fingertip. However, the transfer beyond the trained fingertip varied according to the stimulus type. For vibration, learning did not transfer to other fingertips. For both pressure and roughness stimuli, there was limited transfer, dictated by topographic distance; subjects performed well with the first neighbor of the trained finger and with the finger symmetrically opposite the trained one. These results indicate that tactile learning is organized within a somatotopic framework, reconciling the findings in humans with those in other species. The differential distribution of tactile memory according to stimulus type suggests that the information is stored in stimulus-specific somatosensory cortical fields, each characterized by a unique receptive field organization, feature selectivity, and callosal connectivity.
The endothelins (ETs) are peptides that have a diverse array of functions mediated by two receptor subtypes, the endothelin A receptor (ET(A)R) and the endothelin B receptor (ET(B)R). Pharmacological studies have suggested that in peripheral tissues, ET(A)R expression may play a role in signaling acute or neuropathic pain, whereas ET(B)R expression may be involved in the transmission of chronic inflammatory pain. To begin to define the mechanisms by which ET can drive nociceptive signaling, autoradiography and immunohistochemistry were used to examine the distribution of ET(A)R and ET(B)R in dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and peripheral nerve of the rat, rabbit, and monkey. In DRG and peripheral nerve, ET(A)R-immunoreactivity was present in a subset of small-sized peptidergic and nonpeptidergic sensory neurons and their axons and to a lesser extent in a subset of medium-sized sensory neurons. However, ET(B)R-immunoreactivity was not seen in DRG neurons or axons but rather in DRG satellite cells and nonmyelinating ensheathing Schwann cells. Thus, when ETs are released in peripheral tissues, they could act directly on ET(A)R-expressing sensory neurons and on ET(B)R-expressing DRG satellite cells or nonmyelinating Schwann cells. These data indicate that ETs can have direct, nociceptive effects on the peripheral sensory nervous system and that peripheral glia may be directly involved in signaling nociceptive events in peripheral tissues.
In normal rodents there is a precise topology of the retinocollicular projection, the nasotemporal and ventrodorsal axes of the retina being respectively projected onto the caudorostral and mediolateral axes of the contralateral superior colliculus (SC). We evaluated the distribution of regenerated retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axon terminals in the SC of adult hamsters in which an unbranched peripheral nerve graft was directed from the retina to the contralateral SC. Responses to visual stimulation of individual RGCs were recorded from terminal arbors of their regenerated axons in the reinnervated SC. Retinal positions of these RGCs were inferred from the locations of their visual receptive fields. At some sites in the reinnervated SC, axon terminal arbors converged from widely separated RGCs. Conversely, axon terminal arbors at widely separated sites in the SC could emanate from contiguous RGCs. To assess whether any tendency for order was superimposed on the apparent disorganization of the regenerated projection, we evaluated the relative positions of pairs of RGC terminals in the SC in relation to the relative retinal locations of the corresponding pairs of RGCs. Among the 983 pairs of RGCs able to be evaluated from nine animals studied 30-60 weeks after grafting, there was a statistically significant 3/2 tendency for the more nasally situated of two RGCs to project its terminal more caudally in the SC than that of the more temporally situated RGC. A similar tendency toward appropriate organization was not found with respect to the ventrodorsal axis of the retina and the mediolateral axis of the SC.
Mutations in presenilin genes are linked to early onset familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD). Previous work in non-neuronal cells indicates that presenilin-1 (PS1) associates with cytoskeletal elements and that it facilitates Notch1 signaling. Because Notch1 participates in the control of neurite growth, cultured hippocampal neurons were used to investigate the cytoskeletal association of PS1 and its potential role during neuronal development. We found that PS1 associates with microtubules (MT) and microfilaments (MF) and that its cytoskeletal association increases dramatically during neuronal development. PS1 was detected associated with MT in the central region of neuronal growth cones and with MF in MF-rich areas extending into filopodia and lamellipodia. In differentiated neurons, PS1 mutations reduced the interaction of PS1 with cytoskeletal elements, diminished the nuclear translocation of the Notch1 intracellular domain (NICD), and promoted a marked increase in total neurite length. In developing neurons, PS1 overexpression increased the nuclear translocation of NICD and inhibited neurite growth, whereas PS1 mutations M146V, I143T, and deletion of exon 9 (D9) did not facilitate NICD nuclear translocation and had no effect on neurite growth. In cultures that were treated with amyloid beta (Abeta), PS1 mutations significantly increased neuritic dystrophy and AD-like changes in tau such as hyperphosphorylation, release from MT, and increased tau protein levels. We conclude that PS1 participates in the regulation of neurite growth and stabilization in both developing and differentiated neurons. In the Alzheimer's brain PS1 mutations may promote neuritic dystrophy and tangle formation by interfering with Notch1 signaling and enhancing pathological changes in tau.
Cannabinoids and opioids are widely consumed drugs of abuse that produce motor depression, in part via respective activation of the cannabinoid subtype 1 receptor (CB1R) and the mu-opioid receptor (muOR), in the striatal circuitry originating in the caudate putamen nucleus (CPN). Thus, the CB1R and muOR may show similar targeting in the CPN. To test this hypothesis, we examined the electron microscopic immunocytochemical labeling of CB1R and muOR in CPN patches of rat brain. Of the CB1R-labeled profiles, 34% (588) were dendrites, presumably arising from spiny as well as aspiny-type somata, which also contained CB1R immunoreactivity. In dendrites, CB1R often was localized to nonsynaptic and synaptic plasma membranes, particularly near asymmetric excitatory-type junctions. Almost one-half of the CB1R-labeled dendrites contained muOR immunoreactivity, whereas only 20% of all muOR-labeled dendrites expressed CB1R. Axons and axon terminals as well as abundant glial processes also showed plasmalemmal CB1R and were mainly without muOR immunoreactivity. Many CB1R-labeled axon terminals were small and without recognizable synaptic junctions, but a few also formed asymmetric, or more rarely symmetric, synapses. The CB1R-labeled glial processes were often perivascular or perisynaptic, surrounding asymmetric excitatory-type axospinous synapses. Our results show that in CPN patches CB1R and muOR are targeted strategically to some of the same postsynaptic neurons, which may account for certain similarities in motor function. Furthermore, they also provide evidence that CB1R may play a major role in the modulation of presynaptic transmitter release and glial functions that are unaffected in large part by opioids active at muOR in CPN.
To test the hypothesis of an involvement of tachykinins in destabilization and hyperexcitation of neuronal circuits, gliosis, and neuroinflammation during cerebral ischemia, we investigated cell-specific expressional changes of the genes encoding substance P (SP), neurokinin B (NKB), and the tachykinin/neurokinin receptors (NK1, NK2, and NK3) after middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO) in the rat. Our analysis by quantitative in situ hybridization, immunohistochemistry, and confocal microscopy was concentrated on cerebrocortical areas that survive primary infarction but undergo secondary damage. Here, SP-encoding preprotachykinin-A and NK1 mRNA levels and SP-like immunoreactivity were transiently increased in GABAergic interneurons at 2 d after MCAO. Coincidently, MCAO caused a marked expression of SP and NK1 in a subpopulation of glutamatergic pyramidal cells, and in some neurons SP and NK1 mRNAs were coinduced. Elevated levels of the NKB-encoding preprotachykinin-B mRNA and of NKB-like immunoreactivity at 2 and 7 d after MCAO were confined to GABAergic interneurons. In parallel, the expression of NK3 was markedly downregulated in pyramidal neurons. MCAO caused transient NK1 expression in activated cerebrovenular endothelium within and adjacent to the infarct. NK1 expression was absent from activated astroglia or microglia. The differential ischemia-induced plasticity of the tachykinin system in distinct inhibitory and excitatory cerebrocortical circuits suggests that it may be involved in the balance of endogenous neuroprotection and neurotoxicity by enhancing GABAergic inhibitory circuits or by facilitating glutamate-mediated hyperexcitability. The transient induction of NK1 in cerebrovenular endothelium may contribute to ischemia-induced edema and leukocyte diapedesis. Brain tachykinin receptors are proposed as potential drug targets in stroke.
Dendritic spines commonly receive glutamatergic innervation at postsynaptic densities and compartmentalize calcium influx arising from synaptic signaling. Recently, it was shown that a class of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors containing alpha7 subunits is concentrated on somatic spines emanating from chick ciliary ganglion neurons. The receptors have a high relative calcium permeability and contribute importantly to synaptic currents, although they appear to be excluded from postsynaptic densities. Here we show that low-frequency synaptic stimulation of the alpha7-containing receptors induces calcium transients confined to the spines. High-frequency stimulation induces a transient calcium elevation in the spines and a more sustained cell-wide elevation. The high-frequency transient elevation again depends on alpha7-containing receptors, whereas the sustained elevation can be triggered by other nicotinic receptors and depends on calcium release from internal stores and probably influx through voltage-gated L-type calcium channels as well. Retrograde axonal stimulation of the neurons at high frequency mimics synaptic stimulation in producing sustained cell-wide calcium increases that depend on L-type channels and release from internal stores, but it does not produce calcium transients in the spines. Thus frequent action potentials are sufficient to generate the cell-wide increases, but alpha7-containing receptors are needed for spine-specific effects. Patch-clamp recording indicates that alpha7-containing receptors preferentially desensitize at high-frequency stimulation, accounting for the inability of the stimulation to sustain high calcium levels in the spines. The spatial and temporal differences in the patterns of calcium elevation could enable the neurons to monitor their own firing histories for regulatory purposes.
This article describes the evaluation of the Neuroscience Nurse Internship Program (NNIP). The NNIP was initiated in 1988 by the National Institutes of Health Clinical Center to meet the demand for highly skilled nurses to care for persons with nervous system disorders. To determine whether the program was meeting its goals, an evaluation component was incorporated into the program. The evaluation process was based on the RSA Model of Continuing Education for nursing. The RSA model consists of four basic components, three of which were included in the assessment of the NNIP--process, content, and outcome. The evaluation revealed that the nurse-interns were satisfied with the lectures and clinical content of the program. Moreover, the nurse-interns improved their knowledge of neuroscience nursing and their confidence in performing neuroscience nursing skills. Information from the evaluation was used to modify the structure of the program and to refine lecture content and clinical requirements.
Apomorphine is a potent, nonselective, direct-acting dopamine-receptor agonist. Given subcutaneously, it has a rapid onset of antiparkinsonian action qualitatively comparable to that of levodopa. Despite its long history, it was not until peripheral dopaminergic side effects could be controlled by oral domperidone that the clinical usefulness of apomorphine in Parkinson's disease began to be investigated thoroughly in the mid-1980s. Although several routes have been tried, subcutaneous administration, either as intermittent injections or continuous infusion, is so far the best and most applied in the treatment of advanced, fluctuating Parkinson's disease. Clinical trials have shown stable efficacy with markedly reduced time spent in &quot;off&quot; phases as well as, for infusion therapy, reduced levodopa requirements. In the most successful cases, motor fluctuations disappear and the need for oral medication is eliminated. Adverse events are usually mild and dominated by cutaneous reactions. Neuropsychiatric side effects occur, but the influence of apomorphine on these remains controversial. Controlled long-term clinical trials are highly warranted to reveal the full potentials of this treatment. Careful patient selection and follow-up, where the specialized movement disorder nurse has a crucial role, are paramount for a successful long-term outcome. Apomorphine warrants a wider application in the treatment of advanced Parkinson's disease and should be tried before more invasive interventions are considered.


To date, most research performed in the area of spinal cord injury focuses on treatments designed to either prevent spreading lesion (secondary injury) or to enhance outgrowth of long descending and ascending fiber tracts around or through the lesion. In the last decade, however, several authors have shown that it is possible to enhance locomotor function after spinal cord injury in both animals and patients using specific training paradigms. As a first step towards combining such training paradigms with pharmacotherapy, we evaluated recovery of function in adult rats sustaining a spinal cord contusion injury (MASCIS device, 12.5 mm at T8), either housed in an enriched environment or in standard cages (n = 15 in both groups). The animals in the enriched environment were stimulated to increase their locomotor activity by placing water and food on opposite sides of the cage. As extra stimuli, a running wheel and several other objects were added to the cage. We show that exposure to the enriched environment improves gross and fine locomotor recovery as measured by the Basso, Beattie, and Bresnahan (BBB) locomotor rating scale, the BBB subscale, the Gridwalk, and the Thoracolumbar height test. However, no group differences were found on our electrophysiological parameters nor on the amount of spared white matter. These data justify further studies on enriched housing and more controlled exercise training, with their use as potential additive to pharmacological intervention.
Analysis of locomotion is an important tool in the study of peripheral and central nervous system damage. Most locomotor scoring systems in rodents are based either upon open field locomotion assessment, for example, the BBB score or upon foot print analysis. The former yields a semiquantitative description of locomotion as a whole, whereas the latter generates quantitative data on several selected gait parameters. In this paper, we describe the use of a newly developed gait analysis method that allows easy quantitation of a large number of locomotion parameters during walkway crossing. We were able to extract data on interlimb coordination, swing duration, paw print areas (total over stance, and at 20-msec time resolution), stride length, and base of support: Similar data can not be gathered by any single previously described method. We compare changes in gait parameters induced by two different models of spinal cord injury in rats, transection of the dorsal half of the spinal cord and spinal cord contusion injury induced by the NYU or MASCIS device. Although we applied this method to rats with spinal cord injury, the usefulness of this method is not limited to rats or to the investigation of spinal cord injuries alone.
Brain perfusion SPECT is a functional neuroimaging technique that allows noninvasive study of physiologic and physiopathologic events in the human brain. With the appropriate technique and careful interpretation of the information provided, brain perfusion SPECT has proven potential for patient management. SPECT has clinical value in the diagnosis, therapeutic management, and follow-up of patients. The diversity of central nervous system diseases and the still incomplete knowledge of the mechanisms that underlie them have contributed to the success of brain perfusion SPECT as a research tool in neurosciences. This article provides fundamental knowledge on how and when to perform brain perfusion SPECT in clinical practice. A general overview of the clinical value of this technique is followed by relevant information on cerebral physiology for proper understanding of brain SPECT images. Practical considerations on quantification and interventional studies are also offered. Finally, step-by-step recommendations for interpreting and reporting brain perfusion SPECT images are provided to obtain the maximum clinical benefit from this technique.
Iron deficiency in children is associated with retardation in growth and cognitive development, and the effects on cognition may be irreversible, even with treatment. Excessive iron has also been associated with neurological disease, especially in reference to the increased iron content in the brains of Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease patients. This study evaluated the effects of dietary iron deficiency and excess iron on physical activity in rats. The animal model used is developmentally sensitive and permits control of the timing as well as the duration of the nutritional insult. Hence, to study the effects of early, late and long-term iron deficiency or excess iron (supplementation), rats were either made iron deficient or supplemented on postnatal day (PND) 10-21, PND 21-35 and PND 10-35. Some iron-deficient rats were iron repleted between PND 21-35. Different measures of motor activity were taken at PND 14, 17, 20, 27 and 34. Iron-deficient and iron-supplemented rats showed decreased activity and stereotypic behavior; this was apparent for any onset and duration of the nutritional insult. Recovery from iron deficiency did not normalize these functional variables, showing that the deleterious effects of early iron deficiency persist despite subsequent adequate treatment. This study demonstrates that iron deficiency in early life leads to irreversible behavioral changes. The biological bases for these behavioral alterations are not readily apparent, because iron therapy rapidly reverses the iron losses in all brain regions.
Despite personality theories suggesting that extraversion correlates with social skill, most studies have not found a positive correlation between extraversion and nonverbal decoding. The authors propose that introverts are less able to multitask and thus are poorer at nonverbal decoding, but only when it is a secondary task. Prior research has uniformly extracted the nonverbal decoding from its multitasking context and, consequently, never tested this hypothesis. In Studies 1-3, introverts exhibited a nonverbal decoding deficit, relative to extraverts, but only when decoding was a secondary rather than a primary task within a multitasking context. In Study 4, extraversion was found to correlate with central executive efficiency (r = .42) but not with storage capacity (r = .04). These results are discussed in terms of arousal theories of extraversion and the role of catecholamines (dopamine and norepinephrine) in prefrontal function.
ATP acts at P2 receptors to contract blood vessels and reactivity to vasoconstrictor agents is often altered in hypertension. This study was designed to identify P2 receptors in mesenteric arteries and veins and to determine whether ATP reactivity is altered in deoxycorticosterone acetate (DOCA)-salt hypertensive rats. Computer-assisted video microscopy was used to measure vessel diameter in vitro. ATP was a more potent constrictor of veins (EC(50) = 2.7 microM) than arteries (EC(50) = 196 microM) from normotensive rats; there was no change in ATP reactivity in vessels from DOCA-salt rats. The P2X1 receptor agonist alpha,beta-methylene ATP (alpha,beta-MeATP, 0.03-3 microM) contracted arteries but not veins. ATP-induced contractions in arteries were blocked by alpha,beta-MeATP (3 microM) desensitization. 2-Methylthio-ATP (0.1-10 microM), an agonist that can act at P2Y1 receptors, did not contract arteries or veins, whereas UTP, an agonist at rat P2Y2/P2Y4 receptors, contracted veins (EC(50) = 15 microM) and arteries (EC(50) = 24 microM). UTP-induced contractions of veins cross-desensitized with ATP, whereas UTP-induced contractions in arteries were unaffected by alpha,beta-MeATP-desensitization. The P2X/P2Y1 receptor antagonist pyridoxal-phosphate-6-azophenyl-2',4-disulfonic acid blocked ATP-induced contractions of arteries (IC(50) = 4.8 microM) but not veins. Suramin, an antagonist that blocks P2Y2 receptors, partly inhibited ATP- and UTP-induced contractions of veins. Immunohistochemical studies revealed P2X1 receptor immunoreactivity in arteries but not veins. These data indicate that mesenteric vascular reactivity to ATP is not altered in DOCA-salt hypertension. ATP acts at P2X1 and P2Y2 receptors to contract mesenteric arteries and veins, respectively, whereas in arteries UTP acts at an unidentified P2 receptor.
Dinapsoline is a new potent, full agonist at D1 dopamine receptors with limited selectivity relative to D2 receptors. The efficacy of this compound was assessed in rats with unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the medial forebrain bundle, a standard rat model of Parkinson's disease. Dinapsoline produced robust contralateral rotation after either subcutaneous or oral administration. This rotational behavior was attenuated markedly by the D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390, but not by the D2 receptor antagonist raclopride. During a chronic 14-day treatment period in which rats received dinapsoline either once or twice a day, dinapsoline did not produce tolerance (in fact, some sensitization of the rotational response was observed in one experiment). Because dinapsoline shows less D1:D2 selectivity in vitro than other D1 agonists, the contribution of D2 activity to tolerance was assessed. Chronic daily cotreatment with dinapsoline and raclopride did not enable the development of tolerance to chronic dinapsoline treatment. In contrast, when dinapsoline was administered by osmotic minipump, rapid tolerance was observed. To explore further the contribution of D1 and D2 receptors to tolerance, experiments were performed with the selective D1 agonist A-77636. Daily dosing with A-77636 rapidly produced complete tolerance, as previously observed, whereas coadministration of the D2 agonist quinpirole plus A-77636 failed to either delay or prevent tolerance. Taken together, these results indicate that the development of tolerance to D1 receptor agonists is influenced by the pattern of drug exposure but not by the D1:D2 selectivity of the agonist.
1.Voltage-gated K+ channels containing Kv3 subunits play specific roles in the repolarization of action potentials. Kv3 channels are expressed in selective populations of CNS neurons and are thought to be important in facilitating sustained and/or repetitive high frequency firing. Regulation of the activity of Kv3 channels by neurotransmitters could have profound effects on the repetitive firing characteristics of those neurons. 2.Kv3 channels are found in several neuronal populations in the CNS that express nitric oxide synthases (NOSs). We therefore investigated whether Kv3 channels are modulated by the signalling gas nitric oxide (NO). 3. We found that Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 currents are potentially suppressed by D-NONOate and other NO donors. The effects of NO on these currents are mediated by the activation of guanylyl cyclase (GC), since they are prevented by Methylene Blue, an inhibitor of GC, and by ODQ, a specific inhibitor of the soluble form of GC. Moreover, application of 8-Br-cGMP, a permeant analogue of cGMP, also blocked Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 currents. 4.KT5283, a cGMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG) blocker, prevented the inhibition of Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 currents by D-NONOate and 8-Br-cGMP. This indicates that activation of PKG as a result of the increase in intracellular cGMP levels produced by D-NONOate or 8-Br-cGMP is necessary for channel block. 5. Although the effects of NO on Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 channels require PKG activity, two observations suggest that they are not mediated by phosphorylation of channel proteins: (a) the reagents affect both Kv3.2 and Kv3.1 channels, although only Kv3.2 proteins have a putative PKA-PKG phosphorylation site, and (b) mutation of the PKA-PKG phosphorylation site in Kv3.2 does not interfere with the effects of NO or cGMP. 6. The inhibitory effects of NO and cGMP on Kv3.1 and Kv3.2 currents appear to be mediated by the activation of serine-threonine phosphatase, since they are blocked by low doses of okadaic acid. Furthermore, direct intracellular application of the catalytic subunit of protein phosphatase 2A inhibited Kv3.2 currents, indicating that activity of PKG-induced phosphatase is necessary and sufficient to inhibit these channels. 7. The results suggest that basal phosphorylation of Kv3 channel proteins is required for proper channel function. Activation of phosphatases via NO or other signals that increase cGMP might be a potent mechanism to regulate Kv3 channel activity in neurons.
Imaging of gap junction proteins, the connexins, has been performed in tissue culture cells both by labeling of connexins with immunocytochemical tags and by cloning and expressing chimeras of connexins and fluorescent proteins such as Green Fluorescent Protein. These two approaches have been used to gain information about protein localization or trafficking at light microscopic resolution. Electron microscopy provides higher resolution; however, analysis of electron micrographs of unlabeled connexins has been generally limited to recognition of gap junction structures. Immunolabeling of gap junction proteins in whole cells at the electron microscopic level has been difficult to achieve because of the fixation sensitivity of most gap junction antibodies. To obtain reasonable sensitivity, immunoperoxidase procedures are typically employed, and these suffer from relatively poor resolution. Here we describe the combination of tyramide signal amplification techniques and fluorescence photooxidation for higher resolution immunolocalization studies for correlative light and electron microscopic imaging. By using correlative microscopy, we can not only localize connexin pools or structures, but also discover what other cellular substructures interact with gap junction proteins. The use of tyramide signal amplification techniques is necessary to increase fluorescence levels that have decreased due to increased specimen fixation required to maintain cell ultrastructure. The fluorescence photooxidation technique provides a high-resolution method for staining of proteins in cells. Unlike colloidal gold-based methods, fluorescence photooxidation allows for three-dimensional localization using high-voltage electron microscopy.
Gap junctions are specialized plasma membrane structures that join neighboring cells via specialized intercellular ion channels (hemichannels) and provide a direct pathway for cell-cell communication. They presumably mediate regulation of growth, transmission of developmental signals, coordination of muscle contraction, and maintenance of metabolic homeostasis. Hemichannels are also present in the non-junctional regions of the cell plasma membrane and they provide a direct pathway for communication between the cytoplasm and the extracellular region. Recent studies suggest that gap junctional communication is much more complex than previously anticipated, in terms of both its structure as well as its activity. While the mechanism of gap junction activity is being studied extensively, their quaternary structure, assembly, and conformational changes underlying gating of their activity as well as their physiological role are poorly understood because, due to their complex structure, these junctions are less amenable to existing techniques for high-resolution three-dimensional structure-function analyses. Atomic Force Microscopy (AFM) images molecular structure of biological specimens in an aqueous environment, allows on-line perturbations, and can be coupled with electrophysiological, biochemical, and other microscopic techniques. The present review examines the potential of AFM application for the study of the molecular structure of hydrated, native gap junctions and hemijunctions as well as their physiological functions. Special attention is paid to new, complementary, or provocative findings from AFM studies of both vertebrate and invertebrate gap junctions and hemijunctions.
Serum- and glucocorticoid-inducible kinases (SGKs) form a novel family of serine/threonine kinases that are activated in response to a variety of extracellular stimuli. SGKs are related to Akt (also called PKB), a serine/threonine kinase that plays a crucial role in promoting cell survival. Like Akt, SGKs are activated by the phosphoinositide-3 kinase (PI3K) and translocate to the nucleus upon growth factor stimulation. However the physiological substrates and cellular functions of SGKs remained to be identified. We hypothesized that SGKs regulate cellular functions in concert with Akt by phosphorylating common targets within the nucleus. The best-characterized nuclear substrates of Akt are transcription factors of the Forkhead family. Akt phosphorylates Forkhead transcription factors such as FKHRL1, leading to FKHRL1's exit from the nucleus and the consequent shutoff of FKHRL1 target genes. We show here that SGK1, like Akt, promotes cell survival and that it does so in part by phosphorylating and inactivating FKHRL1. However, SGK and Akt display differences with respect to the efficacy with which they phosphorylate the three regulatory sites on FKHRL1. While both kinases can phosphorylate Thr-32, SGK displays a marked preference for Ser-315 whereas Akt favors Ser-253. These findings suggest that SGK and Akt may coordinately regulate the function of FKHRL1 by phosphorylating this transcription factor at distinct sites. The efficient phosphorylation of these three sites on FKHRL1 by SGK and Akt appears to be critical to the ability of growth factors to suppress FKHRL1-dependent transcription, thereby preventing FKHRL1 from inducing cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. These findings indicate that SGK acts in concert with Akt to propagate the effects of PI3K activation within the nucleus and to mediate the biological outputs of PI3K signaling, including cell survival and cell cycle progression.
The vertebrate genome contains a large number of Krppel-associated box-zinc finger genes that encode 10 or more C(2)-H(2) zinc finger motifs. Members of this gene family have been proposed to function as transcription factors by binding DNA through their zinc finger region and repressing gene expression via the KRAB domain. To date, however, no Krppel-associated box-zinc finger protein (KRAB-ZFP) and few proteins with 10 or more zinc finger motifs have been shown to bind DNA in a sequence-specific manner. Our laboratory has recently identified KS1, a member of the KRAB-ZFP family that contains 10 different C(2)-H(2) zinc finger motifs, 9 clustered at the C terminus with an additional zinc finger separated by a short linker region. In this study, we used a random oligonucleotide binding assay to identify a 27-bp KS1 binding element (KBE). Reporter assays demonstrate that KS1 represses the expression of promoters containing this DNA sequence. Deletion and site-directed mutagenesis reveal that KS1 requires nine C-terminal zinc fingers and the KRAB domain for transcriptional repression through the KBE site, whereas the isolated zinc finger and linker region are dispensable for this function. Additional biochemical assays demonstrate that the KS1 KRAB domain interacts with the KAP-1 corepressor, and mutations that abolish this interaction alleviate KS1-mediated transcriptional repression. Thus, this study provides the first direct evidence that a KRAB-ZFP binds DNA to regulate gene expression and provides insight into the mechanisms used by multiple-zinc-finger proteins to recognize DNA sequences.
XIAP (X-chromosome-linked inhibitor of apoptosis protein) is an antiapoptotic protein which inhibits the activity of caspases and suppresses cell death. However, little is known about the presence and function of XIAP in the nervous system. Here we report that XIAP mRNA is expressed in developing and adult rat brain. Using a specific antibody, we observed XIAP-immunoreactive cells in different brain regions, among others, in the hippocampus and cerebral cortex. Kainic acid, which induces delayed cell death of specific neurons, increased the levels of XIAP in the CA3 region of hippocampus. XIAP was, however, largely absent in cells undergoing cell death, as shown by TUNEL labeling and staining for active caspase-3. In cultured hippocampal neurons, XIAP was initially upregulated by kainic acid and then degraded in a process blocked by the caspase-3 inhibitor DEVD. Similarly, recombinant XIAP is cleaved by active caspase-3 in vitro. The results show that there is biphasic regulation of XIAP in the hippocampus following kainic acid and that XIAP becomes a target for caspase-3 activated during cell death in the hippocampus. The degradation of XIAP by kainic acid contributes to neuronal cell death observed in vulnerable neurons of the hippocampus after caspase activation.
We have studied developing oligodendrocytes in tissue sections as they initiate myelination and have found that the transition from premyelinating oligodendrocytes into myelin-bearing cells is accompanied by a dramatic upregulation in expression of the RNA binding QKI proteins. We show that in mature oligodendrocytes in culture, the localization of cytoplasmic QKI isoforms requires an intact cytoskeleton. Together with previous observations, this indicates that cytoplasmic QKI proteins facilitate movement of mRNAs to myelin via the cytoskeleton. In the adult rat brain, we found that a subset of oligodendrocytes displays characteristics of actively myelinating cells seen during development, i.e., connections to myelin sheaths and elevated levels of QKI proteins and also MAP1B. These observations suggest that instead of merely maintaining myelin, oligodendrocytes in the normal adult CNS are capable of responding to demands for new myelin sheaths. This has important implications for the prospect of repair of myelin in demyelinating conditions such as multiple sclerosis.

Recombinant adeno-associated viruses (rAAV) are highly efficient vectors for gene transfer into the central nervous system (CNS). However, a major hurdle for gene delivery to the mammalian brain is to achieve high-level transduction in target cells beyond the immediate injection site. Therefore, in addition to improvements in expression cassettes and viral titers, optimal injection parameters need to be defined. Here, we show that previous studies of somatic cell gene transfer to the mammalian brain have used suboptimal injection parameters, with even the lowest reported perfusion rates still excessively fast. Moreover, we evaluated the effect of local administration of mannitol to further enhance transgene expression and vector spread. Ultraslow microperfusion of rAAV, i.e., &lt;33 nl/min, resulted in significantly higher gene expression and less injury of surrounding tissue than the previously reported rates of 100 nl/min or faster. Co-infusion of mannitol facilitated gene transfer to neurons, increasing both the total number and the distribution of transduced cells by 200-300%. Gene transfer studies in the CNS using rAAV should use very slow infusion rates and combined injection with mannitol to maximize transduction efficiency and spread.
Nitric oxide (NO) has been linked to numerous physiological and pathophysiological events that are not readily explained by the well established effects of NO on soluble guanylyl cyclase. Exogenous NO S-nitrosylates cysteine residues in proteins, but whether this is an important function of endogenous NO is unclear. Here, using a new proteomic approach, we identify a population of proteins that are endogenously S-nitrosylated, and demonstrate the loss of this modification in mice harbouring a genomic deletion of neuronal NO synthase (nNOS). Targets of NO include metabolic, structural and signalling proteins that may be effectors for neuronally generated NO. These findings establish protein S-nitrosylation as a physiological signalling mechanism for nNOS.
Directional selectivity is a response that is greater for a visual stimulus moving in one (PREF) direction than for the opposite (NULL) direction, and its computation in the vertebrate retina is a classical issue in functional neurophysiology. To date, most quantitative experimental studies have relied on extracellular responses for identifying properties of the directionally selective circuit. Here I describe an intracellular analysis using whole-cell patch recordings of the synaptic events underlying the spike response in directionally selective ganglion cells of the turtle retina. These quantitative measurements allowed me to distinguish among various explicit classes of circuit models that can, in principle, account for ganglion cell directional selectivity. I found that ganglion cell directional selectivity is due to an excitatory input that itself is directionally selective, and that the crucial shunting inhibition implicated in this computation must act on cells presynaptic to the ganglion cell.


It is difficult to think of any behavioural process that is more intrinsically important to us than attachment. Feeding, sleeping and locomotion are all necessary for survival, but humans are, as Baruch Spinoza famously noted, &quot;a social animal&quot; and it is our social attachments that we live for. Over the past decade, studies in a range of vertebrates, including humans, have begun to address the neural basis of attachment at a molecular, cellular and systems level. This review describes some of the important insights from this work.
Studies of human addicts and behavioural studies in rodent models of addiction indicate that key behavioural abnormalities associated with addiction are extremely long lived. So, chronic drug exposure causes stable changes in the brain at the molecular and cellular levels that underlie these behavioural abnormalities. There has been considerable progress in identifying the mechanisms that contribute to long-lived neural and behavioural plasticity related to addiction, including drug-induced changes in gene transcription, in RNA and protein processing, and in synaptic structure. Although the specific changes identified so far are not sufficiently long lasting to account for the nearly permanent changes in behaviour associated with addiction, recent work has pointed to the types of mechanism that could be involved.
The carboxy-terminal fragments (CTFs) of the amyloid precursor protein (APP) are considered beta-amyloid (Abeta) precursors as well as molecular species possibly amyloidogenic and neurotoxic by [corrected] in vitro or in animal models. The CTF's role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is however relatively unexplored in human brain. In this study, we analyzed brain extracted CTFs in subjects with AD, non-AD control, and Down's syndrome (DS) cases. Our data indicate that: (i) In fetal DS subjects CTFs levels are increased in comparison to age-matched control, suggesting that the enhanced CTFs formation is important for the early occurrence of plaques deposition in DS. No significant difference in CTFs level [corrected] between AD and age-matched control cases. (ii) CTFs modified at their N-terminus are the direct precursors of similarly N-terminally modified Abeta peptides, which constitute the most abundant species in AD and DS plaques. This observation suggests that N-truncated Abeta peptides are formed directly at beta-secretase level and not through a progressive proteolysis of full-length Abeta1-40/42. (iii) Among the differently cleaved CTFs, only the 22- and 12.5-kDa CTF polypeptides are tyrosine phosphorylated in both AD and control brain while the full-length APP and the CTFs migrating below the 12.5-kDa marker are not phosphorylated, suggesting that APP and CTFs may be involved in different pathways depending on their length and sequences. This study provides evidence that CTFs constitute in human brain a molecular species directly involved in AD pathogenesis and in the development of the AD-like pathology in DS subjects.
The serine-threonine kinase Akt1 promotes cell survival through inhibition of apoptosis. One of the potential downstream targets of Akt1 is p70 S6 kinase, p70(S6K), an enzyme implicated in the regulation of protein synthesis. In this study, we investigated the changes in total and phosphorylated levels of Akt1 and p70(S6K) during transient focal ischemia. Male Wistar rats were subjected to 2 h of middle cerebral artery occlusion followed by 1, 4, and 24 h of reperfusion. The expression of total and phosphorylated forms of Akt1 and p70(S6K) were examined by Western blot analysis. Phosphorylation of Akt1 on Ser473 transiently increased at 1 and 4 h of reperfusion, whereas phosphorylation of Akt1 on Thr308 was reduced during reperfusion. The levels of total Akt1 remained unchanged at 1 and 4 h of reperfusion, but decreased significantly at 24 h of reperfusion. Phosphorylation of p70(S6K) on Thr389 decreased at 1, 4, and 24 h of reperfusion, while the levels of total p70(S6K) protein remained unchanged at 1 and 4 h of reperfusion but decreased at 24 h of reperfusion. The results show that cell survival pathways, such as Akt1 and p70(S6K) signaling, are suppressed after transient focal ischemia, which may contribute to the development of neuronal cell death after an ischemic insult.
The association of the E4 isoform of apolipoprotein E (apoE) as a genetic risk factor for late onset Alzheimer's disease (AD) has been well established. Central nervous system (CNS) neurons are specifically affected so that defining the mechanisms by which two of the major human apoE isoforms act within CNS neurons is important to our understanding of their effect on neuronal maintenance and function. We have developed a cell culture model using human brain tissue to characterize exogenous apoE transport. We have tracked the association of apoE3 and E4 with CD63, the GTP-binding protein rab5a and the acidic hydrolase cathepsin D, which localize lysosomes, early endosomes, and late endosomes/lysosomes, respectively. Double immunostaining and confocal laser scanning microscopy revealed by z-series that after 30 min most intraneuronal apoE colocalized with rab5a, whereas no astrocyte apoE/rab5a colocalization was detected. Conversely, apoE3 and CD63 did not colocalize in neurons, even after 1 h, but was colocalized in astrocytes. Also, there was approximately 9% apoE3 colocalization with cathepsin D in neurons, whereas up to 87% of apoE4 vesicles were colocalized. In astrocytes, the proportion of apoE3 colocalized with cathepsin D was greater than that in neurons, but still significantly different from that found with apoE4. These immunohistological data demonstrate that, in neurons, apoE can be endocytosed via a rab5a-regulated vesicle-mediated pathway and that beyond this stage there may be isoform specific differences in apoE trafficking present in both neurons and astrocytes.
