The auditory event-related potential was assessed in two experiments that evaluated the effects of stimulus factors on P300 (P3) component amplitude and latency. The first experiment manipulated the frequency of the target stimuli (500, 1,000, 1,500, and 2,000 Hz) and standard stimuli (250 and 4,000 Hz) in different conditions. Both P3 amplitude and latency were affected by the target and standard tone combinations in specific ways. The second experiment varied the target tone intensity and duration factorially. P3 amplitude was unaffected by these variables, but peak latency was significantly shorter for the loudest and longest target stimuli. The findings indicate that variation in auditory stimulus parameters can produce small but reliable effects for P3 values, which should be considered when results are compared across studies.
The capacity to access semantic memory and the efficiency of the memory search were studied in patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) or multiple sclerosis (MS) using a modified version of the &quot;Supermarket Test.&quot; PD and MS patients who performed normally on the Boston Naming Test generated as many specific exemplars and category labels as did controls, and these patients also searched their semantic memories as efficiently as controls. In contrast, PD and MS patients with impaired confrontational naming generated fewer specific exemplars, but a normal number of generic category labels. These naming-impaired patients searched their semantic memories less efficiently than controls. For both MS and PD patients, the efficiency of semantic memory search was significantly correlated with measures that reflect access to semantic memory (eg, performance on letter or category fluency tasks), but was not significantly related to measures of problem-solving ability derived from the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. Inefficient search of semantic memory in MS and PD appears to arise from an inability to retrieve knowledge from semantic memory quickly or from the loss of information from semantic memory stores, rather than from impairment in the ability to formulate and deploy appropriate strategies for task solution.
In an attempt to define the mechanism of synaptic specificity, we have been studying pairs of identified leech neurons isolated in tissue culture. The cultured neurons reform specific synapses when paired with appropriate partners in the absence of other cell types. In recent studies, we have examined in detail the reformation of a serotoninergic synapse between the Retzius cell and one of its targets, the pressure sensitive (P) cell. The P cell in vivo and its soma in vitro have two types of responses to serotonin (5-HT). From voltage clamp analysis of cultured P cells, we demonstrated the parallel activation of chloride (gCls) and monovalent cation (gCations) channels coupled to distinct receptor subtypes and gated by separate second messengers. Only gCls was activated by 5-HT released from the presynaptic Retzius cell both in vivo and in vitro. This demonstrates the remarkable specificity of the reformation of this synapse in culture since only the correct 5-HT receptor subtype is activated. An 80% reduction of gCations was observed in P cells that had failed to be innervated by Retzius cells in culture, suggesting that gCations may be lost prior to synapse formation. Retzius cells depleted of 5-HT also reduced gCations in the paired P cells and incubating single P cells in 5-HT did not reduce gCations. In addition, aldehyde-fixed Retzius cells were able to selectively reduce gCations when paired with P cells. We conclude that the loss of gCations was due to contact between the neurons. The early clearing of counter-effective receptor subtypes may be a prelude to synapse formation.
The major component of D-glucose transfer across the membranous sites of the blood-nerve barrier (BNB) occurs via a facilitative mechanism at a rate greater than twice the rate of D-glucose metabolism by nerve. To characterize further properties of monosaccharide transport at the BNB, unidirectional transfer constant (K) values were determined in vivo in tibial nerve of anesthetized rats for radiolabeled mannitol, L-glucose, and a series of D-glucose analogs. K values(X 10(-4) mls-1 g-1) equaled 4.8 for 2-deoxy-D-glucose, 3.7 for D-glucose, 2.3 for 3-O-methyl-D-glucose, 1.4 for D-mannose, 0.6 for D-galactose, 0.2 for mannitol, and 0.19 for L-glucose. The rank order of ratios between K values of a D-hexose and D-glucose, which reflects the rank order of affinity of the system for individual sugars, was 2-deoxy-D-glucose greater than D-glucose greater than 3-O-methyl-D-glucose greater than D-mannose greater than D-galactose. The results demonstrate that the order of substrate affinity of the monosaccharide carrier at the BNB is similar to that at cerebral capillaries and at erythrocytes. At normal concentrations of plasma D-glucose, the contribution of simple passive diffusion to unidirectional D-glucose influx across the BNB equals 5%, which is greater than that at cerebral capillaries and reflects the greater permeability to hydrophilic nonelectrolytes of the endoneurial vasculature.
Fc receptor-dependent myelin phagocytosis has been proposed as a possible important effector mechanism in several immune-mediated demyelinating diseases. The present study was designed to determine whether myelin is opsonizable by anti-myelin antibodies. Thioglycolate-elicited mouse peritoneal macrophages were cultured with 125I-labelled bovine central myelin pretreated with normal or immune serum. Serum opsonic activity was determined by a kinetic study comparing macrophage uptake of opsonized and untreated 125I-myelin. Heat-stable and heat-labile myelin opsonins were detected in normal rabbit serum. Myelin was also opsonized by normal rabbit gamma globulin and by heat-inactivated normal mouse, human, and guinea pig serum. Increased opsonic activity was detected in rabbit anti-myelin antiserum and the gamma globulin fraction prepared from this serum, in anti-myelin basic protein and anti-galactocerebroside antiserum but not in anti-myelin-associated glycoprotein antiserum or in serum from rabbits injected with Freund's adjuvant alone. One out of three anti-sheep red blood cell antisera tested also showed increased myelin opsonic activity. It is concluded that anti-myelin antibodies can promote opsonic phagocytosis, and that normal serum and normal serum gamma globulin also opsonize myelin.
The odds ratio is very useful; when used as a measure of association (or to describe the results of a randomised controlled treatment trial) it expresses both the strength and direction of the association (or size and direction of treatment effect). Its 95% confidence interval estimates the likely degree of sampling error and provides a test of significance at the 5% level. Authors, when reporting the results of descriptive studies, case-control studies and randomised controlled trials, should consider presenting their results this way rather than by simple significance testing with a chi squared test.
In the present study, nearly two-thirds of all hippocampal pyramidal units isolated under barbiturate anesthesia, which maximizes these cell's activity, were behaviorally silent. These &quot;silent cells&quot; showed no spontaneous firing activity in the awake, freely-behaving rat. Both reanesthetization and antidromic stimulation, however, activated these silent cells. More than 92% of the remaining spontaneously active hippocampal pyramidal cells recorded from freely-behaving rats were place cells; i.e., they exhibited spatially specific changes in firing activity in at least one environment. The firing rates of these place cells varied depending on the animal's location in this environment. Interestingly many of these place cells displayed low or no spontaneous activity and no spatial specificity in other, dissimilar environments; i.e., their lack of firing in some spatial environments mirrored the behavioral silence of the more numerous silent cells reported here. In complex information processing, such as the processing of spatial information by the hippocampus demonstrated here, neural silence may be as important a signal as neural activity.
We have examined the modification of responses to transmitter during the reformation of a specific synapse by identified leech neurons in culture. Single pressure-sensitive mechanosensory (P) neurons in culture and the soma of this cell in vivo have 2 conductances that are activated by application of 5-HT: a Cl conductance and a monovalent cation conductance (gCations); synaptic release of 5-HT by a serotoninergic Retzius cell in vivo and in culture activates only the Cl conductance and not gCations in the P cell. We have characterized the loss of gCations in P cells by manipulating the culture conditions. When 5-HT was applied from a pipette, innervated P cells and P cells paired with Retzius cells that had not formed synapses had a gCations that was markedly reduced compared with gCations in the single P cell. When 5-HT was included in the culture medium in which single P cells were grown, gCations was not reduced. When Retzius-P cell pairs were treated with reserpine, which was shown to deplete the presynaptic neuron of 5-HT, gCations in the P cell was as low as in untreated pairs. Pairing aldehyde-fixed Retzius cells with untreated P cells also resulted in the loss of gCations. The Retzius cell had both types of receptors, but synapse formation did not affect gCations in the presynaptic neuron. The results demonstrate that the loss of the nonsynaptic response of the P cell to transmitter is due to contact between the neurons rather than to the release of transmitter or trophic factors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This report describes a computerized microscope charting system based on the IBM personal computer or compatible. Stepping motors are used to control the movement of the microscope stage and to encode its position by hand manipulation of a joystick. Tissue section contours and the location of cells labeled with various compounds are stored by the computer, plotted at any magnification and manipulated into composites created from several charted sections. The system has many advantages: (1) it is based on an industry standardized computer that is affordable and familiar; (2) compact and commercially available stepping motor microprocessors control the stage movement. These controllers increase reliability, simplify implementation, and increase efficiency by relieving the computer of time consuming control tasks; (3) the system has an interactive graphics interface allowing the operator to view the image during data collection. Regions of the graphics display can be enlarged during the charting process to provide higher resolution and increased accuracy; (4) finally, the digitized data are stored at 0.5 micron resolution and can be routed directly to a multi-pen plotter or exported to a computer-aided design (CAD) program to generate a publication-quality montage composed of several computerized chartings. The system provides a useful tool for the acquisition and qualitative analysis of data representing stained cells or chemical markers in tissue. The modular design, together with data storage at high resolution, allows for potential analytical enhancements involving planimetric, stereologic and 3-D serial section reconstruction.
This article outlines the clinical characteristics of head injuries and describes their outcome. It emphasizes that some of the clinical characteristics and patterns of recovery can be explained by temporary or long-term failure in connection between different regions of the brain by specialized white matter pathways, which results in so-called dysconnection syndromes. It points out that the ability to assess these dysconnection syndromes leads to the prevention of disuse of the uninjured part of the brain and suppression of secondary brain dysfunctions. The second part of this article describes restorative neurology and then discusses how it is becoming possible to breach the existing gap between cellular and human holistic neurobiology. It concludes that restorative neurology research programs will be used routinely in the treatment of patients with acute and chronic head injury.
1. Reciprocal inhibition was studied in normal subjects and patients with spinal cord lesions by stimulating the posterior tibial nerve below the threshold of the soleus alpha-motoneurone axons and recording the changes in firing probability of single tibialis anterior motor units activated by voluntary contraction. A short-latency (about 35 ms) period of decreased firing probability was assumed to represent reciprocal inhibition. 2. For a given stimulus intensity this inhibition was greater in patients with spinal lesions than in normal subjects. 3. The stimulus intensities at which soleus motoneurones and the Ia inhibitory interneurones were brought to threshold provided an estimate of the relative excitability of these two neural populations. In the patients with spinal lesions the Ia inhibitory interneurones were more excitable than soleus motoneurones, whereas in normal subjects the excitabilities were approximately equal. 4. Stimulation of the posterior tibial nerve below the threshold of alpha-motoneurone axons also resulted in a second period of inhibition with a latency of approximately 50 ms. This was less prominent in the patients with spinal cord lesions. 5. It is concluded that transmission through the pathways mediating reciprocal inhibition of flexor muscles during their voluntary contraction is enhanced following a spinal cord lesion in man but that a later inhibitory process is depressed.
1. The whole-cell patch clamp recording technique was employed to investigate the intracellular regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in cultured murine hippocampal neurones. Excitatory amino acids were repeatedly applied at regular intervals during intracellular dialysis with solutions of various composition. 2. Currents evoked by L-aspartate, an agonist of NMDA receptors, gradually 'washed out' to approximately 50% of their initial amplitude during dialysis with an intracellular solution containing CsCl and EGTA as a calcium buffer. In contrast, responses to kainate did not wash out. The wash-out of L-aspartate currents followed an exponential time course with a time constant of about 150 s. Wash-out did not appear to be related to desensitization of NMDA receptors. 3. Following wash-out, L-aspartate responses were blocked by Mg2+, ketamine or D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate indicating that these responses were still mediated by NMDA receptors. Furthermore, responses to NMDA itself showed wash-out to the same extent and with a time course similar to that for L-aspartate responses. 4. Neither the time course nor the extent of the wash-out of responses to L-aspartate was affected when the Ca2+ concentration of the dialysate was varied from zero to 1.5 x 10(-5) M. In addition, wash-out was unaffected by substitution of BAPTA for EGTA, indicating that wash-out was not a consequence of changes in intracellular pH related to the binding of Ca2+ to the buffer or to the kinetics of this binding. Therefore, the wash-out of NMDA currents could not be attributed to a gradual elevation of the concentration of intracellular Ca2+. 5. The extent of the wash-out of L-aspartate currents was similar for cells held at +40 versus -60 mV although the rate of wash-out was slower at the depolarized potential. In addition, the reversal potential of these currents was not altered, demonstrating that a change in driving force did not account for a component of the wash-out. 6. Inclusion of an ATP regeneration solution (Forscher &amp; Oxford, 1985) in the dialysate prevented the wash-out of L-aspartate currents. ATP alone was less effective in preventing wash-out whereas phosphocreatine and creatine phosphokinase were ineffective by themselves. Wash-out also occurred when ATP was replaced with the non-hydrolysable analogue, beta, gamma-methyleneATP, or with GTP. In cells where wash-out of L-aspartate currents had been established, subsequent dialysis with the ATP regenerating solution partially reversed this wash-out.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The recent development of powerful microcomputers and the introduction of object-oriented programming languages has now made available to educationists software that can be easily used to design and develop computer-based learning material. We have developed courseware and tutorware in the field of neuroanatomy which are pedagogically structured and yet provide multiple paths of learning for the individual student. Neuroanatomy is a difficult subject to learn because of the structural intricacy and functional correlations that it entails. The courseware enables students to approach the subject at different levels of difficulty and progress at their own pace towards a comprehensive understanding of structure and function aided by text integrated with graphics, sound and animation. A significant advantage to authors of similar courseware is the option to update the contents easily when necessary in the future.
It is hypothesized that Alzheimer's disease is a human phylogenetic disease which has a common multifactorial pathogenesis in sporadic and familial cases and in Down syndrome, related to a genomic character function G(x). Increments in G(x) accompanied the increased gene expression that sustained brain growth and differentiation during hominid evolution, particularly of the regions liable to Alzheimer pathology, and further occur in Down syndrome [suggesting that genes on chromosome 21 are included in G(x)]. If genes which promoted human brain evolution contribute to the value of G(x), a better understanding of the genomic events which promoted this evolution, using molecular biological techniques, should elucidate the genetic basis of Alzheimer's disease, and vice versa.
Expressing foreign proteins in heterologous eukaryotic cells has been a powerful tool for analyzing protein structure and function. The inducible mouse metallothionein-I promoter has been particularly useful for expression studies. However, the levels of expression achieved with this promoter in heterologous eukaryotic expression systems have not equaled those observed in vivo for the metallothionein-I gene. We have constructed expression plasmids placing either the gene for chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) or the cDNA for human neuropeptide Y (NPY) under control of the mouse metallothionein-I promoter. These two expression vectors were used to transfect mouse anterior pituitary tumor cells, from which stable transformants were isolated. The resulting cell lines, Mt.NPY1a and Mt.CAT, were used to maximize functional product expression from the metallothionein-I promoter. In both cell lines, a 35-fold induction of mRNA accumulation, peptide synthesis, or CAT activity was observed.
The mechanism of delayed neurotoxicity, triggered by glutamate, was studied in 7-8-day-old primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells. Treatment of cultures for 15 min with 50 microM glutamate in Mg2+ -free medium, followed by removal of the excitoxin, resulted in neuronal death, which started to appear 2-3 hr after the termination of glutamate treatment. The number of dead neurons increased gradually in the next few hours and 80-85% of neurons were found dead 24 hr later. Antagonists of N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive glutamate receptors (phencyclidine) or 1.2 mM MgCl2, but not the antagonist of N-methyl-D-asparatate-insensitive glutamate receptors (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione), abolished the neurotoxic effect of kainate. Development of glutamate-induced neuronal death depends strongly on Ca2+. Removal of extracellular Ca2+ (with 1mM ethyleneglycol-bis-(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid) immediately after the termination of glutamate exposure and before the appearance of the early signs of neuronal death (post-glutamate period) dramatically reduced neuronal degeneration. Neurotoxic concentrations of glutamate induced sustained increase of 45Ca2+ uptake in the post-glutamate period. The delayed increase of 45Ca2+ uptake, as well as the delayed neurotoxicity, were not affected by post-glutamate treatment with phencyclidine, dibenzocyclohepteneimine; DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, or MgCl2 or with voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel blockers (nitrendipine, verapamil, diltiazem). Neurotoxic concentrations of glutamate also induced a delayed sustained increase of [3H]phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate binding, reflecting an increased translocation of protein kinase C (PKC) from cytosol to the cell membrane during the post-glutamate period. Pretreatment of neurons with the ganglioside GT1b (trisialosylgangliotetraglycosylceramide), followed by removal of free GT1b from the incubation medium, prevented PKC translocation, the sustained increase of 45Ca2+ uptake in the post-glutamate period, and the delayed neuronal death. We suggest that the sustained activation and translocation of PKC primed by glutamate receptor stimulation may be the triggering event causing the protracted increase of neuronal Ca2+ influx. This influx is insensitive to voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel blockers and glutamate receptor antagonists. It appears that this delayed increase of Ca2+ influx may be important in causing neuronal death.
Treatment of rats with desipramine (DMI) has been shown to down-regulate beta-adrenergic receptor-stimulated adenylate cyclase and reduce the Bmax of beta-adrenergic receptors in some brain areas. Recent reports have indicated that the down-regulation in the number of beta-adrenergic receptors following DMI treatment does not occur if the serotonin system has been impaired following parachlorophenylalanine (PCPA) or 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine injection. We have previously shown that [3H]dihydroalprenolol ([3H]DHA), the most commonly used radioligand to measure central nervous system beta-adrenergic receptors, labels another site under normal experimental procedures, in addition to the beta-adrenergic receptors. This second site has some pharmacological characteristics of the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor. The depletion of serotonin following PCPA injection was indeed able to prevent the down-regulation of [3H]DHA binding sites after DMI injection. However, PCPA alone increased the density of [3H]DHA binding sites. If the nonlinear, least squares, curve-fitting program LIGAND was allowed to define [3H]DHA nonspecific binding or if the more selective beta-adrenergic receptor radioligand [3H]CGP-1277 was used, the Bmax of beta-adrenergic receptors was not changed after PCPA injection. Importantly, PCPA did not prevent beta-adrenergic receptor down-regulation following DMI treatment. The blockade of 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors, via ketanserin administration, during DMI treatment did not change the response of beta-adrenergic receptors. Furthermore, if LIGAND was used to define the nonspecific binding of [3H]DHA, the down-regulation of beta-adrenergic receptors was significant 24 hr after a single DMI injection. The same rapid down-regulation was demonstrated with [3H]CGP-12177. However, if [3H]DHA was used to label beta-adrenergic receptors in the &quot;typical&quot; manner (nonspecific binding defined by 10 microM alprenolol), a decrease in the number of beta-adrenergic receptors was significant only after seven daily DMI injections. These data demonstrate that the use of [3H]DHA to measure beta-adrenergic receptors can be misleading, because changes in its second binding site can conceal the changes occurring in beta-adrenergic receptors. Moreover, these results suggest that a similarity in the time course of action of DMI cannot be used to support the hypothesis that its therapeutic antidepressant action is related to beta-adrenergic receptor down-regulation.
[3H]Dihydroalprenolol ([3H]DHA) has been used extensively in receptor binding studies to measure beta-adrenergic receptors in the central nervous system. Usually, nonspecific binding has been defined by high concentrations of the beta-adrenergic receptor agonist isoproterenol or antagonists such as alprenolol or propranolol. Scatchard plots of such &quot;specific&quot; [3H]DHA saturation data in rat cerebral cortex membranes are linear. However, computer analysis demonstrated that the competition curves of these drugs for 2.0 nM [3H]DHA binding are biphasic, with a continuous inhibition of [3H]DHA binding in the concentration range usually used to determine nonspecific binding. These data indicate that another saturable high affinity site was being labeled by the radioligand and that the definition of nonspecific binding with any of these unlabeled drugs is not satisfactory. We used the nonlinear, least squares, curve-fitting program LIGAND to analyze total [3H]DHA binding, allowing the program to mathematically define nonspecific binding as a function of 3H-ligand concentration. Significantly lower Bmax (-44%) and Kd (-58%) values for beta-adrenergic receptors were found, indicating that under normal experimental procedures (defining [3H]DHA non-specific binding with these nonradioactive drugs) a second binding site was being labeled. We found that [3H]DHA binding to this site could be inhibited by drugs such as RU24969, a 5-hydroxytryptamine1A (5HT1A) and 5HT1B receptor subtype-selective agonist, and CGS12066B, a 5HT1B receptor subtype-selective agonist, which were able to compete for 15-20% of [3H]DHA binding in the nanomolar concentration range, whereas drugs that are selective for other serotonin receptor subtypes inhibited [3H]DHA binding only at much higher concentrations. Another beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist radioligand, [3H]CGP-12177, was found to be more selective for beta-adrenergic receptors. Alprenolol competition curves for [3H]CGP-12177 binding were monophasic and saturation curves, with nonspecific binding defined either by 10 microM alprenolol or by LIGAND, yielded Bmax values close to those obtained with [3H]DHA when its nonspecific binding was defined by LIGAND. [3H]DHA cannot be considered a suitable radioligand to quantify central nervous system beta-adrenergic receptors in the manner in which it has been typically used.
Seventy-five aged rats were tested for a variety of motor and cognitive tests which generated 20 separate measures of performance. Considerable variability was observed on many measures in the aged population. Multivariate analyses were performed on the data to determine 1) the extent of intercorrelations between the measures for the aged rats, and 2) whether clusters of related and/or unrelated behavioral measures could be determined. Aged rats that were impaired on measures of cognitive performance are not necessarily impaired in their motor performance and vice versa. These results demonstrate that different age-related variables affect cognitive and motor systems, and suggest that age-related declines in different functional anatomical systems, such as the limbic system and the basal ganglia may progress independently.
Development of a culture system for mammalian olfactory epithelium has permitted the process of neurogenesis to be examined in vitro. Antibody markers allowing the unambiguous identification of putative neuroepithelial stem cells (keratin+ basal cells) and differentiated neurons (N-CAM+ olfactory receptor neurons) are described. In combination with [3H]thymidine uptake analysis, these antibodies have been used to characterize the existence, proliferation, and differentiation of the immediate neuronal precursor in this system. This cell is distinct from basal cells and rapidly sorts out from them, dividing as it migrates. Data are presented which suggest that the precursor follows a simple lineage program, dividing to give rise to two N-CAM+ daughter neurons. Although this precursor efficiently generates neurons in defined medium, neurogenesis subsequently ceases because new precursors are not produced, suggesting that epigenetic factors may regulate continual neurogenesis in this system.
Recent data have demonstrated that in Alzheimer's disease, the concentrations of corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) were reduced and that there were reciprocal increases in CRF receptors in affected cerebrocortical areas. In order to determine whether the increases in CRF receptors in Alzheimer's disease were due to altered molecular composition of the binding protein, we compared the labeling pattern of 125I-Tyr0-ovine CRF in temporal neocortex of Alzheimer's patients and age-matched controls using chemical cross-linking techniques. A similar pattern of 125I-Tyr0-ovine CRF labeling was seen in Alzheimer's and control brains, with the major CRF binding protein corresponding to an apparent molecular weight of 58,000 Da. These data indicate that the increased CRF receptor population in cerebral cortex in Alzheimer's disease comprises bona fide CRF receptor binding subunits with no apparent change in the molecular structure.
The effects of GABAB agonists and putative antagonists on intrasynaptosomal calcium ion concentrations ([Ca2+]i) after stimulation with potassium ions were studied with the fluorescent probe Quin 2. gamma-Aminobutyric acid and (-)-baclofen, but not (+)-baclofen, produced a dose-dependent inhibition of the potassium-stimulated [Ca2+]i in cortical synaptosomes from the rat. This effect was mimicked by another GABAB agonist SL75102 and weakly by muscimol. It was not inhibited by the alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist phentolamine. This system thus appears to provide a useful test of GABAB receptor function. None of the putative GABAB antagonists, phaclofen, delta-aminovaleric acid or beta-phenyl GABA inhibited responses to (-)-baclofen. Indeed, all three compounds produced similar responses to that seen with (-)-baclofen, suggesting that they act as agonists in this system. These data suggest that those GABAB receptors modulating [Ca2+]i have a distinct pharmacology from post-synaptic GABAB receptors, defined in electrophysiological experiments.
Breast carcinoma has a high predisposition to metastasize to the brain parenchyma or spinal epidural space with development of progressive neurological symptoms and signs and frequently death of the patient. We report 8 patients with known breast cancer who developed neurological symptoms attributable to an intracranial meningioma and 1 patient who developed spinal cord dysfunction resulting from a thoracic meningioma. The removal of the meningiomas resulted in return of normal neurological function in all patients. At follow-up, all our patients are alive without evidence of meningioma or breast carcinoma recurrence, except 1 patient who died of a metastatic malignant melanoma. This clinical association requires repeated emphasis because of the potential benefit in management of patients with suspected metastatic disease. We have reviewed and summarized the reported literature and added our 8 cases. The mean age of presentation before the second tumor was 6 years. Breast carcinoma was diagnosed first in 85% of cases. The clinical symptoms of the meningiomas were focal neurological signs in 50% of the patients, raised intracranial pressure in 40%, and a seizure in 10%.
These experiments examined the potential for single or repeated doses of aspartame to exacerbate or facilitate the production of seizures in Fischer-344 rats. In adult animals, 1,000 mg/kg of aspartame given by gavage acutely or over a 14 day period had no significant effect on the rate of kindling induced by stimulation of the prepyriform cortex. A single dose of 1,000 mg/kg of aspartame had no effect on the number of animals developing tonic seizures after electroconvulsive shock, nor did aspartame affect the frequency or duration of seizure activity after pentylenetetrazol. In a second series of studies, young male and female rats were dosed with 1,000 mg/kg of aspartame on day 3-13 or 21-35 of age. Prior exposure to aspartame had no significant effect on the rate of kindling at 90 days of age. These experiments indicate that aspartame does not act a pro-convulsant in rats.
The evaluation of the patient with pain, weakness, or numbness of the hand or upper extremity begins with knowledge of neuroanatomy and of the proper examination techniques. Neurological diseases of the peripheral nerves or central nervous system often present with vague complaints or minimal findings on clinical examination that may be diagnosed only with a combination of radiologic and neurodiagnostic studies. However, tests alone cannot determine the best treatment as each case must be individualized. An understanding of the utility and limitations of the electromyogram and nerve conduction studies is important when treating these patients.
Clinical and neuropathologic studies were performed in 5 infants who had brainstem or cerebellar infarction and respiratory control abnormalities during early infancy. The anatomic distribution of brainstem infarction was closely related to the failure of neural respiratory control as was unilateral cerebral hemorrhagic infarction to sudden death. Brainstem and cerebellar lesions may be important in the pathogenetic mechanism of sleep apnea and sudden infant death syndrome due to brainstem tegmental gliosis and cerebellar respiratory control disturbance.
Rats exposed to inescapable tailshock fail to learn a shuttle-escape task 24 hours later, an effect referred to as &quot;learned helplessness.&quot; However, within most rat strains only 10-50% of the animals tested develop this syndrome. In the present study a significant correlation was found between rats that displayed learned helplessness on the first test and those that displayed learned helplessness on a second test performed either 2 weeks (r = .80, p less than 0.001) or 4 weeks (r = .74, p less than 0.001) later. An analysis of the mean session latency of the shuttlebox task in these two tests suggested a bimodal distribution of animals that failed and learned. A significant correlation was found between individual rats that learned this task on the first test and those which learned this task 2 or 4 weeks later. Similarly, in the &quot;behavioral despair&quot; test, a significant correlation was observed for floating time for individual rats on the first test and on the second test either 2 (r = .72, p less than 0.001) or 4 weeks (r = .63, p less than 0.001) later. However, for the forced-swim test, a unimodal and rather graded response was observed across individual subjects. Thus, performance on the first round predicted performance on the second round in both models. When rats experienced the learned helplessness paradigm on round 1 and the behavioral despair paradigm in round 2, there was no correlation between rats that displayed helplessness following inescapable tailshock and the rats that demonstrated &quot;behavioral despair&quot; on a later test.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Vomiting was suppressed in cats pretreated with 8-OH-DPAT and then challenged with an emetic stimulus; motion, xylazine or cisplatin. The antiemetic effect is likely due to stimulation of postsynaptic serotonin-1A receptors. The most parsimonious explanation is that it acts at a convergent structure, presumably at or near the vomiting center. If so, 8-OH-DPAT may block emesis elicited by virtually any other stimulus. A supplementary experiment revealed that lorazepam suppressed motion sickness at a dose that produced ataxia, but did not suppress xylazine-induced emesis. These results do not support the possibility that the antiemetic effects of 8-OH-DPAT were the result of anxiolytic activity.
PEP-19 is a brain-specific polypeptide whose levels increase dramatically during the late maturation of the rodent nervous system. By using immunocytochemistry, PEP-19 is shown to be localized to several regions of the central nervous system, notably cerebellum, thalamus caudate putamen, and olfactory bulb. We have isolated a 0.5-kilobase cDNA clone that encodes the entire PEP-19 protein sequence, making this one of the smallest primary transcripts and translation products ever identified in eukaryotes. The cDNA was used to investigate the developmental expression of PEP-19 in rodent brain. PEP-19 mRNA rises from low levels at embryonic day 17 of gestation in the rat to a plateau value by day 18 postpartum. This mirrored the levels of the protein determined by radioimmunoassay. Since the rise coincided with the formation of synaptic contacts onto Purkinje cells (a major site of PEP-19 expression), the hypothesis was tested that the activity and/or presence of afferent input modulated PEP-19 expression. Parallel fiber innervation was disrupted either by killing granule cells with the cytostatic agent methylazoxymethanol or by examining PEP-19 levels in cerebellar granuloprival mutant mice (reeler and weaver). The influence of climbing fiber input was assessed by either eliminating them with 3-acetylpyridine or stimulating them with harmaline in both neonatal and mature rats. None of the above altered PEP-19 gene expression in cerebellum, leading us to propose that the signals triggering the PEP-19 gene do not emanate from granule cells or neurons in the olivary nucleus. However, preliminary evidence suggests that PEP-19 is under posttranscriptional regulation.
We have studied the influence of chronic infusions of antibodies against Ia antigen into the CSF on immunological reactions to intraventricular xenografts in rats. The antibodies were infused with osmotic pumps implanted one day before grafting. One set of control groups consisted of animals with xenografts which simultaneously received antibody against penicillin or vehicle with no antibody. In a second set of control groups, antibodies against Ia antigen, penicillin, rat anti-mouse IgG or vehicle (no antibody) were administered alone, without grafts. In the animals that received infusions of antibodies against either Ia antigen or penicillin plus xenografts, intense granulomatosis reactions were observed in the host brains. These reactions were not observed in the animals that received antibody infusions without xenografts. It appears that this reaction was produced by the massive and persistent injection of immunoglobulins, together with the presence of xenograft tissue. The chronic infusion of Ia antibodies did not prolong xenograft survival.
The hypoglossal nucleus in 129 REJ normal mouse strains was investigated using two neuroanatomical markers, namely the cobalt chloride (CoCl2) and the horseradish peroxidase (HRP) techniques. CoCl2 was introduced through the cut end of the hypoglossal nerve. In one set of experiments HRP was injected into the hypoglossal nerve, while in the other it was injected into the tongue musculature. Results show that with these techniques the hypoglossal neurons are conspicuously stained and can be easily located among series of brainstem sections. The mean number +/- SD of neurons in the hypoglossal nucleus was 1,417 +/- 37, 846 +/- 28 and 1,272 +/- 42 using CoCl2 and HRP injected into the tongue musculature or the hypoglossal nerve, respectively. The estimated length of the nucleus was 0.92 mm with the CoCl2 technique.
Past studies on the occurrence of atypical lymphocytes in the blood of individuals with schizophrenia are contradictory; some researchers have argued that such cells are a genetic marker of the disease while others have explained the cells simply as an effect of antipsychotic drugs. The present study blindly measured atypical lymphocytes in 14 schizophrenics on medication for at least 6 weeks and off medication for at least 4 weeks, ten Huntington's disease patients on antipsychotic medication, and ten normal controls. The patients with schizophrenia (P less than 0.05) and those with Huntington's disease (P less than 0.02) both had significantly more atypical lymphocytes than the normal controls. However no difference was found in the percentage of atypical lymphocytes in patients with schizophrenia on and off medication. The authors cite the need for studies of first-admission, never-tested patients to definitively settle this question.
With the availability of contrast echocardiography, patent foramen ovale is frequently detected in patients with stroke, especially in those with no clear etiology and/or the young patient with stroke. Before this report, an association of stroke with ventricular septal defect had not been reported. In this communication, we describe a 38-year-old patient who developed an occipital lobe infarction and who, on investigation, was found to have a ventricular septal defect. Other investigations, which included four-vessel cerebral angiography, collagen disease workup, and coagulation profile, were all normal. We believe this case further extends the spectrum of cerebral ischemic events that may occur with intracardiac shunts.
A 37-year-old man presented with headache and reduced libido. He suffered from panhypopituitarism, and the walls of the pituitary fossa were noted to be thickened, sclerotic, and irregular. Computed tomography scans showed an intrasellar and suprasellar, patchy enhancing tumor. From a biopsy taken at transsphenoidal surgery, a giant cell granuloma was diagnosed, for which there was no obvious cause. Inflammatory disease within the pituitary fossa should be suspected if a reaction is seen in the surrounding bone.
The overstimulation of receptors for L-glutamate, particularly those of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type, has been suggested to play a role in mediating damage in a variety of neurodegenerative conditions or disorders ranging from ischemia/hypoxia to senile dementia of the Alzheimer's type (SDAT). We report here that the functional deficits and histological damage mediated by the overactivation of NMDA receptors in the Fischer 344 rat hippocampus can be blocked effectively by systemic administration of the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist, MK-801. These results suggest that MK-801 may be effective clinically in attenuating memory loss and hippocampal damage in disorders associated with the overstimulation of NMDA receptors.
A photon-counting retinal densitometer is described that has been designed optically and electronically for improved sensitivity and reliability. The device allows measurement of visual pigments through the undilated natural pupils of subjects at relatively low levels of measuring lights, and serves also as an adaptometer for direct comparisons between pigment bleaching or regeneration and light or dark adaptation. Instrumental control and data collection are by computer to permit rapid and simple data analysis and comparisons between subjects. The methods by which the sensitivity and reliability have been enhanced are described in detail, and some examples of experimental results are presented.

Using positron-emitting short-lived radionuclide tracers, a wide range of substances can now be labelled without their biological properties being affected. Positron emission tomography (PET) enables the distribution and metabolism of the labelled substance to be studied in different organs. By providing quantitative, locational, functional and biochemical information difficult to obtain by other means, PET opens up new possibilities, both diagnostic, pathophysiological and therapeutic, in a broad spectrum of medical practice. The development of the technique is described, with particular reference to its use at Uppsala.

Three non-competitive antagonists (MK-801, TCP, PCP) and one competitive antagonist (CPP) of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, were compared for their ability to antagonize neurotoxic actions of NMDA injected into the brains of 7-day-old rats. Unilateral intracerebral injection of NMDA (25 nmol/0.5 microliters) into the corpus striatum of pups consistently produced severe confluent neuronal necrosis in the striatum extending into the dorsal hippocampus and overlying neocortex. The distribution of damage corresponded to the topography of NMDA type glutamate receptors in the vulnerable regions. With this lesion in developing brain, the weight of the injected hemisphere 5 days later can be used as a quantitative measure of brain injury. Intraperitoneal administration of MK-801 (0.02-42.0 mumol/kg), TCP (3.5-54.0 mumol/kg), PCP (1.0-41.0 mumol/kg), and CPP (1.0-60.0 mumol/kg) 15 min after NMDA injection had prominent dose-dependent neuroprotective effects. MK-801 was 14 times more potent than other compounds tested and the 50% protective dose (PD50, that dose which reduced damage by 50% relative to untreated NMDA-injected controls) was 0.63 mumol/kg. Corresponding values for CPP, PCP, and TCP were 8.84, 10.85, and 24.05 mumol/kg respectively. The lowest dose of MK-801 that provided significant protection was 0.2 mumol/kg (0.04 mg/kg, 37.9 +/- 4.6% protection). Four mumol/kg (0.8 mg/kg) of MK-801 completely protected against NMDA-mediated damage. The study provides the first direct in vivo comparison of the neuroprotective abilities of these compounds. Systemic administrations of MK-801, TCP, PCP, and CPP all limit NMDA-induced neuronal injury in this model. The susceptibility of the immature brain to the neurotoxicity of NMDA provides a sensitive, reproducible, and quantitative in vivo system for comparing the effectiveness of drugs with protective actions against excitotoxic neuronal injury.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Glutathione (GSH) was measured in 6 regions of brain and liver of young adult, middle-aged and aged rats. GSH levels were significantly lower in cortex, cerebellum, striatum, thalamus and hippocampus of aged rats, while no changes were observed in liver as compared to young adult rats. On the other hand, lipid peroxidation as measured by thiobarbituric acid-reactive products increased significantly in all the regions of brain examined and in the liver of aged rats. Since GSH plays an important role as a cellular protectant against oxygen radical-mediated injury, decreased levels of GSH in aged rat brain are indicative of the vulnerability of the aged cerebral tissue to oxidative injury.
Release of endogenous acetylcholine (ACh) from the dorsal hippocampus in response to depolarizing stimulation with high-K+ infusion was examined in young and aged rats using the method of in vivo dialysis. ACh content in the dialysate was determined by high-performance liquid chromatography-electrochemical detection (HPCC-ECD). During the high-K+ stimulation, the concentration of ACh in the dialysate only slightly increased in aged rats in contrast with young rats where the ACh content during stimulation increased about 2-fold of the basal level. These results showed that ACh release evoked by depolarizing stimulation declined through aging in the hippocampus.
Synaptic connections between rat hippocampal neurons were studied in dissociated cell culture. Activation of a cultured neuron by pulse application of glutamate could produce postsynaptic currents (PSCs) in other neurons in the culture dish. Activation of protein kinase C (PKC) by a phorbol ester caused an enhancement of the magnitude of the PSCs without affecting much the delay and decay time constant of the recorded PSCs. The increased reactivity to synaptic activation was not accompanied by a postsynaptic change in sensitivity to topical application of an excitatory amino acid, glutamate. A PKC inhibitor polymyxin B reduced the effects of the phorbol ester. It is suggested that PKC activation plays an important role in the regulation of release of neurotransmitters from cultured central neurons.
A protein with MW approximately 350 k daltons and pI approximately 5.5, which was deleted in the dystrophic mouse (C57BL/10ScSn-mdx), was detected on two-dimensional gel electrophoresis with silver staining. Deletion of this protein was uniformly observed in the dystrophic mouse extensor digitus longus, soleus and cardiac muscle. This protein specifically reacted with the monoclonal antibody against the chemically synthesized N-terminal fragment of human dystrophin. The protein reacting with this monoclonal antibody was also detected in rabbit back-muscle, rat extensor digitus longus and human skeletal muscle at the same position as the mouse muscle protein, on the two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. Our results show that dystrophin is solubilized in 8M guanidine HCl and that the modified two-dimensional gel electrophoresis can be applied to separate dystrophin.
The nematode nervous system is distinguished by the small number and morphological simplicity of its neurons. Recently, the shapes and synaptic interactions of each of the 302 neurons in the small free-living nematode, Caenorhabditis elegans, have been determined from reconstructions of serial sections by electron microscopy. Comparable anatomical studies of the large parasitic nematode Ascaris have concentrated on the dorsal and ventral nerve cords where reconstructions of motor neurons by light microscopy led to the identification of seven distinct types of motor neurons, each corresponding to a homologous cell type in C. elegans. In this study the shapes of the 13 neurons with cell bodies in the retrovesicular ganglion (RVG) of Ascaris suum were reconstructed from light micrographs of serial sections. In other preparations the morphology of RVG neurons was observed in whole mounts after the cells were impaled with microelectrodes and injected with the fluorescent dye Lucifer yellow. The intracellular electrodes also permitted electrical recordings and revealed that one type of cell, the AVF-like interneuron, expresses spontaneous repetitive plateau potentials. Comparisons of neuronal morphologies in the retrovesicular ganglia of Ascaris and C. elegans suggest that each neuron in Ascaris can be assigned a corresponding homolog in C. elegans. These data provide further evidence for a remarkable conservation of neuronal morphology in nematodes despite large differences in size and habitat.
The first expression and distribution of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity was studied among a distinct population of early neurons in embryonic zebrafish by using histochemical and retrograde labeling techniques. AChE first appeared in the nervous system in the primary motoneurons of the rostral spinal cord when the embryo had nine somites, approximately 14 hours postfertilization. Subsequent expression of AChE activity in the spinal cord proceeded in a rostral-to-caudal sequence. Cranial neurons expressed AChE activity shortly after it appeared in the rostral spinal cord. Several hours later, near the end of the first day, primary neurons in the hind-brain and spinal cord all contained AChE, including sensory neurons, reticulospinal interneurons, and primary motoneurons. AChE activity was also detected in the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fasciculus. Presumptive cranial ganglia transiently expressed AChE activity between 14 and 24 hours of development. These results, combined with previous observations that examined the time of origin and axogenesis of primary neurons, suggest that primary neurons in the embryonic zebrafish contain AChE before they sprout axons. The primary neurons appear to follow a common sequence of development consisting of a withdrawal from the cell division cycle, the expression of AChE, and axogenesis. Although this sequence is followed by all primary neurons, lack of a rostral-to-caudal sequence in the time of birth and variability in the time of axon outgrowth demonstrate that the relative timing of these three events is not rigidly programmed in individual neurons. Moreover, the very early expression of AChE in such diverse cell types suggests that it may have a developmental role in addition to its function in transmitter metabolism.
Although it is well known that magnocellular cholinergic basal forebrain neurons are trophically responsive to nerve growth factor (NGF) and contain NGF receptors (NGFr), the exact distribution of forebrain NGFr-immunoreactive neurons and the degree to which cholinergic neurons are colocalized with them have remained in question. In this study we employed a very sensitive double-labelling method and examined in the same tissue section the distribution and cellular features of NGFr-positive and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-immunolabelled neurons within the rat basal forebrain. Throughout this region the majority of magnocellular basal forebrain neurons were immunoreactive for both NGFr and ChAT. However, a small percentage of neurons in the ventral portion of the vertical limb of the diagonal band of Broca were immunoreactive only for NGFr, whereas a larger population of magnocellular neurons in the substantia innominata exhibited only ChAT immunoreactivity. No NGFr-immunoreactive cells were found associated with ChAT-positive neurons in the striatum, neocortex, or hippocampus, and no single-labelled NGFr-immunoreactive neurons were found outside the basal forebrain area, except for a large number of positive-labelled cells along the ventricular walls of the third ventricle. In addition to its function in maintaining the normal integrity of the basal forebrain and cholinergic, peripheral sympathetic, and neural-crest-derived sensory neurons, NGF may also have a role in the growth of these neurons after damage to the nervous system. To examine this postulate the hippocampus was denervated of its septal input and examined 8 weeks later. Two populations of neurons were found to have undergone collateral sprouting--namely, the midline magnocellular cholinergic neurons of the dorsal hippocampus and the sympathetic noradrenergic neurons of the superior cervical ganglion. Both of these neuronal populations also stained strongly for NGFr. In contrast, the small intrinsic cholinergic neurons of the hippocampus exhibited neither sprouting response nor staining for NGFr. In view of these results, we suggest that the differing sprouting responses demonstrated by these three neuronal populations may be due to their responsiveness to NGF, as indicated by the presence or absence of NGF receptors.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) mediates the effects of several neurotransmitters, hormones and growth factors by mobilizing Ca2+ from a vesicular, non-mitochondrial intracellular store. Many studies have indirectly suggested the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) to be the site of InsP3 action, though some have implicated the plasma membrane or a newly described smooth surfaced structure, termed the calciosome. Using antibodies directed against a purified InsP3-receptor glycoprotein, of relative molecular mass 260,000, in electron microscope immunocytochemical studies of rat cerebellar Purkinje cells, we have now localized the InsP3 receptor to ER, including portions of the rough endoplasmic reticulum, a population of smooth-membrane-bound organelles (smooth ER), a portion of subplasmalemmal cisternae and the nuclear membrane, but not to mitochondria or the cell membrane. These results suggest that in cerebellar Purkinje cells, InsP3-induced intracellular calcium release is not the property of a single organelle, but is effected by specialized portions of both rough and smooth ER, and possibly by other smooth surfaced structures. The present findings are the first immunocytochemical demonstration of an InsP3 receptor within a cell.
Our previous study showed antagonism of GABAA receptor-mediated whole-cell currents by pregnenolone sulfate (PS). Here, the effects of PS, picrotoxin (PTX) and pentobarbital (PB) were tested on GABA-activated single Cl- channels recorded from membrane patches of rat cortical neurons in primary cultures. PS and PTX selectively decreased the opening frequency of the channels, while PB increased mean open time and burst duration without affecting opening frequency. It is suggested that PS and PTX may antagonize GABAA receptor function through the same mechanism and/or the same binding site.
Hepoxilin epoxide hydrolase activity was demonstrated in rat liver cytosol using as substrate [1-14C] hepoxilin A3, a recently described hydroxy epoxide derivative of arachidonic acid. The enzyme was isolated and purified to apparent homogeneity using conventional chromatographic procedures resulting in 41-fold purification. The protein eluted during isoelectric focusing at a pI in the 5.3-5.4 range. The specific activity of the purified protein was 1.2 ng/microgram protein/20 min at 37 degrees C. On sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, under denaturing conditions, a molecular mass value of 53 kDa was observed. Using native polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, enzyme activity corresponded to the main protein band. The purified protein used hepoxilin A3 as preferred substrate converting it to trioxilin A3. The enzyme was marginally active toward other epoxides such as leukotriene A4 and styrene oxide. The Mr, pI, and substrate specificity of the hepoxilin epoxide hydrolase indicate that this enzyme is different from the recently reported leukotriene A4 hydrolase from human erythrocytes and rat and human neutrophils and constitutes a hitherto undescribed form of epoxide hydrolase with specificity toward hepoxilin A3. Tissue screening for enzyme activity revealed that this enzyme is ubiquitous in the rat.
Embryonic septal neurons were transplanted into the hippocampus of adult rats which had received lateral-ventricular administration of AF64A, a cholinergic neurotoxin, and the effects on hippocampal cholinergic activity were studied. One week after AF64A administration, we injected dissociated septal cell suspension into the dorsal hippocampus, unilaterally. About 3 months after the transplantation, acetylcholine (ACh)-rich septal grafts formed extensive acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-positive fibers into the host hippocampus, recovering choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) level only in the grafted side. These results indicate that septal implants can produce a partial recovery of the cholinergic activity in the chemically damaged hippocampus.
Our understanding of drug and neurotransmitter receptors has been greatly advanced by receptor binding techniques. The theme of multiple-receptor subtypes with clinical relevance is highlighted by calcium antagonist and benzodiazepine receptors. Numerous drugs may exert therapeutic and untoward effects via calcium channels. Examples include effects of loperamide hydrochloride on diarrhea, the phenothiazine thioridazine hydrochloride on cardiac and ejaculatory function, and the neuromuscular toxicity of aminoglycosides. Elevated numbers of calcium antagonist receptors in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy may be involved in the pathophysiology of this disease. Benzodiazepines act via discrete central and peripheral receptors. At central receptors, benzodiazepines facilitate the inhibitory effects of the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid. Peripheral benzodiazepine receptors are localized to mitochondria and enriched in several endocrine glands where they are influenced by therapeutic blood levels of benzodiazepines such as diazepam.

The application of immunogold techniques to localize pituitary hormones produces label that can be quantified and correlated with different secretory states. This report focuses on three major applications of the technology. In the first set of studies, immunogold labels for adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) or luteinizing hormone (LH beta) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH beta) were applied to ultrathin sections of pituitaries from adrenalectomized rats or from rats in different stages of the estrous cycle. During the first week after adrenalectomy, ACTH cell area increased. The concentration of immunoperoxidase label (amount of label/area of the corticotropes) decreased. Counts of gold markers showed that there were no changes in the concentration of antigens per granule. Three weeks after adrenalectomy, the amount of immunoperoxidase label increased along with the concentration of that label. The concentration of gold label for ACTH on granules also increased. All changes correlated well with increases in serum ACTH stimulated by adrenalectomy. In the studies of cycling rats, gonadotropes showed increases in the number of gold markers for LH beta or FSH beta per granule area just before an elevation in serum levels. There were also increases in the proportion of granules that contained only LH beta or FSH beta (monohormonal) before the rise in secretion. Thus, nonparallel release of gonadotropins might be attributed to changes in the ratio of gonadotropins packaged per granule. In the second series of studies, avidin-gold labels were used to identify sites of binding of biotinylated ligands. These studies illustrate and quantify binding by biotinylated gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) to ovarian or pituitary target cells. Triple-labeling protocols (avidin-peroxidase followed by immunogold) show that the target cells in the pituitary contain gonadotropins. In the third set of studies, avidin gold or avidin peroxidase was used to label sites of hybridization of a biotinylated cRNA probe to gonadotropin beta subunit mRNA. The sites of hybridization appear on rough endoplasmic reticulum; however, further work is needed to improve cell ultrastructure and perserve antigens. Triple-labeling protocols (avidin-peroxidase followed by immunogold) show the feasibility of the technique as well as the need for further refinement. To summarize, these studies describe multiple applications of gold labels for the localization of antigens, ligands, and mRNA. The labels are sensitive for detection of antigens and ligands and easily quantified. Quantitative analyses show changes in concentration of gold label that correlate well with secretory states.
Major technical progress in the development of computer-based image analysis systems has made possible the entry of autoradiographic and immunohistochemical techniques into a new era where quantification via densitometry and morphometry has become easily accessible. In this context, quantitative biochemical data can be adapted to anatomical and histological resolution. This adaptation is most efficient in the neuroscience fields because of the huge importance of cellular communication via neuronal networks in the nervous system. Therefore, any experimental approach to the brain which considers the brain as a 'black box' appears now as very crude. In fact, subtle heterogeneity in the distribution of biochemical markers can now be demonstrated, as illustrated here by the use of quantitative autoradiography of D1 and D2 dopaminergic receptors in the striatum of the mammalian brain. Also, local adaptive changes resulting from chronic blockade of the dopaminergic input can be detected after repeated treatments with dopaminergic antagonists selective for D1 or D2 receptors or with surgical lesioning of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal pathway. The resulting plastic changes are unevenly distributed throughout the striatal target organ and vary according to the mode of suppressing the dopaminergic flow: direct destruction of the dopaminergic pathway or selective pharmacological manipulation without physical elimination of the dopaminergic cells themselves. All these results are discussed and reviewed in light of the most recent reports in this field.
Electron microscopic examination of muscle specimens taken at biopsy in 6 patients with complex I deficiency and 1 patient with an unknown primary chemical defect who had the clinical characteristics of mitochondrial myopathy, encephalopathy, lactic acidosis, and stroke-like episodes (MELAS) revealed striking abnormalities in blood vessels in 5. Abnormalities consisted of an increased number of enlarged mitochondria with complicated cristae in the pericytes of capillaries, endothelial cells, and smooth muscle cells of the small arteries, including terminal arterioles and precapillary sphincters, predominantly in smooth muscle cells. On statistical analysis, the number of mitochondria and the ratio of mitochondrial area to the total area of the smooth muscle cells were increased approximately tenfold (p less than 0.001). Although stroke-like episodes were not present, similar mitochondrial abnormalities in blood vessels were found in 1 patient who had the encephalomyopathic form of complex IV deficiency and in 2 patients in whom the primary chemical defects could not be clearly defined. Such abnormalities in small arteries might be responsible for the occasional occurrence of transient cerebral ischemia causing stroke-like episodes and progressive mental deterioration.
A major shift in paradigms is occurring within contemporary psychiatry; the previously dominant psychological paradigm is being superseded by a biological paradigm. How should psychiatric nursing research respond to this challenge? The goal of this report is to explore three questions relevant to our answer: First, if we undertake a program of research in the neurosciences do we violate our profession's commitment to holism? Second, is there a danger that embracing the biological sciences will result in the loss of the art of psychiatric nursing? Third, what are the pros and the cons for patients and our profession in undertaking such a project? The author draws on the works of several scholars to explore these issues.
Movement is the final expression of the harmonious activation of multiple brain and muscle systems. In nature, movement measures primary responses of profound adaptative value such as reproduction, predation and flight, among others. The description of movements as motor acts or patterns was first the task of Ethology. With the recent advances in the Neurosciences, a neuro-ethological approach is proposed today for research in this area. When dysfunctions in motion occur, practically the same brain and muscle systems are utilized, but in an aberrant manner both in time and space. In the present review, we illustrate the major systems involved in normal motor control, in particular the cortex, basal ganglia, cerebellum, brain stem, medulla, and receptor and effector muscle periphery.
Disordered associative processes have long been regarded as central to the psychological description of psychotic states such as acute schizophrenia. Previous work is briefly summarised concerning the idea that hyperactive associative processes of thought underlie many of the symptoms of psychosis. The idea is developed further, with respect to several features of the psychotic state. Schneiderian symptoms are seen as a consequence of hyperactive associations of thought, combined with perceptual hypersensitivity characteristic of many psychotic individuals. Anxiety in psychotic states is seen as arising from the great ambiguity of mental images when associations are loosened. A vicious circle between high anxiety and hyperactive associations is postulated. The slow and variable response to neuroleptic treatment is seen as being determined in part by the dynamics of change of the memories acquired during a period of hyperactive associations.
Amnesic patients and control Ss performed similarly on 2 memory tests. In Experiments 1A and 1B, amnesic patients exhibited intact adaptation-level effects: An experience lifting and judging a group of weights influenced their judgments of a 2nd group of weights 20-25 min later. The effect did not depend on peripheral accommodation, because Ss used 1 hand during their 1st encounter with the weights and the opposite hand during their 2nd encounter. In Experiment 2, amnesic patients acquired at a normal rate the ability to perceive binocular depth using random-dot stereograms. In both experiments, amnesic patients benefited from recent experience, despite the fact that they could not remember their prior experience accurately. The preserved memory abilities demonstrated here appear to be examples of implicit, or nondeclarative, memory.
The gill withdrawal reflex (GWR), an important model system for neural mechanisms of learning, varies in form and amplitude within as well as between preparations and is therefore a heterogeneous collection of action patterns, not a reflex. At least 4 action patterns occur in response to mechanical stimulation of the siphon. It is often impossible to categorize a particular movement unambiguously. All may occur spontaneously. Gill movements may be described as combinations of 10 actions; 4 involving vein movements are described here. All actions and action patterns can occur in preparations lacking the central nervous system. Some vein movements may generate considerable force without markedly altering gill area. It is suggested that this explains why some early studies failed to identify the important role of the peripheral nervous system in the GWR. Studies based on the assumption that the GWR involves a single type of movement controlled by cells of the parietovisceral ganglion require reevaluation.
Current circumstances in both the health science and health care delivery systems in our country have created serious problems for health professionals, particularly for those of us in the relatively young field of biofeedback. At the same time, recent and emerging developments in the neurosciences and in technologies for biological measurement offer exciting new opportunities for the applied psychophysiology upon which our field is based. Examples of these developments include the elucidation of potential neurophysiological mechanisms that may mediate the psychophysiology of immune system responses, and technical achievements leading to on-line, noninvasive magnetic resonance imaging of brain neurochemistry. The issue of perspective is raised in relation to our response to both the challenge and the opportunities of our times.
From the Finnish Twin Cohort (n = 27,100 pairs with known zygosity) all cases of diagnosed multiple sclerosis (MS) were reviewed and those with clinically verified MS were invited for further examinations at the Institute of Occupational Health, Helsinki, with their co-twins. Twenty one cases (19 pairs, of which 17 were discordant) fulfilled the strict criteria of MS. Detailed occupational history showed exposure to a mixture of solvents in six subjects, to lead in one, and to trichloroethylene in one. Of these seven, two monozygotic twins had MS whereas the other five cases were healthy co-twins. These results do not support a causal association between occupational exposure to chemicals and the aetiopathogenesis of MS.
1. Many apparent actions of adenosine 5'-triphosphate (ATP) are mediated by adenosine produced by enzymatic hydrolysis of the nucleotide. Previously described actions of ATP in the CNS have been partly due to this phenomenon. In the present study analogues of ATP, which are not hydrolysed to adenosine, were used to seek responses to activating nucleotide (P2) receptors in the hippocampus. The analogues used were L-adenosine-5'-(beta,gamma-methylene)-triphosphonate and 2-methylthioadenosine-5'-(beta,gamma-difluoromethylene)-triphosphonat e. 2. Neither of the stable nucleotides had any effect on orthodromically evoked synaptic potentials in the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices. Adenosine and ATP had inhibitory actions that could be prevented by the P1-receptor blocker 8-phenyltheophylline. 3. The stable nucleotides had no consistent effects on the firing rate of single neurones in stratum pyramidale of the CA1 region, although adenosine and ATP produced a xanthine-sensitive inhibition. 4. Adenosine selectively reduced the sensitivity of CA1 neurones to microiontophoretically applied carbachol whereas stable nucleotides did not. 5. It is concluded that there are neither P2x- nor P2y-receptors for adenine nucleotides on rat hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells at the Schaffer collateral and commissural terminals in stratum radiatum.
We have employed immunocytochemical and axonal transport techniques to study the development of major projections to the dorsal striatum of the North American opossum. The opossum is born in a very immature state, 12-13 days after conception, and climbs into an external pouch where it remains attached to a nipple for several months. Its immaturity at birth and its protracted postnatal development make the opossum a good model for developmental studies. Although tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive (TH-LI), presumably dopaminergic, neurons were present in the ventral mesencephalon at birth (the presumptive substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area), there was no evidence for TH-LI axons in the striatal anlage. By postnatal day (PD)6, a few immunostained axons were found within the putamen. The subsequent growth of TH-LI axons into the striatum followed general caudal to rostral and ventrolateral to dorsomedial gradients and, at any age, they were most numerous in the areas exhibiting the greatest cytodifferentiation. By estimated (E)PD45, TH-LI axons were present in most, if not all, areas of the striatum. Serotoninergic (5-HT)-LI axons were found lateral to the presumptive striatum at birth but not within it. By PD7, however, a few 5-HT-LI axons could be identified in the putamen. The growth of 5-HT-LI axons into the striatum generally followed the same gradients described for TH-LI axons although at all ages their density was much less. Using the orthograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase (WGA-HRP), evidence was obtained for the existence of thalamostriatal projections by PD5 and for corticostriatal projections by PD10. Crossed corticostriatal projections were present by EPD23. Our results suggest that the development of major projections to the striatum occurs postnatally in the opossum, rather than prenatally as in placental animals. The timetable for striatal innervation is discussed in light of the developmental sequences established for other motor circuits.
The utility of grafting genetically modified cells to the mammalian brain was examined using the E. coli beta-galactosidase gene (lacZ) as a reporter gene in retroviral infection. Following implantation of the infected cells to the brain, lacZ continued to be expressed in vivo and could be detected easily with enzyme histochemistry. However, beta-galactosidase-positive cells were also observed in control grafts which had not been infected with the virus. This false-positive staining was found to be endogenous lysosomal activity associated with macrophage infiltration presumably induced by the damage associated with grafting. The E. coli gene product was distinguished from cellular lysosomal beta-galactosidase by using immunohistochemical staining with an antibody specific for E. coli beta-galactosidase. With this antibody, retrovirus-infected cells could be distinguished in the brain, and no false positives were observed in non-infected cells. We conclude that E. coli beta-galactosidase is a useful reporter gene for determining the fate of implanted cells to the brain if appropriate caution is taken to distinguish it from cellular beta-galactosidase by immunocytochemical procedures.
Thirteen patients who had undergone thyroidectomy for thyroid cancer stopped thyroid hormone replacement prior to follow-up radioactive iodine scans. Thyroxine was replaced by triiodothyronine (T3) for 4 weeks and T3 was stopped 2 weeks before the scan and 16 to 19 days before blood pressure measurement and venipuncture for obtaining plasma noradrenaline samples. During this time, a small but significant decrease in systolic blood pressure occurred, both supine and standing, while the corresponding plasma noradrenaline levels increased significantly. These findings indicate that the acute cardiovascular effect of brief thyroid hormone withdrawal is a decrease in blood pressure rather than the increase often observed in chronic hypothyroidism, and that plasma noradrenaline levels may increase much sooner than previously reported after onset of hypothyroidism.
We have analyzed the effects of cAMP-elevating drugs (dibutyryl cAMP, forskolin, and isobutyl methylxanthine) on growth properties and myelin-specific gene expression in the peripheral neurinoma cell line D6P2T. The steady-state levels of RNA and polypeptide for the two major PNS myelin proteins, P0 glycoprotein (P0) and myelin basic protein (MBP), were measured by Northern blotting and immunoblotting, respectively. The levels of the two RNAs in individual cells were examined by in situ hybridization. The transcriptional activities of the P0 and MBP genes were analyzed by nuclear run-off experiments. Treatment with cAMP-elevating agents caused cell aggregation and dose-dependent increase in growth control. Expression of P0 RNA was constitutive in untreated cells and was repressed at high doses. Expression of MBP RNA was induced at low doses and repressed at higher doses. For both MBP and P0 the effects on gene expression were first detected after a lag of approximately 6 h, were manifested in all cells and were mediated, at least in part, at the transcriptional level. The level of P0 polypeptide was proportional to the level of P0 RNA, but MBP polypeptide was not detectable even under conditions where MBP RNA was induced. The results with this clonal model suggest that cAMP plays a pivotal role in regulation of growth and gene expression during Schwann cell differentiation.
Three experiments evaluated steady state and transient auditory evoked potentials (EPs) to tones that were sinusoidally modulated in frequency and to tones that alternated between two frequencies with a linear ramp. The steady state responses to sinusoidal FM were small and difficult to record at both the first and second harmonics. Ramp FM evoked larger and more consistent second harmonic steady state responses than the sinusoidal FM. Only the ramp FM stimuli elicited transient EPs and these only at low modulation rates. These responses were larger to upward ramps than to downward ramps. The response to two simultaneously presented ramp FM tones differed from the sum of responses to the individual tones, indicating some interaction in the processing of the two stimuli.
P1 and N1 of the cortical auditory evoked potential (AEP) were studied with multiple electrodes in 10 normal subjects and 6 patients with left middle cerebral artery infarction. Patients were selected based on neurological examination and on CT scans showing both (1) infarction limited to the vascular territory and (2) involvement of posterior portion of superior temporal gyrus. Waveforms recorded from C3, Cz, and C4 were examined for peak latency and amplitude of P1 and N1 on all subjects. Topographic displays of amplitude over P1 and N1 latency ranges were also examined. In normals, P1 was identified in 9 of the 10 subjects at all three electrode sites. In patients, P1 was identified at C3 in only 1 of the 6. N1 was present at all three electrodes in the 10 normal subjects and in 5 of the 6 patients. The remaining patient had N1 at C4 and Cz only. Examination of amplitude topology showed as asymmetric evolution of P1 and N1 in the patients. This asymmetry was not present in normals. The results of this study are consistent with theory that P1 arises from primary auditory cortex. Results further suggest multiple generators for N1. Additional study correlating topographic display from multichannel recordings with CT or MRI in brain-injured patients may bring more insight into N1 generators.
A simple composite probe for surface acoustic and electromyographic recording is described. A piezoceramic transducer, glued to a flexible printed circuit board etched to form 3 copper strips, taped firmly onto the skin can pick up fibre acoustic noise and electrical activity.
The investigation deals with the topography of principal sulci and of the temporal lobe within the international 10-20 system for electrode placement. Using magnetic resonance imaging in 16 healthy volunteers, the location and variability were studied for the superior central sulcus, the sylvian fissure, the calcarine sulcus and the anterobasal temporal lobe. Variation zones for these structures within the reference system are described. Craniocerebral variability was most pronounced in the areas remote from the relatively constant central and lateral sylvian region.
Tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF) and interleukin-1 beta (IL-1) are secreted by activated monocytes and other immune cells. Since IL-1 has been shown to elevate rat plasma ACTH and both of these cytokines induce similar acute-phase responses, the present studies of TNF were undertaken to characterize the ACTH response to this immune cell product. Human rTNF, administered iv at doses (100-1000 ng) which failed to affect blood pressure, food consumption or prolactin levels, resulted in significant peak elevations of rat plasma ACTH within 20 min (mean +/- SE 304 +/- 94 and 958 +/- 128 pg/ml for 100 and 1000 ng, respectively, compared to 53 +/- 16 pg/ml for vehicle). rTNF from two different sources produced similar elevations of ACTH as an equivalent amount of rIL-1. TNF failed to affect cultured anterior pituicytes, and it did not modify the response to CRF. When administered into the upper third cerebroventricle, TNF 20 ng failed to affect ACTH levels whereas IL-1 30 ng raised ACTH to 638 +/- 79 pg/ml compared to 177 +/- 24 pg/ml for vehicle (p less than .001). Furthermore, intraparenchymal injection of IL-1, directly above the median eminence, elevated ACTH to 484 +/- 93 pg/ml; again, TNF was completely ineffective. Thus, TNF-alpha and IL-1 beta are both potent ACTH secretagogues with complementary modes of action; however, the proximate target of TNF action appears to be peripheral to the CNS and pituitary whereas that of IL-1 appears to be the median eminence.
The purpose of these studies was to ascertain which parameters of pulsatile gonadotropin secretion are regulated by endogenous inhibin in the intact diestrous female rat. This was determined by examining the changes in the secretion parameters of FSH and LH that resulted from immunoneutralizing endogenous inhibin in diestrous I female rats. Passive immunoneutralization of endogenous inhibin was achieved using specific, high titer ovine antiserum generated against the alpha-subunit of the recently described inhibin molecule. The optimal times after inhibin immunoneutralization to observe the changes in FSH secretion were determined in initial experiments. Pulsatile secretion of both FSH and LH was observable in the diestrous female. Two hours after inhibin immunoneutralization, the mean trough level, mean peak level, and overall mean level of FSH began to increase. The maximal increase and plateau of these parameters were observed 5 h after antiserum injection. During the period of increase, mean FSH pulse amplitude was also increased, but returned to the level observed in control (normal sheep serum-injected) animals when the parameters of trough, peak, and overall mean FSH reached their plateau levels. FSH pulse frequency was not changed at any time. These results indicate that endogenous inhibin affects only the basal parameters of FSH secretion without affecting pulsatile FSH secretion. The transient increase in FSH pulse amplitude resulted from FSH pulses being superimposed on the increasing basal FSH secretion. In contrast, immunoneutralization of endogenous inhibin rapidly increased all parameters (i.e. pulse amplitude and frequency, mean trough and peak levels, and mean plasma levels) of LH secretion. In addition, pituitary sensitivity to an exogenous LHRH challenge was increased in inhibin-immunoneutralized females in terms of stimulated LH secretion. As a result of the already increased rate of basal secretion, the actual quantity of FSH released in response to the LHRH challenge was greatly increased in the inhibin-immunoneutralized rats compared with the normal sheep serum-injected controls; however, the increase in the rate of FSH secretion stimulated by the LHRH challenge was the same in both groups. The observations from these studies collectively demonstrate that inhibin acts endogenously to suppress those parameters of gonadotropin secretion that are regulated by LHRH.
The effect of click intensity, repetition rate and binaural interaction on the brainstem auditory evoked response (BAER) was examined in sixteen pigmented adult male ferrets. Potentials were recorded from platinum needle electrodes inserted over the vertex and left and right mastoids. Square waves, 100 microseconds in duration, were transduced by earphones enclosed in an assembly designed to fit securely over the ferret's external ear. The BAER in the ferret consists of four prominent vertex-positive peaks (P1-P4) and a fifth peak of smaller amplitude and more variable latency. The mean latencies of P1-P4 at 104 dB peak SPL were 0.96, 1.83, 2.75 and 3.62 ms. Reducing intensity over a 70 dB range resulted in a reduction in amplitude and a corresponding increase in latency ranging between 0.57 and 0.67 ms. Also, increasing click repetition rate resulted in a reduction in amplitude and an increase in latency. With intensity fixed at 104 dB peak SPL comparison of latencies at 10 and 50/s showed a mean increase of 20, 50, 60 and 80 microseconds for P1-P4, respectively. The effect of binaural interaction on the BAER was examined using the procedure of Dobie and Berlin (1979); the response evoked by binaural stimulation was subtracted from the summed left and right monaural responses to obtain a binaural interaction component. Binaural interaction in the ferret gave rise to a distinct vertex-negative wave with a latency similar to P4. An increase in click intensity over a 70 dB range resulted in a monotonic increase in amplitude and a decrease in latency of the binaural interaction component.
Long-term ovariectomy reduces the ability of estradiol and progesterone treatment to induce sexual receptivity in female rats. Previous researchers suggested that this effect may be due to a decreased induction of neural progestin receptors by estradiol in the long-term ovariectomized rats. The present study was designed to replicate and extend this finding, and to search for neuroanatomical correlates by measuring the volume of the ventromedial nucleus (VMN) of the hypothalamus, a putative site of action of estradiol and progesterone for the induction of female sexual behavior. Long-term ovariectomy (5 to 6 weeks) as compared to short-term ovariectomy (1 week) reduced the ability of estradiol-17 beta and progesterone treatment to induce sexually receptive and proceptive behaviors. Consistent with previous reports, our data show that the reduced levels of cytosol progestin receptors after long-term ovariectomy and estradiol treatment are related to a reduced ability of estradiol to induce the receptors. Long-term ovariectomy did not affect the concentration of cytosol progestin receptors in the preoptic area, suggesting a neuroanatomical specificity to this effect. Contrary to our predictions, long-term ovariectomy did not affect the volume of the VMN. In fact, estradiol treatment, while blocking the effect of long-term ovariectomy on sexual behavior, decreased the volume of the VMN. Therefore, the measurement of the volume of the VMN is not a good predictor of the responsiveness to steroid hormone induction of sexual behavior.
In the present study, we obtained genetically manipulated non-neuronal cells which synthesize a catecholamine precursor for future use in the intracerebral grafting. Human type 1 tyrosine hydroxylase (TH, EC 1. 14. 16. 2) cDNA was inserted into eukaryotic expression vector pKCRH2 and was co-transfected into C6 cells with plasmid pSV2neo. Expression of the TH minigene was screened by immunocytochemical staining with TH antibody and immunoblotting analysis. Several clones of the C6 transfectants that produce TH molecules were obtained. These cells showed TH activity and the product, L-DOPA, was detected intracellularly due to the absence of L-amino acid decarboxylase (AADC, EC 4. 1. 1. 28) activity. It was found that a large amount of L-DOPA was released from the cells into the culture medium. These transfectants were transplanted into rat brain and the expression of TH was examined immunohistochemically. At the 10th day following transplantation, a mass of C6 cells which was heavily stained with TH antibody was observed in the brain. These findings may provide us an opportunity to investigate the effects of intracerebral transplantation of non-neuronal cells that produce catecholamine or its precursor.
Astroglial cells and various types of non-neuronal cells in the peripheral nervous system, such as epithelial, Schwann and fibroblast cells synthesize and secrete nerve growth factor (NGF) in culture. NGFmRNA contents are well-correlated with the density of axonal projection from NGF-sensitive neurons, suggesting that NGF synthesis in vivo tissues is regulated by neuronal environments. We investigated neuronal regulations of NGF synthesis using cultured mouse astroglial cells and rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. It was found that astroglial NGF synthesis was enhanced by the addition of catecholamine into the cultured medium or the co-culture with differentiated PC12 cells. These results suggest that NGF synthesis in the in vivo tissues is increased by the release of catecholamine as neurotransmitters and/or the contact of NGF-producing cells with differentiated cell bodies and neurites of NGF-sensitive neurons.
Cells isolated from the avian and mammalian central and peripheral nervous system and cultured in vitro provide an opportunity to study in situ properties of neurons and glial cells under relatively simple and carefully controlled conditions. Since Harrison's success in maintaining in vitro embryonic frog spinal cord 80 years ago, neural tissue culture has developed into an important and versatile discipline of neuroscience. The techniques developed in the past fall into four broad classes: Explant cultures, which are explanted from specific neuroanatomic loci to substrates as small tissue fragments. Dissociated cell cultures, which involve the seeding of enzymatically or mechanically dispersed cells on various attachment substrates. Reaggregate cultures, which require re-association of dissociated cells into small aggregates. Purified cell populations, which are prepared by the isolation of different cell types by gradient centrifugation or other separation techniques. These cultures have been utilized in studying various aspects of brain development and function. In this review several areas of significant and stimulating development in neural cell culture have been documented. They include formulation of serum-free medium, effects of growth factors, utilization of cell type-specific markers, and isolation and culture of purified neuronal/glial cells.
The postnatal development of the occipito-tectal pathway was studied by making single injections of 3H-leucine into the striate cortex of rats ranging in age from newborn to postnatal day 50 (P50). After these injections, the earliest age at which autoradiographic labeling was found in the ipsilateral superior colliculus (SC) was P4. Two main stages were recognized in the development of the occipito-tectal pathway. In the first stage, from P4 to P9, the silver grain pattern over the SC was suggestive of axonal labeling. The label was tangentially and radially exuberant involving the prospective stratum opticum, the adjacent part of the stratum griseum superficiale and also the strata intermediale. A rough topographic order in the projection existed at least from P6. The second stage, from P9 to P17, was characterized by the ingrowth of axonal arbors into the collicular strata superficiale and by the disappearance of the tangentially exuberant projections. Quantitative estimations of the degree of tangential exuberancy of the projection showed that it underwent a reduction of almost 50% from P7 to P17. By P17, the radial and tangential patterns of termination of the occipito-tectal pathway appeared virtually mature. No projections to the contralateral SC were observed at any age. The results of the present study indicate that the mature topographic pattern of the occipito-tectal projection is attained through two separate steps which may involve a number of different mechanisms. In the first step, occipital axons grow orderly -although in an exuberant manner- towards their roughly appropriate tectal locations, remaining to a large extent confined to the collicular white matter. In the second step, further refinement of the topographic map is achieved both by selective growing of terminal arbors into tangentially restricted regions of the tectal surface, and, by retraction of tangentially exuberant projections.
A statistical approach is presented which provides efficient procedures to detect both Event Related Potential (ERP) and its spectral structure. Situations where undesirable signal or &quot;artifact&quot; is present, are considered. In these cases, a &quot;noise&quot; sample can be used which complements the insufficient knowledge given for the sample where we expect to detect the ERP. In this approach, Hotelling's T2 statistic for one and two samples arises as a natural detector of ERPs. Under the assumption of stationarity these statistics are calculated by approximate expressions in the frequency domain. For Brainstem Auditory Evoked Potentials, ROC curves confirm that the T2 statistic has higher detection rates than various indices proposed in the literature. A frequency decomposition of the T2 statistic yields a succession of complex versions of Student's t statistic that characterize the spectral structure of the ERP. Different assumptions about the recordings of ERP are discussed and several generalizations are suggested.

In a study to elucidate molecular mechanisms in pain, substance P-like immunoreactivity (SP-LI) was measured in lumbar CSF from 75 patients with lower back pain. Two samples--one before and one after lidocaine treatment--were obtained from each patient, and total SP-LI was measured in unfractionated (no HPLC) samples. SP-LI data were separated into three categories: placebo responders, pharmacological responders, and pharmacological non-responders. A significant difference was observed between the total SP-LI measurement of first and second samples of pharmacological non-responders. Distribution of SP-LI immunoreactive molecular species in two CSF patient samples (no ODS) was analyzed with a combination of reversed phase (RP) HPLC and RIA. Immunoreactivity in collected HPLC fractions was measured at calibrated retention times of synthetic SP-sulfoxide (SP-O), SP, and SP. Qualitative and quantitative differences in those HPLC-RIA metabolic profiles were observed within and between those two patients' samples. These data indicate that the type and amount of SP metabolism and SP precursor-processing differs in CSF between these two representative patients and within the short amount of time elapsed between acquiring these two samples.

Evidence for the cholinergic hypothesis of depression is reviewed, arguments directed against this hypothesis are set forth, and the strengths and weaknesses of these criticisms are discussed. The authors conclude that the cholinergic hypothesis is tenable but suggest new areas of study.
A battery of neuropsychological tests, developed to study patterns of age-related differences in adults with Down's syndrome (DS), was administered to 10 DS adults over age 35 and 19 younger DS adults. Although all adults with DS are reported to develop the neuropathological changes of Alzheimer's disease by the fourth decade of life, only four of the 10 old DS adults were judged to have dementia based on clinical criteria. Demented old DS adults had global neuropsychological deficits, as indicated by significant differences on all functions tested except some simple language functions. In contrast, non-demented old adults had a selective pattern of neuropsychological reductions relative to young adults. Ability to form new long-term memories and visuospatial construction were consistently diminished, whereas immediate memory span and language were not. The global mental decline observed in demented adults suggests a stage of disease progression that corresponds to severe dementia in premorbidly normal adults with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT). The prominent long-term memory impairment with selective reductions of nonmemory functions in non-demented adults suggests a correspondence to early and intermediate DAT.

Extraction of rat brain membrane-associated protein kinase C with high specific activity was obtained by applying benzyl alcohol (a membrane fluidizer), EDTA, and high hydrostatic pressures. Approximately 50% of total brain-associated activity was extracted from membranes. The pressure-extracted activity had an eightfold enrichment in the lipid/protein ratio when compared with the cytosolic fraction. This may explain the inability of exogenous diacylglycerol to stimulate endogenous phosphorylation in pressure-extracted activity. The enzyme is extracted at greater than 1,300 atm, a result indicating it most likely has a portion inserted into the hydrophobic portion of the membrane bilayer. Perturbation of the native membrane induces a change in the membrane-associated protein kinase C-lipid interaction that permits extraction under conditions used for the cytosolic species. This is the first report of conversion of the endogenous membrane species to a cytosolic one and may be important in determining the role of protein kinase C in neuronal regulation.
The high-affinity cannabinoid site in rat brain is an integral component of brain membranes that recognizes cannabinoids with inhibitory constants (Ki) in the nanomolar range. To clarify its physiological role, we studied the regulation of [3H]5'-trimethylammonium delta 8-tetrahydrocannabinol ([3H]TMA) binding. The site is inhibited by heavy metal ions, such as La3+, at low micromolar concentrations; divalent cations, such as Ca2+ and Mg2+, inhibit [3H]TMA binding, though at somewhat higher concentrations. In contrast, [3H]TMA binding is stimulated by Fe2+, Cu2+, and Hg2+ ions. Ascorbic acid and its analogs are also stimulators of cannabinoid binding at low micromolar concentrations. Stimulation of [3H]TMA binding by ascorbate or ions is dependent upon molecular oxygen, but is not inhibited by metabolic poisons. Metabolically stable nucleoside triphosphate analogs enhance [3H]TMA binding by different mechanisms, with hydrolysis of a high-energy phosphate bond apparently requisite for these influences. These results suggest that the cannabinoid binding site is associated with a nucleotide-utilizing protein possessing multiple regulatory subsites.
The biosynthesis of neuropeptide Y (NPY) and norepinephrine (NE) has been examined in dissociated neuronal cultures from newborn rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG). NPY synthetic rate was measured by immunoprecipitation and sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis after incubation in medium containing a labeled amino acid. The authenticity of the NPY was confirmed by reverse-phase HPLC analyses of tryptic peptides. The NPY synthetic rate in cultures grown in complete serum free medium increased 30-fold after plating, in parallel to catecholamine synthesis; both NPY and the catecholamines reached the rate for adult SCG neurons. This development in culture is seen without spinal cord input, target organs, or significant numbers of glial cells. NPY synthesis was maintained in the face of a major decrease in the rate of NE production after cholinergic induction.
Consideration is given to how and why categories of ill health are divided into diseases. Aetiology is a fundamental criterion for the delineation of individual diseases. The same clinical and pathological picture may have many different causes; for example meningococcal meningitis and pneumococcal meningitis are distinct diseases that may display the same symptoms and signs. On the other hand, a single aetiology may lead to quite separate clinical and pathological phenomena; for example, neurosyphilis is a disorder that can present with general paresis or tabes dorsalis (or any combination of the two). In attempting to find a nosological placement for Parkinson's disease, we must take into account the extensive overlap with idiopathic dementia (Alzheimer's disease). Present evidence raises the possibility of several causes for Parkinson's disease, some of which may also be responsible for idiopathic dementia. A classification in accord with its position is desirable, and as a first step it would be helpful to replace &quot;Parkinson's disease&quot; with a term that is not saddled with implications of a single causal mechanism. &quot;Idiopathic Parkinsonism&quot; is suitable nomenclature for what is really a syndrome of unknown origin.
A new surface technique for the conduction study of the lower intercostal nerves has been developed and applied to 30 normal subjects. The problem of the short available nerve segment of the intercostal nerves and the bizzare compound motor action potential (CMAP) of inconsistent latency while recording over the intercostal muscles, is overcome by applying recording electrodes over the rectus abdominis muscle and stimulating the nerves at two points at a fair distance away. With the use of multiple recording sites over the rectus abdominis, the motor points for different intercostal nerves were delineated. CMAP of reproducible latencies and waveforms with sharp take-off points were obtained. Conduction velocity of the intercostal nerves could be determined.
To determine whether focal cytochrome c oxidase (CCO) deficiency characterized by scattered fibers with absent CCO activity among normal fibers was a specific finding for mitochondrial myopathies, we studied 389 muscle biopsies from various neuromuscular diseases other than mitochondrial myopathies. Focal CCO deficiency was found in 14 biopsies: 5 of 26 patients with myotonic dystrophy, 3 of 19 with nemaline myopathy, 1 of 7 with distal myopathy with rimmed vacuole formation, 3 of 22 with limb-girdle muscular dystrophy, 1 of 9 with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, one of 79 with Duchenne muscular dystrophy. Focal CCO deficiency is known to be a crucial finding for chronic progressive external ophthalmoplegia, but it can also be seen in a variety of other neuromuscular disorders, probably as a secondarily induced phenomenon.
The relationship between the number of synaptic vesicles and the amount of transmitter released from identified synapses was investigated in the dorsal longitudinal flight muscle (DLM) of the temperature-sensitive endocytosis mutant of Drosophila melanogaster, shibirets-1(shi). In the shi fly at 29 degrees C, vesicle recyling is blocked, but transmitter release proceeds normally. Thus, by inducing transmitter release at 29 degrees C, shi synapses gradually become depleted of synaptic vesicles. In this way it was possible to regulate the number of vesicles in a synapse. Intracellular recordings were made from individual fibers of the DLM in shi flies after various periods at 29 degrees C while stimulating at 0.5 Hz. The amplitude of the evoked excitatory junction potential (ejp), gradually decreased with longer exposure and was brought to various levels. The fiber was then rapidly fixed for electron microscopy. The number of vesicles per synapse was compared with the amplitude of the ejp at the time of fixation. It was observed that the smaller the ejp amplitudes became, the fewer vesicles were in the synapses. Also, as the ejp amplitude decreased, an increased number of synapses contained no vesicles. It is concluded that synaptic vesicles are directly involved in the release process.
3-Amino-1-hydroxypyrrolid-2-one (HA-966) has been known for several years as an excitatory amino acid antagonist, acting principally at the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor subtype. We report here that HA-966 blocks NMDA responses through a selective interaction with the glycine modulatory site present within the receptor complex. In radioligand binding experiments, HA-966 inhibited strychnine-insensitive 3H-glycine binding to rat cerebral cortex synaptic plasma membranes with an IC50 of 17.5 microM. At concentrations up to 1 mM, HA-966 caused minimal inhibition of radioligand binding to the transmitter recognition sites of the NMDA, quisqualate, or kainate receptor subtypes and was similarly inactive against the binding of 3H-strychnine to rat spinal cord/brain stem membranes. In electrophysiological experiments, HA-966 produced a selective block of NMDA responses in a rat cortical slice preparation. The degree of antagonism caused by HA-966 was maximal at 250 microM and was not increased further by raising the HA-966 concentration. Both glycine (1 mM) and D-serine (100 microM) reversed the antagonism of NMDA responses caused by HA-966. In patch-clamp experiments using rat cortical neurons in culture, HA-966 blocked the potentiation of NMDA responses by glycine but had little effect on basal NMDA responses themselves. This profile of antagonism differs from that observed with 7-chlorokynurenate, another recently discovered antagonist of the glycine site on the NMDA receptor (Kemp et al., 1988) and may indicate that glycine antagonists of differing efficacies can exist. Previous experiments with HA-966 may now be interpreted to suggest that activation of the glycine site on the NMDA receptor occurs in vivo and is important for the participation of NMDA receptors in synaptic transmission.
The neural cell-adhesion molecule (N-CAM) is detected as at least 3 related polypeptides generated by alternative splicing of a single gene. In vivo the 2 larger polypeptides are phosphorylated, but the smallest polypeptide, which lacks a cytoplasmic domain, is not. We have found that the 2 larger polypeptides are phosphorylated in vivo on several common phosphorylation sites. Furthermore, the largest polypeptide has additional sites, suggesting that some phosphorylation occurs in that portion of the intracellular region unique to it. In vitro N-CAM is not a substrate for cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I, II, or III, protein kinase C, or casein kinase II. However, we have isolated 2 protein kinases from mammalian and avian brain that phosphorylate rodent and chicken N-CAM. On the basis of their chromatographic behavior and substrate specificity, the 2 kinases are glycogen synthase kinase 3 (GSK-3) and casein kinase I (CK I). The 2 kinases phosphorylate N-CAM rapidly, to a high stoichiometry and with a low Km for N-CAM, suggesting that the phosphorylation of N-CAM by these kinases is physiologically relevant. Both enzymes phosphorylate the 2 larger N-CAM polypeptides in vitro in the cytoplasmic domain on threonyl residues that are phosphorylated to a low level in vivo. In addition, the threonyl residues are close to seryl residues phosphorylated to a high level in vivo. Prior phosphorylation at the in vivo sites appears to be a prerequisite for phosphorylation by GSK-3 and CK I. Taken together, the results suggest that N-CAM may be physiologically phosphorylated on 2 sets of interrelated sites, one demonstrable in vivo and one in vitro. Phosphorylation on the &quot;in vivo&quot; sites is resistant to dephosphorylation and may be constitutive, while phosphorylation on the &quot;in vitro&quot; sites is much more labile.
A technique has been developed to record from 16 different brain sites of the freely moving rat using subminiature MOSFET preamplifiers. The high input impedance, small size, durability and light weight of the amplifiers and connecting cable allows high quality multisite recording of field potentials and unit activity. In addition, a movable headstage for positioning multiple microelectrodes is described. The compact recording system permits one to construct neocortical EEG maps, instant depth profiles of evoked and spontaneous field data, and to study neuronal synchrony of distant cell populations.
Sexual dysfunction in multiple sclerosis (MS) has only recently become recognized as an early and distressing manifestation of the disease in both sexes. Sexual problems appear to be a combination of direct neurological consequences, and of individual and partner reactions. This article reviews current knowledge about sexual dysfunction in MS. The major effects on sexual response (both organic and psychogenic) are discussed, as well as associated physical problems and implications regarding fertility, pregnancy and birth control. Guidelines for intervention by neuroscience nurses who work with MS individuals and their partners are addressed.
Little has been written on the subject of cognitive and behavioral changes that may follow craniotomy. Neuroscience nurses who care for craniotomy patients often see transient alterations in behavior, intellect and personality similar to those occurring after minor head injury or subarachnoid hemorrhage. These changes may lead to depression and alter family dynamics. Interventional strategies, including cognitive screening, family counseling and thorough discharge planning are essential for helping patients and family members anticipate potential deficits and cope with life after craniotomy.
Under the sponsorship of the National Institute on Aging and the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, the Life Sciences Research Office of the Federation of American Societies for Experimental Biology held a workshop entitled, &quot;The Role of Folate and Vitamin B-12 in Neurotransmitter Metabolism and Degenerative Neurological Changes Associated with Aging.&quot; The purpose of the May 1988 workshop was to bring together scientists from various disciplines to identify opportunities for research on an important topic relating to neuroscience, nutrition and aging.

A human glial brain cell line derived from a Tay-Sachs disease fetal cerebellum was transformed with SV-40 virus in order to obtain a transformed brain cell line which reflected the characteristics of the disease. It was shown that the transformed TSD cell line maintained an elevated level of GM2 which was similar to that shown by the nontransformed precursor. In addition, the TSD transformed line lacked hexosaminidase A.
Intracerebral injections of the neurotoxin 6-hydroxydopamine (6-HDA) can produce selective, near-total destruction of the dopamine (DA)-containing neurons of the nigrostriatal bundle. The dysfunctions in animals with these lesions show many parallels with those present in Parkinsonian patients. Among these are the extensive loss of DA neurons in the basal ganglia, neurological impairments including akinesia, paradoxical kinesia in response to activating conditions, and improved sensory-motor function after the administration of DOPA. Moreover, as with patients with preclinical Parkinsonism, 6-HDA-treated rats with less extensive lesions show few or no behavioral dysfunctions, but are unusually sensitive to the akinesia-inducing effects of stress and dopaminergic antagonists. In this review, we summarize the behavioral effects of 6-HDA-induced depletion of striatal DA in the rat and then focus on the compensatory changes that may underlie the preclinical stage of the disorder. These compensations appear to include an increase in the number of active DA neurons, an increase in the release of DA per impulse from residual terminals, and a decrease in the amount of DA inactivated by high affinity uptake. Collectively, these alterations permit a few residual DA neurons to maintain a normal level of control over cellular activity in the striatum.
Of 2,800 patients admitted to hospital with a diagnosis of seizure, 1.1% (30/2,800) sustained fracture. Of these, 0.5% (15/2,800) had fracture due to direct trauma, 0.3% (7/2,800) had fracture as a consequence of seizure alone, and in 0.3% (8/2,800) the etiology was not determined. In the trauma group, 11 of 17 fractures involved the skull, nasal bones, and clavicle, while in the nontrauma group, the proximal humerus was the site in 6 of 9 fractures. These findings indicate that fracture is an uncommon complication of seizure and is extremely rare in the absence of trauma where, however, the fracture may be pathognomonic (bilateral posterior dislocation or fracture-dislocation of the shoulder) or highly suggestive (unilateral posterior dislocation, fracture-dislocation of the shoulder) of seizure.
Tau protein is a microtubule-associated protein implicated in the spatial and temporal specification of microtubules and has been found in the neurofibrillary tangles of Alzheimer's disease. Determination of tau protein structure has revealed three 18 amino acid repeated sequences hypothesized to be tubulin binding sites. Using tau cDNA clones from human fetal brain, we employed E. coli expression systems to synthesize tau protein and fragments of tau protein in order to identify the microtubule binding site. A fragment containing the three repeated sequences binds microtubules, while the amino-terminal half of the protein does not bind. Fragments containing two or one repeat are also capable of binding, indicating that the basic tubulin interacting unit is one repeat.
Antibody microprobes were used to measure the release of immunoreactive substance P in the dorsal horn of anaesthetised cats during noxious mechanical or thermal stimulation of the hind limb. Concomitant electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral tibial or sural nerve at intensities sufficient to excite only A alpha beta or additionally A delta primary afferent fibres did not reduce the release of substance P evoked by noxious stimuli. The results suggest that segmental inhibition produced in the dorsal horn by electrical stimulation of peripheral nerves is not mediated by presynaptic inhibition of substance P release from nociceptive primary afferent fibres.
Mechanical unloading during head movements in weightlessness may be an etiological factor in space-motion sickness. We simulated altered head loading on Earth without affecting vestibular stimulation by having subjects wear a weighted helmet. Eight subjects were exposed to constant velocity rotation about a vertical axis with direction reversals every 60 sec. for eight reversals with the head loaded and eight with the head unloaded. The severity of motion sickness elicited was significantly higher when the head was loaded. This suggests that altered sensory-motor control of the head is also an etiological factor in space-motion sickness.
This study examined the feasibility of repeated self-administration of a newly developed battery of mental acuity tests which may have application in screening for fitness-for-duty or for persons who may be exposed to environmental stress, toxic agents, or disease. 16 subjects self-administered 18 microcomputer-based tests (13 new, 5 &quot;core&quot;), without proctors, over 10 sessions. The hardware performed well throughout the study and the tests appeared to be easily self-administered. Stabilities and reliabilities of the tests from the &quot;core&quot; battery were comparable to those obtained previously under more controlled experimental conditions. Eight of the new tests exceeded minimum criteria for metric and practical requirements and can be recommended as additions to the menu. Although the average retest reliability was high, cross-correlations between tests were low, implying factorial diversity. The menu can be used to form batteries with flexible total testing time which are likely to tap different mental processes and functions.
Assessment of cognitive and motor performance of bone marrow transplant patients prior to, during, and following intensive toxic chemoradiotherapy may provide an important adjunct to measures of physiological and medical status. The present study is an attempt to assess whether, as side-effects, these aggressive treatments result in cognitive performance deficits, and if so, whether such changes recover posttreatment. Measurement of cognitive ability in this situation presents special problems not encountered with one-time tests intended for healthy adults. Such tests must be sensitive to changes within a single individual, which emphasizes the crucial importance of high reliability, stability across repeated-measures, and resistance to confounding factors such as motivation and fatigue. The present research makes use of a microbased portable test battery developed to have reliable and sensitive tests which were adapted to study the special requirements of transplant patients who may suffer cognitive deficits as a result of treatment. The results showed slight but significant changes in neuropsychological capacity when compared to baseline levels and controls, particularly near the beginning of treatment. The sensitivity of the battery in detecting such subtle temporary changes is discussed in terms of past research showing effects of other stressors, such as stimulated high altitude and ingestion of alcohol, on these measures.
Steady-state critical flicker-fusion frequencies (CFFs) were determined for four beagle dogs using the psychophysical technique of conditioned suppression. The CFFs obtained demonstrated that the dog can discriminate flicker at much faster rates than has been suggested by ERG data. In addition, dog rods may support the discrimination of flicker at much higher rates than can human rods. An indication of a psychophysical rod-cone break occurred at a luminance level intermediate to those previously reported in ERG CFF studies. This level is similar to that in the cat, but much higher than that in man. The high CFFs provide the first psychophysical evidence of a well-developed functioning cone system in the dog.
We have recently found that susceptibility to streptococcal cell wall (SCW)-induced arthritis in Lewis (LEW/N) rats is due, in part, to defective inflammatory and stress mediator-induced activation of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Conversely, the relative arthritis resistance of histocompatible Fischer (F344/N) rats is related to their intact responses to the same stimuli. Specifically, LEW/N rats, in contrast to F344/N rats, have markedly impaired plasma corticotropin and corticosterone responses to SCW, recombinant human interleukin 1 alpha, the serotonin agonist quipazine, or synthetic rat/human corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH). To explore the mechanism of this defect, we examined the functional integrity of the hypothalamic CRH neuron in LEW/N rats compared to F344/N rats. LEW/N rats, in contrast to F344/N rats, showed profoundly deficient paraventricular nucleus CRH mRNA levels and hypothalamic CRH content in response to SCW. Compared to F344/N rats, there was no increase in LEW/N hypothalamic CRH content or CRH release from explanted LEW/N hypothalami in organ culture in response to recombinant interleukin 1 alpha. These data provide strong evidence that the defective LEW/N corticotropin and corticosterone responses to inflammatory and other stress mediators, and the LEW/N susceptibility to experimental arthritis, are due in part to a hypothalamic defect in the synthesis and secretion of CRH. The additional finding of deficient expression in LEW/N rats of the hypothalamic enkephalin gene, which is coordinately regulated with the CRH gene in response to stress, suggests that the primary defect is not in the CRH gene but is instead related to its inappropriate regulation.
In slices of adult rat cerebellum inositolphospholipid turnover is stimulated markedly by glutamate and its rigid analogues quisqualate and ibotenate. The drug and amino acid specificity of the response reflects a quisqualate-preferring excitatory amino acid receptor. The absence of glutamate-enhanced inositolphospholipid turnover in mice with Purkinje-cell degeneration indicates that the inositolphospholipid-linked quisqualate receptor mediates parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synaptic transmission. The quantitative prominence of this synapse accounts for the massive enrichment of elements of the inositolphospholipid system in cerebellar Purkinje cells.
In this second article in the two-part series on pharmacology in space, Claire Lathers and colleagues discuss the pharmacology of drugs used to control motion sickness in space and note that the pharmacology of the 'ideal' agent has yet to be worked out. That motion sickness may impair the pharmacological action of a drug by interfering with its absorption and distribution because of alteration of physiology is a problem unique to pharmacology in space. The authors comment on the problem of designing suitable ground-based studies to evaluate the pharmacological effect of drugs to be used in space and discuss the use of salivary samples collected during space flight to allow pharmacokinetic evaluations necessary for non-invasive clinical drug monitoring.
Oxytocin (10 and 30 ng) injected into a lateral ventricle (i.c.v.) or the dopamine agonist apomorphine (40 and 80 micrograms/kg) injected subcutaneously induced repeated episodes of penile erection and yawning in male rats. The concomitant administration of the two substances did not produce any further increase in the number of penile erection and yawning episodes. Penile erection and yawning induced by either oxytocin or apomorphine were antagonized in a dose-dependent manner by i.c.v. pretreatment with the oxytocin antagonists [d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8]vasotocin, [Pen1,Phe(Me)2,Thr4,Orn8]oxytocin and [d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Arg8]vasopressin, with a rank order of potency that follows their antioxytocic activity. (i.e. [d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8]vasotocin congruent to [Pen1,Phe(Me)2,Thr4,Orn8]-oxytocin greater than [d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Arg8]vasopressin). The results suggest that apomorphine induces penile erection and yawning by releasing oxytocin in the central nervous system.
Phencyclidine binds with high affinity to both PCP and sigma receptors. We investigated whether the clonal cell line PC12 expressed either of these receptors, and found that these cells contain a haloperidol-sensitive (+)-[3H]3-PPP binding site with a KD of 56 nM, but no PCP binding sites. The (+)3-PPP binding sites in PC12 cells displayed a reversed stereoselectivity for the benzomorphan opiates compared to CNS sigma receptors. Neither nerve growth factor nor sodium butyrate treatment affected the expression of either (+)-3-PPP or TCP binding sites in PC12 cells.
The expression of cell adhesion molecules and glial fibrillary acid protein (GFAP) was examined in isografts of embryonic mouse cerebellum. Donor embryonic cerebella with the meninges removed were implanted into the lateral cerebral ventricles of adult host animals and examined after 2-6 weeks. Indirect immunofluorescence staining was performed on fresh frozen sections, using antibodies against the cell adhesion molecules L1, N-CAM, J1, myelin associated glycoprotein (MAG), and their shared L2/HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope, as well as GFAP. Nissl staining revealed that a normal trilaminar cytoarchitecture developed in some areas of implanted cerebella. Antibodies against cell adhesion molecules showed patterns of immunoreactivity generally similar to those present during normal cerebellar development. Expression of the L2 epitope in normal cerebellum is transiently observed in the molecular layer and is primarily seen in the substantia medullaris of mature cerebellum. This pattern was altered in the grafts, with a persistent expression of the L2 epitope in the molecular layer and less pronounced L2 immunoreactivity in the substantia medullaris cerebelli. These results may reflect a retardation of granule neuron differentiation due to abnormal or missing efferents and afferents in transplanted cerebellum. Also, the characteristic GFAP-positive radially oriented elongated fibers of Bergmann glia were not detected, even though passage of granule cells from their germinating zone to the internal granular layer was observed. The data presented here suggest that the developmental appearance and pattern of expression of cell adhesion molecules during morphogenesis of the cerebellum occurs largely independently of the normal complement of afferent and efferent connections.
The present study gives a detailed description of the functional characteristics and of the topographic distribution of Purkinje cell (PC) responses, mediated through the climbing fiber pathway and elicited by mechanical stimulation of two different rows (A and C) of vibrissae in a circumscribed region of the posterior vermis of the rat cerebellum. Experiments were carried out on normal adult rats under barbiturate anesthesia. PCs were recorded in an area extending 1500 microns laterally to the midline in the vermal part of lobule VII contralateral to the stimulation. Using micromapping techniques and computer analysis, we located the cells on the map of the unfolded PC layer. Taking into account the mean latency of the responses and the probability of discharge of PCs, restricted areas of projection were found. For each row, these areas formed two longitudinal patches located between midline and plane 1100 microns and separated by a non-responsive plane at 500 microns. Cells having the best characteristics of responses to the stimulation of row C were located mainly in plane 200 microns. Cells giving the best responses to the stimulation of row A were located mainly in the posterior part of plane 200 microns which was therefore a zone of convergence for both rows.
The electromotor system of the electric eel, Electrophorus electricus, was studied by injection of horseradish peroxidase as a retrograde tracer. The electromotor neurons, which innervate the electrocytes, comprise a midline nucleus, largely dorsal to the spinal canal. Spinal motoneurons lie ventrolaterally. The electromotor and skeletal motor neuron populations correspond to the acetylcholinesterase-negative and -positive cells previously described. The medullary relay neurons were labeled following HRP injection into the spinal cord at a level where electromotor neurons occurred, but not after injection into the cord in the abdominal region rostral to these cells. Other medullary neurons, presumably bulbospinal motor fibers, were labeled after both levels of spinal cord injection. The results suggest that these axosomatic synapses, which are electrically transmitting but morphologically mixed, take up retrograde tracers in a manner similar to chemical synapses and that tracer uptake is at least largely at terminal regions.
In barbiturate-anaesthetized spinalized cats, antibody microprobes were used to investigate the release of immunoreactive somatostatin (irSS) in the lumbar dorsal horn in response to cutaneous stimuli. In the absence of applied stimulation, a significant basal release of irSS was present in the region of the substantia gelatinosa. Such release was not increased by innocuous or noxious cutaneous mechanical stimuli nor by innocuous thermal stimuli, but was increased by noxious thermal stimulation. The magnitude of this noxious heat-evoked release was estimated by comparing in vivo microprobes with those used to detect known concentrations of somatostatin in vitro. Pairs of microprobes were used to detect simultaneous release of both irSS and immunoreactive substance P in the substantia gelatinosa. The results support the putative role of somatostatin in the spinal transmission of thermal nociceptive information.
Addition of protein kinase C activators to electropermeabilized frog rod photoreceptors enhances the phosphorylation of proteins with molecular masses of 54, 24, 19, 17, 12, and 11 kDa. The latter two correspond to components I and II, which are also phosphorylated by cyclic nucleotide-dependent protein kinase. Stimulation of phosphorylation by the protein kinase C activator oleoylacetylglycerol (OAG) is half-maximal at 7.7 microM OAG and is reduced by the protein kinase C inhibitor H-7. In contrast with earlier observations, no effects of calcium, calmodulin, or insulin on protein phosphorylations are observed. We find evidence for only three protein kinases in rod outer segments: a protein kinase C-like activity, cAMP-dependent protein kinase, and rhodopsin kinase. With the exception of components I and II, the substrate proteins for each kinase are distinct. Treatment of intact rods with OAG decreases the amplitude of the photoresponse and dark levels of cGMP up to 40%, as well as depressing the light-stimulated decrease in cGMP levels. These effects are observed between 0.1 and 1 microM OAG. The data suggest that OAG-sensitive reactions may modulate pathways that support the light response.
The dialysis perfusion method was used to study the effects of haloperidol, electrical brain stimulation, and behavioral activation on extracellular levels of dopamine metabolites in the rat striatum. Systemic administration of 0.2 mg/kg haloperidol increased extracellular levels of the metabolites homovanillic acid (HVA) and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) by 2-3-fold. Electrical stimulation of the medial forebrain bundle also increased HVA levels in dialysis perfusates. Rats pressing a lever for food reward showed 10-40% increases in HVA and DOPAC levels that reached a maximum 30-120 min after the behavioral session. The magnitude of the increases in HVA levels were correlated with the number of lever press responses. Presentation of a single 45-mg food pellet every 30 s to food-deprived rats produced a variety of motor activities and also increased the concentration of extracellular HVA. The results of the behavioral experiments indicate that striatal dopamine neurons are activated during conditions that increase motor activity.
In order to determine whether a functional deficit in brain cholinoception accompanies the reported loss of muscarinic receptors with age, local cerebral glucose utilization (LCGU) was measured in awake 3- and 24-month-old rats after the administration of the muscarinic cholinergic agonist arecoline. Awake, male Fischer-344 rats received isotonic saline or arecoline (0.05-50 mg/kg), i.p., and LCGU was measured in 95 regions with the [14C]2-deoxy-D-glucose technique. Plasma and brain pharmacokinetics of arecoline in rats of both ages were measured in a separate experiment and were found not to differ between the two age groups. Peak cerebral cortex arecoline concentrations, at 3 min after the administration of 5 mg/kg, i.p., were 1558 +/- 588 and 1830 +/- 317 ng/g in 3- and 24-month-old rats, respectively. LCGU effects were dose-dependent, with fewer regions activated by smaller doses. In 24-month-old rats, arecoline in one or more doses elevated LCGU significantly in 94% of the regions examined; no declines in LCGU were found. Increases in whole brain glucose utilization produced by all doses of arecoline, compared to control values, were similar in 3- and 24-month-old rats. After one or more doses, the rise in LCGU in 24-month-old animals, compared to that in 3-month rats, was not significantly different in 75 brain regions, greater in 13 and smaller in 7. These findings demonstrate that the functional responsivity of brain regions to a cholinergic agonist is, for the most part, age-invariant in the rat, implying that the function of muscarinic receptor and postreceptor mechanisms remains intact despite reported age-related losses of muscarinic receptors.
The retinotopic organization of the anuran visual system has been investigated with the method of selective anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) following retinal lesions. The course of optic axons to specific structures was also confirmed by retrograde transport in the optic tract following HRP injections in the tectum and pretectum. As the optic nerve reaches the optic chiasm, the fibers from each of the four retinal quadrants appear as bands with the nasal (n) quadrant entering the chiasmal anterior pole, followed by ventral (v), temporal (t), and dorsal (d) quadrants. The preoptic nucleus is the first structure to be innervated, followed by the suprachiasmatic nucleus; both are innervated directly from fibers in the dorsal part of the optic nerve, which contains fibers from all the retinal quadrants. Each quadrant expands across the dorsoventral extent of the chiasm at the point where it enters. At this level the quadrants are arrayed along the rostrocaudal axis (as they are later in the marginal optic tract) in the sequence n-v-t-d. Optic fibers then spread across the chiasm, the nasal quadrant splits, taking up positions in the rostral and caudal margins of the optic radiation. Following the split in the nasal representation, the optic tract is transformed into topographically arranged sheets in the marginal optic tract. In the other retinorecipient nuclei, the sheet of optic axons is transformed back into the shape of the retinal hemisphere. Topographic maps of this kind display one of two possible orientations: (1) in the tectum and the nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (nLM), the temporal retina is represented in the anterior portion of the nucleus, whereas the nasal quadrant is found in the posterior portion; (2) in the thalamus, the retinotopic map is organized as a mirror-image reversal of that seen in the tectum and nLM (i.e., the nasal pole is anterior, whereas the temporal pole is in the posterior portion of the nucleus). Structures with this type of retinal map include the rostral visual nucleus, the corpus geniculatum, the nucleus of Bellonci, and the posterior thalamic nucleus. A third type of innervation occurs in the nucleus of the basal optic root (nBOR), which is the only mesencephalic visual nucleus not innervated by the marginal optic tract. The basal optic root is formed by the fibers exiting most caudally from the optic chiasm. All the retinal quadrants contribute to the basal optic root, but no evidence of retinotopy was found in nBOR.4+ target nuclei.
It is confirmed that cone photoreceptors observed in flatmounts of the American garter snake Thamnophis sirtalis, retina correspond to the retinal mosaic viewed in the living eye (Land and Snyder, Vision Res. 11:105-114, '85). The garter snake has three major morphological types of cones; large single cones, small single cones, and double cones. The brightly reflecting components seen in the living eye are large single cones and principle cones of double cones, whereas irregularly spaced dark regions within this mosaiac mark the positions of small single cones. The &quot;sparkle&quot; of the retinal mosaic originates from the ellipsoid region of the cones where microdroplets of high refractive index are densely packed. Unlike conventional oil droplets, these microdroplets reside adjacent to mitochondrial cristae within the ellipsoid. However, the microdroplets may function collectively as a single large oil droplet to increase the angular sensitivity of the inner segments, thus reducing a potentially large Stiles-Crawford effect predicted for this geometrically small eye. The ganglion cell layer of the garter snake comprises two morphologically distinct populations of presumed neurons; classical neurons and microneurons. Density distribution maps for neurons in the ganglion cell layer and the photoreceptor layer reveal the presence of a putative area centralis and a horizontal visual streak. The topography of large cones parallels that of classical neurons. Small single cones have a more circular distribution, but also peak in density at the area centralis. The convergence of cones to classical neurons is lowest at the area centralis, 2.5:1, and highest, 4:1, at the retinal edge. With its interesting structural features, the garter snake retina provides helpful insight into different strategies in eye design.
When administered microelectrophoretically, 4-amino-3-(5-methoxybenzo[b]furan-2-yl)butanoic acid (MBFG) reversibly reduced the presynaptic depression by (-)-baclofen of the monosynaptic excitation of spinal interneurones by impulses in muscle low-threshold afferent fibres of the cat as well as the postsynaptic depression by (-)-baclofen of the firing of these neurones. MBFG, as an antagonist of (-)-baclofen, may be useful in investigating the structure-activity relationships of central and peripheral baclofen receptors.
Two novel muscarinic antagonists, methoctramine and hexahydrodifenidol, have been assessed for their action against two muscarinic agonist-induced responses on the rat superior cervical ganglion in vitro. DC recordings were made between the desheathed ganglion and its internal carotid nerve using the grease-gap technique. Hexahydrodifenidol and methoctramine antagonised the muscarine-induced M1-mediated depolarisation of this preparation with estimated pA2 values of 7.5 and 6.5, respectively. In 0.3 microM pirenzepine and 0.1 mM CaCl2, 1 microM muscarine evoked a hyperpolarisation mediated by cardiac-like M2 receptors. Hexahydrodifenidol and methoctramine antagonised this response with pIC50 values (-log10IC50) of 5.7 and 7.4, respectively. The selectivity of methoctramine for cardiac-like M2 receptors over M1 receptors is therefore confirmed and extended to these two neuronal responses. The selectivity of hexahydrodifenidol was opposite to, and greater than, that seen with methoctramine.
An antiserum was raised against an amino acid sequence predicted from the DNA sequence of amyloid beta-protein precursor (ABPP), and it was then affinity-purified. This affinity-purified antibody (anti-GID) intensely stained neurons and dystrophic neurites in plaques of Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients, but marginally stained neurons of age-matched normal individuals. Anti-GID antibody detected a series of protein bands with a molecular weight centered at 100,000 and a second band at 55,000 on a blot of the human brain particulate fraction. It also stained a set of bands with a molecular weight around 95,000 and a doublet of Mr 16,000 in the soluble fraction. A band at Mr 35,000 was detected in the soluble fraction prepared from brain tissue of AD patients but not from control brain tissue. A strong immunostaining of AD sections with anti-GID and the presence of a Mr 35,000 band unique to AD might reflect an altered processing of ABPP in AD brains.
In the rat, it has been proposed that angiotensin II (AII) neurons in the subfornical organ, a midline circumventricular structure, participate in the activation of hypothalamic neurosecretory neurons and promote a rise in plasma vasopressin and oxytocin. In this study, we observed AII-immunoreactive fibers coursing throughout the supraoptic nucleus as well as in other magnocellular cell groups of the hypothalamus. Moreover, following retrograde transport of Fast blue deposited within the supraoptic nucleus, cell counts in our best case revealed that 40% of AII-immunoreactive neurons in subfornical organ contained Fast blue, and 46% of the retrogradely labeled subfornical organ cells contained AII. In separate electrophysiological studies, post-stimulus histograms from 18 of 28 supraoptic neurons displayed a 30-55% reversible reduction in the excitation evoked by an electrical stimulus in the subfornical organ during local pressure applications of 100 microM to 1 mM saralasin. In 2 of 14 other cells, tubocurare (100 microM) produced only a 10% reduction in subfornical organ excitation. These observations indicate that AII may mediate an excitatory input to supraoptic neurons from the subfornical organ.
Rats exposed to inescapable tailshock exhibit deficits in learning a simple shuttlebox escape task 24 h later. This syndrome has been termed 'behavioral depression' or 'learned helplessness', and is a model of stress-induced depression. In the present study a significant (25%) decrease in GABA receptor-mediated chloride ion flux as measured by muscimol-stimulated 36Cl- uptake in synaptoneurosomes was found in the cerebral cortices of rats that failed the shuttlebox task as compared to naive control rats. Rats which were exposed to tailshock and subsequently learned the escape task did not show a significant difference in muscimol-stimulated 36Cl- uptake as compared to naive control rats. Similarly, rats that failed to learn the shuttlebox escape task had significantly lower in vivo [3H]Ro15-1788 specific binding in cerebral cortex (43%), hippocampus (35%) and striatum (33%) as compared to naive control rats. In cerebellum and hypothalamus, there were significant reductions in specific [3H]Ro15-1788 binding in both animals that failed and animals that learned the shuttlebox escape task as compared to naive controls. To control the stress of the footshock associated with the shuttlebox escape task, we investigated the effect of gridshock in which total footshock received was equivalent to that received by rats who failed the shuttlebox task. There were no differences in muscimol-stimulated 36Cl- uptake or in vivo [3H]Ro15-1788 specific binding between naive controls and rats administered footshock independent of a learning task. These data suggest that the development of stress-induced behavioral depression may be associated with a decrease in GABA receptor-mediated chloride channel function.
Synaptic vesicles contain a H+-ATPase that generates a proton electrochemical gradient (delta mu H+) required for the uptake of neurotransmitters into the organelles. In this study, the synaptic vesicle H+-ATPase was examined for structural and functional similarities with other identified ATPases that generate a delta mu H+ across membranes. The synaptic vesicle H+-ATPase displayed immunological similarity with the 115-, 72-, and 39-kDa subunits of a vacuolar-type H+-ATPase purified from chromaffin granules. Functionally, the ATP-dependent H+ pumping across synaptic vesicles and ATP hydrolysis were sensitive to the sulfhydryl-modifying reagents, N-ethylmaleimide and 4-chloro-7-nitrobenz-2-oxa-1,3-diazole, at concentrations known to affect vacuolar-type H+-ATPases. In addition, as with vacuolar-type H+-ATPases, the presence of NO3-, SO4(2-), or F- inhibited the generation of a delta mu H+, but addition of vanadate or oligomycin had no effect. The delta mu H+ is a function of the pH gradient (delta pH) and membrane potential (delta psi sv) across the synaptic vesicle. Acidification (delta pH) of the synaptic vesicle interior was enhanced in the presence of permeant anions, such as Cl-, or the K+ ionophore, valinomycin. In the absence of permeant anions, the H+-ATPase generated a delta psi sv that effected the transport of L-glutamate into the synaptic vesicles. Dissipation of delta psi sv by incubation with increased external Cl- or nigericin resulted in the abolition of glutamate uptake, despite the continued maintenance of a delta mu H+ across the synaptic vesicle as a substantial delta pH. The results suggest that the synaptic vesicle H+-ATPase is of a vacuolar type and energizes the uptake of anionic glutamate by virtue of the delta psi sv component of the delta mu H+ it generates.
The connections of the superficial pretectum and of nucleus isthmi were examined in a percomorph teleost, Lepomis cyanellus. Horseradish peroxidase was injected either with a pin into the parvicellular nucleus of the superficial pretectum or pressure injected into nucleus isthmi; the isthmal injections retrogradely labelled the neurons of the magnocellular nucleus of the superficial pretectum. Two main visual pathways can be recognized: The first projects from the retina to the parvicellular nucleus, and then to the intermediate nucleus of the superficial pretectum, the inferior raphe nucleus, and the trochlear nucleus. The second projects from the retina via the optic tectum to the magnocellular nucleus of the superficial pretectum, and from there to nucleus isthmi and the lateral thalamic nucleus; nucleus isthmi and the lateral thalamic nucleus project back to the optic tectum, and nucleus isthmi also projects back to the magnocellular nucleus. The two pathways are interconnected to some extent because both nucleus isthmi and the optic tectum project to the parvicellular nucleus; nevertheless, we suggest that they may be functionally and evolutionarily distinct. Compared to percomorphs, the first pathway appears reduced in cyprinid teleosts such as goldfish. Furthermore, the magnocellular nucleus of the second pathway is completely different in cyprinids, both in cellular architecture and in efferent connections. A phylogenetic analysis suggests that cyprinid ancestors went through a period of reduced vision and that the magnocellular nucleus of the superficial pretectum in modern cyprinids has been either extensively modified from the primitive condition or lost entirely and replaced by a superficially similar structure.
Somatostatin-containing neurons and terminals have been analyzed in monkey temporal and occipital cortex by using light and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry. An antibody against Somatostatin-28, that was shown previously preferentially to label fibers (Morrison et al.: Brain Research 262:344-351, 1983), was utilized. As expected, few cell bodies were labeled. At the electron microscopic level, labeled cells presented a characteristic asymmetric position of the nucleus and very few symmetric or asymmetric synapses on the somatic surface. In all areas examined, somatostatin fibers formed a dense plexus in the most superficial layers (I-upper III). The density of labeled fibers in intermediate (deep III-IV) and deep layers (V-VI) varied considerably among areas. The synaptic relationships of the immunoreactive fibers were analyzed and postsynaptic targets quantified in V1, V2, and the superior and inferior temporal gyrus (STG and ITG, respectively). The synapses formed by somatostatin-labeled boutons were of the symmetric type (type II) and the primary postsynaptic targets were dendritic shafts. No regional differences were found in the distribution of the postsynaptic targets in layers I-upper III. The pattern of synapses in the deep layers was examined in STG. The frequency and distribution of postsynaptic targets was similar to the superficial layers of STG and the other temporal and occipital regions. In intermediate layers of the temporal cortex areas there was an increase in the proportion of synapses on dendritic spines. In a correlated light and electron microscopic analysis we examined synapses made by radial fibers in these regions and found that although the main targets are distal dendritic shafts, almost 40% of synapses were on dendritic spines. We suggest that the radial fibers may originate from a specialized interneuron, previously described as the double bouquet cell, and that this particular subset of somatostatin-containing double bouquet cells is likely to exhibit a very high degree of regional heterogeneity with a preference for association cortices with extensive corticocortical convergence.
ARPP-21 (cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr = 21,000) is a cytosolic neuronal phosphoprotein that is highly enriched in regions of mammalian brain that receive dopaminergic innervation, in particular the striatum. The state of phosphorylation of ARPP-21 in brain slices prepared from rat striatum was shown to be regulated by 8-bromo-cyclic AMP. Phosphorylation occurred exclusively on seryl residues contained within a single tryptic phosphopeptide as analyzed by two-dimensional thin layer electrophoresis/chromatography. The tryptic phosphopeptide derived from ARPP-21 phosphorylated in intact cells comigrated with the tryptic phosphopeptide derived from purified ARPP-21 phosphorylated by the catalytic subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase in vitro. Purified cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase catalyzed the incorporation of 1.1 mol of [32P]phosphate/mol of ARPP-21 exclusively on seryl residues. The amino acid sequence surrounding the site in purified ARPP-21 phosphorylated by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase in vitro was determined by analyzing two overlapping chymotryptic peptides isolated from [32P]phospho-ARPP-21 by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography. A combination of gas phase and solid phase amino acid sequencing yielded a phosphorylation site sequence of -Glu-Arg-Arg-Lys-Ser(P)-Lys-Ser-Gly-Ala-Gly-. Initial rate studies of the phosphorylation of purified ARPP-21 by the catalytic subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase yielded an apparent Km of 0.78 microM and a kcat of 2.2 s-1. A synthetic peptide based on the phosphorylation site of ARPP-21 was phosphorylated on the corresponding seryl residue with an apparent Km of 40 microM and a kcat of 4.0 s-1. These results are compatible with a physiological role for the phosphorylation of ARPP-21 by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase in vivo, regulated by first messengers acting via cyclic AMP, e.g. dopamine and vasoactive intestinal peptide.
Chlormethiazole has been extensively employed as a sedative/hypnotic and anticonvulsant for more than 25 years. While pharmacological and electrophysiological studies have implicated the GABAA receptor complex in these actions, neurochemical findings have not been consistent with this conclusion. We now present evidence that pharmacologically relevant concentrations of chlormethiazole perturb the GABAA receptor complex. Chlormethiazole was found to increase 36Cl- uptake into rat cortical synaptoneurosomes in a concentration-dependent (EC50 = 48 +/- 3 microM; Emax = 8.9 +/- 0.8 nmol Cl-/mg protein per 5 s), picrotoxin-sensitive fashion. Chlormethiazole was also found to inhibit the binding of the 'cage' convulsant [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate to rat cortical membranes (IC50 = 58.6 +/- 0.6 microM) through an increase in the apparent KD of this radioligand. Moreover, at these concentrations chlormethiazole did not affect pentobarbital-enhanced [3H]flunitrazepam binding, but inhibited [3H]flunitrazepam binding with a low potency (IC50 = 1.6 +/- 0.2 mM). These findings provide neurochemical evidence that pharmacologically relevant concentrations of chlormethiazole can perturb the GABAA receptor complex, and suggest that this compound acts at a distinct locus from other sedative/hypnotics such as barbiturates, benzodiazepines and GABAmimetics.
Food restriction is known to sensitize the reproductive axis of rats to the inhibitory action of the pineal gland and its hormone, melatonin. The present study investigated the effect of pinealectomy on the undernutrition-related reproductive suppression. Three groups of animals (control, sham pinealectomy or pinealectomy) were subjected to either 3 weeks of 50% food restriction or ad libitum feeding under a lighting regimen of 14 h light and 10 h dark. At the end of the treatment period, body weight, testes weight, accessory organ weights, serum LH and serum testosterone were determined. In the pinealectomized animals, accessory organ weights and serum testosterone levels increased significantly. As compared to the controls, underfed pinealectomized animals had a partial recovery of the reduced accessory organ weights and normalization of the serum testosterone levels. These findings suggests that pinealectomy has a protective effect on the gonads of both control and underfed animals and that underfed animals are more sensitive to this protective mechanism.

To confirm the role of macrophages in influenza virus (IV)-induced immunosuppression (IS) of mice, silica, a selectively destructive agent for macrophages, was tested for its ability to influence the IV-induced IS. Silica completely abolished that effect. In contrast, Indomethacin--a prostaglandin inhibitor--did not influence the IV-induced IS. Peritoneal macrophages of mice infected with IV were suppressive for plaque forming cell (PFC) response of normal spleen cells in vitro. The assumption was made that suppressive macrophages were induced by IV in mice. However, no suppressive factors were found in the culture fluid of these cells.
Three patients with Sturge-Weber syndrome (5 months, 6 years, and 17 years old) were studied prospectively with MR imaging and CT of the brain. Both techniques demonstrated parenchymal volume loss, choroid plexus enlargement, calvarial hemiatrophy, and proptosis. In regions of parenchymal volume loss, MR alone demonstrated thickened cortex with decreased convolutions and abnormal white matter. A focal thalamic lesion and prominent medullary and subependymal veins were also shown better by MR. However, CT definitively demonstrated the characteristic cortical calcification, while T2-weighted MR images detected only smaller, nonspecific foci of hypointense signal. MR and CT are complementary in the evaluation of Sturge-Weber syndrome.
Human motor behavior continues to evolve and, therefore, may never be fully understood. Still, occupational therapy treatment approaches that are based on neurophysiological principles are fairly well accepted, and there is much potential for the development of treatments that will facilitate recovery of function. Occupational therapy must face and confront its roles in relation to the field of motor control; a health care profession involved with performance and motor control issues cannot afford to ignore the rapid advances in neuroscience information and the parallel developments in the field of motor control. Rood (1980) stated that many people want a &quot;womb with a view,&quot; so that they remain protected and yet passively observe the outside world. However, if occupational therapy is to remain current with new developments in the field of motor control, it cannot afford to be passive.
We have localized high affinity [3H]bradykinin receptor binding sites by in vitro autoradiography in kidney, ureter, and bladder of the guinea pig. The peptide pharmacology of the binding sites corresponds to that of high affinity physiological bradykinin receptors previously described (Manning, D. C., R. Vavrek, J. M. Stewart, and S. H. Snyder. J. Pharmacol. Exp. Ther. 237:504-512, 1986). In the kidney, receptors are concentrated in the medulla with negligible binding in the cortex. Medullary receptors are localized to the interstitium just beneath the basal membrane of collecting tubule cells and between tubules. In the ureter and bladder, receptors are confined to the lamina propria just beneath the epithelial layer. Localizations in the kidney may relate to the diuretic and natriuretic actions of bradykinin. Ureteral and bladder receptors may be associated with a role of bradykinin in pain and inflammation.

Arginine vasopressin, released from nerve terminals in the septal region, probably exerts endogenous antipyretic activity. A major source of vasopressin to this area is the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BST). In order to characterize electrophysiologically the BST-septal pathway and its potential role in the control of fever, single-unit, extracellular recordings were made from neurons in the BST of anesthetized rats. Afferent and efferent connections were identified by electrical stimulation of the medial amygdaloid nucleus and the ventral septal area (VSA). BST neurons received both inhibitory and excitatory synaptic input from the amygdala and VSA. Efferents to the VSA were identified by stimulus-evoked antidromic spike invasion. Some BST neurons were responsive to peripheral skin temperature (thermoresponsive). The activity of putative vasopressin neurons was studied during prostaglandin E1-induced fever. Although a majority of BST units was unaffected by fever, a proportion of the cells examined increased their firing rates in accordance with reported release of vasopressin in the VSA during fever.
Previous studies have revealed that colchicine is selectively toxic to certain neuronal populations in the CNS, particularly granule cells of the dentate gyrus. The present study evaluates whether other microtubule poisons exhibit similar neurotoxic effects. Equimolar solutions of colchicine, colcemid, podophyllotoxin, vinblastine, vincristine and lumicolchine, the non-binding analog of colchicine, were injected into the dentate gyrus. Neurotoxicity was evaluated histologically. As previously reported, colchicine selectively destroyed dentate granule cells with minimal damage to other neurons including hippocampal pyramidal cells. Vincristine was very toxic and was not selective for granule cells. Vinblastine was relatively selective in destroying granule cells, but was not as potent as colchine. Colcemid and podophyllotoxin had minimal toxic effects. Lumicolchine injections caused no more damage than injections of vehicle. This ordering appears to correlate with the reversibility of binding tubulin.
The comparative effect of intracerebral injection of 2-APH, a selective antagonist for N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, into the substantia innominata (SI) and the amygdala (AM) of AM-kindled rats was examined. The intra-SI injection (ipsilateral to the kindled AM) induced a transient incoordination followed by immobility with loss of the rightening reflex, beginning at about 5 min following the injection and lasting for about 3 h. When the animals were stimulated at the previously established generalized seizure triggering threshold (GST) 45 min after the injection, the kindled seizure regressed to earlier stages although the afterdischarge (AD) duration remained unchanged. At 24 h, kindled seizure was readily activated at the GST. When 2-APH was injected into the kindled AM, no behavioural change occurred but AM stimulation at the GST failed to produce AD 45 min after the injection. Kindled seizure could be elicited, however, when the stimulus intensity was increased. This elevation of the GST lasted for 1-18 days. The findings suggest that NMDA receptors in the AM and SI play a differential role in AM seizure initiation and propagation, respectively. They also provide further support to the role presumed to be played by the SI in transforming the limbic seizure into motor seizure.
The basal forebrain cholinergic system embodies a heterogeneous group of neurons distributed in the basal telencephalon that project topographically to the cortical mantle. We sought to examine the generation of these neurons to determine whether basal forebrain neurons have unique patterns of neurogenesis or, if, in contrast, they are born along general neurogenic gradients. The techniques of tritiated thymidine autoradiography and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunocytochemistry were combined to determine the birthdays and neurogenic gradients of cholinergic cells in this region of rat brain. Cholinergic neurogenesis throughout the basal forebrain ranged from embryonic days 12 to 17 (E12-17). Neurogenesis in the nucleus basalis magnocellularis occurred over E12-16, with a peak day of generation on E13. The horizontal limb nucleus of the diagonal band which is located rostral to the nucleus basalis was generated over E12-17, with the majority of cells arising on E14-15. The rostral-most nuclei of the basal forebrain cholinergic system, the vertical limb of the diagonal band and the medial septum, were generated between E13-17, with peak days of neurogenesis on E15 and E15-16, respectively. These results were evaluated quantitatively and demonstrated that the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons were generated along the general caudal-to-rostral gradient previously described for all neurons in this brain region. The results of this study, in combination with those of similar investigations, emphasize that position-dependent epigenetic factors appear to be more potent determinants of the time of neuronal origin than factors which influence a cell's transmitter phenotype.
The levels of preprosomatostatin (preproSS) mRNA, somatostatin-like immunoactivity (SS-LI) (also known as somatotropin-release inhibitory factor, or SRIF), glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) activity and GAD mRNA were determined in several brain regions of amygdaloid-kindled rats. SS mRNA and SS increased in the cortex and striatum, while only SS increased in the hippocampus. No changes were detected in either GAD activity or GAD mRNA in any brain region. The data suggest that somatostatin may be one of the factors involved in the chain of events leading to kindled seizures.
Tumors of the hypothalamus present with a variety of clinical syndromes. Such syndromes appear to be both age and histology dependent. The diencephalic syndrome, an entity classically seen in infancy, presents as failure to thrive. In essentially all cases the pathologic substrate is a tumor with a predominance of gliomas. The traditional approach to treatment of the diencephalic syndrome has been surgery both for decompression and pathologic diagnosis followed by irradiation. Because of the tumor location, surgery is often confined to biopsy rather than radical extirpation. Furthermore, in infancy focal brain irradiation is not without significant morbidity. Within this context, we would like to present a case discussion regarding a 27-month-old boy with a hypothalamic-midbrain protoplasmic glioma treated with primary chemotherapy after surgical biopsy and pathologic documentation. The schedule of drugs utilized was based on the hypothesis of biochemical modulation of nitrosourea chemotherapy. Successful response to therapy was documented by sequential computed tomography (CT) studies and serial neurologic examinations beginning at age 5 months and every 2 months thereafter. The response of a single patient with the diencephalic syndrome treated primarily with chemotherapy makes extrapolation premature. Rather, the authors suggest chemotherapy as an alternative to focal brain irradiation. Such therapy could be utilized either in the event of recurrent tumor or as late consolidation after primary treatment with chemotherapy. The latter approach would allow a patient to have radiation therapy deferred until a later age at which time morbidity attending brain irradiation may be minimized.
During the course of a formal program of cooperation between the United States and the Soviet Union concerning the biological effects of physical factors in the environment, it was concluded that duplicate projects should be initiated with the general goal of determining the most sensitive and valid test procedures for evaluating the effects of microwave radiation on the central nervous system. This report details an initial step in this direction. Male rats of the Fischer 344 strain were exposed or sham exposed to 10 mW/cm2 continuous wave microwave radiation at 2.45 GHz for a period of 7 hr. Animals were subjected to behavioral, biochemical, or electrophysiological measurements during and/or immediately after exposure. Behavioral tests used were passive avoidance and activity in an open field. Biochemical measurements were ATPase (Na+, K+; Mg2+, Ca2+) and K+ alkaline phosphatase activities. Electrophysiological measurements consisted of EEG frequency analysis. Neither group observed a significant effect of microwave irradiation on open field activity. Both groups observed changes in variability of the data obtained using the passive avoidance procedure, but not in the same parameters. The U.S. group, but not the USSR group, found significantly less Na+,K+-ATPase activity in the microwave-exposed animals compared to the sham exposed animals. Both groups found incidences of statistically significant effects in the power spectral analysis of EEG frequency, but not at the same frequency. The failure of both groups to substantiate the results of the other reinforces our contention that such duplicate projects are important and necessary.
Using transhemispheric transfer and post-transfer interference as specific measures, the relationship between chemical and electrical kindling at the amygdala (AM) in rats was examined. Chemical kindling was accomplished by repeated injections of a subconvulsive dose of combined L-glutamate (GLU) and L-aspartate (ASP) in a molar ratio of 1:3 (GLU 0.375 microM:ASP 1.125 microM). Strong bidirectional transhemispheric transfer between electrical and chemical kindling occurred at the secondary-site AM. In addition, at the primary-site retest, bidirectional posttransfer interference between electrical and chemical kindling was observed. These findings strongly suggest that endogenous GLU/ASP participates in the transsynaptic changes which are presumed to underlie the kindling phenomenon.
Most manipulations employed to elicit epileptiform activity in brain slices result in brief, interictal-like events. In slices of the rat entorhinal cortex perfusion with a magnesium-depleted medium elicits prolonged seizure events which are more reminiscent of ictal activity. The interictal events in brain slice models are blocked by baclofen, but there is an indication from one study (H. S. Swartzwelder, D. V. Lewis, W. W. Anderson, and W. A. Wilson, 1987, Brain Res. 410: 362-366) that ictal events may not be affected by this drug. The present study examined the effects of baclofen on ictal events recorded in entorhinal cortex slices in magnesium-free medium. Simultaneous studies of effects of baclofen on interictal responses in the hippocampal region of the same slices were made on many occasions. The results show that both types of epileptiform activity are suppressed with a similar facility by baclofen.
The time course of appearance of catecholamine metabolites was studied in the spleen of cod,Gadus morhua, during perfusion with radioactively labelled noradrenaline and adrenaline at 10C. The tlag for appearance of the metabolites ranged between 1.78 and 6.76 min after onset of perfusion for both amines, indicating a rapid disposition of catecholamines. Perfusion with noradrenaline resulted in mainly MOPEG, VMA and DOMA formation, while perfusion with adrenaline additionally resulted in MN formation. There was still formation of deaminated metabolites after denervation, which indicates an additional non-neuronal site of deamination. It is concluded from the study that the fate of noradrenaline and adrenaline within the cod spleen depends on their affinities for the two uptake mechanisms and an extraneuronal site of deamination of great importance cannot be excluded.

Chlamydomonas cells excise their flagella in response to a variety of experimental conditions (e.g., extremes of temperature or pH, alcohol or detergent treatment, and mechanical shear). Here, we show that flagellar excision is an active process whereby microtubules are severed at select sites within the transition zone. The transition zone is located between the flagellar axoneme and the basal body; it is characterized by a pair of central cylinders that have an H shape when viewed in longitudinal section. Both central cylinders are connected to the A tubule of each microtubule doublet of the transition zone by fibers (approximately 5 nm diam). When viewed in cross section, these fibers are seen to form a distinctive stellate pattern characteristic of the transition zone (Manton, I. 1964. J. R. Microsc. Soc. 82:279-285; Ringo. D. L. 1967. J. Cell Biol. 33:543-571). We demonstrate that at the time of flagellar excision these fibers contract and displace the microtubule doublets of the axoneme inward. We believe that the resulting shear force and torsional load act to sever the axonemal microtubules immediately distal to the central cylinder. Structural alterations of the transition zone during flagellar excision occur both in living cells and detergent-extracted cell models, and are dependent on the presence of calcium (greater than or equal to 10(-6) M). Immunolocalization using monoclonal antibodies against the calcium-binding protein centrin demonstrate the presence of centrin in the fiber-based stellate structure of the transition zone of wild-type cells. Examination of the flagellar autotomy mutant, fa-1, which fails to excise its flagella (Lewin, R., and C. Burrascano. 1983. Experientia. 39:1397-1398), demonstrates that the fa-1 lacks the ability to completely contract the fibers of the stellate structure. We conclude that flagellar excision in Chlamydomonas involves microtubule severing that is mediated by the action of calcium-sensitive contractile fibers of the transition zone. These observations have led us to question whether microtubule severing may be a more general phenomenon than previously suspected and to suggest that microtubule severing may contribute to the dynamic behavior of cytoplasmic microtubules in other cells.
Synapsin I is a major neuron-specific phosphoprotein that is specifically localized to the cytoplasmic surface of small synaptic vesicles. In the present study, the binding of synapsin I to small synaptic vesicles was characterized in detail. The binding of synapsin I was preserved when synaptic vesicles were solubilized and reconstituted in phosphatidylcholine. After separation of the protein and lipid components of synaptic vesicles under nondenaturing conditions, synapsin I bound to both components. The use of hydrophobic labeling procedures allowed the assessment of interactions between phospholipids and synapsin I in intact synaptic vesicles. Hydrophobic photolabeling followed by cysteine-specific cleavage of synapsin I demonstrated that the head domain of synapsin I penetrates into the hydrophobic core of the bilayer. The purified NH2-terminal fragment, derived from the head domain by cysteine-specific cleavage, bound to synaptic vesicles with high affinity confirming the results obtained from hydrophobic photolabeling. Synapsin I binding to synaptic vesicles could be inhibited by the entire molecule or by the combined presence of the NH2-terminal and tail fragments, but not by an excess of either NH2-terminal or tail fragment alone. The purified tail fragment bound with relatively high affinity to synaptic vesicles, though it did not significantly interact with phospholipids. Binding of the tail fragment was competed by holosynapsin I; was greatly decreased by phosphorylation; and was abolished by high ionic strength conditions or protease treatment of synaptic vesicles. The data suggest the existence of two sites of interaction between synapsin I and small synaptic vesicles: binding of the head domain to vesicle phospholipids and of the tail domain to a protein component of the vesicle membrane. The latter interaction is apparently responsible for the salt and phosphorylation dependency of synapsin I binding to small synaptic vesicles.
Synapsin I, a major neuron-specific phosphoprotein, is localized on the cytoplasmic surface of small synaptic vesicles to which it binds with high affinity. It contains a collagenase-resistant head domain and a collagenase-sensitive elongated tail domain. In the present study, the interaction between synapsin I and phospholipid vesicles has been characterized, and the protein domains involved in these interactions have been identified. When lipid vesicles were prepared from cholesterol and phospholipids using a lipid composition similar to that found in native synaptic vesicle membranes (40% phosphatidylcholine, 32% phosphatidylethanolamine, 12% phosphatidylserine, 5% phosphatidylinositol, 10% cholesterol, wt/wt), synapsin I bound with a dissociation constant of 14 nM and a maximal binding capacity of about 160 fmol of synapsin I/microgram of phospholipid. Increasing the ionic strength decreased the affinity without greatly affecting the maximal amount of synapsin I bound. When vesicles containing cholesterol and either phosphatidylcholine or phosphatidylcholine/phosphatidylethanolamine were tested, no significant binding was detected under any conditions examined. On the other hand, phosphatidylcholine vesicles containing either phosphatidylserine or phosphatidylinositol strongly interacted with synapsin I. The amount of synapsin I maximally bound was directly proportional to the percentage of acidic phospholipids present in the lipid bilayer, whereas the Kd value was not affected by varying the phospholipid composition. A study of synapsin I fragments obtained by cysteine-specific cleavage showed that the collagenase-resistant head domain actively bound to phospholipid vesicles; in contrast, the collagenase-sensitive tail domain, though strongly basic, did not significantly interact. Photolabeling of synapsin I was performed with the phosphatidylcholine analogue 1-palmitoyl-2-[11-[4-[3-(trifluoromethyl)diazirinyl]phenyl] [2-3H]undecanoyl]-sn-glycero-3-phosphocholine; this compound generates a highly reactive carbene that selectively interacts with membrane-embedded domains of membrane proteins. Synapsin I was significantly labeled upon photolysis when incubated with lipid vesicles containing acidic phospholipids and trace amounts of the photoactivatable phospholipid. Proteolytic cleavage of photolabeled synapsin I localized the label to the head domain of the molecule.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Synapsin I is a neuron-specific phosphoprotein that is concentrated in the presynaptic nerve terminal in association with the cytoplasmic surface of synaptic vesicles. It has been demonstrated to bundle F-actin in a phosphorylation-dependent manner in vitro, a property consistent with its proposed role in linking synaptic vesicles to the cytoskeleton and its involvement in the regulation of neurotransmitter release. Synapsin I is composed of two distinct domains, a COOH terminal, collagenase-sensitive, hydrophilic, and strongly basic tail region, and an NH2 terminal, collagenase-resistant head region relatively rich in hydrophobic amino acids. To elucidate the structural basis for the interactions between synapsin I and F-actin and how it relates to other characteristics of synapsin I, we have performed a structure-function analysis of fragments of synapsin I produced by cysteine-specific cleavage with 2-nitro-5-thiocyanobenzoic acid. The fragments were identified and aligned with the parent molecule using the deduced primary structure of synapsin I and the known phosphorylation sites as markers. We have purified these fragments and examined their interactions with F-actin. Two distinct fragments, a 29-kD NH2-terminal fragment and a 15-kD middle fragment, were shown to contain F-actin binding sites. A 51/54-kD middle/tail fragment retained the F-actin binding and bundling activity of synapsin I, but the isolated tail fragment did not retain either activity. In contrast to phosphorylation of sites two and three in intact synapsin I, which abolishes F-actin bundling activity, phosphorylation of these sites in the middle/tail fragment failed to abolish this activity. In conclusion, three domains of synapsin I appear to be involved in F-actin binding and bundling.
The aim of the study was to develop an antibody immunoassay for tuberculous meningitis with a sensitivity greater than that of the initial bacterial smear while maintaining a 100% specificity. Antibody titers to five purified antigens of Mycobacterium tuberculosis were measured in cerebrospinal fluid by using an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay technique. Seventy-four patients with tuberculous meningitis (26 culture positive) were compared with 26 patients with purulent meningitis, 69 patients with suspected but excluded tuberculous meningitis, and 29 patients with other neurological diseases. Antibody responses to both the 14-kilodalton (kDa) antigen and lipoarabinomannan were immunodominant, accounting for 74% of those with any antibody titer to a soluble extract of M. tuberculosis. A sensitivity of 61% was achieved (77% for the culture-positive samples) by using immunoglobulin G titers to lipoarabinomannan and the 14-, 19-, and 38-kDa antigens. Thus, estimation of levels of antibody in cerebrospinal fluid to selected mycobacterial antigens would be valuable in the diagnosis of tuberculous meningitis. The possible reasons for the immunodominance of the 14-kDa antigen and lipoarabinomannan in the pathogenesis of tuberculous meningitis are discussed.
Microdialysis was used to assess extracellular dopamine in striatum, nucleus accumbens, and medial frontal cortex of unanesthetized rats both under resting conditions and in response to intermittent tail-shock stress. The dopamine metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid also were measured. The resting extracellular concentration of dopamine was estimated to be approximately 10 nM in striatum, 11 nM in nucleus accumbens, and 3 nM in medial frontal cortex. In contrast, the resting extracellular levels of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid were in the low micromolar range. Intermittent tail-shock stress increased extracellular dopamine relative to baseline by 25% in striatum, 39% in nucleus accumbens, and 95% in medial frontal cortex. 3,4-Dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid also were generally increased by stress, although there was a great deal of variability in these responses. These data provide direct in vivo evidence for the global activation of dopaminergic systems by stress and support the concept that there exist regional variations in the regulation of dopamine release.
The recognition of an association between trigeminal neuralgia and ipsilateral hemifacial spasm has been delayed by confusion over the nomenclature of the two conditions. Three patients are presented who had facial pain associated with hemifacial spasm. The findings on investigation of these patients, and an analysis of the literature, suggests that the combination is almost inevitably associated with pathological processes in the posterior fossa, particularly anomalous, ectatic or aneurysmal blood vessels.
Many brainstem nuclei are heterogeneous structures in which neuronal and glial populations are unevenly distributed, and focal normal or pathologic deviations in cell density, so-called &quot;features,&quot; are found. Examples of features include subnuclei, focal neuronal loss, and focal gliosis. We present a statistical test that justifies an investigator's claim that a feature is present in a nucleus at a selected level of confidence after completion of a cell counting experiment. The computer program developed for the test also indicates the most probable location of the feature within the nucleus, and its most probable density and length, and potentially allows one to make comparisons of feature characteristics among cases. We also present quantitative guidelines for the selection of a sampling periodicity in a heterogeneous nucleus before a cell counting experiment. Sampling periodicity is based upon analysis of computer-generated simulations of the nucleus with features of different sizes; for each feature the probability of Type I (false positives) and Type II (false negatives) errors are examined against one another. Type II error rate is dependent upon feature length and density, acceptable Type I error rate, and sampling periodicity. Feature detection is important for devising sampling strategies in brainstem nuclei.
It is well known that ischemia causes neuronal necrosis in selectively vulnerable sectors of the hippocampus. Since the hippocampus is involved in spatial navigation, learning, and memory, selective deficits in these areas may arise from ischemic brain damage. The objective of this study was to test whether a minimal ischemic insult, producing selective neuronal necrosis restricted to only a portion of the CA1 pyramidal cells of the hippocampus, could produce a detectable spatial navigation deficit. Male Wistar rats received 9 min of forebrain ischemia induced by carotid clamping and hypotension or sham operation with exposure of the carotid arteries. The rats were allowed to recover and were tested on a simple place task, a place learning-set task, and a pattern discrimination task in swimming pools paradigms. Subsequently, the rats were perfusion-fixed and their entire brains subjected to quantitative histopathologic analysis. Although both ischemic and sham-operated groups learned the simple place task, the learning-set task revealed defects in spatial navigation, reflected as increased errors and latency in the performance of the ischemic rats. In the subsequent pattern discrimination task, the ischemic group was superior to the control group, which perseverated by attempting to use a place strategy to solve the discrimination. Quantitative neuropathology revealed neuronal necrosis in the ischemia group limited to 50% of the CA1 zone of the hippocampus. Extrahippocampal damage consisted of rare cortical neuronal necrosis in 2 of 6 animals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sustained stimulation of receptors for excitatory amino acids leads to both activation of the calcium-dependent cysteine protease calpain I and to the death of receptive neurons. Here, we have examined the relationship between the calpain I activation and neurodegeneration. Calpain I activation was manifested as increased levels of the major proteolytic fragments of the calpain substrate spectrin, detected and quantified by immunoblotting. Intraventricular administration of the excitatory amino acids kainate or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) produced calpain I-mediated spectrin degradation and hippocampal neuronal loss. The NMDA antagonist 3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid selectively blocked NMDA- but not kainate-induced protease activation and hippocampal damage. Temporally, spectrin degradation preceded the onset of pyramidal cell degeneration monitored by silver-impregnation histochemistry. Only those doses of kainate (0.15-1 microgram) or NMDA (40-80 micrograms) sufficient to cause hippocampal damage markedly increased spectrin breakdown. Both the neuronal damage and calpain I activation induced by kainate occurred primarily in area CA3. Degeneration of hippocampal neurons evoked by colchicine was not accompanied by calpain activation, indicating that proteolysis is not stimulated simply as a secondary response to neuronal destruction. Thus, a close correspondence exists between excitatory amino acid induction of neuronal degeneration and of calpain I-mediated spectrin degradation. The results suggest that calpain I may be an intracellular mediator of excitatory amino acid action, and further, they support the hypothesis that calcium influx and calpain I activation are obligatory events in the initiation of excitatory amino acid neurotoxicity.
The functional role of GABAA receptors in inhibition of synaptic transmission between muscle spindle afferents and spinal motoneurons was studied in the isolated spinal cord of bullfrogs. Extracellular recording from the ventral root showed that activation of GABAA receptors by muscimol (primarily a GABAA receptor agonist) at 50 microM produced a 38% reduction in the amplitude of the excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) evoked by stimulation of triceps muscle sensory afferents and a 66% reduction in the EPSP half-width, suggesting a large increase in the conductance of the motoneuronal membrane. Quantal analysis of unitary triceps EPSPs recorded intracellularly from motoneurons showed that muscimol reduced the quantal content of release (presynaptic inhibition). In addition, muscimol decreased the quantal size (postsynaptic inhibition) when the postsynaptic conductance change was large. Because the effects of muscimol were completely and reversibly blocked by 100 microM bicuculline (a specific GABAA receptor antagonist), both the pre- and the postsynaptic inhibition caused by muscimol were due to activation of GABAA receptors. Activation of GABAA receptors thus causes both pre- and postsynaptic inhibition of synaptic transmission between muscle afferents and spinal cord motoneurons in the frog.
Baclofen, a specific GABAB receptor agonist, was used to study the functional role of activation of GABAB receptors in synaptic transmission between muscle spindle afferents and motoneurons in the isolated spinal cord of bullfrogs. (+/-)-Baclofen (5 microM) reversibly reduced the amplitude of the excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) evoked by simulation of various brachial muscle nerves and recorded extracellularly from the ventral root by 47% without shortening the falling phase of the EPSP. Neither the time course nor the amplitude of the action potentials in the sensory afferents was affected. Thus, baclofen caused synaptic inhibition without reducing either the potential change occurring in the muscle sensory afferents or the motoneuronal membrane resistance. Quantal analysis, performed using a deconvolution technique, of the monosynaptic EPSPs in brachial motoneurons evoked by activity in single triceps muscle spindle afferents showed that transmission at these synapses was quantal, and baclofen lowered the quantal content without altering the quantal size. Furthermore, quantal analysis of the electrical component of these unitary EPSPs showed that it did not fluctuate in amplitude, either in normal saline or with baclofen. The inhibition produced by activation of GABAB receptors is therefore presynaptic but is not likely to be caused by conduction failures in the sensory terminals.
Systemic administration of the noradrenergic neurotoxin DSP-4 results in a complete loss of staining of noradrenergic (NA) axons in the dorsal horn and intermediate zone of the rat spinal cord. NA axon staining in the ventral horn and in the intermediolateral cell column is only slightly decreased by the drug treatment. We have taken advantage of this differential effect of DSP-4 on NA axons to determine the location and number of cells that give rise to NA axons in the ventral horn and the intermediolateral cell column. Retrograde transport of the fluorescent tracer True blue was combined with dopamine-beta-hydroxylase immunohistochemistry 2 weeks after treatment of rats with 50 mg/kg of DSP-4. Compared with controls, the drug treatment resulted in a more than 90% decrease in the number of retrogradely labeled NA neurons in the locus coeruleus and an only 30-50% reduction in the number of retrogradely labeled NA cells in the A5 and A7 groups. The results reveal different sites of termination in the spinal cord of NA axons originating in the LC and in NA cells of the A5 and A7 groups: the LC distributes fibers mainly to the dorsal horn and the intermediate zone, while NA cells of the A5 and A7 groups project to motoneurons of the ventral horn and the intermediolateral cell column.
Axonal transport and immunohistochemical methods were used to investigate the anatomical and biochemical organization of projections from the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) to the rostral, esophageal, part of the nucleus ambiguus (NA) in the rat. Discrete iontophoretic deposits of a retrogradely transported tracer, fluorogold, placed in the rostral NA labeled a column of cells within the NTS, termed the central part of the NTS (after Ross et al., 1985), situated just medial to the solitary tract and extending from about 300 to 1000 microns rostral to the obex. Iontophoretic deposits of the anterogradely transported tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L), placed in the central part of the NTS gave rise to dense and topographically restricted projections to the rostral NA. More caudal and ventral aspects of the NA did not receive prominent inputs from the central part of the NTS, and deposits that spared the central part of the NTS gave rise to only sparse projections to the rostral NA. Antisera against somatostatin-28 (SS-28) stained cell bodies within the central part of the NTS. In addition, a double-labeling procedure, capable of colocalizing anterogradely transported PHA-L and endogenous peptides to individual fibers and/or terminals, demonstrated an appreciable number of SS-28-immunoreactive terminals within the rostral NA that arose from the NTS. Correspondingly, unilateral lesions that involved the central part of the NTS resulted in a marked depletion of SS-28 immunoreactivity in the ipsilateral rostral NA. These data provide evidence for a discrete, partly somatostatinergic, projection from the central part of the NTS to the rostral NA. Anatomical and physiological studies implicating the central part of the NTS and the rostral NA in esophageal function suggest this pathway to be involved in the reflex control of esophageal motility.
Coronal slices of rat mesencephalon containing the ventral tegmental area of Tsai (VTA) and the substantia nigra were prepared. Stable intracellular recordings were obtained from presumed dopamine (DA)-containing neurons in the VTA. Both silent and spontaneously active cells were encountered; spontaneously active neurons fired in an extremely regular pacemaker-like fashion. These neurons had resting membrane potentials ranging from -45 to -75 mV and input resistances ranging from 80-400 M omega. DA-containing neurons in the VTA demonstrated marked anomalous rectification in response to hyperpolarizing current pulses. Application of DA or the GABAB agonist, baclofen, to the bathing medium produced suppression of spontaneous firing, sometimes accompanied by membrane hyperpolarization. Neuronal input resistance was not changed consistently by DA and was generally reduced by baclofen.
The sulfhydryl reducing agent, cysteamine, is known to functionally inactive prolactin and other neurohormones that have been recently shown to play a role as immunomodulators. Cysteamine was administered to mice to evaluate its effects upon immune organ size and mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferative responses in relation to corresponding effects on the immunomodulatory hormones, prolactin and corticosterone. The lowest dose of cysteamine, 12.5 mg/kg given once per day for 3 consecutive days, produced significant elevations of both concanavalin A-(Con A) and lipopolysaccharide-induced blastogenesis. Serum prolactin levels were also significantly elevated with 12.5 mg/kg cysteamine. By contrast, at 300 and 400 mg/kg, cysteamine significantly reduced Con A and lipopolysaccharide-induced proliferation. This suppression of mitogen-induced proliferative responses was accompanied by marked atrophy of the thymus. Levels of both prolactin and corticosterone in the serum were significantly reduced at 400 mg/kg cysteamine. A positive correlation was observed between serum prolactin levels and Con A-induced proliferation as well as between serum prolactin and corticosterone levels in cysteamine-treated mice. The immunomodulatory effects of cysteamine were not limited to correlative effects on neuroendocrine parameters. A similar pattern of effects was observed following in vitro administration of cysteamine. Low concentrations in vitro (0.1 mM) stimulated Con A-induced proliferation of normal mouse splenocytes, and higher concentrations in vitro (2.0 mM) suppressed proliferation. These studies indicate that, depending upon the dose, cysteamine has bidirectional effects on mitogen-induced proliferation of lymphocytes; these effects are correlated with cysteamine-related alterations in the neuroendocrine status of the animal but may also be observed with direct addition of the drug to stimulated lymphocytes in culture.
Arginine8-vasopressin (AVP) causes hindlimb paralysis, loss of nociceptive responsiveness and increased arterial pressure after spinal subarachnoid injection in rats. In these experiments, the effects of paralytic intrathecal doses of AVP on rat brain and spinal cord blood flow, vascular resistance and cardiac output were measured using radiolabeled microspheres. Ten minutes after injection, AVP (10-100 pmol) elevated mean arterial pressures significantly, increased vascular resistances in thoracic and lumbosacral spinal cord and reduced blood flow to the lumbosacral spinal cord without altering cardiac output, total peripheral resistance and blood flow to brain and other spinal cord regions. Lumbosacral blood flows remained significantly reduced 30 min after injection of 100 pmol of AVP, and recovered to pretreatment base-line levels by 60 min postinjection. Lactic acid concentrations were elevated significantly in spinal cerebrospinal fluid samples removed 5 to 15 min after AVP injection (100 pmol). The selective AVP V1 receptor antagonist [1-(beta-mercapto-beta,beta-cyclopentamethylene propionic acid), 2-(O-methyl)tyrosine] arg8-vasopressin, which previously blocked the effects of AVP on hindlimb motor and nociceptive function, in these experiments also blocked the AVP-induced increases in arterial pressure and reductions in lumbosacral perfusion. Intravenous infusion of the vasodilators papaverine and nifedipine failed to block AVP-induced hindlimb paralysis. Nifedipine, however, did accelerate subsequent recovery of hindlimb motor function, although it did not alter the lumbosacral blood flow reductions measured at 10 and 30 min after AVP injection. These findings indicate that AVP has significant vascular effects in the rat spinal cord that are associated with ischemia and neurological dysfunction.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Self-report data from the families of children participating in the San Diego Longitudinal Study of specific developmental language impairment were used to assess familial aggregation in the disorder. Families of impaired children reported higher rates of affected first-degree relatives than did families of matched controls. Significantly higher incidence of maternal and paternal childhood language and/or learning disabilities, as well as sibling disability rates, were reported. The extent to which familial aggregation reflects genetic or environmental influences in specific language disorders remains to be determined.
The ability of UV light to affect radioligand binding and 36Cl-uptake at the gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptor-chloride channel complex was examined. Exposure to 302 nm UV light produced a rapid (t1/2 = 4 min) reduction in [35S]t-butylbicyclo-phosphorothionate binding (assayed in the presence of 200 mM chloride) to sites associated with the GABAA receptor-coupled chloride ionophore. Saturation analysis revealed that this effect could be attributed entirely to a decrease in the maximum number of binding sites. Exposure to UV irradiation at lower (254 nm) and higher (366 nm) wavelengths also inhibited [35S]t-butylbicy-clophosphorothionate binding, but the respective rates of inactivation were 8- and 27-fold slower, compared with 302 nm. Other anion-dependent interactions at the GABAA receptor complex were disrupted in a similar manner. In the absence of permeant anion, [3H]flunitrazepam binding to benzodiazepine receptors was unaffected by 302 nm UV irradiation, whereas chloride-enhanced [3H]flunitrazepam binding was inhibited markedly. In the presence of 250-500 mM chloride, [3H]methyl-6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate binding to benzodiazepine receptors was also inhibited after UV exposure. Basal 36Cl- uptake into synaptoneurosomes was nearly doubled after 15 min of exposure to 302 nm light, whereas pentobarbital- and muscimol-stimulated 36Cl- uptake were reduced significantly. UV irradiation at 302 nm appears to disrupt selectively the anion-dependent functional interactions at the GABAA receptor complex. The apparent wavelength specificity suggests that the gating structure (channel) may contain tryptophan and/or tyrosine residues vital to the regulation of anion movement through the ionophore portion of this supramolecular receptor-ion channel complex.
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is a substrate for at least three different protein kinases, and phosphorylation of the receptor has been shown to increase its rate of desensitization. However, the first messengers that regulate AChR phosphorylation have not yet been identified. This study demonstrates that calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), a neuropeptide present in the axon terminals of the neuromuscular junction, regulates phosphorylation of the AChR in primary rat myotube cultures. CGRP, in the presence of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor Ro 20-1724, increased phosphorylation of the alpha and delta subunits of the AChR. CGRP-induced phosphorylation of the AChR had the same subunit specificity and temporal sequence as previously observed using forskolin or cAMP analogs. Phosphorylation of the AChR in the presence of CGRP appears to be mediated by CGRP-stimulated increases in cAMP levels leading to activation of cAMP-dependent protein kinase. The present results, taken together with the recent demonstration that CGRP increases the rate of AChR desensitization in mouse myotubes, suggest that CGRP may play a physiological role as a regulator of AChR desensitization by modulating AChR phosphorylation at the neuromuscular junction.
Selective antagonists have been used to classify the muscarinic receptors involved in the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential and slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential of the superior cervical ganglia of the rat, as recorded in 1 microM neostigmine, using a grease-gap method. Cardioselective M2 antagonists, e.g. AF-DX 116, depressed the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential and enhanced the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential. The M1 selective antagonist pirenzepine depressed both potentials equally. The high potency of pirenzepine against the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential, however, indicates that it is mediated by M1 receptors. The slow excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were found to be pharmacologically similar to the muscarinic agonist-induced depolarisation and hyperpolarisation of this preparation, respectively. The actions of two muscarinic agonists on the postsynaptic potentials were also studied. It is concluded that the slow excitatory postsynaptic potential is mediated by M1 receptors and the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential by cardiac-like M2 receptors.
Previous studies in this laboratory have shown that GABAergic neurotransmission in the nucleus tractus solitarius contributes to the maintenance of blood pressure. Increasing the synaptic action of GABA in the nucleus tractus solitarius by injection of the blocker of the uptake of GABA, nipecotic acid elevated blood pressure. The current studies examined the subtype of GABA receptor involved in mediating this response. Bilateral injections of (-)baclofen into the nucleus tractus solitarius (1-100 pmol in 100 nl) of chloralose-anesthetized, paralyzed, ventilated Sprague-Dawley rats increased blood pressure without significantly altering heart rate. This pressor response was neither attenuated nor blocked by the selective GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline. Similarly, the pressor response elicited by the injection of nipecotic acid into the nucleus tractus solitarius was totally unaffected by the GABAA receptor blockade with bicuculline. Since nipecotic acid acts by potentiating the action of synaptic GABA, and the GABA present presumably can interact with both GABAA and GABAB receptors, the observation that bicuculline did not block or attenuate the pressor response to nipecotic acid suggests that the pressor response to the enhanced synaptic action of GABA in the nucleus tractus solitarius can be produced independently of the involvement of GABAA receptors, and presumably is mediated through an action on GABAB receptors.
In cultures of rat neonatal cerebellar granule cells the signal transduction at ionotropic NMDA-sensitive glutamate receptors (GC1) was measured as an increase of influx of 45Ca2+. This transmitter-mediated influx of Ca2+ was enhanced by glycine and D-serine in a dose-dependent manner. D-Alanine was less active than glycine and D-serine, while L-alanine and L-serine were inactive. These amino acids failed to activate basal influx of Ca2+. Activation of calcium influx at GC2 receptors by kainate was unchanged by the amino acids mentioned above. Glycine and D-serine increased the potency but failed to change the efficacy of GC1 agonists. This action was not changed by strychnine. The enhancement of aspartate signal transduction by glycine and D-serine was inhibited by the noncompetitive GC1 receptor antagonist, phencyclidine, but was even more evident in presence of Mg2+ ions. Hence, glycine and D-serine may function as positive allosteric modulators of signal transduction at NMDA-sensitive (GC1) glutamate receptors.
The action of kynurenic acid on currents elicited by the activation of amino acid receptors was investigated in primary cultures of cortical neurons prepared from neonatal rats. Kynurenic acid was tested on currents elicited by both N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA) and kainate, using patch-clamp recording techniques in &quot;outside-out&quot; and &quot;whole-cell&quot; configurations. The inhibition by kynurenic acid was compared with that elicited by amino-phosphono-valeric acid (APV). Whole-cell currents, elicited by increasing doses of NMDA, were antagonized competitively by APV and non-competitively by kynurenic acid (ID50 70 microM); in contrast, kynurenic acid inhibited competitively the whole-cell currents elicited by kainic acid (ID50 500 microM). The non-competitive inhibition by kynurenic acid of the whole cell currents elicited by NMDA was antagonized competitively by glycine, a specific positive allosteric modulator of NMDA receptors; on the other hand glycine failed to change the inhibition by APV of the NMDA-elicited responses. Thus, kynurenic acid inhibits NMDA receptors allosterically (non-competitively) and kainic acid receptors isosterically (competitively).
The historical reminder of the foundation of the French EEG Society and the changes which have occurred during its operation show the worry of the Society for a better efficiency all along this last fourty years. A general survey of the scientific activities disclose the contribution of the society in the papers first published in the Revue Neurologique, and, after 1971, in the Revue d'EEG et de Neurophysiologie clinique de Langue franaise. The French participation in other clinical neurophysiological or scientific meetings in France and abroad is underlined by the important role it has played in the life of the International Federation for EEG Societies. Training of specialized doctors and technicians in the domain of the functional exploration of the nervous system has been a standing preoccupation of the Society, with the teaching of the so-called &quot;Attestation d'EEG&quot; in French universities and the training of technical personnel in specialized schools.
Intraorbital paragangliomas are rare. A case of intraorbital paraganglioma with extension to the middle cranial fossa is reported. Progressive throbbing, hemicranial headaches, unilateral proptosis, and visual failure are the presenting symptoms. The computed tomographic and operative findings suggested a meningioma. Surgical removal of the tumor resulted in total relief of symptoms and recovery of vision. The pathogenesis and pathological findings are discussed.
Eight patients with Williams syndrome and 6 with Down syndrome, matched for age and full-scale IQ, underwent detailed neurologic testing as part of a large multidisciplinary research center study. Williams syndrome patients were small for gestational age and often had histories of failure-to-thrive and feeding problems as infants. Half of the Williams syndrome patients had epilepsy. On neurologic testing, Williams syndrome patients had greater difficulty with gross and fine motor coordination, oromotor skills, and cerebellar function than did those with Down syndrome. The neurologic distinctions between these 2 groups may reflect an underlying, as yet undefined, metabolic defect in Williams syndrome.
The potency of several oxytocin-related peptides in inducing penile erection and yawning after injection into a lateral ventricle of male rats was compared. Substitution of two amino acids in the oxytocin molecule or deletion of the C-terminal glycinamide as in des-GlyNH2-oxytocin [oxytocin(1-8)] reduced oxytocin potency in inducing both effects, the rank order being: oxytocin greater than [Thr4,Gly7]-oxytocin congruent to isotocin [( Ser4,Ile8]-oxytocin) greater than vasopressin [( Phe3,Arg8]-oxytocin) greater than des-GlyNH2-oxytocin. Oxytocin's ability to induce penile erection and yawning was abolished by permanent opening of the disulfide bridge by reduction and carboxymethylation. Oxytocin(1-6) and oxytocin(7-9) were also inactive. Penile erection and yawning induced by oxytocin-related peptides were antagonized in a dose-dependent manner by nonapeptide antagonists with a rank order of potency that follows their antioxytocic activity (d[(CH2)5Tyr(Me)Orn8]-vasotocin congruent to [Pen1,Phe(Me)2,Thr4,Orn8]-oxytocin greater than d[(CH2)5Tyr(Me)Arg8]-vasopression). Carboxymethylated oxytocin, oxytocin(1-6), and oxytocin(7-9) were devoid of antagonistic activity. The present results suggest that central oxytocin receptors mediating the expression of penile erection and yawning are structurally related to those present in the uterus and in the mammary gland.
The effect of the intracerebroventricular (ICV) injection of the oxytocin antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8-vasotocin on the stimulation of copulatory behavior induced by the dopamine (DA) agonist apomorphine was studied in male rats. Apomorphine (80 micrograms/kg SC) given 5 min before mating tests decreased intromission frequency and ejaculation latency in experienced male rats. Such effects were abolished and reversed by pretreatment with 50 and 1000 ng of the oxytocin antagonist given ICV 5 min before apomorphine. The peptide per se markedly increased intromission and ejaculation latency and abolished ejaculation in control rats. The results suggest that brain oxytocin is implicated in the expression of sexual behavior, and apomorphine might improve male copulatory behavior by releasing oxytocin in brain.
Purine release and prostaglandin (PG) outflow were simultaneously evaluated from untreated glial primary cultures of rat striatum, at rest and under field electrical stimulation. Purine release was also assayed from sister cultured cells in which a suitable pharmacological treatment with 1 x 10(-6) M dexamethasone or 1 x 10(-4) M indomethacin had produced a complete inhibition of the phospholipase A2-prostaglandin (PLA2-PG) system. Purine release from untreated cells seems to be regulated by specific receptor sites for released adenosine (Ado); A1 receptors exert an inhibitory control on purine release while A2 receptors facilitate it. PG release appears to be related to A1-mediated Ado activity, since culture treatment with 1 x 10(-10) M 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine (DPCPX) or 1 x 10(-4) M N-ethylmaleimide (NEM), A1 receptor inhibitory agents able to increase purine release, induced a significant reduction of the evoked PG outflow. Purine amount, released from glial cells with inhibited PLA2-PG system, was remarkably greater than that one assayed from control cultured cells. In so treated cultures, no additive effect, NEM-induced, was detected, while the addition of a mixture of PGs partially reduced the increased purine outflow. An electrically evoked cAMP accumulation, significantly greater than that found in controls, was even detected in cultured cells with inhibited PLA2-PG system. Since 10 micrograms/ml adenosine deaminase (ADA) reduced while DPCPX enhanced the evoked cAMP accumulation, it seems partially due to released Ado and accounts for a prevalent A2-stimulating rather than an A1-inhibitory control on adenylate cyclase activity. Thus, in cultured glial cells, the PLA2-PG system, likely linked to A1 receptor sites, concurs to control purine release and seems to affect less directly cAMP accumulation.
Myoelectrical activity recorded simultaneously from mucosal, serosal, and cutaneous electrodes has confirmed that the 3-cpm signal from such electrodes reflects gastric slow-wave activity. Now, the observation that patients with unexplained nausea and vomiting may have very rapid slow-wave frequencies (tachygastrias) and very slow, slow-wave frequencies (bradygastrias) suggests that electrogastrography, a reliable and noninvasive technique, may be useful in the diagnosis and management of patients with upper abdominal symptoms and gastroparesis.
Saposin A, a heat-stable 16-kDa glycoprotein, was isolated from Gaucher disease spleen and purified to homogeneity. Chemical sequencing from its amino terminus and of peptides obtained by digestion with protease from Staphylococcus aureus strain V-8 demonstrated that saposin A is derived from proteolytic processing of domain 1 of its precursor protein, prosaposin. Processing of prosaposin (70 kDa) also generates three other previously reported saposin proteins, B, C, and D, from its second, third, and fourth domains. Similar to saposin C, saposin A stimulates the hydrolysis of 4-methylumbelliferyl beta-glucoside and glucocerebroside by beta-glucosylceramidase and of galactocerebroside by beta-galactosylceramidase, mainly by increasing the maximal velocity of both reactions. Saposin A is as active as saposin C in these reactions. Saposin A has no significant effect on other sphingolipid and 4-methylumbelliferyl glycoside hydrolases tested. Saposin A has two potential glycosylation sites that appear to be glycosylated. After deglycosylation, saposin A had a subunit molecular mass of 10 kDa and was as active as native saposin A. However, reduction and alkylation abolished the activation. A three-dimensional model comparing saposins A and C reveals significant sequence homology between them, especially preservation of conserved acidic and basic residues in their middle regions. Each appears to possess a conformationally rigid hydrophobic pocket stabilized by three internal disulfide bridges, with amphipathic helical regions interrupted by helix breakers.
The chain of events that results in increased production of nerve growth factor (NGF) following beta-adrenergic receptor (BAR) stimulation has been investigated in the C6-2B rat astrocytoma cell line. Exposure of these cells to the BAR agonist isoproterenol elicits the following cascade of events: (i) increase of cAMP content; (ii) increase of c-Fos mRNA content; (iii) accumulation of c-Fos protein immunoreactivity in the nucleus; (iv) increase of NGF mRNA content. The increase in c-Fos mRNA and its translation product are early events (15 and 40 min, respectively) and precede the accumulation of NGF mRNA, which peaks at 3 hr. The increase in the two mRNAs appears interrelated because cycloheximide inhibits the accumulation of c-Fos protein and NGF mRNA elicited by isoproterenol. Moreover, the accumulation of nuclear c-Fos protein and NGF mRNA induced by BAR stimulation is reduced by 2-aminopurine, an inhibitor of c-Fos mRNA induction. These data suggest that, in C6-2B astrocytoma cells, the nuclear accumulation of c-Fos protein is required for the induction of NGF mRNA expression by BAR stimulation.
Cerebellar Purkinje neurons respond to glutamate and to the agonists quisqualate (QA) and kainate (KA) with prolonged, multiphasic, voltage-dependent depolarizations. In contrast, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) at equivalent doses is not effective as an agonist for Purkinje neurons. The responses to QA and KA are reduced by extracellular Cd2+ (30 microM), by increased Mg2+ or Ca2+ (12 mM), and by the glutamate antagonist kynurenic acid (1 mM) but not by the NMDA-selective antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (100 microM). The short pressure application of 1 microM QA (less than or equal to 0.5 s) produces a response often exceeding 1 min in duration, which consists of several phases: rapid initial depolarization, followed by a long plateau, repolarization, and a subsequent small hyperpolarization. A similar response is evoked by glutamate and KA at higher doses (30-50 microM). The initial and plateau depolarizations are dependent on Na+, being reduced by substitution of external Na+ with sucrose or choline, but are not affected by the Na+ channel blocker tetrodotoxin. Rectification, observed at hyperpolarized potentials below -60 mV set by current clamp, is attributed in part to an intrinsic voltage sensitivity of the agonist-activated response. Both the duration and the magnitude of the excitatory responses were found to be voltage-dependent. Single-channel recordings of a Ca2+-sensitive K+ channel, activated selectively during the excitatory response, suggest that intracellular Ca2+ increases during the plateau phase. Certain properties of the excitatory responses in the Purkinje neuron resemble those associated with NMDA-receptor activation in other regions of the central nervous system, including voltage-sensitive rectification, blockade by divalent cations, and the induction of increased intracellular Ca2+ during the excitatory response. These unique properties may enable the Purkinje neuron to express both rapid and long-term effects of glutamatergic transmission with non-NMDA receptors alone.
Patients with schizophrenia have memory deficits when compared to other neuropsychiatric and normal samples, but the mechanism by which the deficits arise is obscure. In the present study, 13 older, less educated normal subjects, and 31 inpatients with schizophrenia were administered the Selective Reminding test. In addition, the schizophrenic patients received the Mini Mental State Exam and the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale. While normal subjects performed at a higher level on various measures of recall, a significant effect of repeated trials was present for each group for each measure, indicating that both groups learned. Normal subjects also outperformed the patients on a test of recognition memory. However, the patients exhibited a significantly greater disparity between recognition and recall than did the normal subjects, suggesting they were better able to acquire new information than to retrieve it ('forgetting to remember'). Moreover, anergia, a factor measure on the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale, correlated significantly with recall, but not recognition memory, in the patient group. The data are suggestive of prefrontal-type cognitive and behavioral deficits in schizophrenia.


Parkinsonism associated with boxing has attracted recent media attention, yet little has been written about it in the medical literature. This report presents a typical case with a review of the literature.
The case of a 4-year-old boy with 4 months' history of progressive quadriplegia is presented. The neuroradiological work-up, which included computed tomography scanning and magnetic resonance imaging, showed changes consistent with the diagnosis of a large mass lesion in the area of the foramen magnum. At operation a meningioma was completely excised. There was a gradual and almost complete neurological recovery.
JC-HEK, a JC virus (JCV) host range mutant adapted to growth in human embryonic kidney cells (HEK), has DNA rearrangement in the control region for early transcription. The 822-bp rearranged segment of JC-HEK (containing one authentic promoter-enhancer unit of 98 bp and truncated coding region of T-antigen and VP-1 genes) was inserted into pSV0cat vector and examined for expression of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT). The CAT activity induced by the mutant was comparable to that by the SV40 promoter-enhancer (pSV2cat) and four times as high as that by the prototype JCV (Mad-1) in HEK cells, whereas the two JCV promoter-enhancers were equally efficient in a permissive neuroblastoma cell line. On the other hand, both JC-HEK DNA with three DNA replication origins and Mad-1 DNAs replicated after transfection into HEK cells at a similar efficiency in the presence of JCV T-antigen. The elevated promotor-enhancer activity caused by the DNA rearrangement seems to play a major role in adaptation of JCV to growth in HEK cells.

Deficiency of complex I is one of the most commonly reported defects of the mitochondrial respiratory chain in man. Clinical evidence of tissue specific expression of complex I deficiency has not previously been confirmed biochemically. We report here slow oxidation of NAD+-linked substrates, low activity of complex I and low amounts of immunoreactive complex I peptides in skeletal muscle mitochondria from a patient with muscle weakness and lactic acidosis. In liver mitochondria complex I activity was normal and all the immunoreactive subunits of complex I were present in normal amounts.
We have investigated the action of pertussis toxin on a range of receptor-mediated responses of the rat superior cervical ganglion in vitro. The ganglia were treated with pertussis toxin for 24 h at 37 degrees C using an in vitro method. Appropriate controls were also carried out. Pertussis toxin (1 microgram/ml) reduced ganglionic hyperpolarisations mediated by adenosine, alpha 2, 5-HT1A, M2 and GABAB receptors. The GABAB-mediated hyperpolarisation of this preparation, evoked by baclofen and GABA in a bicuculline-resistant manner, has not previously been reported. Pertussis toxin did not reduce ganglionic depolarisations evoked by potassium chloride and 5-HT3, GABAA and nicotinic receptors. Depolarisations to muscarine and noradrenaline, probably mediated by M1 and beta-receptors, also appeared to be resistant to pertussis toxin. The similar sensitivity of the various ganglionic hyperpolarisations to pertussis toxin indicates that they may all be mediated by similar G-proteins.
The dose-response curve for the muscarine-induced depolarisation of the rat isolated superior cervical ganglion, studied over the concentration range of 3 nM-1 mM, was biphasic. An apparent maximum was obtained at around 1-3 microM muscarine, but this was only a plateau between the two parts of the curve. Two cardioselective antagonists, gallamine (10 microM) and AF-DX 116 (1 microM) had a complex action on this dose-response curve. The dose-response curve between 0.01 and 0.3 microM was shifted to the right, the responses around 3 microM muscarine were enhanced, but the dose-response curve over 30 microM muscarine was unaffected. The M1-selective antagonist pirenzepine (0.05 microM) depressed all parts of the dose-response curve, but it still appeared biphasic. Pretreatment of the ganglion with pertussis toxin (1 microgram/ml) enhanced the depolarisation to muscarine 0.01-1000 microM and the dose-response curve became less biphasic. Like gallamine and AF-DX 116, pertussis toxin abolished the muscarinic M2-mediated hyperpolarisation of the ganglion recorded in 0.3 microM pirenzepine. It is concluded that the presence of an underlying M2-mediated hyperpolarisation contributes to the biphasic nature of the dose-response curve to muscarine.

Previous studies from this laboratory showed that treatment with 17-beta-estradiol (E2) caused an acquisition of inhibitory effect of somatostatin (SRIF) on prolactin release with an increased number of SRIF-binding sites in the rat anterior pituitary. The aim of this study was to characterize the E2-dependent SRIF receptor in comparison with the E2-independent one, which was expressed in ovariectomized rats. The following observations were obtained: 1) both of the E2-dependent and E2-independent SRIF receptors, measured with 125I-Tyr11-SRIF as a radiolabeled ligand, were enriched in the plasma membrane fraction of the cells, displaying a single class of binding site (E2-dependent: Kd, 32 pM, Bmax, 2.3 pmol/mg protein; E2-independent: Kd, 83 pM, Bmax, 0.26 pmol/mg protein). The ligand binding to both receptors was sensitive to monovalent and divalent cations, and GTP. 2) Among the SRIF analogs tested, the relative potencies of SRIF28 and its analog and cyclosomatostatin compared with SRIF were lower in the E2-dependent receptor than in the E2-independent one. 3) A cross-linking study with N-hydroxysuccinimidyl-4-azido-benzoate revealed that the molecular weight of the cross-linked E2-dependent receptor was approximately 94,000, whereas that of the E2-independent one was 82,000, irrespective of the presence of a reducing reagent. The molecular weight of SRIF receptor from normal male or female rat pituitary was similar to the E2-independent type. 4) Both types of the cross-linked SRIF receptors were solubilized by sucrose monolaurate, adsorbed to a wheat germ agglutinin-agarose column, and eluted with N-acetyl-glucosamine. 5) SRIF inhibited the forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity in the pituitary membranes from E2-treated rats, but it did not in the E2-depleted membranes. These results demonstrate that there are at least two subtypes of SRIF receptor in the rat anterior pituitary, one of which is exclusively expressed by the treatment with E2, and that these subtypes are distinct with respect to ligand binding specificity, molecular weight, and coupling to adenylate cyclase inhibition.
The effects of the novel, highly selective serotonin-2 (5-HT2) antagonists, ICI 169,369 and ICI 170,809, on 24 h EEG sleep-wake activity were studied in the rat. Both compounds caused a dose-related increase in the latency to rapid eye movement sleep (REMS) and significantly suppressed cumulative REMS time up to 12 h postinjection. In contrast, neither drug disrupted slow-wave sleep continuity in as much as the latency to non-REMS (NREMS) and cumulative NREMS time were unchanged. However, at the highest dose tested (20 mg/kg) ICI 170,809 did produce a significant increase in total NREMS time during the second half of the sleep-awake cycle. These results demonstrate effects of selective 5-HT2 antagonists on sleep in rats which appear to be specific for REMS behavior, suggesting that the priming influence of serotonin on REMS may involve 5-HT2 receptor subtypes. The relationship between the REMS suppressant actions of these compounds and their consideration as therapeutic agents in depression is discussed.
The B16/C3 mouse melanoma cell line produces L-DOPA, catecholamines and melanin in tissue culture. Growth and development of these cells after transplantation into the rat and mouse brain were studied by immunocytochemical and histological techniques. The implanted cells were localized by prelabelling the cell nuclei with bisbenzimide, a fluorescent marker which binds to DNA. Following transplantation into rats, B16/C3 melanoma cells were found to survive for at least 4-6 weeks. These cells initially expressed tyrosinase and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity and in some cases contained catecholamines. After 3 weeks, the cytoplasm of the transplanted cells began to accumulate melanin; catecholamines and tyrosinase immunoreactivity were no longer detected. Ultimately the cells became round in shape and densely pigmented. Growth of the tumor in the rats was restricted and the implant was encapsulated within a glial sheath. There was evidence of an immune reaction to the tumor in that cells with Ia antigen immunoreactivity were present surrounding the graft. The rat hosts were not adversely affected by the presence of the tumor, nor did the tumor cell grafts alter rotational behavior consequent to unilateral substantia nigra lesions. In mouse hosts, however, the melanoma grew rapidly, was not encapsulated by glia and led to death of all animals. These data suggest that the tumor was not rapidly destroyed in rats, even though its growth was controlled through immunological mechanisms. Both trophic and immunological mechanisms may therefore be involved in the regulation of survival and differentiation of intracerebral grafts of tumor cells.
Previous studies have shown that catecholamines increase the nerve growth factor (NGF) content in medium conditioned by mouse L-M fibroblast cells and mouse astroglial cells. In this study, the NGF mRNA levels in these cells were measured by Northern blot analysis. In astroglial cells treated with epinephrine (EN), the cellular NGF mRNA level increased prior to accumulation of NGF in the culture medium. 3-Hydroxytyramine (DA) and norepinephrine (NE) also increased the cellular NGF mRNA content. An increased level of NGF mRNA elicited by EN was also observed in mouse L-M cells. These results indicate that catecholamines enhance NGF synthesis of L-M fibroblast cells and astroglial cells by increasing the cellular content of NGF mRNA. The present results also indicate that the effects of catecholamines are not mediated by adrenergic receptors.
Tau proteins were detected in human brain using two polyclonal antibodies: anti-paired helical filaments and anti-human native tau proteins. Both antisera detected identically the normal set of tau proteins in control brains. Moreover they detected two abnormal tau variants of 64 and 69 kDa exclusively in brain areas showing neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques. Tau 64 and 69 were abnormally phosphorylated as revealed by the decrease in their molecular mass observed after alkaline phosphatase treatment. Therefore, tau 64 and 69 are specific markers of the neurofibrillary degeneration of the Alzheimer type and might be useful tools for studying the first pathological events that lead to neuronal death.
Neurons in the septum (SEP) and vertical limb of the diagonal band (vDB) of 6-day-old rats were dissociated and cultured for 3 days. Cells with high affinity uptake mechanism for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) were identified autoradiographically using 16 nM [3H]GABA. Cells that expressed nerve growth factor (NGF) receptor immunoreactivity were identified immunocytochemically using MC192, a monoclonal antibody against NGF receptor. Double labeling experiments combining [3H]GABA uptake with immunostaining for NGF receptor showed that 46% of the NGF receptor-immunoreactive cells accumulated [3H]GABA. The result was discussed in relation to a possible involvement of the developing septal GABAergic neurons in NGF-induced neuronal survival.
To determine whether cholinergic spinal cord neurons can develop preferential projections in vitro within sympathetic ganglia (SGs) of appropriate levels of the neuraxis, organotypic explants of fetal mouse spinal cord (E13) from cervical, thoracic (upper and lower) and lumbar segments were co-cultured with either pairs of neonatal SGs: the rostral superior cervical ganglion (SCG) or a caudally located upper lumbar ganglion (LG). After 3.5-4 weeks of co-culture, levels of the enzyme, choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), were measured in individual spinal cord explants and SCGs or double LGs (to match the target mass of a single SCG). Interaction was assumed to occur primarily between an SCG or LG doublet and the adjacent ipsilateral half of the co-cultured cord segment. An index of cholinergic interaction was defined as the ganglion ChAT activity per unit ChAT activity in half co-cultured cord segment. The index of interaction with the SCG was highest with the T1/T2 (1.4) as compared with the T10/T11 (0.79), L1/L2 (0.38) and C2/C3 (0.11) segments. In contrast, the index of cholinergic interaction with double LGs was highest with the more caudally located T10/T11 (0.62) cord segment as compared with the rostral T1/T2 (0.33), cervical C2/C3 (0.2) and lumbar L1/L2 (0.17) segments. Ganglion compound action potentials evoked in LGs by stimulation of the ipsilateral portion of T10/T11 cord were blocked by the ganglionic antagonist, hexamethonium, as previously observed in co-cultures of SCGs with T1/T2 cord. These results indicate that pools of preganglionic neurons in thoracic cord segments can develop in vitro preferential cholinergic projections within SGs of appropriate position. Cervical and lumbar cord segments which contain a preponderance of somatic motoneurons over preganglionic neurons did not interact as effectively with either type of SG. The preferential cholinergic projections from rostral thoracic cord explants within co-cultured SCGs and from caudal thoracic cord explants within co-cultured SCGs and from caudal thoracic cord explants within LGs may reflect some degree of positional preference intrinsic to embryonic spinal cord neurons and/or their appropriate target SGs, consistent with the positional specificity expressed by preganglionic neurons and SGs in situ.
The trisomy-16 mouse is considered to be a model of human trisomy-21 (Down syndrome). We have examined the electrical membrane properties of cultured dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons from normal and trisomy-16 fetuses. Trisomy-16 neurons had significantly accelerated rates of action potential depolarization and repolarization compared to diploid neurons, resulting in decreased spike duration. These changes match those reported in human trisomy-21 DRG neurons. Such abnormalities may contribute to the mental retardation characteristic of Down syndrome.

The postnatal development and molecular properties of somatostatin receptor were studied in rat cerebral cortex. With [125I-Tyr11]SRIF as a radiolabeled ligand, the specific ligand binding to crude membrane increased transiently in the early phase of postnatal development and then decreased. This increase of somatostatin binding was mainly due to the increased number of binding sites. The two subtypes classified by Tran et al., SSA and SSB, were confirmed and the studies on the relative amount of the subtypes revealed that more SSA subtype was expressed compared with SSB subtype during a week after birth, but, thereafter, both subtypes were almost equally expressed throughout the developmental stages tested. Molecular weight of the covalently labeled somatostatin receptor (SSA subtype), which was determined with the aid of the cross-linking agents, was estimated to be approximately 71,000 with no intramolecular disulfide bond.
All subcortical afferents to the dorsal hippocampus, running in the fimbria-fornix and supracallosal path, were removed by aspiration. Three to 5 months later the rats were implanted with chronic recording electrodes in the dentate gyrus and CA1 region, and stimulating electrodes in the angular bundle. In non-lesioned rats, high-frequency trains delivered to the angular bundle gave rise to a sustained increase of the evoked population spike in the dentate gyrus. In lesioned animals, high-frequency stimulation resulted in only short-lasting changes, and by 15 min after the conditioning trains the amplitude of both the population spike and field postsynaptic potentials returned to baseline. In lesioned rats large amplitude interictal spikes (less than 40 ms, 3-8 mV) occurred spontaneously. These findings suggest that either (1) coactivation of entorhinal and subcortical inputs is essential for the induction of long-lasting plastic changes in the dentate gyrus, or (2) the long-term potentiation mechanism is saturated by the chronically occurring interictal discharges in the subcortically denervated dentate gyrus.
The choroid plexus has been implicated in the regulation of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) [Ca], but little information is available concerning Ca transport by this epithelium. We determined the transfer coefficients for 45Ca uptake into choroid plexus from blood, as well as tissue [Ca], in weanling Fischer-344 rats fed low, normal, or high Ca diets for 8 weeks. Plasma [Ca] decreased by 45% with low Ca diet and increased by 25% with high Ca diet. Choroid plexus 45Ca uptake varied inversely with plasma [Ca]. This relation was due largely to changes in extracellular Ca binding rather than to entry from blood, as the transfer coefficient was independent of plasma [Ca]. The extracellular Ca distribution in choroid plexus, the intercept of a plot of tissue 45Ca distribution against time, was reciprocally related to plasma [Ca]. Changes in total cell [Ca] during hypercalcemia were equivalent to those in plasma, and in hypocalcemia were 70% of those in plasma. These findings indicate that regulation of CSF [Ca] does not involve saturable transport of Ca into the choroid epithelium from blood, and that the apical membrane of the choroid epithelium is involved in homeostasis of CSF [Ca].
The effects of acute or repeated administration of haloperidol on release of dopamine (DA) and homovanillic acid (HVA) from striata of awake rats were studied using a microdialysis probe. A single injection of haloperidol (1 mg/kg, i.p.) produced a time-dependent increase in DA and HVA in the perfusate. Comparative studies in rats anesthetized with 300 mg/kg of chloral hydrate given i.p. found that anesthesia decreased the basal release of DA, but not HVA, and significantly blocked haloperidol-induced increases in DA, while haloperidol-induced increases in HVA were not affected. Studies done in awake rats found that 21 repeated daily injections of haloperidol increased the basal release of DA, but not HVA. Subsequent challenge with haloperidol indicated a significant decrease in responsiveness to haloperidol-induced release of DA, but not HVA, in chronically dosed rats. These data suggest that repeated exposure to haloperidol causes a compensatory increase in extracellular DA release. That these compensatory changes may be associated with the increased therapeutic efficacy or extrapyramidal side effects of neuroleptics following repeated dosing warrants further study.
The effect of systemic administration of the dopamine agonist apomorphine on plasma oxytocin concentration was studied in male rats by a specific radioimmunoassay. Apomorphine given subcutaneously in doses ranging from 80 to 480 micrograms/kg increased oxytocin levels in a dose-dependent manner. The minimal effective dose was found to be 80 micrograms/kg, which induced a 66% increase above basal values, while the maximal effect (210%) was seen with a dose of 240 micrograms/kg. The apomorphine effect was prevented by pretreatment with the DA D2-receptor blockers haloperidol (0.2 mg/kg i.p.) or (-) sulpiride (10 mg/kg i.p.) and, but only partially, with the DA D1-receptor blocker SCH 23390 (0.2 mg/kg s.c.). The present results suggest that hypothalamic dopamine has a facilitatory role on the release of oxytocin in male rats.
The high levels of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM, EC 1.14.17.3) found in adult rat atrium led us to examine PAM expression in rat atrium and ventricle from embryonic day 14 through adulthood. Immunocytochemical studies using antisera to PAM identified cardiocytes as the major site of PAM expression in atrium and ventricle throughout development. Levels of PAM mRNA and PAM activity exhibited distinctly different developmental profiles in atrium and ventricle. Ventricular PAM mRNA and PAM activity were highest from embryonic days 14 through 18, declined at the time of birth, rose slightly during the first postnatal week, and declined toward adult levels. Atrial PAM mRNA and PAM activity were low at embryonic day 14, rose to a peak immediately before birth, declined at the time of birth, and then rose after birth. Levels of atrial PAM mRNA and PAM activity were not directly correlated at all developmental stages. Two major forms of PAM mRNA (4.2 +/- 0.1 and 3.8 +/- 0.1 kilobase(s] were identified in atrium and ventricle throughout development. The prevalence of the two forms varied with developmental stage, with atrium and ventricle containing similar forms at each stage. Western blots of atrial and ventricular membranes revealed the existence of a developmental stage-specific distribution of PAM protein among forms ranging in mass from 125 to 94 kDa. In both atrium and ventricle PAM activity was primarily soluble from embryonic days 14 through 16 and primarily particulate after birth. The role of PAM in the heart is not yet clear, but the presence of tissue-specific and developmentally regulated alterations in PAM mRNA, PAM protein, and PAM activity suggests that this peptide processing enzyme plays a key role in the heart.
Neocortical choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity and muscarinic [3H]pirenzepine, [3H]oxotremorine-M, [3H]N-methylscopolamine ([3H]NMS; both high- and low-affinity agonist (carbachol) sites) and nicotinic [3H]acetylcholine binding were assessed both ipsi- and contralaterally 1 week and 13 weeks after unilateral ibotenic acid lesions of the rat nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM). Ipsilateral ChAT activity was reduced to 49% of control values 1 week postlesion but by 13 weeks had recovered to 80% of control values. Contralateral ChAT activity did not change significantly at either 1 week or 13 weeks postlesion. At 1 week postlesion, [3H]oxotremorine-M binding was increased by 33% and 54% in ipsilateral and contralateral neocortex, respectively. By week 13, both ipsi- and contralateral [3H]oxotremorine-M binding had returned to normal but [3H]pirenzepine binding was significantly decreased by 31% and 39% in the ipsilateral and contralateral hemispheres, respectively. The binding of [3H]NMS and [3H]acetylcholine did not differ significantly from control values at either 1 week or 13 weeks postlesion. These data suggest that none of the cholinergic binding sites studied is preferentially localized presynaptically and that there may be interhemispheric regulation of neocortical cholinergic binding sites.
As illustration of the integration of molecular biological studies into psychiatric research, use of molecular techniques in the study of Alzheimer's disease is described, and the resultant observation of otherwise undetectable pathological changes is noted. Using postmortem Alzheimer brain messenger RNA, recombinant DNA studies led to the ability to clone and characterize the expressed genetic transcript for amyloid. Application of this methodology is discussed in terms of establishing cellular and animal models for a neuropsychiatric disease.
In these experiments we examined the effects on gastric motility of cholecystokinin, LiCl, hypertonic NaCl solution, gastric distension, and intraduodenal glucose loads, five dissimilar treatments known to reduce food intake in rats. In addition, we investigated whether any observed effects were dependent on the afferent vagus nerve by pretreating subjects with the neurotoxin capsaicin. Each of the five treatments virtually eliminated the gastric contractions seen after rats had consumed a large meal of chow; these effects were rapid in onset and continued for up to 30 min. The inhibitory effects of cholecystokinin and gastric distension were eliminated by pretreatment with capsaicin, whereas the effects of the other treatments were attenuated only slightly or not at all. Because most of these treatments have been shown to stimulate pituitary oxytocin secretion in rats as well as to inhibit food intake and gastric motility, these results are consistent with the hypothesis that the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus is a site at which information is integrated in the coordinated control of food intake, gastric function, and neuroendocrine secretion.
Contractions of canine pylorus and adjacent muscles were recorded with antral and duodenal strain gauges and a Dent sleeve manometric assembly with additional side holes in the pylorus. In vivo, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) and peptide histamine isoleucine (PHI) given through the gastroepiploic artery inhibited both spontaneous and acetylcholine-induced pyloric contractions, before and after neural blockade with tetrodotoxin. Galanin inhibited only nerve-stimulated contractions. VIP greater than PHI much greater than galanin inhibited pyloric motor activity initiated by field stimulation of duodenal intramural nerves or intraduodenal infusion of 0.1 N HCl. In vitro, forskolin or field stimulation of nerves inhibited contractions of the pyloric muscle induced by various agonists but VIP-PHI failed to inhibit these contractions on two-thirds of the strips. The in vivo results suggest that VIP (or PHI) may be an inhibitory mediator in the pylorus acting directly on smooth muscle. Galanin may inhibit neural excitatory pathways in the pylorus. However, the structures on which VIP and PHI act in vivo may have become nonfunctional in vitro and other mediators account for the neural inhibition observed in isolated strips.
Although numerous studies have confirmed the presence of larger cerebral ventricles in schizophrenia, the locus of tissue loss remains elusive. By analyzing magnetic resonance scans with computerized image analysis, the authors determined gray and white matter volumes in the temporal lobes and prefrontal regions of 17 patients with schizophrenia and 17 age- and sex-matched normal subjects. The volume of temporal lobe gray matter was 20% smaller in the patients than in the control subjects. The lateral ventricular volume was 67% larger in the patients and, when normalized for brain size, correlated inversely with the volume of temporal lobe gray matter.
Effects of aspiration lesions of the cerebral cortex on the behavioral effects of intraventricular substantia nigra grafts were investigated. Apomorphine-induced rotational behavior consequent to unilateral lesions of the substantia nigra was used as a behavioral measure. Substantia nigra grafts reduced rotational behavior in animals with sham cortical lesions. Cortical lesions also decreased rotational behavior and, in these animals, no additional decrease in rotational behavior was induced by substantia nigra grafts. It is concluded that cortical lesions alter striatal circuitry so as to preclude a behavioral effect of substantia nigra grafts.
Rabbits received knife-cuts either medial or lateral to the mediodorsal nucleus of the thalamus (MD), and had stimulating electrodes implanted in MD. These animals were compared to animals with sham knife-cuts for (1) the cardiac component of the orienting reflex (OR) to novel tone stimuli; (2) differential pavlovian heart rate (HR) conditioning, utilizing tones of different frequencies as CSs and paraorbital shock as the US; and (3) heart rate, blood pressure, electromyographic activity, and respiration changes elicited by electrical stimulation in MD. Medial knife-cuts led to faster habituation of the OR, and to somewhat attenuated HR conditioning, but had no effect on stimulation-elicited changes. Lateral knife-cuts, on the other hand, enhanced the stimulation-elicited HR response, but had little effect on the HR OR. The HR CR was unaffected by lateral cuts during an initial conditioning session, but was attenuated in both knife-cut groups during a second session, compared to sham control animals.
The role of topographic information from a moving limb in controlling the trajectory of the limb was explored by comparing the ability of 3 normal and 2 unilaterally deafferented monkeys to generate criterion elbow flexions when opposed by different weights. When lifting initially unknown weights, both groups of monkeys reached maximum positions that were inversely related to load. The performance of the deafferented monkeys approached that of the normal monkeys on these first lifts of initially unknown weights. The preceding load had a greater effect on the initial lifts of the deafferented monkeys than on those of the normal monkeys. When allowed to repeatedly lift the same weight, both groups obtained a high density of reinforcement, but the responses of the deafferented monkeys were more dependent on the weight. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that the mechanical properties of muscle make an important contribution to compensation.
Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded in a GO/NO-GO reaction time task from 20 closed head injury patients, at least 6 months postinjury, and from 20 controls. In this task the pitch of an initial tone (Sl) indicated whether or not a response was required to a second tone (S2) occurring 1.5 s later. In the control group both the early, frontal-maximum, and the later vertex-maximum, components of the contingent negative variation (CNV) were larger on GO than NO-GO trials. In the patients, the early frontal CNV wave did not differentiate GO and NO-GO trials, and the late CNV showed a smaller separation between these trial types than did the late CNV of the control group. These CNV abnormalities may reflect impairments in selectively orienting to salient stimuli, and in differential response preparation. Such impairments might in turn reflect the damage to the frontal lobes and/or their connections that commonly occurs as a result of closed head injury.
To examine the regulation of brain development by gonadal steroids we are using monoclonal antibodies obtained with neonatal rat brain homogenates as immunogens. One antibody, 3D10, binds selectively in regions of identified monoaminergic neuronal cell groups in the brainstem. Characterization of 3D10 immunoreactivity was carried out using free-floating 50 microns tissue sections from perinatal rats. The strongest reactivity was seen on postnatal day 1 in the locus coeruleus (A6) and in the regions of the A4 (dorsal) and A5 (ventral) noradrenergic cell groups. Immunoreactivity was also seen in the raphe magnus, pallidus and obscuris. Faint immunoreactivity was seen in the more rostral and median raphe nuclei and in the midbrain dopaminergic cell groups of the ventral tegmentum and substantia nigra. The number of 3D10 immunoreactive cells in all groups was greatest perinatally and decreased with age. The number of immunoreactive cells in the A4 region of males decreased at an earlier age than in females. Female offspring treated prenatally with testosterone propionate also had fewer immunoreactive cells in the A4 region at earlier ages, approximating the time course in the male. Thus, changes in the number of 3D10 immunoreactive cells reveal hormonal control of the time course of a developmental process in a selective population of neurons.
The effects of midazolam (3 nM) perfusion on the membrane and synaptic properties of dentate gyrus granule neurons were examined in hippocampal slices obtained from young adult (4-6 months) and old (24-26 months) Fischer 344 rats. In young neurons, midazolam perfusion resulted in a hyperpolarization of the resting membrane potential with no apparent change in the input resistance. Midazolam perfusion also produced a significant increase in the amplitude of the post-spike train afterhyperpolarization (AHP). In neurons obtained from old animals, midazolam perfusion also produced a hyperpolarization of the resting membrane potential but did not significantly change the AHP. These effects may result from altered calcium homeostasis in neurons of the aged brain, and suggest that at least some of the direct actions of benzodiazepines on mammalian central neurons are altered during aging.
Vasopressinergic pathways within the spinal cord have been implicated in the control of cardiovascular function. This study was undertaken to determine the mechanisms whereby intrathecally administered arginine vasopressin (AVP) increases blood pressure and heart rate in anesthetized rats. The cardiovascular responses to intrathecal AVP administration were significantly attenuated after intravenous administration of the ganglionic blocking agent, chlorisondamine chloride, as were the pressor responses following alpha-adrenergic receptor blockade with phentolamine and the heart rate responses following beta-receptor blockade with propranolol. Intrathecal administration of the V1 vasopressin receptor antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)AVP completely blocked the cardiovascular responses to intrathecal AVP injections, but did not significantly alter the responses to intrathecal substance P injections. There was no evidence for the involvement of the renin-angiotensin system in the pressor responses to intrathecal AVP, as (i) an angiotensin II receptor blocking agent, [Sar1, Val5, Ala8]angiotensin, failed to significantly alter the responses to intrathecal AVP, and (ii) plasma renin levels did not change following administration of the peptide. Intrathecal injections of [3H]AVP suggest that only small amounts of the peptide may cross into the plasma during the time in which the cardiovascular variables are changing. These data provide evidence that intrathecally administered AVP discretely activates the sympathetic outflow to the heart and vasculature, and confirm the neurally mediated nature of the response.

Incubation of [3H]aldosterone-type I receptor complexes in mouse brain cytosol with the chaotropic anion thiocyanate increased the fraction of receptors retained by DNA-cellulose from less than 10% to over 40%, whereas it decreased the fraction retained by protamine sulfate from more than 90% to less than 10%. Thiocyanate-induced transformation to the DNA-binding species was also accompanied by a 2.1-fold decrease in the rate of [3H]aldosterone dissociation from type I receptors as well as by an increase in the apparent positive charge and hydrophobicity of the surface of these receptors, as revealed by DEAE Bio-Gel ion exchange and pentyl agarose hydrophobic interaction chromatography. Sucrose density gradient sedimentation and Sephacryl S-300 gel exclusion chromatography revealed a reduction in the sedimentation coefficient and Stokes radius of the steroid-receptor complex from 9.6S and 8.0 nm before to 4.7S and 6.1 nm after transformation, respectively. These changes in hydrodynamic parameters were found to correspond to a 2.8-fold reduction in the apparent molecular mass from 331,000 before to 120,000 after transformation. In view of these various findings as well as the known differential affinity of protamine sulfate for the 90K heat shock protein, we suggest that thiocyanate-induced transformation is initiated by the dissociation of two molecules of heat shock protein from each steroid/DNA-binding type I receptor subunit.
Brief narrative descriptions of four hypothetical individuals who differed in age and physical health were developed and presented to people who differed in age and sex. Each participant read only one of the four profiles. After reading the profile, the participant rated the profiled individual on the Rosencrantz and McNevin (1969) semantic differential scale of attitudes towards aging. Respondents were divided into a young group (29 years or younger), a middle-aged group (30-49 years), and an old group (50 years and older). No participant gender effects were found. All three age groups rated the older and younger profiles of persons in poor health more negatively than those describing healthy persons on each of the three dimensions of the Rosencrantz-McNeven scale. Older respondents tended to view the younger healthy profile and to a lessor extent the younger-sick profile more positively than the older profiles, but the young and middle-aged respondents viewed the older profiles more positively than the younger profiles on all three dimensions of the scale. These findings suggest that (a) a major component of negative attitudes toward the aged may be related to the more likely occurrence of physical illness in this age group, and (b) more negative attitudes toward the aged are more likely to occur in older than younger respondents regardless of health status.
The effects of D-Ala2-Met5-enkephalinamide (DAME) upon the hissing component of hypothalamically elicited affective defense behavior in the cat were examined in this study. Microinjections of DAME placed into the nucleus accumbens significantly suppressed this response in a dose and time dependent manner. This dose dependent suppression of affective defense decreased toward baseline levels at 60 and 90 min following delivery of 1 and 10 micrograms/0.5 microliters of DAME, respectively. Similar injections placed into the caudate nucleus had no effects upon this response. Neither vehicle control nor naloxone placed into nucleus accumbens was found to significantly alter latencies for hissing. Naloxone injected into nucleus accumbens prior to administration of either a 1-microgram or a 10-micrograms dose of DAME blocked the suppressive effects of DAME that were observed when this drug was administered alone. These findings suggest that opioid receptors in the nucleus accumbens play an important role in the regulation of the hissing component of hypothalamically elicited affective defense behavior in the cat.

In the description of parental psychopathology in narcotic dependence, emphasis has hitherto largely lain on the identification of addictogenic characteristics rather than on the identification of psychological distress. In an attempt to remedy the situation, we compared the parents of 21 male narcotic dependant patients with an equal number of matched controls. Using the General Health Questionnaire and the Subjective Well Being Inventory, we found the 'narcotic parents' experienced more (clinically significant) psychological discuss than did controls, and that this impairment was greater in 'narcotic mothers' than in their husbands. This distress was an ostensible result of having to cope with the burden of a narcotic dependant offspring. In view of these findings, and considering the poor prognosis associated with this diagnosis, we suggest' that management programmes for narcotic dependence include psychotherapeutic intervention directed towards reducing distress experienced by the parents. Possible lines for such intervention are suggested.
An analytical procedure has been studied in detail to optimize the recovery of the radiolabeled and unlabeled synthetic peptides substance P and methionine-enkephalin from a reversed phase octadecylsilyl disposable cartridge, which is one of the first steps to preferentially enrich peptides from a biologic matrix. Our previous research on biologic peptides indicated the need for the present study. The column flow-rate was found to be one of the most important experimental parameters; and its effect on the recovery of those two synthetic peptides was determined by the measurement of recovered radioactivity and by high performance liquid chromatography u.v. detection. The accuracy and reproducibility of the flow-rate affected recovery, and it was necessary to regulate the flow-rate with a syringe infusion pump. Recovery was optimum using a slow rate for both sample application and elution. Furthermore, a slow elution was more important than a slow rate of sample application. Such basic recovery studies on individual synthetic peptides are required before undertaking peptide extractions from biologic matrices.

Oxygen microelectrodes were used to study the distribution of oxygen in the retina of dark adapted anesthetized cats during short term elevation of intraocular pressure (IOP) that reduced the perfusion pressure (PP = mean femoral arterial pressure - IOP) to as low as 40 mm Hg. The oxygen tension (PO2) in the inner half of the retina was affected very little over this range. Choroidal PO2, however, decreased substantially, about 0.5 mm Hg per mm Hg perfusion pressure, in the area centralis and superior retina (15-20 degrees superior to the area centralis). This decreased the oxygen available to that part of the outer retina supplied by the choroidal circulation. Oxygen consumption was estimated by fitting profiles of PO2 as a function of distance to a diffusion model. This analysis showed that photoreceptor oxygen consumption decreased significantly at perfusion pressures less than 70 mm Hg in the area centralis. Changes in consumption were also observed in the superior retina, but were not significant. Oxygenation of a region just nasal to the optic disc was also studied, but neither the choroidal PO2 nor oxygen consumption in this area was affected over the range of PP studied. These results provide direct evidence that moderately increased IOP leads to a decrease in choroidal PO2 and sufficient hypoxia in the distal retina to cause a reduction in photoreceptor oxygen consumption. This presumably slows the photoreceptor Na+/K+ pump and leads to the ERG changes reported previously (Yancey and Linsenmeier, Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci 29:700, 1988).

Supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons receive a prominent gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA) input. This study evaluated the hypothesis, partly on the basis of recent electrophysiological data, that this innervation might arise from GABAergic neurons located in the ventral diagonal band of Broca area. For retrograde transport studies, pentobarbital-anesthetized male Long-Evans rats received 0.03-0.20-microliter injections of a suspension of rhodamine tagged latex microspheres into the SON. In two cases where such injections were confined to the SON, less than 60 retrogradely labeled neurons were detected in the ipsilateral diagonal band. In three animals where injections extended into the perinuclear zone around the SON, more than 2,000 retrogradely labeled cells were counted in the ipsilateral diagonal band. For anterograde transport studies, another group of animals received either 30% horseradish peroxidase (HRP) in 0.5% poly-L-ornithine (0.05-0.10 microliter injections) or Phaseolus vulgarus (iontophoresed from a 2% solution) into the diagonal band. After survivals of 18-24 hours (HRP) or 5 days (PHAL-L) labeled axon terminals invested the perinuclear zone above the SON. The presence of just a single fiber within the nucleus indicated a minor projection to the SON itself. The HRP-injected material was processed for ultrastructural examination and revealed dense HRP-labeled axon terminals in this perinuclear zone, most often (98%) forming axodendritic appositions. A postembedding colloidal gold technique to visualize GABA-synthesizing terminals revealed that fewer than 5% of these perinuclear HRP-labeled terminals also exhibited GABA-like immunoreactivity. Within the SON, where GABAergic axon terminals are abundant, few (less than 5%) GABAergic terminals contained HRP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Seven neurodiagnostic modalities are presented with complete explanations of the language of the neurosciences. The modalities include needle-electromyography, short latency somatosensory evoked response, motor conduction velocity and sensory nerve action potential studies, F-response and H-reflex studies, and electroencephalography. These neurodiagnostic studies are correlated with clinical chiropractic diagnostic expediency and specificity. Finally, the article demonstrates practical and efficient methods of cooperation between neurologists and the referring chiropractic physician that has eluded these professions for almost a century.
Electrophysiological events carry information, but the signals are not specific for a given bit of information. Therefore, the nervous system is required to extract the information from a multitude of signals. The process of information recognition is achieved by a superization process, i.e., by means of transition from many lower-order signals to a superior-order signal. In this way, a gradual recognition of the respective signal's emitting sources is realized. The recognition is performed with the aid of certain logical circuits representing models of different sources written in the structure of the neuronal network. In this manner, the nervous system passes step by step from control by means of signals to control by means of information. The superior structures can thereby exert much more subtle control and supervise the inferior structures that work by signals. However, because this control cannot refine all the general information of the inferior structures, psychophysiological dysfunction may occur. The nature of the superization process from signals to information is examined in this paper.

Sprague-Dawley rats were given treatments, known to decrease 22Na movement into choroid plexus and CSF, to investigate their effect on 22Na transfer across the cerebral capillaries. Acidic salts, acetazolamide, or amiloride was injected intraperitoneally into bilaterally nephrectomized rats, and the rate of 22Na uptake into parietal cortex, pons-medulla, and CSF was determined at 12, 18, and 24 min. Severe acidosis (arterial pH 7.2), produced by HCl injection, decreased the rate of 22Na entry into both brain regions and CSF by 25%, whereas mild acidosis (pH 7.3) from NH4Cl injection reduced brain entry by 18%, but CSF entry by only 10%. Like HCl acidosis, amiloride reduced transport into both brain and CSF by 22%. Penetration of 22Na into parietal cortex was unchanged by acetazolamide, but that into CSF was slowed 30%. Since uptake of 22Na into cortical regions is primarily movement of tracer across the cerebral capillaries when tracer uptake time is less than 30 min, the results indicate that both metabolic acidosis and amiloride decrease Na+ permeativity at the cerebral capillaries as well as at the choroid plexus. Acetazolamide, on the other hand, alters Na+ movement only across the choroidal epithelium.
Sternarchus emits low voltage biphasic pulses at about 700-900/s. These signals (and changes in them caused by external objects) are detected by the tuberous or phasic electroreceptors. We used electron microscopy to examine extracellular compartments in the current pathway to the receptor cells, which are delineated by cells joined by tight junctions. Highly specialized accessory cells were found to separate the receptor cells from the extracellular space continuous with the exterior. Except for synaptic specializations complements of intramembrane particles of cell membranes were unremarkable and did not correlate with presumed high and low resistivity. We propose an equivalent electrical circuit that is consistent with the morphological and physiological observations.
Increasingly, beta blockers are being utilized to treat patients with aggressive disorders secondary to brain lesions. To secure further data about the potential efficacy of beta blockers for this condition, a rat model was employed in which aggression was enhanced by 6-hydroxydopamine. Following lesioning of the brain, aggression in the rats increased from an average baseline of 10.9 +/- 2.1 to 42.7 +/- 2.0 fights per testing period. Thereafter, either pharmacologically inert, artificial CSF or nadolol was introduced through transcerebral, intraventricular perfusion with a significant reduction in aggression in the nadolol-treated animals when compared with those receiving artificial CSF.
The mRNAs for 2 isotypes of alpha-tubulin, termed T alpha 1 and T26, are differentially regulated in the developing rat nervous system. T alpha 1 alpha-tubulin mRNA is expressed at high levels when neurons extend processes whereas T26 mRNA is expressed constitutively (Miller et al., 1987b). We have examined the expression of these 2 alpha-tubulin mRNAs in regenerating facial and sciatic motor neurons of the rat using Northern blot and in situ hybridization analyses. T alpha 1 alpha-tubulin mRNA is rapidly induced in axotomized motor neurons of the facial nerve: increased levels of mRNA are detectable 4 hr after a lesion is made 1.5 cm distal to the neuronal cell bodies. T alpha 1 mRNA levels are highest from 3-7 d postcrush and decline slowly to control levels following functional reinnervation of facial muscles. In contrast, T26 mRNA levels remain constant throughout the regeneration process. Total alpha-tubulin mRNA levels do not change until 1 d postaxotomy; otherwise the changes in expression are similar to T alpha 1 mRNA, although the relative increase is not as great. Enhanced T alpha 1 alpha-tubulin mRNA expression also occurs in motor neurons of crushed or tied sciatic nerve. Ligature or crush of the sciatic nerve leads to approximately the same peak in the expression of T alpha 1 mRNA at 7-15 d postaxotomy. Following the facial nerve transection, under conditions in which reinnervation is prevented, T alpha 1 alpha-tubulin mRNA levels remain elevated significantly longer than when the nerve is crushed. Taken together, the data indicate that T alpha 1 alpha-tubulin mRNA is rapidly induced following neuronal axotomy, remains elevated during the period of axonal regrowth, and is subsequently down-regulated at the approximate time of target contact. These results are reminiscent of changes in T alpha 1 mRNA that occur during neuronal development. This growth-associated pattern of T alpha 1 gene expression can be modified by inhibiting appropriate regeneration of the damaged nerve.
Parafollicular (PF) cells have been found to be a good model system for the study of serotonergic cellular mechanisms relevant to neurons. PF cells are derived from the same region of the neural crest that gives rise to the neurons of the gut and are capable of extending neurofilament-bearing neuritic processes. PF cells also synthesize 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and costore 5-HT in the same vesicles as the specific 5-HT-binding protein, 45 kDa SBP. A hypothesis has been advanced that PF cells and enteric neurons share a common developmental precursor. The present investigation was undertaken in order to determine whether a human medullary thyroid carcinoma (MTC) cell line, which is derived from PF cells, sufficiently mimics PF cells that it can be substituted for them in investigations of serotonergic cellular biology. In contrast to PF cells, MTC cells can be propagated in vitro to provide adequate amounts of material for biochemical studies. MTC cells were found to contain neuropeptides, including calcitonin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and somatostatin, which have also been reported to be present in PF cells and enteric neurons. MTC cells also were observed to store endogenous 5-HT, to be able to synthesize 3H-5-HT from 3H-L-tryptophan, and to take up 3H-5-HT from the ambient medium by a carrier-mediated mechanism very similar to that of serotonergic neurons. In addition, the longterm accumulation of 3H-5-HT in MTC cells was antagonized by reserpine, suggesting that the cells contain 5-HT storage vesicles that, like the synaptic vesicles of serotonergic neurons, are characterized by a reserpine-sensitive transporter of biogenic amines. MTC cells also contain type A, but not type B, monoamine oxidase. Finally, MTC cells were found to contain both 45 and 56 kDa SBP. MTC cells thus retain a great many of the properties of PF cells, and, like PF cells, they are serotonergic cells with characteristics similar to serotonergic neurons. Substantial differences were found in the content of immunoreactive 5-HT and neuropeptides in individual MTC cells. Moreover, the release of newly synthesized 5-HT to the medium exceeded the ability of the cells to store the amine. Studies of the ultrastructure of the MTC cells revealed a limited and highly variable number of secretory granules, probably accounting for their limited 5-HT storage capacity and for the heterogeneity of immunostaining with antisera to 5-HT or neuropeptides.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In this article three intracranial tumors are described including signs, symptoms and radiologic findings. Two of the more common tumor types are discussed--meningioma and astrocytoma, along with one less common type, the germinoma. The germinoma with its less common features provides an interesting comparison. Each tumor is exemplified using case presentations. The neuroscience nurse, in understanding the mechanisms by which these tumors manifest themselves, will be better able to predict treatment, outcome and correlate nursing care as necessary.
Tethered cord syndrome, seen in patients with spinal dysraphism, is a progressive neurological deterioration due to stretching of the spinal cord. Spinal dysraphism results from defects during embryonic closure of the neural tube, usually in the lumbosacral region. In tethered cord syndrome an abnormally low conus medullaris is tethered by intradural abnormalities such as a short, thickened filum terminale, fibrous bands, a lipoma or diastematomyelia. This article distinguishes tethered cord syndrome from other forms of occult spinal dysraphism and describes and compares normal anatomy to pathological changes. Clinical symptoms and nursing management of the pediatric patient with tethered cord syndrome will be exemplified by a case study presentation.


Despite a few associated complications, the PEG is considered an excellent feeding tube for long-term enteral nutritional support, especially in the patient with neurologic dysfunction. The tube can be easily removed if the patient is able to resume oral intake and no longer needs supplemental nutrition. This tube can be easily converted to a gastro-jejunal tube if it is later determined a patient needs to be fed distal to the pylorus. Neuroscience nurses should be aware of this feeding tube, its indications, method of insertion and care in order to better provide adequate and safe nutritional therapy.
The time course of production and release of nerve growth factor (NGF) and non-NGF neuronotrophic factors for sympathetic neurons by chicken and rat sciatic nerves in culture was examined. These tissues actively synthesize and release neuronotrophic activity as metabolically poisoning nerves with azide dramatically reduced the amount of trophic activity released into the culture medium. The sustained release of this activity also was shown to be dependent on the presence of low-molecular-weight dialysable molecules present in foetal calf serum and amniotic fluid from day 11 chicken embryos. Affinity-purified antimouse NGF antibodies were used to show that sciatic nerves in culture release both NGF and non-NGF trophic factors. These antibodies inhibited all bioactivity of both mouse NGF and of a partially purified preparation of chicken NGF. Immunoblot studies confirm that the antibodies recognize both rodent and avian NGF. Excess antibody inhibited only about 50% of the trophic activity in media conditioned over rat or chicken nerves for the first 24 hr. Relatively similar amounts of this non-NGF trophic activity were released throughout 6 days in culture, and this trophic activity kept sympathetic neurons alive in culture in the absence of NGF for more than 4 days. NGF levels were quantified with a two-site enzyme-linked immunoassay and found to parallel changes in NGF bioactivity. Rat nerves released increasing amounts of NGF with time in culture. Whole chicken sciatic nerves, however, released decreasing amounts of NGF with time in culture, but when these nerves were desheathed by removal of the epineurium and attached tissue, the pattern of NGF release was similar to that observed in the smaller rat sciatic nerves. These studies therefore characterize antibodies recognizing chicken NGF, demonstrate that peripheral nerve tissue synthesize trophic factors other than NGF, and identify factors that influence NGF synthesis.
Dissociated neurons from the neural tube containing the trigeminal motor nucleus from early chick embryos were cultured on laminin or collagen-polyornithine substrates, with and without nerve growth factor (NGF). Control cultures were grown in similar conditions with cytochrome-C. It was found that neuronal survival was not affected by NGF or cytochrome-C, but it was enhanced by laminin. The expression of neuritic processes, however, was significantly enhanced in the presence of NGF on both laminin and collagen-polyornithine surfaces, with the greatest number of neurons producing processes seen in the laminin-plus-NGF group. The length of processes was similarly enhanced by laminin and by NGF. Cytochrome-C did not influence any of these measures. The results indicate that while laminin potentiates the NGF effect on these early neuronal populations, NGF in conjunction with other substrata can have similar, though less dramatic, effects. These results, together with prior evidence of NGF receptors and specific NGF retrograde transport, suggest that this growth factor may play a significant role in the normal ontogeny of early motoneuron populations.
A number of carbamoyl- and N(1)-substituted analogs of physostigmine were synthesized and their in vitro potencies (IC50 values) vs. human erythrocyte and brain (cerebral cortex and caudate nucleus) acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and electric eel AChE and against human brain and plasma butyrylcholinesterase (BChE) were compared to the potencies of physostigmine and other traditional anticholinesterases. In general, increasingly hydrophobic, simple nonbranching carbamoyl groups (as in octyl-, butyl- and benzylcarbamoyl eseroline) did not greatly alter potency vs. AChE whereas increasingly hydrophobic N(1)-substitutions [i.e., N(1)-allyl-, -phenethyl and -benzylphysostigmine] decreased potency vs. AChE. In contrast, increasing the hydrophobicity of both the carbamoyl and N(1) groups increased the potency of the compound against BChE. Furthermore, quaternarization at the N(1) position (physostigmine methosulfate) increased potency vs. AChE but reduced potency vs. BChE. Bulky, branched carbamoyl groups (e.g., N-benzyl-N-benzyl-allophanyl eseroline) were all poor anticholinesterases. N-phenylcarbamoyl eseroline was as potent as benzylcarbamoyl eseroline against AChE yet was 50 to 100 times less potent than the benzyl analog vs. BChE. Therefore, the phenyl substitution appears to increase greatly the selectivity of the compound for AChE. Although it is not possible to determine whether physostigmine analogs that are potent in vitro might be of interest in vivo, these results do show that the structure of physostigmine can be changed significantly while retaining biological activity.
Biological rhythms have been observed in practically all groups of laboratory mammals and at every level of physiological and behavioural organization. Biological rhythms are classified according to their period as ultradian (less than 24 h), circadian (approximately 24 h), infradian (greater than 24 h), and seasonal or circannual rhythms (approximately 1 year). This review outlines what is known about the neurobiology of biological rhythms in mammals and describes the hierarchical order in which ultradian, circadian and infradian rhythms are related to each other. The article does not attempt to catalogue every physiological variable showing rhythmical fluctuations in laboratory mammals. Rather, it focuses on the basic concepts of circadian rhythms and recent advances made in our understanding of the physiology of the internal clock controlling circadian and other biological rhythms.
The amount and composition of lysophosphatidate present in different rat tissues have been estimated by an internal standard method in which a synthetic unnatural isomer (1-heptadecanoyl-rac-glycerol-3-phosphate) was added to the total lipid extracts, and the fatty acid composition of purified lysophosphatidate was determined. Lipids from tissues were extracted under acidic conditions, and the lysophosphatidate was purified by solvent partitions followed by thin-layer chromatography in multiple solvent systems. The purified lipid was shown to be 1-acyl-sn-glycerol-3-phosphate by chromatographic and chemical analysis, by its resistance to hydrolysis when treated with phospholipase A2 and also by its complete conversion to 1-acyl-sn-glycerol when treated with alkaline phosphatase. The fatty acid constituents of this lipid were determined by gas-liquid chromatography of the derived methyl esters. The concentrations (nmol/g of tissue) of lysophosphatidate in various tissues were: 86.2 +/- 4.2 in brain, 60.3 +/- 6.3 in liver, 46.4 +/- 6.5 in kidney, 30.6 +/- 5.0 in testis, 22.3 in heart and 19.3 in lung. Mostly (80%) saturated fatty acids were found to be present in this lyso lipid. A significantly high level of stearic acid was present in this lipid from all the tissues (50-60% in liver, kidney, brain and testis, and about 40% in heart and lung) compared to palmitic acid (10-15% in liver, kidney and brain and 25-30% in testis, heart and lung). The fatty acid compositions of phosphatidic acid, the putative product of lysophosphatidate acylation, from different tissues were also determined and palmitate was found to be the major saturated fatty acid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
L-Glutamate, the natural agonist of quisqualate- and N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-sensitive excitatory amino acid receptors, elicits a rapid, transient, dose-dependent increase of the steady state level of c-fos mRNA followed by an accumulation of c-fos protein immunostaining in cell nuclei. This induction is prevented by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, an isosteric glutamate receptor antagonist, and by Mg2+ ion and phencyclidine, two noncompetitive allosteric antagonists of NMDA-sensitive glutamate receptors. Kainate and quisqualate (up to 150 microM) failed to alter the basal expression of c-fos mRNA. Furthermore, glycine, a positive allosteric modulator of NMDA-sensitive glutamate receptors, potentiated the glutamate response in a strychnine-insensitive manner. Activation of other transmitter receptors present in these cells (gamma-aminobutyric acid(A), gamma-aminobutyric acid(B), and muscarinic) failed to increase c-fos mRNA expression. Our results provide evidence that activation of NMDA-sensitive glutamate receptors plays an exclusive role in the induction of c-fos mRNA expression and translation in primary cultures of granule cells. It can be inferred that, by this mechanism, glutamate can initiate a transcriptional program that may result in changes in the simultaneous expression of a set of target genes involved in neuron-specific responses.
125I-Bolton Hunter-cholecystokinin octapeptide (BH-CCK8) and (-)-[3H]L-364718 membrane binding assays were used to identify and characterize cholecystokinin (CCK) receptors in CHP212 human neuroblastoma cells. The ligand binding properties of CCK receptors in these cells are similar to those found in pancreas (CCK-A sites) and differ from the predominant type of CCK binding site found in brain (CCK-B sites). The specific binding of 125I-BH-CCK8 but not (-)-[3H]L-364718 was reduced by the metabolically stable GTP analog guanosine 5'-(beta-delta-imido)trisphosphate. A substantial difference in the Bmax for the radiolabeled agonist (125I-BH-CCK8) and antagonist [(-)-[3H]L-364718] was noted. These observations are consistent with CCK receptors existing in guanine nucleotide-binding protein-coupled and -uncoupled states. Similar to its action in pancreatic acinar cells, CCK8(S) stimulated the accumulation of [3H]inositol phosphates in cells prelabeled with [3H]myo-inositol (EC50 = 3.2 +/- 0.4 nM; maximum response = 4.5 +/- 0.4 x basal). The intrinsic activity of CCK analogues in stimulating phosphoinositide hydrolysis was substantially less than their reported intrinsic activity in stimulating phosphoinositide hydrolysis in pancreatic acinar cells. The CHP212 neuroblastoma cell may serve as a useful model for the recently reported CCK-A binding site found in the central nervous system.
Flat sheet preparations of the mucosa plus submucosa from the guinea-pig ileum were placed in Ussing chambers so that short circuit current (Isc), an index of electrolyte movement across the mucosa, could be measured. In these preparations, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) increases Isc indirectly by stimulating both cholinergic and non-cholinergic secretomotor neurons. The 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, ICS 205-930 (10(-13)-10(-5 M), substantially depressed the secretory response due to 5-HT (10(-6) M), but not that produced by direct activation of muscarinic receptors on the mucosal epithelium with carbachol (10(-6) M), or by stimulation of secretomotor neurons with substance P (10(-8) M) or 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium (10(-5)M). The residual response to 5-HT, after the addition of a maximally effective concentration of ICS 205-930 (10(-6) M), was further reduced by hyoscine (10(-7) M). When that part of the 5-HT response attributable to the release of acetylcholine was blocked by hyoscine (10(-7) M), ICS 205-930 did not further modify the response to 5-HT. The hyoscine-resistant component was, however, substantially depressed by tetrodotoxin (3.5 x 10(-7) M). The response remaining after ICS 205-930 and hyoscine was not affected by methysergide (2 x 10(-5) M) or cyproheptadine (10(-7) M). We conclude that there are ICS 205-930 sensitive 5-HT receptors on cholinergic secretomotor neurons, and ICS 205-930, methysergide, and cyproheptadine insensitive 5-HT receptors on non-cholinergic secretomotor neurons.
Tau protein undergoes a shift in its molecular mass and its electrophoretic complexity during early postnatal development. We have sequenced a tau cDNA from an adult rat brain expression library and have found two inserted sequences. One of these inserts predicts a fourth repeated sequence homologous to the other three in the carboxyl end of tau that have the property of microtubule binding. Oligonucleotide probes directed against the insert hybridized only to tau mRNA at postnatal time points, even though tau is first expressed as early as embryonic day 13. A probe directed against the junction revealed expression of non-insert-containing tau mRNA from embryonic day 14 until postnatal day 8, after which time there was an abrupt decline in the expression of this immature form. Comparison of the developmentally expressed tau sequences with those sequences obtained directly from Alzheimer paired helical filaments revealed the presence of both the mature and the immature tau mRNA sequences.
Two functionally different forms of the voltage-dependent sodium channel were observed in glia and in neurons of the mammalian nervous system. Both forms had identical conductance and tetrodotoxin sensitivity and displayed steady-state inactivation, a strongly voltage-dependent rate of activation, and a faster but weakly voltage-sensitive rate of inactivation. However, the glial form had significantly slower kinetics and a more negative voltage dependence, suggesting that it was functionally specialized for glia. This form was found in most glial types studied, while the neuronal form was observed in retinal ganglion cells, cortical motor neurons, and O2A glial progenitor cells. Both forms occurred in type-2 astrocytes. The presence of the glial form correlated with the RAN-2 surface antigen.
The effect of synthetic spider toxin analogs containing aza-crown in combination with zinc and copper was studied on the lobster neuromuscular synapse. The suppressive action of N4-type spider toxin analog (N4) on excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) was markedly enhanced in the presence of 10(-5)-10(-4) M Zn2+. Cu2+ (10(-4) M) also had a potentiating effect on the suppression of EPSPs by N4 but to a lesser degree than Zn2+. While N6-type spider toxin analog (N6) suppressed EPSPs more effectively than N4, additional suppression was not pronounced in the presence of Zn2+ or Cu2+. The results suggest that chelatable divalent metal ions play an important role in the blocking mechanism of glutamate receptor by the spider toxin.
In the last 2 decades, the application of new techniques in neuroanatomy has led to spectacular advances in our knowledge of the structure and function of the human spinal cord. In 1988, it is appropriate to review this progress, and I am grateful to Sir George Bedbrook and the organisers of the International Paraplegia Meeting in Perth, Western Australia, for inviting me to give this survey, to which I have given the title 'The New Neuroanatomy of the Spinal Cord'.
This study examines the effectiveness of physical exercise, during a prepathology state, on locomotor balance compensation after subsequent unilateral labyrinthectomy in squirrel monkeys. An experimental group underwent 3 hr. of daily running exercise on a treadmill for 3 mo. prior to the surgery, whereas a control group was not exercised. Postoperatively, the locomotor balance function of both groups was tested for 3 mo. There was no significant difference in gait deviation counts in the acute phase of compensation. However, in the chronic compensation maintenance phase, the number of gait deviation counts was fewer in the exercise group, which showed significantly better performance stability.
Ball games are characterized by perceptual uncertainty and time-pressure. Of interest is the visual-search pattern carried out when these characteristics change. This is the case in table-tennis situations when comparing a drill situation, when one kind of stroke is constantly repeated, and a match situation, when the stroke is more often unpredictable. We analysed, during play, the visual-search pattern of five expert table tennis players to examine the effect of uncertainty on visual behavior. Direction of gaze was recorded by a video-oculographic recorder (NAC Eye Mark Recorder IV). Analysis showed that (i) visual fixations towards opponent player were only systematic in a match contrary to drill where they occurred less frequently. (ii) Whatever the situation, only the first part of the ball's trajectory was visually tracked. This occurred immediately after the opponent's release of the ball. Nevertheless, visual tracking was more frequent and of longer duration in a match. (iii) Analysis of motor behavior showed that the duration of the movement preparation was longer in a match while the duration of the execution phase was unchanged.
The effects of atropine sulfate (ATS) and atropine methyl nitrate (ATM) on the conditional discrimination behavior of rats were investigated in eight-hour experimental sessions. Responding of rats was reinforced on either a lighted or a darkened lever depending on whether lights over both levers had been on during the preceding sample portion of the trial. Zero-delay and four-second-delay trials were randomly interspersed. Quality of performance was analyzed using the A' sensitivity measure of signal detection theory. Both drugs reduced both sensitivity and the percentage of trials on which responding occurred (percent response) below saline treatment levels. The two drugs did not reliably differ from each other in their effects on sensitivity during the zero-delay condition, but reliable differences between the two drugs emerged during the four-second-delay condition at doses above 0.8 mg/kg. Percent response recovered more rapidly for animals treated with ATS than responding occurred (percent response) below saline treatment levels. The two drugs did not reliably differ from each other in their effects on sensitivity during the zero-delay condition, but reliable differences between the two drugs emerged during the four-second-delay condition at doses above 0.8 mg/kg.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The sexually dimorphic dorsomedial nucleus (DM) of the spinal cord of mice is affected by gonadal steroids in adulthood and these effects are dependent upon genotype. Following castration of adult mice there is a decrease in DM cell size in DBA/2J and hybrid B6D2F1 strains and a decrease in the number of cells staining with thionin in C57B1/6J and B6D2F1 strains. The effects of androgens on development of the DM nucleus were examined in B6D2F1 mice, which exhibit both characteristics in adulthood. Testosterone propionate (TP) administered to females pre- or postnatally resulted in a significantly larger number of motoneurons in the region of the DM when compared to administration of the vehicle alone, while soma area remained unchanged. Adult males castrated on the day of birth had significantly fewer cells in the DM than did intact males. Differences in cell size between shams and castrates were dependent upon age.
Cholinergic antagonists, such as scopolamine, atropine, and hemicholinium-3, have been found previously to inhibit lordosis in ovariectomized rats primed with estrogen and progesterone. The present study further examined this effect using intact cycling female rats. Cycling was determined by daily monitoring of sexual behavior and vaginal cytology. In the first experiment, intraventricular administration of the muscarinic receptor blocker, scopolamine, was found to significantly inhibit lordosis behavior during natural estrus (10 or 20 micrograms bilaterally). In the second experiment, systemic administration of scopolamine was also found to significantly inhibit lordosis behavior during natural estrus (4 mg/kg, IP). Administration of the cholinergic antagonist did not significantly interrupt cyclicity patterns. These results indicate that central cholinergic muscarinic systems contribute to the regulation of lordosis during natural behavioral estrus in intact female rats.
We have used the hippocampal slice preparation to investigate the regulation of protein tyrosine phosphorylation in brain. After pharmacological treatment of intact slices, proteins were separated by electrophoresis, and levels of protein tyrosine phosphorylation were assessed by immunoblotting with specific anti-phosphotyrosine antibodies. Phorbol esters, activators of the serine- and threonine-phosphorylating enzyme protein kinase C, selectively increase tyrosine phosphorylation of a soluble protein with an apparent molecular mass of approximately 40 kilodaltons. Muscarinic agonists such as carbachol and oxotremorine M that strongly activate the inositol phospholipid system also increase tyrosine phosphorylation of this protein. Neurotransmitter activation of the inositol phospholipid system and protein kinase C appears to trigger a cascade leading to increased tyrosine phosphorylation.
This study was undertaken to evaluate the levels of cAMP-regulated phosphoproteins in the striatum of patients with neurodegenerative diseases of the dopaminergic system. Postmortem samples of caudate nucleus and putamen from 24 control subjects, 23 patients with Parkinson disease, and 13 patients with progressive supranuclear palsy were studied with immunoblotting techniques. The levels of tyrosine hydroxylase were reduced in patients with Parkinson disease (levels were 24% and 10% of controls in caudate nucleus and putamen, respectively) and with progressive supranuclear palsy (levels were 11% and 6% of controls in caudate nucleus and putamen, respectively). Five phosphoproteins, which are present in striatal neurons and are likely to play a role in the postsynaptic actions of dopamine, were measured. These included ARPP-16, ARPP-19, ARPP-21 (cAMP-regulated phosphoproteins of Mr 16,000, 19,000, and 21,000, respectively), DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein of Mr 32,000), and phosphatase inhibitor I. The levels of these phosphoproteins were inversely correlated with postmortem delay. In brains of patients with Parkinson disease or progressive supranuclear palsy with postmortem delays comparable to those of controls, the levels of these proteins as well as those of synaptic (synapsin I and synaptophysin) and glial (glial fibrillary acidic protein and myelin basic protein) markers were not significantly modified. We conclude that the levels of several phosphoproteins involved in signal transduction in striatal neurons are not altered in Parkinson disease and progressive supranuclear palsy. This observation supports the view that the striatal output neurons are intact in both diseases.
A protein of 87 kilodaltons (87 kDa) was previously identified as a major specific substrate for protein kinase C in neuronal and other tissues. We have now studied the effect of protein kinase C-catalyzed phosphorylation of this protein on its association with membranes in isolated nerve terminals (synaptosomes) from rat cerebral cortex. Incubation of synaptosomal membranes under conditions associated with activation of protein kinase C led to the release of the phosphorylated 87-kDa protein into the incubation medium. In intact synaptosomes, activation of protein kinase C by phorbol esters or by depolarization-induced Ca2+ influx caused an increased phosphorylation of the 87-kDa protein and its translocation from membrane to cytosol. This translocation showed time courses, calcium dependency, and reversibility similar to those observed for the protein kinase C-induced phosphorylation of the protein. These results suggest that protein kinase C-catalyzed phosphorylation of the 87-kDa protein is responsible for its subcellular translocation into the cytosol of nerve terminals.
Hepatocytes are well coupled by gap junctions, which allow the diffusion of small molecules between cells. Although gap junctions in many tissues are permeable to molecules larger than cAMP and in several preparations gap junctions pass cAMP itself, little direct evidence supports permeation by other second-messenger species. Ca2+, perhaps the smallest second messenger, would be expected to cross gap junctions, but the issue is complicated because gap-junction channels are closed when intracellular free Ca2+ concentration, [Ca2+]i, is elevated to micromolar levels or above. Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3), a second messenger that can evoke Ca2+ release, might also reduce junctional permeability by this mechanism. We report here evidence for transjunctional flux of Ca2+ and InsP3 in freshly isolated pairs or small clusters of rat hepatocytes. The Ca2+ indicator fura-2 was used to monitor transjunctional diffusion of Ca2+ directly or to detect passage of InsP3 by localized Ca2+ release. Fura-2 injected as the free acid passed between cells. Injection of InsP3 or CaCl2 immediately increased [Ca2+]i in the injected cell (peak values less than 1 microM), and [Ca2+]i increased rapidly in contacting cells (within seconds). The initial rise in [Ca2+]i induced by InsP3 was greater at discrete regions in the cytoplasm of both injected and uninjected cells and was inconsistent with simple diffusion of Ca2+. In the coupled cells the regions of greatest increase were not necessarily near the contact zone. In contrast, the rise induced in [Ca2+]i by CaCl2 injection when cells were bathed in normal Ca2+ was always more diffuse than with InsP3 injection, and in cells coupled to a cell injected with CaCl2 the earliest and maximal increases occurred at the region of cell contact. This difference in distribution indicates that injected InsP3 (or an active metabolite, but not Ca2+) diffused between cells to cause localized release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. Ca2+ injection induced a rise in [Ca2+]i in coupled cells even when cells were maintained in Ca2+-free saline, suggesting that changes in [Ca2+]i seen in adjacent cells were due to transjunctional diffusion from the injected cell and not to uptake from the extracellular solution. However, in Ca2+-free saline, [Ca2+]i distribution was nonuniform, indicating that Ca2+-releasing mechanisms contribute to the observed changes. No increase in [Ca2+]i was seen in adjacent cells when Ca2+ was injected after treatment with the uncoupling agent octanol (500 microM), which itself did not change [Ca2+]i. These data provide evidence that the second messengers Ca2+ and InsP3 can be transmitted from cell to cell through gap junctions, a process that may have an important role in tissue function.
Inbred Lewis (LEW/N) female rats develop an arthritis in response to group A streptococcal cell wall peptidoglycan polysaccharide (SCW), which mimics human rheumatoid arthritis. Histocompatible Fischer (F344/N) rats do not develop arthritis in response to the same SCW stimulus. To evaluate this difference in inflammatory reactivity, we examined the function of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and its ability to modulate the development of the inflammatory response in LEW/N and F344/N rats. We have found that, in contrast to F344/N rats, LEW/N rats had markedly impaired plasma corticotropin and corticosterone responses to SCW, recombinant human interleukin 1 alpha, the serotonin agonist quipazine, and synthetic rat/human corticotropin-releasing hormone. LEW/N rats also had smaller adrenal glands and larger thymuses. Replacement doses of dexamethasone decreased the severity of LEW/N rats' SCW-induced arthritis. Conversely, treatment of F344/N rats with the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist RU 486 or the serotonin antagonist LY53857 was associated with development of severe inflammatory disease, including arthritis, in response to SCW. These findings support the concept that susceptibility of LEW/N rats to SCW arthritis is related to defective HPA axis responsiveness to inflammatory and other stress mediators and that resistance of F344/N rats to SCW arthritis is regulated by an intact HPA axis-immune system feedback loop.
mRNAs for isozymes of phospholipase C (PLC) were localized in rat brain by in situ hybridization with oligonucleotide probes for PLC isozymes I, II, and III of Rhee's group [Suh, P.-G., Ryu, S. H., Moon, K. H., Suh, H. W. &amp; Rhee, S. G. (1988) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 85, 5419-5423 and (1988) Cell 54, 161-169], and isozyme I of Bennett and Crooke [Bennett, C. F., Balcarek, J. M., Varrichio, A. &amp; Crooke, S. T. (1988) Nature (London) 334, 268-270], which we designate PLC-A. The isozymes displayed different localizations. PLC-A mRNA was highest in the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb, choroid plexus, hippocampus and dentate gyrus, magnocellular hypothalamic nuclei, rostral raphe nuclei, and cerebellar Purkinje cells. PLC-I was highest in the internal granular cell layer of the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, caudate, nucleus of the lateral olfactory tract, reticular nucleus of thalamus, hippocampus and dentate gyrus, and granule cell layer of the cerebellum. PLC-II had a more widespread distribution, with relatively high levels in the internal granular layer of the olfactory bulb, hippocampus and dentate gyrus, and cerebellar Purkinje and granule cells. PLC-III label was low throughout the brain. These distributions suggest selective coupling of individual PLC isozymes with particular postsynaptic receptors. PLC-A may be preferentially associated with 5-hydroxytryptamine 1C receptors, vasopressin V1 receptors, and a subtype of glutamate receptors. PLC-I may be linked to muscarinic m1 and m3 receptors as well as other receptors. The distribution of PLC-II mRNA resembles that of src protooncogene, with which it displays sequence homology.
Hair cells of the bullfrog sacculus adapt to maintained displacement stimuli in a manner that suggests an active regulation of the tension stimulus reaching transduction channels. We have examined adaptation in dissociated hair cells by whole-cell patch-clamp recording and video microscopy. Adaptation was present in these cells, and it depended on extracellular calcium. The adaptation rate--as well as the position of the resting current-displacement curve--also depended on membrane potential, suggesting that calcium passes into the cytoplasm to reach its site of action. After abrupt hyperpolarization, the adaptation rate increased within milliseconds, suggesting that the calcium site is within a few micrometers of the ion channels through which calcium enters. The voltage dependence of the resting current-displacement curve, together with the &quot;gating springs&quot; hypothesis for transduction, predicts movement of the bundle away from the kinocilium when the cell is depolarized. This was observed.
Inositol (1,4,5)P3 (IP3) receptors in rat cerebellar membranes have been used to develop a radioreceptor assay for endogenous IP3. The assay is sensitive, detecting as little as 1 pmole IP3 in a 0.5 ml volume. The receptor is highly selective for the 1,4,5-isomer of IP3 so that assays can employ crude tissue extracts with no purification. Chromatographic analysis and selective enzymatic hydrolysis of IP3 show that in crude tissue extracts only authentic IP3 is detected. A hundred or more samples can be assayed in a day for endogenous IP3.
Radioligand binding and functional assays were employed to demonstrate the existence of somatostatin receptors in the murine neuroblastoma clone N1E-115. Saturation experiments with [125I][Tyr11]somatostatin-14 indicated the presence of a single class of binding sites in membranes prepared from N1E-115 cells (Kd = 83 pM; Bmax = 21,000 receptors/cell). Somatostatin-14, somatostatin-28 and L363586 (cyclo(N-Me-ALA-TYR-D-TRP-LYS-VAL-PHE] all displaced the 125I-ligand monophasically in N1E-115 cells (Ki values were 28, 82 and 34 pM, respectively), which contrasted with the binding heterogeneity apparent with L363586 in rat brain membranes. The binding of [125I][Tyr11]somatostatin-14 was reduced by GppNHp, indicating that N1E-115 somatostatin receptors interacted with guanine nucleotide binding protein(s). Somatostatin agonists decreased by 30-50% the levels of [3H]cyclic AMP induced in intact cells by forskolin, prostaglandin E1, or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. The EC50 values for inhibition of the [3H]cyclic AMP response to PGE1 by L363586, somatostatin-14, and somatostatin-28 were 0.24, 0.63 and 1.0 nM, respectively. Pertussis toxin treatment of N1E-115 cells reduced both binding to the receptor and the functional response to somatostatin-14. These data suggest that a single class of somatostatin receptors in N1E-115 cells are linked to the inhibition of adenylate cyclase through a Gi protein.
Intracellular recordings from melanotrophs in acutely isolated, intact pituitaries revealed inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) resulting from both pituitary stalk stimulation and exogenous gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) application. The stalk-stimulated and GABA-evoked IPSPs displayed identical conductance increases to chloride ions. Both responses reversed in polarity at the same membrane potential and were blocked with bicuculline, a GABAA antagonist. We conclude that activation of this synapse releases GABA which acts on a classical GABAA receptor to increase conductance to chloride in the melanotroph.
Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is characterized by a nondilated, hypertrophied left ventricle in the absence of any overt cause. A possible role of adrenergic innervation or of cellular calcium regulation is suggested by the presence of hyperdynamic left ventricular function and by the clinical and symptomatic improvement seen in patients treated with beta-receptor antagonists or calcium antagonists. Therefore, we measured the density of calcium-antagonist receptors and beta-adrenoceptors in the atrial myocardium of 16 patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and 19 patients with various other cardiac disorders. For comparison, we also measured the number of voltage-sensitive sodium channels. Calcium-antagonist binding sites, measured as the amount of dihydropyridine bound to atrial tissue, were increased by 33 percent in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy (mean [+/- SD], 397 +/- 104 fmol per milligram of protein in patients with hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, as compared with 299 +/- 108 in patients with other cardiac disorders; P less than 0.01). The densities of saxitoxin-binding sites on voltage-sensitive sodium channels and beta-adrenoceptors were the same in the two groups, although the density of beta-adrenoceptors was higher in atrial samples from patients receiving beta-receptor antagonists (165 +/- 86 fmol per milligram of protein [patients receiving beta-blockers] vs. 85 +/- 60 [patients not receiving beta-blockers]; P less than 0.04). The increase in the number of calcium-antagonist receptors in hypertrophic cardiomyopathy suggests that abnormal calcium fluxes through voltage-sensitive calcium channels may play a pathophysiologic part in the disease.
In addition to the 5-HT3-mediated fast depolarisation, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) evoked two additional responses on the rat superior cervical ganglion: a hyperpolarisation and a slow depolarisation. These responses appeared to be direct actions on 5-HT receptors since they were present in a low calcium medium containing tetrodotoxin and were not abolished by a variety of non-serotonin antagonists. The hyperpolarisation was not antagonised by 5-HT3 or 5-HT2 antagonists. The 5-HT1 ligands 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT) and 8-OH-DPAT also evoked a hyperpolarisation. The hyperpolarisation was antagonised by six 5-HT1A antagonists including WB-4101 and spiroxatrine. It was therefore concluded to be mediated by a 5-HT1A receptor. The slow depolarisation was only evoked by 5-HT. The receptor involved in this response, however, could not be determined. We conclude that in addition to 5-HT3 receptors the rat superior cervical ganglion possesses 5-HT1A receptors and another uncharacterised 5-HT receptor.
The effects of dextromethorphan (DM) were tested in an in vivo model of incomplete global cerebral ischemia. Anesthetized rats were divided into 4 groups: Group 1 (saline); Group 2 (DM pre-treatment, 20 mg/kg i.v. bolus followed by 10 mg/kg/h DM infusion); Group 3 (DM post-treatment, 2 mg/kg i.v. bolus followed by 10 mg/kg/h DM infusion at the onset of post-ischemic hypoperfusion); and Group 4 (sham-operated, drug-treated). Groups 1-3 underwent 15 min of 4-vessel occlusion followed by 3 h of reperfusion. Administration of DM in sham-operated animals (Group 4) had no effect on cerebral blood flow or electroencephalographic (EEG) activity. In contrast, when compared to the Group 1 saline controls, significant attenuation of post-ischemic hypoperfusion and EEG dysfunction was demonstrated in ischemic rats treated with DM (both pre- and post-treatment), suggesting an ability of DM to improve cerebral blood flow (CBF) and brain function in cerebral ischemia.
An organizing role for the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor/channel has been suggested in the development of the retinotectal projection in Rana pipiens. The regional distributions of NMDA, phencyclidine (PCP) and quisqualic acid (QA) receptors were quantified using in vitro autoradiography in the tectum of normal and surgically produced 3-eyed juvenile frogs. NMDA and QA receptor binding was highest in the pretectum. Of the tectal layers, the superficial retinotectal synaptic zone, layer 9, had the highest amount of NMDA and QA receptor binding. Moderate binding was observed in layer 5, with little binding in the cellular layer 6. No specific [3H]N-(1-[2-thienyl]cyclohexyl) piperidine ([3H]TCP) binding was observed in any of the tectal regions.
The receptor for basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) was characterized in highly enriched cultures of fetal hippocampal neurons. Two major components of binding could be distinguished. One component comprising about 70% of total binding was removed by 2 M NaCl, and by analogy to other cells could be presumptively attributed to glycosaminoglycans. The remaining 30% of binding which was resistant to 2 M NaCl reflects a high affinity receptor. Scatchard analysis indicated that the two components have Kd values of 500 and 120 pM, and densities of 165,000 and 35,000-60,000 sites/neuron, respectively. Cross-linking 125I-bFGF to neuronal cultures with disuccinimidyl suberate labeled a major membrane protein of 135 kDa and a minor protein of 85 kDa. Examination of neuronal cultures derived from multiple brain regions and membrane preparations from fetal brain suggested that the larger protein was widely distributed. The neuronal bFGF receptor was not blocked by heparin at concentrations up to 100 micrograms/ml. Twelve synthetic peptide fragments of bFGF were examined to determine the domain of bFGF interacting with the neuronal receptor. Inhibition was observed chiefly with a peptide including the sequence 103-146. The properties of the neuronal bFGF receptor were compared directly to those of the receptors characterized on BHK cells and other mesenchymal cells. Specific differences observed between neuronal and mesenchymal bFGF receptors are discussed.

Food intake after fourth intracerebroventricular (icv) injections of bombesin (BBS) was measured in intact rats. BBS injections (greater than or equal to 10 ng) reliably suppressed chow intake in 17-h food-deprived rats. Systemic injections of BBS (50 ng) had no effect on food intake. These data indicate that BBS can act directly on caudal brain stem site(s) to inhibit food intake. The behavioral specificity of fourth icv BBS was evaluated by measuring the effects of fourth icv BBS injection on water intake by 17-h water-deprived rats in the presence and absence of food. Fourth icv injections of BBS in doses greater than 10 ng suppressed 30-min and 2-h water intake relative to saline injection when food was available in the home cage. In contrast, when food was not present during the 2-h intake test, fourth icv injections of BBS had no effect on water intake. This suggests that the inhibition of water intake was secondary to the effects of BBS on food intake. Lastly, sucrose (0.1 M) was paired with fourth icv BBS (50 ng), fourth icv saline, and intraperitoneal LiCl (1.5 meq/kg) in three groups of naive rats, and sucrose preference was subsequently measured. Rats that received injections of either saline or BBS preferred sucrose during the 24-h two-bottle test, and their preference ratios were significantly greater than those of the LiCl-injected rats. The role of afferent signals elicited by fourth ventricle BBS administration in the control of food intake is discussed.
The membrane potential (Em) of cultured aortic smooth muscle cells from Sprague-Dawley (SD), Wistar-Kyoto (WKY), and spontaneously hypertensive (SHR) rats was measured in proliferating primary cultures. Em of SD cells in high-density cultures was -51 to -58 mV, whereas that of low-density cultures (1-2 days) was -30 mV. This difference was due to a continuous process of hyperpolarization during proliferation in culture. Em of WKY and SHR hyperpolarized similarly, from -12 to -42 and -38 mV, respectively. Hyperpolarization of Em of SD, WKY, and SHR cells was related to cell density rather than time in culture. Em may be a sensitive and significant indicator of the changes in the differentiated state expressed by proliferating smooth muscle in vitro.
Developmental maturation of K transport and Na+-K+-adenosinetriphosphatase (ATPase) function in the choroid plexus (CP) was investigated in infant rats. K fluxes (86Rb), Na+-K+-ATPase enzyme activities, and [3H]ouabain binding were measured in isolated, lateral CPs removed from anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats of several ages ranging from 1 day to 6 wk. Morphological integrity of incubated tissue was confirmed by electron microscopy. CP epithelia accumulated K at a lower level during the 1st wk after birth (40 nmol/mg wet wt) compared with CP from rats aged 11-28 days (56 nmol/mg wet wt). However, efflux curves and efflux rate coefficients among the age groups were similar. Both Na+-K+-ATPase activity in CP tissue homogenates and [3H]ouabain binding to isolated CP began to increase between age 10 and 14 days. It is concluded that CP Na+-K+-ATPase has limited capacity in the lateral CP of neonatal rats but that this important transport function matures rapidly in the 1st 2-3 wk after birth.
Superoxide radicals inactivate endoplasmic reticular (ER) Ca2+ pump in membranes isolated from smooth muscle of pig right coronary artery [Am. J. Physiol. 255 (Cell Physiol. 24): C297-C303, 1988]. We report on protective mechanisms against such inactivation. This tissue contained superoxide dismutase (SOD) and catalase. SOD was distributed primarily in cytosolic fraction, was cyanide sensitive, and was also present in mitochondrial fraction, and approximately 25% of this was cyanide insensitive. Catalase was distributed mainly in mitochondrial fraction and did not protect against inactivation of ER Ca2+ pump by superoxide radicals generated using xanthine plus xanthine oxidase. However, cytosolic fraction protected against this inactivation by two mechanisms: 1) DTT carried over from homogenization medium and 2) its intrinsic SOD content. Soluble fraction was concentrated, dialyzed to remove 1,4-dithiothreitol (DTT), lyophilized, and suspended in a small volume of DTT-free buffer. It still protected against superoxide inactivation of Ca2+ pump. On Sephacryl-300 gel chromatography, protecting activity comigrated with SOD. DTT protected against inactivation, but glutathione and cysteine protected only partially. Neither sulfhydryl agents nor SOD could reverse the inactivation process. Ca2+ pump activity was abolished by dithionitrobenzoate and p-chloromercuric benzoate. Superoxide may inactivate ER Ca2+ pump by irreversibly modifying key sulfhydryl group(s) on pump molecule and SOD in coronary artery smooth muscle may partially protect against this inactivation.
The adhesiveness of fibroblasts derived from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients to a plastic substratum was assessed as the proportion of cells attached to a plastic dish bottom after a 30-minute incubation in culture medium of cells dissociated in ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid and was compared with the adhesiveness of normal fibroblasts from non-AD controls. It was found that the normal fibroblasts adhered better to plastic than did AD cells. This reduced adhesiveness was observed in fibroblasts derived from both sporadic and familial AD patients. Because of the possible involvement of amyloid beta-protein precursor (ABPP) in the process of cellular adhesion, the amount of ABPP messenger RNA was measured in these fibroblasts and was found to be decreased in the familial AD fibroblasts, although not in cells from sporadic AD patients. Furthermore, there were fewer molecules detected by an anti-ABPP antibody in conditioned media from familial AD fibroblasts as compared with media from control fibroblasts. Therefore, although it is possible that the reduced adhesiveness of familial AD fibroblasts may result from genetic deficits in ABPP gene expression, the reduced adhesiveness of sporadic AD fibroblasts most likely results from certain deficits in molecules other than the ABPP.
To determine if impaired dichotic performance in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type is due to the inability to divide attention or the inability to perceive degraded auditory stimuli, we measured performance on tasks of both dichotic and degraded monotic speech materials. We also examined whether perception of degraded speech stimuli presented monaurally is related to abnormalities of temporal lobe anatomy and physiology, as we have shown for dichotic performance. Although the patients were impaired on both dichotic and monotic tests, significantly greater impairment was seen on the dichotic test. Our earlier finding of a significant relation between dichotic performance and measures of anterior temporal lobe atrophy and reduced glucose metabolism was replicated, but no significant relation was found between monotic tests and measures to temporal lobe integrity. We conclude that the inability to divide attention, rather than abnormal processing of degraded stimuli per se, is reflected in poor dichotic performance in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type, and that dichotic performance, unlike degraded monotic perception, depends directly on the integrity of temporal cortex in these patients.
Over the past ten years, the treatment options available to people with epilepsy have changed drastically, resulting in new concepts, treatment methods and philosophies. Complex partial seizures (temporal lobe or psychomotor) account for one third of all chronic seizure disorders. Following temporal lobectomy, the majority of these patients no longer requires medication. The neuroscience nurse must understand the selection criteria, diagnostic tests and perioperative course in order to teach and support these individuals and their families.
Brain imaging studies may help to localize areas particularly sensitive to cholinergic agonists. A study in rats using the 2-deoxyglucose method for studying changes in brain metabolic activity was performed. Among regions in the pons/medulla, arecoline, 0.05 mg/kg ip, increased glucose utilization in the dorsal raphe, median raphe, and basilar pontine nuclei without producing behavioral or cardiovascular effects. These brain areas, along with the hippocampus, may be pertinent to studies of muscarinic supersensitivity in humans.
1. Field stimulation or vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) relaxed lower oesophageal sphincter (LOS) from North American opossum. Pretreatment with carbachol in Cl-ion-containing or Cl-ion-free Krebs solution or with 10(-3) M 9-aminoacridine abolished or markedly reduced relaxation due to VIP applied exogenously but not that elicited by field stimulation of non-adrenergic, non-cholinergic nerves. 2. Inhibitory junction potentials (7.5 +/- 1.2 mV, n = 5) could be recorded in LOS strips with the sucrose gap technique. They lacked significant after-depolarizations but were accompanied by decreased membrane resistance (61 +/- 6%, n = 3). In these strips, VIP (10(-6) M) produced small hyperpolarizations (2.1 +/- 1.1 mV, n = 5) sometimes followed by membrane potential oscillations but no change in conductance. 3. Removal of external chloride depolarized the membranes (7.6 +/- 1.7 mV) but did not prevent the hyperpolarization to VIP or the occurrence of inhibitory junction potentials. Restoration of external chloride repolarized the cells. It appears that an appreciable chloride conductance may be present in sphincter muscle cells and this may cause them to be more depolarized than non-sphincter muscle. 4. We conclude that it is very unlikely that VIP is the inhibitory NANC neurotransmitter since it does not mimic the inhibitory junction potential.
A dose-dependent (5-50 mg/kg) suppression of natural killer (NK) cell activity was observed 2 h after administration of the benzodiazepine receptor &quot;inverse agonist&quot; FG 7142 (N-methyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxamide), and was still manifest 24 h later. Addition of FG 7142 (1-1000 nM) to the 4 h 51 Cr release assay did not affect NK cell activity. Pretreatment of mice with the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist Ro 15-1788 (10 mg/kg) blocked FG 7142-induced suppression of NK cell activity, but had no effect when administered alone. The suppression of NK cell activity by FG 7142, a compound which produces a syndrome resembling stress or anxiety in both animals and man, provides further evidence that the central nervous system pathways subserved by the benzodiazepine/GABA receptor chloride channel complex (&quot;supramolecular complex&quot;) may play a role in the modulation of immune function.
Measurement of drug- and stimulation-induced changes in the electrical excitability of dopaminergic terminals was employed to assess the effects of stimulation of dopamine terminal autoreceptors in the prefrontal cortex in urethane-anesthetized rats. Systemic or local administration of amphetamine decreased, whereas systemic administration of haloperidol increased the excitability of prefrontal cortical dopaminergic terminals of ventral tegmental area dopaminergic neurons. Mesoprefrontal dopaminergic terminal excitability was also responsive to spontaneous and stimulation-induced alterations in the rate of impulses reaching the terminal fields. These results are comparable to those previously reported for nigrostriatal and mesoaccumbens dopaminergic neurons, and are discussed with regard to the operational characteristics of autoinhibition in the mesocortical dopaminergic system.
Mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons were electrophysiologically identified by a variety of criteria, including antidromic activation from prefrontal or cingulate cortex, neostriatum, or nucleus accumbens in urethane-anesthetized rats. The mean firing rate of 98 mesocortical dopaminergic neurons was 2.9 +/- 0.3 spikes/sec and did not differ from the mean firing rate found for nigrostriatal or nucleus accumbens dopaminergic neurons. Spontaneously active mesocortical dopaminergic neurons were inhibited by intravenous administration of either apomorphine (6 micrograms/kg) or amphetamine (0.25 mg/kg). Whereas most antidromic responses of nigrostriatal and mesoaccumbens neurons consisted of the initial segment spike only, cortically-elicited antidromic responses typically consisted of a full initial segment-soma-dendritic spike. These findings are discussed with regard to the presence of soma-dendritic autoreceptors on mesocortical dopaminergic neurons.
By combining [3H]thymidine autoradiography with choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) immunocytochemistry, we have determined the generation pattern of the large cholinergic neurons in the neostriatum. All of these neurons are produced between embryonic days 12 and 17 (E12-E17), with 75% of them being born between E13 and 15. Cholinergic neurons appeared to be among the earliest cells produced in the neostriatum when compared with previous generation studies of all neurons in the rat caudate-putamen. The caudal-to-rostral neurogenic gradient reported in previous investigations of all neurons was the only spatiotemporal gradient observed for cholinergic neurons. The generation peak for these cells was E13 caudally, and E15 rostrally. Additional immunocytochemical studies detected ChAT immunoreactivity within somata and primary dendrites of 1 day postnatal (1 dpn) rat neostriatum, and subsequently demonstrated a dramatic increase in the intensity of reaction product and the complexity of dendritic arborizations by 14 dpn. Large ChAT-positive neurons of the basal forebrain contained within the same specimens appeared to differentiate their cholinergic phenotype earlier than those in the neostriatum. However, recent generation studies of basal forebrain neurons combined with the present results have demonstrated that both cholinergic populations are produced simultaneously along the same neurogenic gradients. This then represents an example of cholinergic projection (basal forebrain system) and local circuit (neostriatum) neurons that share similar generation patterns but differ with respect to sequences of transmitter phenotype expression. Thus, for cholinergic forebrain neurons, a cell's position along the neurogenic gradient and its transmitter phenotype appear to be more closely associated with its birth date than its ultimate projection or rate of differentiation.
Cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoproteins with specific cellular localizations in brain represent important targets through which this second messenger system can mediate or modulate distinct neurotransmitter signals. This study reports that two cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoproteins (Mr 90,000 and 93,000) found in brain share several properties, including similar isoelectric points and similar phosphopeptide maps. This protein doublet is particularly enriched in the forebrain basal ganglia, but it can also be found in the substantia nigra, a brainstem region which is a major target for fibers from the forebrain basal ganglia. Quinolinic acid lesions of neurons in the neostriatum decrease the levels of the 90/93 kDa phosphoprotein doublet to about the same extent as they reduce the levels of DARPP-32, a phosphoprotein specifically enriched in striatonigral medium-sized spiny neurons. These reductions are seen in both the neostriatum and the substantia nigra. Therefore, within the basal ganglia, the 90/93 kDa phosphoprotein doublet, termed adenosine 3':5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr = 90,000 (ARPP-90), is largely, if not solely, present in striatonigral cells and fibers. The specific localization in these neurons suggests that ARPP-90 could be important in receptor-regulated, cyclic AMP-mediated functions in the striatonigral neurons.
This article is a brief and selected overview of pediatric psychopharmacology, a field which links medicine, behavioural sciences, and neurosciences to child psychiatry. It will summarize current knowledge and recent advances related to the indications, effects, limitations and research issues of psychostimulants, antidepressants, antipsychotics, anxiolytics, anticonvulsants and diets used in the treatment of child and adolescent psychiatric disorders.
Stroke is a well described complication of migraine. Recently, attention has been drawn to the development of cerebral hemorrhage in middle-aged patients with common migraine. We report a patient with classic migraine who developed an intracranial hemorrhage 36 h after the onset of a migraine attack and had a good recovery over a period of six days. Including our patient there are now five cases, all females, with this complication of migraine. It is postulated that the condition is fairly common and under reported.
The discipline of psychoanalysis was significantly influenced by Freud's experience in neuroanatomy and clinical neurology. Sigmund Freud began his medical career as a neuroanatomist and neurologist before he later established the theories and techniques of psychoanalysis. Freud made several significant contributions to research in neuroanatomy and clinical neurology that were overshadowed by his later accomplishments. As the &quot;Father of Psychoanalysis,&quot; Freud was, and his legacy always will be, that of a neurologist.
The effects of spatial location and strategy of attention on the processing of speech messages were investigated in ten right-handed subjects and four persons with complete forebrain commissurotomy and one case of right hemispherectomy. Lists of simultaneous but different words, with one of each pair spoken by a male and the other by a female, were monitored for target words. The lists were presented to the left ear, the right ear and to both ears (central) in separate conditions. Unimanual responses were made to targets in either voice (divided attention) or to only one of the voices (focused attention). The performance of the clinical subjects was generally less efficient than that of the controls. In contrast to intact subjects, they responded to more distractor and unattended items. They also showed a nonsignificant tendency for better processing of right rather than centrally-presented words. With right-sided presentation two clinical subjects, with extracallosal damage to the right cortex, were unable to divide attention and responded to only one of the voices. These results implicate an intact corpus callosum for efficient use of attention strategies as well as hemispheric differences in the control of attention.
We examined a retired Army General with Progressive Dementia whose initial major presenting complaint was dyscalculia. Our examinations revealed an orderly dissolution of calculation ability with differing dissociations in calculation ability apparent at progressive stages of cognitive decline. For example, we found that number reading and writing errors were qualitatively different from calculation errors. Numerosity knowledge and magnitude comparisons can remain intact even when other arithmetic knowledge and calculation abilities were grossly impaired. His decline in calculation abilities was first demonstrated on more complex problems (e.g., multiplication) and only in later stages on simpler (e.g., addition) problems. The patient was aware that aspects of his performance were impaired, but he was unable to state why--a dissociation between declarative and procedural knowledge.


Regional rates of incorporation into brain of intravenously administered [14C]palmitate and regional cerebral metabolic rates for glucose (rCMRglc) were measured in water-provided (WP) and water-deprived (WD) homozygous (DI) and heterozygous (HZ) Brattleboro rats, a mutant strain unable to synthesize vasopressin, and in the parent Long-Evans (LE) strain. Following 15 h or 4 days of water deprivation, rCMRglc was elevated threefold in the pituitary neural lobe of LE-WD and DI-WD as compared with LE-WP rats, and in the paraventricular nucleus of LE-WD, and the supraoptic nucleus of DI-WD rats. However, incorporation of [14C]palmitate into these regions was not specifically altered. The results indicate that water deprivation for up to 4 days increases rCMRglc in some brain regions involved with vasopressin, but does not alter [14C]palmitate incorporation into these regions. Incorporation of plasma [14C]palmitate is independent of unlabeled plasma palmitate at brain regions which have an intact blood-brain barrier, but at nonbarrier regions falls according to saturation kinetics as cold plasma concentration rises, with a mean half-saturation constant (Km) equal to 0.136 mumol.ml-1.
The immunological reactions to embryonic cerebellar xenografts (n = 16) and allografts (n = 8) in host rat brain were studied after 2, 4, and 6 weeks of survival and compared to a control group consisting of 10 rats with isografts. Indirect immunofluorescence was performed on fresh frozen brain sections using antibodies against antigen presenting cells (Ia/Ox-6+ cells) and T helper (W3/25+) cells. Massive infiltrations of both cell types were found within xenografts. Ia antigen was present in the walls of small vessels near the transplant as well as in the ventricles on supra- and subependymal cells. In host tissue surrounding the grafts, Ox-6+ immunoreactivity was also observed in a population of cells ranging from an irregular rod-like shape with short branching processes to more rounded cell bodies with retracted processes. The appearance of these cells was characteristic of microglia. These cells were GFAP-negative. These cellular reactions were associated with rejection of the grafts. In contrast, the allografts survived, but nevertheless cells expressing Ox-6+ and to a lesser extent W3/25+ immunoreactivity were found along the injection needle tract and in damaged host tissue surrounding the grafts. No Ox-6+ perivascular infiltrations were seen. Some staining was also found within the allografts, mainly associated with damaged tissue. Ox-6+ ramified cells were also observed. Both Ox-6+ and W3/25+ immunoreactivity decreased with the time of survival. Host and donor GFAP-positive astrocytes did not express Ox-6+ molecules, and therefore probably were not involved in presenting antigen to effector cells. The control isografts also survived very well, but nevertheless Ox-6+ and less widespread W3/25+ cells were present in surrounding injured host tissue. Ox-6+ perivascular infiltration was not found in the host brain of animals with isografts. Ox-6+ and W3/25+ immunoreactivities were present primarily in graft areas that appeared damaged, often closely associated with injured host tissue. These results indicate that the process of implantation of grafts and associated brain injury induces enhanced Ia/Ox-6+ immunoreactivity, primarily on microglia in brain parenchyma surrounding grafts, and suggest that host microglia may substantially contribute to the initiation of immune reactions against intracerebral grafts. Despite this predisposition to an immunological response, only in the case of xenografts did these reactions, with the addition of Ox-6+ perivascular cuffing and cell infiltrations within the grafts, lead ultimately to graft rejection.
Protein phosphorylation is involved in the regulation of a wide variety of physiological processes in the nervous system. Studies in which purified protein kinases or kinase inhibitors have been microinjected into defined cells while a specific response is monitored have demonstrated that protein phosphorylation is both necessary and sufficient to mediate responses of excitable cells to extracellular signals. The precise molecular mechanisms involved in neuronal signal transduction processes can be further elucidated by identification and characterization of the substrate proteins for the various protein kinases. The roles of three such substrate proteins in signal transduction are described in this article: 1) synapsin I, whose phosphorylation increases neurotransmitter release and thereby modulates synaptic transmission presynaptically; 2) the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, whose phosphorylation increases its rate of desensitization and thereby modulates synaptic transmission postsynaptically; and 3) DARPP-32, whose phosphorylation converts it to a protein phosphatase inhibitor and which thereby may mediate interactions between dopamine and other neurotransmitter systems. The characterization of the large number of additional phosphoproteins that have been found in the nervous system should elucidate many additional molecular mechanisms involved in signal transduction in neurons.

Organotypic cultures of the neonatal mouse cochlea have a band of hair cells consisting of 3-5 rows of outer hair cells and a single row of inner hair cells. The outer hair cell stereociliary bundles show progressive differentiation from the apical to the basal ends of the band. Undifferentiated apical bundles have a disk-like array of short stereocilia resembling microvilli. Partially differentiated bundles are hemispherical with poorly organized rows of thickly clustered stereocilia, which gradually increase in height in the direction of the kinocilium. More differentiated bundles remain hemispherical with many microvilli-like stereocilia, but have highly organized rows of sterocilia along the side nearest to the kinocilium, and well-defined height increments between the rows. Highly-differentiated, basal bundles usually have a 'V' or 'W' shape, although some can be almost polygonal. The basal bundles have 4-5 regular rows of stereocilia with a well-defined gradient in height across the rows, and very few microvilli-like stereocilia. Cross-links are only consistently observed in more differentiated bundles, where the rows of stereocilia are regular and have significant height increments across them. The links show a wide variety of forms and orientations not previously observed in other preparations. Spoke-like arrays of links project from the upper regions of many stereocilia and other stereocilia appear to bear distinct tip-to-side links, although with a variety of orientations. A similar variety of cross-links is observed in early postnatal cochleae in vivo, but not in the cochleae of adult mice, indicating that this variety may be a transient feature of sterociliary bundle development. In vitro, inner hair cell stereociliary bundles are often covered by overlying material from the developing tectorial membrane. The variations in morphology of inner hair cell bundles and their cross-links are similar to those of the outer hair cell bundles.
The ability of developing ovariectomized (OVX) guinea pigs to display lordosis following a variety of steroid treatments which are behaviorally effective in adults was examined. Females OVX at 11 days of age did not display lordosis at 20 days of age, following treatment with several dose combinations of estradiol benzoate (EB, 10-50 micrograms) and progesterone (0.5-5 mg). By 30 days of age, 25% of the animals responded to EB plus progesterone, and by 40 days of age, adult-typical responses were observed. The developmental profile of responsiveness to steroids was not altered by varying the age at OVX, or by allowing pups to remain with a lactating mother. OVX females given estradiol (E2) implants did not exhibit progesterone-facilitated lordosis earlier than those treated with EB: however, the former group did show an unusually high incidence of progesterone-independent lordosis at 40 days of age. Twenty-day-old females also did not respond behaviorally to discrete pulses of E2 followed by progesterone, a treatment which was very effective in adults. Finally, lordosis was not facilitated in EB-primed, 20-day-old females by the alpha-noradrenergic agonist, clonidine, a treatment which was effective in adult females. These data illustrate a variety of conditions under which juvenile female guinea pigs do not exhibit steroid-induced lordosis. Since 20-day-old, EB-treated females also did not exhibit clonidine-facilitated lordosis, incomplete development of the central steroid-responsive and/or noradrenergic systems may contribute to the inability to display steroid-induced estrous behavior at this age.
Fifteen naive subjects with no known neurological problems were tested by means of manual muscle testing to determine two &quot;strong&quot; and one &quot;weak&quot; muscle on a limb contralateral to the stimulated side. Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) were then recorded from contralateral median nerve stimulation while a naive tester tested the three previously identified muscles. In all subjects the baseline (no muscle test) and control &quot;strong&quot; muscle test recordings were comparable while the recording from the &quot;weak&quot; muscle test showed increased amplitudes in contralateral layer components. These findings suggest a neurologic basis for manual muscle testing.
Intracellular microelectrodes containing the dye Lucifer yellow CH were used to record from nerve cells of ganglia in isolated preparations of submucosa from the guinea-pig small intestine. The electrophysiological properties of the neurons were investigated by passing intracellular current pulses and by stimulating nerve strands that connect with the ganglia. Following each electrophysiological investigation, the fluorescent dye was injected into the neuron by passing hyperpolarizing currents through the electrode. The preparations were fixed and processed for substance P (SP) immunohistochemistry. When impaled neurons were not immunoreactive for SP the preparations were processed first for vasoactive intestinal peptide immunoreactivity and then for neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity. Data from neurons reactive for either of these peptides were pooled for comparison with the data from SP-immunoreactive neurons. Nerve cells that were immunoreactive for SP were usually multipolar, had broad action potentials (half width 2.6 ms compared with 1.5 ms for other submucous neurons) and lower input resistances than other submucous neurons. Only a minority (6 of 18) had demonstrable fast excitatory synaptic inputs. When such excitatory synaptic inputs were observed, these did not initiate action potentials. Thus, the SP-immunoreactive neurons were readily distinguishable from other submucous neurons. It is concluded that these neurons are likely to be sensory.
Postmetamorphic growth in the frog, Xenopus laevis, is accompanied by an increase both in the size of autonomic neurons in the heart and in the number of synaptic boutons that contact their surface. To determine whether the properties of individual boutons change as their number increases, serial-section electron microscopy was used to examine bouton ultrastructure at the end of metamorphosis and in the adult. The area of bouton contact, number of active zones per bouton, active zone size, percent of bouton area occupied by active zone, and vesicle density were examined. No differences were found between the two bouton populations for any of the parameters examined. These results support the hypothesis that boutons are structural units of synaptic growth, whereby the total area of synaptic contact increases through the addition of boutons without a change in their morphological properties.
The relationship between two cardioactive neuropeptides, the cardioacceleratory peptides (CAPs), and changes in heart rate during flight was investigated in the tobacco hawkmoth, Manduca sexta. In vivo heart recordings from intact, tethered adults revealed a marked increase in heart rate associated with flying. Both anterior-to-posterior and posterior-to-anterior contraction waves showed a measurable elevation in contraction frequency. These changes in heart activity were noted in animals engaged in short (20 min) or long (60 min) bouts of continuous flight. Bioassay of blood taken from flying animals revealed the presence of an activity-dependent, blood-borne cardioacceleratory factor(s). Biochemical analyses of the blood of flying insects on HPLC identified two cardioacceleratory factors which co-eluted with the two CAPs. A depletion in the ventral nerve cord levels of both CAPs was observed during flight. In vivo injections of an anti-CAP monoclonal antibody blocked the increase in cardiac activity associated with flight. These results confirm the hypothesis that both CAPs act as cardioregulatory neurohormones during flight in Manduca sexta.
The Ca2+ indicator photoprotein, aequorin, was used to estimate and monitor intracellular Ca2+ levels in Limulus ventral photoreceptors during procedures designed to affect Na+/Ca2+ exchange. Dark levels of [Ca2+]i were estimated at 0.66 +/- 0.09 microM. Removal of extracellular Na+ caused [Ca2+]i to rise transiently from an estimated 0.5-0.6 microM in a typical cell to approximately 21 microM; [Ca2+]i approached a plateau level in 0-Na+ saline of approximately 5.5 microM; restoration of normal [Na+]o lowered [Ca2+]i to baseline with a time course of 1 log10 unit per 9 s. The apparent rate of Nao+-dependent [Ca2+]i decline decreased with decreasing [Ca2+]i. Reintroduction of Ca2+ to 0-Na+, 0-Ca2+ saline in a typical cell caused a transient rise in [Ca2+]i from an estimated 0.36 microM (or lower) to approximately 16.5 microM. This was followed by a decline in [Ca2+]i approaching a plateau of approximately 5 microM; subsequent removal of Cao2+ caused [Ca2+]i to decline slowly (1 log unit in approximately 110 s). Intracellular injection of Na+ in the absence of extracellular Na+ caused a transient rise in [Ca2+]i in the presence of normal [Ca2+]o; in 0-Ca2+ saline, however, no such rise in [Ca2+]i was detected. Under constant voltage clamp (-80 mV) inward currents were measured after the addition of Nao+ to 0-Na+ 0-Ca2+ saline and outward currents were measured after the addition of Cao2+ to 0-Na+ 0-Ca2+ saline. The results suggest the presence of an electrogenic Na+/Ca2+ exchange process in the plasma membrane of Limulus ventral photoreceptors that can operate in forward (Nao+-dependent Ca2+ extrusion) or reverse (Nai+-dependent Ca2+ influx) directions.
A method for the quantitative analysis of molecular species of 1,2-diacylglycerol acetates (1,2-DGAC) containing polyunsaturated fatty acids is described. Phosphatidylethanolamine (PE) isolated from frog retina was used to test the method. PE was converted to 1,2-DGAC by acetolysis. The molecular species of the 1,2-DGAC were resolved by reverse-phase high performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), detected by UV absorption spectroscopy at 210 nm, and identified by gas-liquid chromatography (GLC) of the fatty acid methyl esters (FAME). Molar response curves were generated for each DGAC molecular species that eluted as a single entity from HPLC by determining the moles of fatty acids in the molecular species collected and the response (peak area unit) of the UV detector. Each molecular species response curve was linear from about 10 pmoles to 4-8 nmoles, allowing the slope of each curve to be used as a molar absorptivity. This method provides a means for quantification of most of the molecular species of all glycerolipid classes.
The static or dynamic visual cues required for equilibrium as well as for foot guidance in visually guided locomotion in man were studied using a variety of locomotion supports and illumination and visual conditions. Stroboscopic illumination (brief flashes) and intermittent lighting (longer flashes) were used to control and to vary the visual sampling frequency of static (positional/orientational) visual cues. There were three main findings: First, visual control of foot positioning during locomotion over a narrow support depends mainly upon the availability of high frequency static visual cues (up to about 12 Hz); and third, static visual cues required for equilibrium control are extracted from both the peripheral and the central visual field. Assuming that discrete demands for feedback occur, a simple probabilistic model was proposed, according to which the mean time that elapses following presentation of static visual cues about positions or changes of position accounts for the differences in the difficulty of the various illumination conditions.
Primary cultures of fetal rat septal neurons were used to identify a membrane-associated cholinergic neurotrophic activity. Under serum-free culture conditions, approximately 98% of the septal cells are neurons, and approximately 6% of the neurons are cholinergic as determined immunocytochemically. Crude membranes prepared from rat hippocampal homogenates stimulate choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in treated septal neurons. The membrane-associated trophic activity is apparent at lower protein concentrations than activity present in the soluble fraction and is unevenly distributed in various brain regions; it is highest in hippocampus and striatum and negligible in cerebellum. Membrane trophic activity is developmentally regulated, is heat and trypsin sensitive, and increases the rate of expression of ChAT in septal neurons. Upon gel filtration chromatography of a high-salt membrane extract, trophic activity elutes as a broad peak in the 500 kilodalton (kD) molecular mass range. Stimulation of septal neuronal ChAT activity by either crude membranes or partially purified preparations is not inhibited by antibodies against nerve growth factor (NGF), and its maximal activity is additive to maximally active doses of NGF. The results indicate that hippocampal membranes contain cholinergic neurotrophic activity which may be important for the development of septal cholinergic neurons.
Huntington's disease is a neurological disorder characterised by a progressive chorea and dementia. Recent evidence has suggested that dysfunction involving endogenous excitatory amino acids may be important in the pathogenesis of this disease. Following the recent demonstration that kynurenic acid is present in the brain, we examined the levels in various areas of brain from patients who died with Huntington's disease and from age/sex-matched controls. Blocks (100-500 mg) of cortex (Brodmann's areas 4 and 10) and caudate nucleus and globus pallidus (lateral and medial parts) were obtained from the Cambridge Brain Bank. The tissue was then processed for the extraction and analysis of kynurenic acid. Whereas no differences in the content of kynurenic acid were observed in the caudate nucleus, lateral or medial globus pallidus, or prefrontal cortex (area 10) between controls' brains and those from patients who died with Huntington's disease, there was a 94% (p less than 0.01; n = 5) increase in the kynurenic acid content in the motor cortex (area 4) from Huntington's disease brains, relative to those of controls. Some time ago we suggested that a subtle change in the relative concentrations of quinolinic and kynurenic acids might be important in the pathogenesis of neurodegeneration. It is possible that the observation of raised kynurenic acid levels supports this supposition. Further work is now in progress to determine whether the change in kynurenic acid is a primary effect or a compensatory response to an increase in excitatory activity.
1-Aminocyclopropane carboxylic acid (ACPC) competitively inhibited (IC50, 38 +/- 7 nM) [3H]glycine binding to rat forebrain membranes but did not affect [3H]strychnine binding to rat brainstem/spinal cord membranes. Like glycine, ACPC enhanced 3H-labelled (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate ([3H]MK-801) binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-coupled cation channels (EC50, 135 +/- 76 nM and 206 +/- 78 nM for ACPC and glycine, respectively) but was approximately 40% less efficacious in this regard. The maximum increase in [3H]MK-801 binding produced by a combination of ACPC and glycine was not different from that elicited by glycine, but both compounds potentiated glutamate-stimulated [3H]MK-801 binding. These findings indicate that ACPC is a potent and selective ligand at the glycine modulatory site associated with the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex as defined by the binding of [3H]MK-801 has been solubilized from membranes prepared from both rat and porcine brain using the anionic detergent deoxycholate (DOC). Of the detergents tested DOC extracted the most receptors (21% for rat, 34% for pig), and the soluble complex, stabilized by the presence of MK-801, could be stored for up to 1 week at 4 degrees C with less than 25% loss in activity. Receptor preparations from both species exhibited [3H]MK-801 binding properties in solution very similar to those observed in membranes (Bmax = 485 +/- 67 fmol/mg of protein, KD = 11.5 +/- 2.9 nM in rat; Bmax = 728 +/- 108 fmol/mg of protein, KD = 7.1 +/- 1.6 nM in pig, n = 3). The pharmacological profile of the solubilized [3H]MK-801 binding site was virtually identical to that observed in membranes. The rank order of potency of: MK-801 greater than (-)-MK-801 = thienylcyclohexylpiperidine greater than dexoxadrol greater than SKF 10,047 greater than ketamine, for inhibition of [3H]MK-801 binding, was observed in all preparations. The receptor complex in solution exhibited many of the characteristic modulations observed in membranes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Twenty patients with asymmetric Parkinson's disease were studied in a reaction time (RT) experiment in which the performance of the more affected (&quot;bad&quot;) hand was compared with performance of the less affected (&quot;good&quot;) hand. Simple RT and choice RT were tested in separate blocks, and the benefit afforded by advance information in the simple RT condition (choice RT minus simple RT) served as a measure of motor preparation. RT was longer in the &quot;bad&quot; hand in both the simple RT and choice RT conditions. There was no difference in the effect of advance information between the two hands. It is concluded that slowness in RT movement initiation in Parkinson's disease is not due to a deficiency in motor preparation, and that intact basal ganglia function is not required for this stage of motor programming.
The alkaloid castanospermine is a potent inhibitor of oligosaccharide processing in vitro. Our recent findings indicating the importance of carbohydrate moieties in some critical step of the neuro-immunologic inflammatory process of allergic encephalomyelitis prompted us to investigate the effect of castanospermine on this disease process. The alkaloid inhibited passively induced allergic encephalomyelitis in a dose-dependent manner when administered continuously for 7 days beginning at the time of lymphocyte transfer. Although clinical disease was totally inhibited, treated animals did have inflammatory lesions in the central nervous system. These lesions were qualitatively different from those seen in untreated animals in that the inflammatory cells were tightly packed around the vessels and showed little migration into surrounding tissues. Castanospermine also effectively inhibited clinical disease in recipient animals which had had a previous episode of allergic encephalomyelitis. Castanospermine did not alter the disease when treatment was started after the onset of clinical symptoms.
1. This study was devoted to the neuronal processes underlying the construction of the motor program. Two monkeys were trained in a choice reaction time task to perform precise wrist flexion and extension movements of small and large extent. During a trial, the first visual signal, the preparatory signal (PS), informed the animal completely, partially, or not at all about direction and/or extent of the forthcoming movement. After a constant waiting period, a second visual signal, the response signal (RS), was illuminated calling for execution of the requested movement. 2. Reaction time (RT) and movement time (MT) measurements during the training as well as the recording sessions revealed that providing prior information about movement parameters strongly affected RT, but only slightly affected MT. Reaction time decreased in relation to the amount (number of movement parameters precued) and the type of prior information. Providing information about movement direction shortened RT much more than providing information about movement extent. Behavioral data support a parametric conception of motor programming, i.e., that the programming of the different movement parameters results from assembling separate processes of different duration. These results are compatible with the model in which programming processes are serially and hierachically ordered, movement direction being processed before movement extent. 3. Single-cell recording techniques were used to study neuronal activity of the primary motor (MI) and the premotor (PM) cortex, contralateral to the active arm. The activity of 155 neurons of MI and 158 neurons of PM was recorded during performance of the task. Of these 313 neurons, only 14 neurons did not change their activity during execution of the task. Two hundred and seven neurons whose activity changes were related to movement direction and/or movement extent have been selected for the further study. They were classified into three main groups: 1) execution-related neurons (49 in MI, 27 in PM), 2) preparation- and execution-related neurons (48 in MI, 54 in PM), and 3) preparation-related neurons (8 in MI, 21 in PM). 4. Directionally selective, execution-related neurons were found to be more frequently located within MI (81/105, 77.1%) than within PM (55/102, 53.9%), whereas directionally selective, preparation-related neurons appeared to be more frequently located within PM (47/102, 46.1%) than within MI (24/105, 22.9%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
ARPP-21, a cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, has been studied by immunocytochemistry to determine its cellular and regional distribution in rat brain. This study demonstrates that ARPP-21 immunoreactivity is present throughout the cytoplasm of immunoreactive neurons and that most of the immunoreactivity is associated with the basal ganglia. Within the caudatoputamen (CP), nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and portions of the amygdaloid complex, ARPP-21 is present in neuronal somata and dendrites. In brain regions known to receive projections from these nuclei, immunoreactivity is present in puncta (presumed axons and axon terminals). These regions include the globus pallidus, ventral pallidum, entopeduncular nucleus, lateral preoptic area, and substantia nigra. Within the basal ganglia, ARPP-21 immunoreactivity is most intense in the olfactory tubercle, nucleus accumbens, medial portion of the CP, and the ventral retrochiasmatic pocket of the CP. These same areas comprise the limbic striatum, and ARPP-21 is the first substance found to be specifically enriched therein. The possibility is discussed that ARPP-21 mediates effects of multiple first messengers, including dopamine and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, that act through cAMP.
ARPP-21 (cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr = 21,000 as determined by SDS/PAGE) is a major cytosolic substrate for cAMP-stimulated protein phosphorylation in dopamine-innervated regions of rat CNS (Walaas et al., 1983c). This acidic phosphoprotein has now been identified in bovine caudate nucleus cytosol and purified to homogeneity from this source. The purification procedure involved diethylaminoethyl-cellulose chromatography, ammonium sulfate fractionation, phenyl-Sepharose CL-4B chromatography, and fast protein liquid chromatography using Mono Q anion-exchange resin. Two isoforms of ARPP-21 (ARPP-21A and ARPP-21B) were obtained, which were present in approximately equal amounts in the starting material. ARPP-21A was purified 2610-fold with a final yield of 20% and ARPP-21B was purified 2940-fold with a final yield of 21%. The purified preparations of both isoforms were judged to be homogenous by SDS/PAGE. ARPP-21A and ARPP-21B yielded identical 2-dimensional thin-layer tryptic phosphopeptide maps, identical amino acid compositions and closely related, but distinct, reverse-phase high-pressure liquid chromatograms of tryptic digests. The amino acid composition of ARPP-21 showed a high content of glutamic acid/glutamine, and no methionine, tryptophan, tyrosine, phenylalanine, or histidine. ARPP-21 was stable to heat denaturation and to 50% (vol/vol) ethanol treatment and was partially soluble at pH 2. The Mr determined for ARPP-21 by SDS/PAGE was 21,000. The Stokes radius of ARPP-21 was 26.3 A, and the sedimentation coefficient of ARPP-21 was 1.3 S; these values yield a calculated molecular mass of 13,700 Da and a frictional ratio of 1.7, indicative of an elongated tertiary structure. ARPP-21 was an excellent substrate for cAMP-dependent protein kinase and was either not phosphorylated or only poorly phosphorylated by cGMP-dependent protein kinase, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I, calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II, casein kinase II, or protein kinase C. The purified catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase catalyzed the incorporation of 1.2 mol phosphate/mol purified ARPP-21. Phosphorylation occurred exclusively on seryl residues. Phospho-ARPP-21 was dephosphorylated effectively by protein phosphatase-1 or -2A, but not by protein phosphatase-2B or -2C. Rabbit polyclonal and mouse monoclonal antibodies were prepared to purified ARPP-21. These antibodies specifically immunoprecipitated ARPP-21, which was found to be highly enriched in the caudate nucleus and putamen of monkey brain.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Standard neurosurgical management mandates prompt evacuation of all epidural hematomas to obtain a low incidence of mortality and morbidity. This dogma has recently been challenged. A number of authors have suggested that in selected cases small and moderate epidural hematomas may be managed conservatively with a normal outcome and without risk to the patient. The goal of this study was to define the clinical parameters that may aide in the management of patients with small epidural hematomas who were clinically asymptomatic at initial presentation because there was no clinical evidence of raised intracranial pressure or focal compression. A prospective study was conducted of 22 patients (17 males and five females) aged from 1 to 71 years, who had a small epidural hematoma diagnosed within 24 hours of trauma and were managed expectantly. Of these, 32% subsequently required evacuation of the epidural hematoma 1 to 10 days after the initial trauma. Analysis of the patients revealed that age, sex, Glasgow Coma Scale score, and initial size of the hematoma are not risk factors for deterioration. However, deterioration was seen in 55% of patients with a skull fracture transversing a meningeal artery, vein, or major sinus, and in 43% of those undergoing computerized tomography (CT) within 6 hours of trauma. In contrast, only 13% of patients in whom the diagnosis of a small epidural hematoma was delayed over 6 hours subsequently required evacuation of the epidural collection. Of patients with both risk factors, 71% required evacuation of the epidural hematoma. None of the patients suffered neurological sequelae attributable to this management protocol. It was concluded that patients with a small epidural hematoma, a fracture overlaying a major vessel or major sinus, and/or who are diagnosed less than 6 hours after trauma are at risk of subsequent deterioration and may require evacuation. Conversely, patients without these risk factors may be managed conservatively with repeat CT and careful neurological observation, because of the low risk of delayed deterioration.
Four cases of pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma (PXA), a low-grade leptomeningeal glioma with a reported favorable prognosis affecting young patients, are reported together with a discussion and review of management and prognosis. A literature review has confirmed a favorable prognosis in at least 50% of patients with this disorder. Seventeen of 35 reported patients are still alive and often seizure-free for a mean period of 7.4 years (range 2 to 18 years) after diagnosis. Five patients have died within 2 years and four between 9 and 25 years after diagnosis of PXA. In some cases in which death followed shortly after diagnosis, there may have been histological confusion between PXA and a malignant glioma with heavily lipidized tumor cells. Nonetheless, transformation of PXA into a malignant astrocytoma or glioblastoma with eventual death may occur many years after initial diagnosis. From the currently reported cases it does not appear possible on clinicopathological grounds to predict which patients will have a favorable prognosis. Optimal management of PXA seems to be primary surgical resection with later surgery for residual or recurrent tumor. The role of radiotherapy in the management of PXA is at this time uncertain.
Amphetamine and cocaine, commonly abused psychostimulants, often produce similar physiologic and behavioral effects in both animals and humans. We have shown previously that the reinforcing effects of cocaine can be correlated with drug binding to the mazindol and GBR 12935 binding sites on the dopamine transporter. In an attempt to identify the receptors associated with the reinforcing properties of amphetamine and related phenylethylamines, we have compared the potencies of these compounds in studies of drug reinforced behavior with their binding potencies at monoaminergic uptake sites and neurotransmitter receptor sites. The results of these experiments indicate that d-amphetamine exhibits a pharmacologically relevant micromolar affinity for dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin uptake sites as well as for alpha-2 adrenergic receptor sites. Analysis of the data indicates that the reinforcing effects of phenylethylamines were not positively correlated with inhibition of ligand binding to any of the monoamine sites tested. However, the self-administration of amphetamine and related compounds may be inversely related to the inhibition of [3H]paroxetine binding to the serotonin transporter, suggesting that serotonin uptake inhibition opposes the reinforcing effects of amphetamine. This effect is not related to direct effects of drug binding at 5-HT2 receptor sites. Finally, amphetamine binding to alpha-2 adrenergic receptors suggests that these receptors could play a role in mediating the releasing or uptake inhibiting properties of the drug, and perhaps a role in some of its psychotomimetic effects.
This review examines the awards of Nobel Prizes for Medicine or Physiology discipline between 1901 and 1987, in order to evaluate the advances made in biomedical sciences in the twentieth century. A total of 78 awards had been made amounting to 144 laureates. Countrywise, scientists from the USA lead the tally of Nobelists with 62 laureates, followed by those from Britain and Germany. In the first quarter (1901-25), majority of the awards were given to pioneering studies in microbiology and physiology. Following three decades (1926-55) show the emergence of biochemists as preferred winners with many of the nutrition-related discoveries receiving the recognition. During and immediately after the Second World War (between 1939 and 1957), pharmacology related studies were also awarded Nobel merit. Molecular biology, genetics and immunology had become the prime areas for recipients during the last three decades beginning with 1958. Apart from these four distinct speciality areas, classic discoveries in the fields of neurosciences and behavior, clinical medicine, experimental biology endocrinology had also been recognized at regular intervals.
Experiments to determine the effects of the catecholamine neuronal uptake blockers cocaine and desipramine, and of the cardiac glycoside, ouabain, upon 3H-(noradrenaline) efflux have been performed with bovine adrenal medullary chromaffin cells in tissue culture. Both cocaine and desipramine reduced 3H-noradrenaline uptake into chromaffin cells. Inhibitable uptake was 80% of total accumulation over 60 min; this degree of inhibition was produced by cocaine (30 mumol/l) or desipramine (1 mumol/l). Cocaine (30 mumol/l) had no effect upon spontaneous 3H-efflux measured over 60 min, but reduced that evoked over the same period by carbachol (EC50), veratridine (EC50) and by ouabain (100 mumol/l). Cocaine did not reduce that efflux evoked by raised levels of K+ (28 mmol/l; EC50). Desipramine (1 mumol/l), like cocaine, had no effect upon spontaneous efflux of 3H, but reduced that efflux evoked by carbachol, veratridine and ouabain. Tetrodotoxin (TTX) inhibited veratridine-evoked 3H efflux (IC50 0.2 mumol/l). The degree of inhibition caused by TTX (0.2 mumol/l) was not increased by cocaine (30 mumol/l). TTX also inhibited ouabain-evoked 3H efflux: this was reduced by 55% by a concentration of TTX (1 mumol/l) sufficient to virtually abolish veratridine-evoked efflux. Cocaine (30 mumol/l) in the presence of TTX (1 mumol/l) did not further inhibit ouabain-evoked efflux. Cocaine (30 mumol/l) did not alter 86Rb+ uptake into chromaffin cells, nor did it alter that inhibition of 86Rb+ uptake produced by ouabain (100 mumol/l) indicating that cocaine has no effect upon Na,K-ATPase activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Intracerebroventricular infusion of the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonist 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoate (APH) was evaluated as a neuroprotective regimen in a rat transient cerebral ischaemia model allowing long-term recovery. Ventricular delivery of APH via an osmotic minipump was chosen to allow continuous and direct access to brain tissue of this polar molecule, and because of the potential applicability of such a regimen in clinical situations where the brain is at risk from cerebral ischaemia and a ventricular catheter is in place. The highest tolerable concentration of APH, 50 mM, was given at 1 microliter/h. Selective neuronal necrosis was significantly reduced in the cerebral cortex and the incidence of infarction in the substantia nigra pars reticulata (SNPR) was decreased. A borderline protective effect was seen in the hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons, and no significant protection was seen in the caudate nucleus. The results suggest a limited usefulness for APH as a cerebral protective agent.
We examined the ability of the antiparkinsonian agent (+)-4-propyl-9-hydroxynaphthoxazine (PHNO) to enter the systemic circulation in therapeutic concentrations after continuous transdermal absorption in squirrel monkeys rendered parkinsonian by MPTP. Direct subcutaneous administration of (+)-PHNO in the dose range of 2.5 to 20 micrograms/kg restored locomotor activity to levels seen in normal monkeys for approximately 1 hour. Application of transdermal patches capable of delivering, into an infinite sink, an estimated 2.6 micrograms/cm2/h of (+)-PHNO over a skin surface area of 4.78 to 19.12 cm2 also restored locomotor activity to the normal range during a 24-hour period. We suggest the use of transdermal application of PHNO as a novel drug delivery system for the improved management of Parkinson's disease.
The effects of cholecystokinin octapeptide sulphated (CCK) and the potent CCK antagonist MK-329 (L-364, 718) on analgesia induced by morphine in the paw pressure test in the rat were examined. Both CCK (4-16 micrograms/kg) and MK-329 (0.1-8.0 mg/kg) had no significant effect on thresholds for pain when given alone, whereas morphine (2-16 mg/kg) induced dose-dependent analgesia. Cholecystokinin (4-16 micrograms/kg) abolished the analgesia induced by 8 mg/kg morphine. In contrast, doses of 1 and 2 mg/kg MK-329 enhanced the analgesia induced by 8 and 4 mg/kg morphine, respectively. The present data are consistent with previous reports that CCK blocks, and CCK antagonists enhance, opiate-induced analgesia in response to thermal pain stimuli. In addition, the results show that CCK/opiate interactions extend to mechanical pain stimuli. Recent ligand binding studies have shown that CCK receptors in the spinal cord of the rat (where CCK/opiate interactions are thought to occur) are predominantly of the CCK-B subtype. The drug MK-329 has a relatively weak (micromolar) affinity for CCK-B receptors and a high affinity (nanomolar) for CCK-A receptors. As relatively large doses (1-2 mg/kg) of MK-329 are required to enhance opiate-induced analgesia in the paw pressure test and tail flick test in rats it appears that CCK/opiate interactions in this species involve CCK-B receptors.

Radioligand binding studies have previously identified a high affinity, magnesium-dependent, guanine nucleotide-sensitive binding site for corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) in mouse spleen. In order to determine the functional nature of these CRF binding sites, we examined the effects of CRF on adenylate cyclase activity in mouse spleen homogenates. The stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity was dependent on time, tissue protein concentration, and guanine nucleotides. CRF-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity was evident in the presence of guanosine-5'-triphosphate (GTP) and its precursor guanosine-5'-diphosphate (GDP) but was not detected in the presence of the hydrolysis-resistant GTP analogs, guanyl-5'-imidodiphosphate [Gpp(NH)p] and guanosine-5'-gamma-thiotriphosphate (GTP-gamma-S). The rank order of potency for CRF analogs and fragments in stimulating adenylate cyclase activity was comparable to their affinities for CRF binding sites in mouse spleen homogenates. The putative receptor antagonist, alpha helical ovine CRF(9-41), did not stimulate adenylate cyclase activity but did attenuate the stimulation by various concentrations of rat/human CRF. In summary, these data demonstrate the functional nature of CRF receptors in mouse spleen as evidenced by CRF stimulation of cAMP production and suggest that this peptide may play a physiological role in regulating immune function.
Impairment of motor coordination by the excitatory amino acid antagonists 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (APH) and glutamic acid diethyl ester (GDEE) was measured and compared to GABA agonists and anticonvulsants and other compounds by the Coughenour inverted screen test. The GABA agonists muscimol and imidazole acetic acid, and the GABA analogue gamma-hydroxybutyric acid were found to produce a marked impairment of motor coordination. The dosages of phenytoin and valproate which impaired motor coordination, on the other hand, were considerably above the dosages which have been reported to inhibit seizures. APH caused motor incoordination at a dosage of 125 mg/kg, and a prolonged motor impairment was present after administration of APH, 250 mg/kg. GDEE did not significantly impair motor coordination in any dosage tested up to 1920 mg/kg. These results further encourage development of more potent GDEE-like compounds as potential anticonvulsants.
Balb/c mice were infected with influenza virus PR8 (H1N1) by the intranasal route. At various subsequent times, brain samples were examined for their content of catecholamine and indoleamine metabolites, and plasma corticosterone was measured. Virus infection was associated with a progressive loss of body and thymus weights, and an increase in plasma corticosterone. Spleen weight initially increased then decreased. There were also increases in the cerebral content of free tryptophan throughout the brain, and of MHPG, a major catabolite of norepinephrine, especially prominent in the hypothalamus. Thus influenza virus can be regarded as a stressor because, like behavioral stressors, it activates the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, and increases cerebral concentrations of tryptophan and norepinephrine catabolites. These changes resemble those observed following administration of sheep red blood cells and Newcastle disease virus, noninfectious activators of the immune system, suggesting that noradrenergic and HPA activation are common concomitants of antigenic stimulation. The mediator of these effects may be interleukin-1 released by activated macrophages. It should be noted that animals infected with viruses can be expected to exhibit stress-like endocrine and neurochemical changes.
The mouse neuroblastoma--Chinese hamster brain hybrid cell line NCB-20 is the only clonal cell line in which binding studies indicate the presence of phencyclidine (PCP) receptors. We report here that Xenopus oocytes injected with NCB-20 cell poly(A)+ RNA express N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-activated channels and that these channels include the PCP receptor site. In injected oocytes, NMDA application evoked a partially desensitizing inward current that was potentiated by glycine, blocked by the competitive antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, blocked by Mg2+ and by Zn2+, and blocked in a use-dependent manner by the PCP receptor ligands PCP and MK-801. There was little or no response to kainate or quisqualate (agonists of the other excitatory amino acid receptors), to gamma-aminobutyric acid (an inhibitory transmitter), or to glycine (an inhibitory transmitter as well as an allosteric potentiator of NMDA channels). Thus, NMDA/PCP receptors expressed from NCB-20 cell mRNA exhibit properties similar to those of the neuronal receptors. The absence of expression of other excitatory amino acid receptors in this system makes it particularly useful for study of NMDA-evoked responses without interference from responses mediated by other receptors. Moreover, NCB-20 mRNA may be an appropriate starting material for cloning the cDNA(s) encoding the NMDA/PCP-receptor complex.
In the mammalian central nervous system, the excitatory amino acid transmitter L-glutamate activates three pharmacologically distinguishable receptors, the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), kainate, and quisqualate receptors. The present paper addresses the issue of whether these three receptors operate independent channels or whether they share channels that may have several conductance substates. The Xenopus oocyte provides a system for expression of exogenous mRNAs that permits detailed study of receptor structure and function. In oocytes injected with rat brain mRNA, NMDA has a stoichiometry of channel activation different from that for kainate and quisqualate. NMDA activates its own channels as indicated by simple summation or near-summation of currents evoked by NMDA with those evoked by quisqualate or kainate. Deviations from summation are ascribable to lack of selectivity in which an agonist at one receptor acts as a weak antagonist at another receptor. A further indication of separate channels is that block of NMDA channels by Mg2+ or phencyclidine has no effect on kainate or quisqualate responses evoked during the block. Interactions of kainate and quisqualate are more complex, but they can be explained by lack of complete specificity of these agonists for their own receptors.
Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed on 30 patients following spinal injury (SI). Spin-echo sequences and surface coils were used for all patients. Plain radiographs, high-resolution computed tomography (CT), and MRI were compared for the delineation of bone, disc, and ligament injury, measurement of sagittal spinal canal diameter and subluxation, epidural hematoma, and spinal cord structure. Myelography or intrathecal contrast-enhanced CT were not performed on any of these patients. Magnetic resonance imaging accurately delineated intraspinal pathology in two of four patients with acute penetrating SI, and was normal in the other two patients. In 16 patients with acute nonpenetrating SI, MRI was superior to CT for visualizing injuries to discs, ligaments, and the spinal cord, while CT was superior to MRI in characterizing bony injury. Computed tomography and MRI provided similar measurements of subluxation in six of six patients and of sagittal spinal canal diameter in three of four patients. In ten patients with chronic SI, MRI demonstrated post-traumatic cysts, myelomalacia, spinal cord edema, and the presence or absence of spinal cord compression. In patients with acute penetrating SI and chronic SI, MRI provided comprehensive clinical information. In patients with acute nonpenetrating SI, the information obtained by MRI complemented the data given by plain radiographs and CT, allowing clinical decisions to be made without the need of invasive imaging modalities.
We looked at the relation between systemic arterial blood pressure and recovery from spinal cord injury by inducing both hypertension and hypotension in 25 rats randomly allocated to five equal groups. The rats received no injury, a mild (2.3-g), or a severe (53.0-g) spinal cord injury lasting 1 minute. We used the hydrogen clearance technique to measure spinal cord blood flow at the injury site (T1) and at an adjacent site (C6). Mean systemic arterial blood pressure was either increased with adrenaline or decreased by phlebotomy in 20-mm-Hg intervals except for the severe-injury group, in which the posttraumatic pressure could only be increased with adrenaline. Spinal cord blood flow remained constant in the no-injury group between 81 and 180 mm Hg. After a mild injury, induced moderate hypertension (121-140 mm Hg) improved spinal cord blood flow significantly, whereas hypotension decreased it in a linear fashion. Severe injury caused a marked decrease in spinal cord blood flow and mean systemic arterial blood pressure. Even extreme hypertension (161-180 mm Hg) induced by adrenaline did not significantly increase spinal cord blood flow at T1 but caused hyperemia at C6 due to loss of autoregulation. In conclusion, normotension should be attempted, irrespective of the severity of spinal cord injury. Induced hypertension after severe spinal cord injury was not beneficial in improving spinal cord blood flow at the injury site while potentially increasing hemorrhage and edema.
We have examined six different JHMV variants, sp-4 (recloned wt JHMV), cl-2, CNSV, DL, DS, and JHM-X, in terms of the sizes of the mRNA3 and E2 glycoprotein as well as their reactivity to a panel of monoclonal antibodies to the E2 glycoprotein. Two of these variants, sp-4 and JHM-X, were found to have smaller mRNA3 and E2 glycoprotein species compared with those of the other four variants. In addition, sp-4 and JHM-X were distinguished from the other four variants by their inability to bind to monoclonal antibodies recognizing two antigenic domains of the E2 molecule. Thus, six JHMV variants could clearly be divided into two groups with respect to the size and antigenicity of their E2 glycoproteins.

Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) production results from active transport of Na+ from blood to CSF, which is followed by H2O and anions. Amiloride reduces Na+ movement in epithelial tissues. To ascertain if amiloride alters transport of Na+ in the choroid plexus, the drug was administered either i.p. to male Sprague-Dawley rats that were bilaterally nephrectomized to determine in vivo effects, or added to artificial CSF to incubate the choroid plexus in vitro. Choroid cell [Na+] was reduced after amiloride treatment both in vivo and in vitro. In addition, the rate of 22Na uptake into the CSF and choroid plexus (CP) was decreased after amiloride. Alterations in choroid cell [Na+] and 22Na penetration into CSF and CP occurred at relatively high doses of drug (1 mumol/ml, in vitro and 100 micrograms/g in vivo), but lower doses were less effective (0.1 mumol/ml in vitro and 10 micrograms/g in vivo). It is concluded that the effects of amiloride on Na+ distribution and transport in the CP are due to inhibition of basolateral Na+-H+ exchange.
The intermediolateral cell column (IML) in the spinal cord is densely innervated by the phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT)-containing neurons of the ventrolateral medulla (C1 cell group). The present study used a sensitive HPLC-EC assay for catecholamines to quantitate epinephrine levels in the region of the spinal cord containing the IML. In dissections of thoracic cord enriched in IML, as well as total thoracic cord, epinephrine levels were below the limit of sensitivity of the assay, indicating that epinephrine levels were less than 0.2 pg/mg tissue. In the region of the IML, epinephrine levels were less than 0.05% of the norepinephrine content. Thus, no epinephrine could be detected in the IML even though the IML contains a dense network of nerve terminals that stain immunohistochemically for PNMT and the other enzymes required for epinephrine biosynthesis. These results suggest that nerve terminals that contain all the enzymes required for epinephrine biosynthesis are not necessarily adrenergic.
The effect of a toxin (JSTX) obtained from Nephila clavata (Joro spider) on the CA1 pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus was studied using slice preparations. JSTX blocked the excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) in the pyramidal neuron evoked by Schaffer collateral stimulation but was without effect on the antidromic action potentials or on the resting conductance. Depolarization induced by ionophoretic application of glutamate was readily suppressed by JSTX but aspartate-induced depolarization was much less sensitive to the toxin. Among preferential agonists activating 3 receptor subtypes for excitatory amino acids, quisqualate responses were most effectively suppressed by JSTX. Kainate responses were similarly suppressed but in some cells higher concentration of the toxin was needed to block the responses. N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) responses were the least sensitive to JSTX but they were suppressed by +/- 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV). Long term potentiation (LTP) once it had taken place was not completely inhibited by APV. In the presence of JSTX, however, LTP was blocked and tetanic stimuli produced only a short-lived potentiation. In Mg2+ free solution, an orthodromic stimulation evoked repetitive spike responses which were superimposed on the depolarization following the initial spike. APV suppressed the depolarization and associated spikes leaving an orthodromic response which was sensitive to JSTX. The results suggest that JSTX blocks EPSPs in CA1 pyramidal neurons which are mediated by non-NMDA type receptors.
Two strains of mice were shown to possess a differential sensitivity to picrotoxinin-induced convulsions; picrotoxinin elicited both tonic and clonic seizures at lower doses in the DBA/2J (DBA) strain compared to the BALB/c ByJ (BALB) strain. Less protection of picrotoxinin-induced tonic seizures was afforded by pentobarbital in the DBA strain. Biochemical studies revealed that picrotoxin inhibited 36Cl- efflux from forebrain synaptoneurosomes only in the DBA strain. In addition, picrotoxin inhibited pentobarbital-induced 36Cl- efflux to a greater extent in the DBA strain. No differences were observed in the binding of [3H]muscimol or [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS) to forebrain homogenates, while pentobarbital was a less potent inhibitor of [35S]TBPS binding in the DBA strain. These findings suggest a genetic basis for the behavioral differences in convulsant sensitivity as well as for the neurochemical differences in allosteric coupling between convulsant and depressant/anticonvulsant sites associated with the GABA receptor-gated Cl- channel.
AHN 086, an isothiocyanato derivative of Ro 5-4864 (4'-chlorodiazepam), inhibits radioligand binding to peripheral benzodiazepine receptors with characteristics of an irreversible (acylating) ligand. We now report that [3H]AHN 086 labels a approximately 30 kDa protein in the rat pineal gland determined by both SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and gel filtration high-performance liquid chromatography of digitonin-solubilized membranes. Specific incorporation of [3H]AHN 086 into this protein was inhibited by preincubating membranes with excess AHN 086. Moreover, significant specific binding of [3H]AHN 086 was not observed in either bovine pineal gland (which does not possess high-affinity binding sites for Ro 5-4864) or ovalbumin. These findings suggest that the approximately 30 kDa protein labeled by [3H]AHN 086 in rat pineal gland is associated with peripheral benzodiazepine receptors in this tissue.
The excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) evoked in the granule cells of the rat dentate gyrus following low frequency stimulation of the perforant path has been investigated using intracellular recording. The EPSP was reduced by low microM concentrations of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX). A small CNQX-resistant component of the EPSP remained. This could be blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, was enhanced in Mg2+-free medium and showed a potential-dependency characteristic of the activation of NMDA ionophores. These results demonstrate that NMDA receptors contribute to the EPSP in the granule cell.
Glutamate is a major neurotransmitter in the rat visual system. The effect of lesion-induced functional deficit on [3H]glutamate binding sites within anatomical components of the visual pathway has been examined using quantitative autoradiography. In the same animals, the magnitude and extent of the functional deficit was assessed with quantitative [14C]-2-deoxyglucose autoradiography. At 24 h after orbital enucleation, significant reductions (approx. 25%) in glutamate binding were present throughout the visual cortex but there were no significant alterations in glutamate binding in the two principal projections of the retina, the superior colliculus or lateral geniculate body. Function-related glucose use was significantly reduced throughout the visual pathway after orbital enucleation. Thus, alterations in the number of glutamate binding sites occur in some, but not all, of the regions in a polysynaptic pathway in which activity is altered.
In situ hybridization with radiolabeled complementary RNA (cRNA) probes was used to determine the location of the messenger RNA (mRNA) encoding choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in Drosophila nervous system. Areas in the cell-rich cortical regions of the cerebrum and optic lobes hybridized with substantial concentrations of the probe. This contrasted with the cell-sparse neuropil areas where no significant concentrations of probe were observed. Although most of the cortical regions were substantially labeled, there were regions within all of the areas where labeling was sparse or nonexistent. For example in the lamina, even though the monopolar cell layer appeared to be heavily labeled, there were some neuronal profiles that were not associated with the probe. Moreover, the epithelial glia that form an arch of cell profiles subjacent to the monopolar cells were not labeled, nor were amacrine neurons in the apex of the lamina near the external optic chiasma. The highest concentration of probe (approximately 140 grains/400 microns2) was observed in the laminar monopolar cell region and the cerebral cortical rind. The next most heavily labeled region (approximately 90 grains/400 microns2) occurred over cortical cells of the medulla-lobula. In the peripheral nervous system, label over the antennal sensory neurons amounted to about 75 grains/400 microns2, and the retinular cell layer of the compound eye exhibited about 60 grains/400 microns2. The control probe did not hybridize in significant quantities in either cellular or noncellular regions. This study presents evidence that large numbers of Drosophila cortical and primary sensory neurons contain the messenger RNA necessary for the production of ChAT, the acetylcholine-synthesizing enzyme. Further, our findings provide baseline information for use in ontogenetic studies of cholinergic neurons in Drosophila, and they also provide normative data for studying the effects of mutant alleles at the Cha or Ace loci upon the transcription of ChAT messenger RNA.
Glucocorticoid effects on kainic acid-induced motor seizures and wet dog shakes in rats were investigated by adrenalectomy and dexamethasone treatment. One-day adrenalectomy attenuated kainic acid-induced wet dog shakes and seizure activity. These effects were restored by dexamethasone. Administration of dexamethasone to non-adrenalectomized rats potentiated kainic acid-induced wet dog shakes and severity of seizure activity. These results suggest that glucocorticoids may play an important role in modulating the severity of kainic acid-induced seizures and wet dog shakes.
Monoclonal antibodies (SMI 31 and SMI 34) against phosphorylated epitopes on neurofilaments react almost exclusively with neuronal axons in paraffin sections of perfused animals. Using fresh frozen (unfixed) rodent brain sections the immunoreactivity with these antibodies was also present in numerous neuronal cell bodies. Both antibodies also recognized intracellular antigens in the soma of living cells of a human neuroblastoma clone. These data suggest that phosphorylation of neurofilaments in neuronal perikarya is common in vivo. The phosphorylated neurofilament epitopes in neuronal perikarya may become hidden during tissue preprocessing and fixation.
Effects of substance P (SP) and neurokinin A (NKA) on intracellular free calcium concentration (Cai) were compared in Fura2-loaded parotid acinar cells. SP produced a pronounced increase in Cai which rapidly desensitized. In contrast, NKA produced a smaller increase which was well maintained. Cells desensitized to SP were cross-desensitized to NKA. The absence of NKA-induced desensitization reflects the inability of NKA to fully activate parotid SP receptors; NKA is a partial agonist in the parotid. Similarly, the action of NKA as a partial agonist in other systems may explain findings that SP responses desensitize while NKA responses do not.
Food intake is the homoeostatic behaviour through which all beings regulate their energy balance. Short-term control is exerted by the brain at each meal, according to the nutritional requirements. The purpose of this control is to ensure long-term regulation of the energy (or adipose) mass reserve which is the principal determinant of bodyweight. After 75 years of investigation, it now appears that the systemic stimulus which initiates food intake probably is a fall in the capacity of cells to produce energy (and therefore power) and that this parameter is most likely to be measured by hypothalamic receptors. The discontinuation of food ingestion behaviour always takes long before the nutriments ingested have been absorbed and have been able to correct the hunger signal. This means that it has its own inhibitory mechanisms the starting point of which is the various sensitivities aroused by food intake and by nutriments before they reach the milieu interne, viz.: the oronaso-pharyngeal analyser system, the gastric stretch receptors and the intestinal or portal-hepatic chemoreceptors. Their activation rests on conditioning processes or on reflex processes one of the effects of which is to induce a change in the affective component associated with food stimuli. It is through these mechanisms that hedonic factors are integrated in the control of food intake. In terms of neurophysiology, it is certain that the main role is played by the ventro-medial and lateral nuclei of the thalamus, although these nuclei should no longer be regarded as centres of hunger or satiety but as integrating areas acting synergistically with many other cerebral structures.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

CSF somatostatin and homovanillic acid (HVA) were measured in 14 schizophrenic patients while they were drug-free and during chronic fluphenazine treatment. CSF somatostatin was significantly reduced and CSF HVA was significantly elevated (p less than 0.002) during fluphenazine treatment. There was a trend toward correlation between CSF somatostatin and CSF HVA in the 14 schizophrenic patients when drug-free (r = 0.49, p less than 0.07) and fluphenazine-treated (r = 0.47, p less than 0.08). When examined in a larger group (n = 46) of drug-free schizophrenics, this relationship was highly significant (r = 0.59, p less than 0.001). These clinical data are consistent with preclinical evidence indicating a functional interaction between CNS somatostatin and dopamine systems.
In the context of a previous WHO collaborative study, six research centers reported that naloxone (0.3 mg/kg) produced significant improvement in symptomatology in neuroleptic-treated patients. In the current Phase II WHO study, repeated (4 days) naloxone (0.3 mg/kg) administration was performed in schizophrenic patients (n = 43) from five WHO collaborating centers using a double-blind, placebo-controlled design. Both naloxone and placebo administrations were associated with significant reductions in symptoms. Naloxone, however, was not superior to placebo. These data are discussed in relation to endorphin hypotheses of schizophrenia.

In rats receiving N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) intraventricularly or intracisternally the cerebellar cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) content increases in a dose-related manner. This response was used to study phencyclidine (PCP) and glycine interactions with the glutamate receptor subtype stimulated by NMDA. The increase of cGMP elicited by NMDA was inhibited by PCP and potentiated by glycine. Moreover, 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV) abolished the NMDA response. Since the increase in cerebellar cGMP induced by kainate, a synthetic agonist of another glutamate receptor subtype, was not modified by APV, the specificity of its action on NMDA response was confirmed. The increase of cerebellar cGMP content elicited by glycine was inhibited by PCP and APV but not by strychnine. Binding studies failed to demonstrate an apparent competitive interaction between PCP, glycine and NMDA. This suggests that the observed interaction is not of the isosteric type. The present results provide evidence that glycine, in vivo, acting at strychnine-insensitive recognition sites modulates allosterically in a positive manner the function of NMDA-sensitive glutamate receptors.
Voltage-dependent calcium currents in hippocampal dentate gyrus granule neurons of young adult (4-6 months) and aged (24-26 months) Fischer 344 rats have been examined using single-electrode voltage-clamp techniques. Calcium currents, especially a high threshold slowly inactivating L-type current, were significantly depressed in neurons obtained from aged animals. Furthermore, these age-dependent changes could be reversed by intracellular injection of the calcium chelator, ethylene glycol bis-(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA). These results are in agreement with the hypothesis that aging results in a persistent increase in the free cytoplasmic calcium concentration in mammalian central neurons.
Ionic conductances present in the dendritic region of the cerebellar Purkinje neuron were studied using the single-channel and whole-cell recording methods. Several types of voltage-sensitive K+ channels including a Ca2+ activated K+ channel were found to be a prominent components of the dendritic membrane. All patches studied contained K+ channel types and most patches contained more than one K+ channel type. In cell attached recordings, K+ channel activity was associated with the late phase of spontaneous action potentials suggesting a functional relationship. These data demonstrate that voltage-sensitive ion channels contribute to dendritic excitability and suggest that the transduction and integration of synaptic signals may involve both active and passive ionic conductances.
Using a monoclonal antibody to choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), we have identified immunoreactive synaptic terminals in the neuropil regions of the cephalic ganglion of Drosophila melanogaster. This study demonstrates the distribution of antibody-labeled structures within the optic lobe, and then investigates the immunoreactivity altered by mutation in two temperature-sensitive ChAT alleles, chats-1 and chats-2. The general structure of the optic lobe was first observed by means of the silver impregnation technique. Then the presence of ChAT immunoreactivity was determined by the application of antibody [1G4] conjugated with HRP to frozen sections, followed by the 3,3'-diamino-benzidine tetratinct layers, which correspond to the three synaptic layers of the laminarneurons, in the medulla. Also, staining appeared in four distinct layers in the lobula. In addition, weaker staining was observed in the lamina, which corresponds to the retinula cell terminals. Somal layers were not stained. In Canton-S (wild-type), the three medullar layers stain distinctly at both 19 degrees C and 30 degrees C. In chats-1 at 19 degrees C, the stain appeared in the same layers as that of Canton-S, but with somewhat lower density. In chats-2 at 19 degrees C, the density of the stain was even lower. The densities of the stain in these mutants were further decreased after exposing the flies to 30 degrees C. The decreases were dependent on the length of exposure to the higher temperature. The decrease in stain of the specimens obtained after 24 hours exposure to 30 degrees C was clearly recognizable in both chats-1 and chats-2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The electrophysiological responses of the mouse suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) to stimulated synaptic input from the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT) were investigated using a hypothalamic slice preparation that includes the entire SCN, optic chiasm and optic nerves. Extracellular recordings of single-unit activity reveal a population of neurons in the ventrolateral SCN that are activated at a median latency of 10 ms after stimulation of the contralateral optic nerve. These neurons apparently receive direct excitatory input from RHT synapses. Other SCN neurons are activated at longer latencies, possibly through input from interneurons. The population field potentials evoked in the SCN by optic nerve volleys consist of a calcium-insensitive transient generated by optic tract axons in the chiasm, followed by calcium-sensitive waves generated by postsynaptic activity. The postsynaptic waves have the form of a field EPSP, negative in the dorsolateral SCN and positive in the ventrolateral SCN, upon which is superimposed a population spike of opposite polarity. The population spike occurs at the same latency as the monosynaptic single unit responses, which were all found near or ventral to the point of reversal of field potential. These findings suggest that neurons in the ventrolateral SCN are excited by synapses on dorsally extended dendrites. The conduction velocity of the RHT in the optic nerve was found to be 0.59 +/- 0.03 mm/ms, while that of the optic tract volley was 2.4 +/- 0.75 mm/ms. The low conduction velocity of the RHT indicates that, within the optic nerve, these axons are thin and/or unmyelinated in the optic nerve.
A slice preparation of the mouse hypothalamus that includes the suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN), the optic chiasm and the optic nerves was used for pharmacologic investigations of the nature of the receptors mediating the excitation of SCN neurons by input from the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT). Bath application of cis-2,3-piperidinedicarboxylic acid, a non-selective antagonist of excitatory amino acid receptors, reversibly blocked the postsynaptic component of the field potentials evoked in the dorsolateral SCN by stimulation of the optic nerve. The selective antagonist of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, had no effect on SCN responses. Glutamic acid diethyl ester and 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid also were without effect, but gamma-D-glutamylglycine caused a small decrease in the amplitude of the postsynaptic wave. Addition of the agonists, kainate and N-methyl-D,L-aspartate, to the superfusate also blocked the postsynaptic response. Kainate was the most potent agonist. L-Glutamate was without effect at up to 100 microM. These results indicate that postsynaptic responses in the SCN to retinohypothalamic tract volleys are mediated by a non-NMDA class of excitatory amino acid receptors.

Systemic injection of the nauseogenic agent LiCl is known to increase neurohypophyseal secretion of oxytocin (OT) in rats. The present results indicated that the induced OT secretion was related exponentially to the inhibition of food intake. A similar relation between OT secretion and food intake also was observed after systemic injection of the peptide hormone cholecystokinin (CCK). However, the effects of each agent on food intake lasted much longer than the observed increases in OT secretion. In contrast, both LiCl and CCK produced a dose-dependent inhibition of gastric emptying in rats that was closely related temporally to the inhibition of food intake. The similarity of these three responses to LiCl and CCK suggests that both agents stimulate common central mechanisms, apparently involving both magnocellular and parvocellular neurons in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus, whereby these neuroendocrine, behavioral, and autonomic functions are integrated.

Concern has been raised regarding the possibility that hypoxic conditions encountered during high-altitude mountaineering may have lasting harmful effects on the human brain. Members of an expedition to Mount Everest completed a series of neuropsychological tests before and after the expedition. Exposure to altitudes above 7,200 m was limited to a maximum of four consecutive nights, separated by rest periods at lower altitudes. No significant decline in performance was observed on any test. The subjects also completed a short series of tests at different altitudes during the expedition. No significant deterioration was observed at altitudes up to 7,500 m. There do not appear to be lasting harmful effects on brain function under these conditions.
The study characterizes differences between inbred Wistar-Kyoto (WKYs) and Brown-Norway (BNs) rats in open-field behavior, and in discriminative learning and acquisition of an avoidance learning task. Hyper-reactivity of WKYs to novelty was demonstrated in an open-field test. Discriminative learning and retention thereof was slower in WKYs, but as efficient as in BNs. Acquisition of avoidance learning was also slower in WKYs, but their maximal avoidance score was much higher (approximately 85%) than in BNs. Also, recall of avoidance learning was slower for WKYs. We conclude: (1) hyper-reactivity of WKYs to novelty is expressed by their exceptional immobility and excess defecation in the open-field and is paralleled by their known hyper-reactivity to stressful stimuli, and (2) no strain differences exist in the ability to learn a discriminative task, but both acquisition and recall of an avoidance task are slower in WKYs. This may imply that the degree of reactivity to stressful environmental stimuli may play an important role in the acquisition of learning.


A number of clinical reports have cited memory disturbances in surgical cases involving section of the corpus callosum. This review, however, shows that persistent impairment of recent memory has tended to occur only in cases where there has been concurrent extracallosal damage, particularly to the fornix and its connections. Both the timing and sensitivity of psychometric tests as well as the availability of preoperative baselines are all important factors in determining the reliability of memory assessment following callosal surgery. A minimal delay of one year between surgery and final memory testing is needed because intellectual functions have been shown to improve markedly during the 12 months following callosal section. The use of discriminating psychometric tests with comparisons before and after operation is desirable, since global memory tests are relatively insensitive to disorders of recent memory.
Using the retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase (HRP) in combination with two-color immunoperoxidase staining, boutons stained with antisera to substance P (SP), serotonin (5HT) and oxytocin (OX) have been observed in contiguity with neurons in the rostral and caudal medulla that showed immunoreactivity for phenylethanolamine N-methyl transferase (PNMT) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), respectively, and which were backfilled with HRP injected into the diencephalon. The juxtaposition of these immunostained structures indicates that SP, 5HT and OX released from fibers in the medulla may affect the activity of adrenergic and noradrenergic medullary neurons that project to the diencephalon. Moreover, the presence of 5HT- and OX-immunoreactive processes in contiguity with medullary CA cells that send fibers to the diencephalon indicates that the raphe nuclei and the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus can directly influence ascending pathways that are known to innervate the hypothalamus and appear to effect changes in vasopressin release.
The effect of nerve growth factor (NGF) on the survival of neurons projecting to the hippocampus from developing medial septum and vertical limb of the diagonal band was studied in vitro. The neurons had previously been labeled retrogradely in vivo with fluorescent latex microspheres. The microspheres were injected bilaterally into the hippocampus of 5-day-old rats. Twenty to 24 h after the injection, cells from the basal forebrain were dissociated with papain and cultured for 3-5 days. The number of microsphere-labeled neurons in the culture with supplementation of NGF was much greater than that without NGF. The result clearly indicates a survival-promoting effect of NGF on these projection neurons.
The effects of microiontophoretic bicuculline, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonist, on the ocular dominance of visual cortical neurons were compared in normal cats and cats reared with abnormal monocular visual experience (monocular deprivation, surgical strabismus, and monocular deprivation after dark rearing). Cells that were monocular prior to drug application showed disinhibitory effects on ocular dominance far more frequently than originally binocular cells in all rearing conditions. When the total population of neurons was considered there were marked differences among rearing conditions: only 17% of cells showed change in ocular dominance in normal cats whereas over 50% showed changes in cats reared with abnormal monocular visual experience. These results indicate that GABA inhibition plays an enhanced role in cats with abnormal cortical ocular dominance. The results are interpreted in the context that the GABA system is passively biased by alterations in the pattern of excitatory input to contribute to abnormal patterns of ocular dominance.

Study of dendritic morphology through Golgi impregnation techniques has significantly furthered our understanding of neuronal development, maturation, and senescence. It has also provided insight into the pathogenesis of a wide spectrum of disease processes ranging from brain malformations to degenerative disorders. Golgi impregnation remains virtually the only method for demonstrating dendritic morphology. It delineates the profile of the individual neuron and its dendritic ramifications with unsurpassed clarity. Although it has been widely applied to experimental neuroscience involving animal tissue, its application to human material has been limited. This review summarizes the information on dendritic development and pathology in the human brain revealed by the use of the Golgi method.
1. Neuronal re-uptake is the primary means for terminating the actions of endogenously released noradrenaline. A portion of the recaptured noradrenaline is deaminated to form dihydroxyphenylglycol. The present report describes a technique using plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol for estimation of the rate of neuronal reuptake of endogenous noradrenaline in vivo. 2. Neuronal re-uptake of noradrenaline in the sympathetic nervous system of the rat was estimated from the effects of neuronal uptake blockade with desipramine on three variables: (i) the plasma clearance of intravenously infused 3H-labelled noradrenaline, (ii) the plasma concentration of endogenous dihydroxyphenylglycol, and (iii) the plasma concentration of 3H-labelled dihydroxyphenylglycol formed from infused 3H-labelled noradrenaline. 3. Desipramine decreased plasma dihydroxyphenylglycol by 36%, this representing the fraction of dihydroxyphenylglycol in plasma that was derived from recaptured noradrenaline. After desipramine, the decrease in the rate of neuronal uptake of 3H-labelled noradrenaline was 9.7 times that of the decrease in the plasma spillover of 3H-labelled dihydroxyphenylglycol. Since the appearances in plasma of dihydroxyphenylglycol from unlabelled and 3H-labelled noradrenaline were similar, the neuronal re-uptake of endogenous noradrenaline could be assumed to be 9.7 times as much as the plasma spillover of dihydroxyphenylglycol that was derived from recaptured noradrenaline (0.15 nmol min-1 kg-1). 4. The rate of neuronal re-uptake of endogenous noradrenaline was estimated to be 1.45 nmol min-1 kg-1, whereas the plasma spillover of noradrenaline was 0.127 nmol min-1 kg-1. Thus, only a small fraction (less than 9%) of the noradrenaline released into the synaptic cleft spills over into the circulation.
We injected adult female rats with 0.25 mg/100 g body weight of testosterone to test the sensitivity to androgens of the levator ani muscle (LAM). Testosterone induced marked hypertrophy characterized by fiber size enlargement, but did not increase the number of fibers. Morphological observations and quantitative data indicated that hypertrophy was accompanied by satellite cell proliferation between Days 1 and 3 after testosterone treatment, and by an increase in the number of myonuclei, which started between Days 2 and 3 after treatment. On Day 30, this increase reached 80% of the initial number of myonuclei. The new myonuclei seemed to result from satellite cell proliferation and from the fusion of some of them with preexistent muscle fibers. These results strongly suggest that testosterone-induced cell proliferation might have a role in developing the sexual dimorphism of the LAM. They also indicate the need to reconsider the currently accepted notion that sexual dimorphism is owing to female LAM involution.

We describe algorithms, developed on a PDP-11/73 microcomputer, which identify spikes/sharp waves (STs), spike-and-wave complexes (SSWs), artifacts and background activity in 4-channel ambulatory EEGs. The algorithms were trained using 40 database segments. Time domain/mimetic methods were used and semantic rules, based on morphology and multi-channel contextual information, were developed to mimic the principles used in visual interpretation. The likelihood of STs/SSWs being genuine was graded from 10 to 1. This approach avoids forced classification of each event as genuine ST/SSW or not. The algorithms were then evaluated using 60 independent segments. STs/SSWs graded greater than 7 had significantly higher probability (P less than 0.005) of being genuine than those graded less than or equal to 7. Less than 4% of STs/SSWs identified by both electroencephalographers were missed. None was distinct. All 113 artifacts resembling STs/WWs were graded less than or equal to 7. Classification of 969/1117 (86%) waves in the background matched that of one electroencephalographer. The algorithms can be extended to 8- or more-channel EEGs.
The present study attempts to determine whether the neurotoxicity of p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) is dependent on a releasable pool of serotonin (5-HT). Rats treated with PCA alone or with reserpine and PCA exhibit a profound loss of 5-HT innervation in cerebral cortex after a 2-week survival period. However, depletion of 5-HT by combined treatment with p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) and reserpine provides substantial protection against the neurotoxic effects of PCA. These results indicate that release of 5-HT is a necessary step in the neurotoxicity of PCA and that a peripheral source of 5-HT is involved. We suggest that 5-HT release from platelets into the peripheral circulation may result in the formation of a neurotoxic 5-HT metabolite.
Exposure of rabbit retina to cytochalasin D (CD) via a single intraocular injection results in basal rod outer segment (ROS) and cone OS (COS) discs with abnormally large diameters; the overgrown OS membranes extend along either the cell outer or inner segment. Twenty-four hours after the injection, basal ROS and COS discs appear to have recovered their normal diameter, indicating the reversibility of this drug's effect. These data support both the evagination hypothesis for disc morphogenesis and the hypothesis that f-actin's role at the ROS base is to regulate the initiation of membrane evagination and disc diameter.
Dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) is the immediate product of the rate-limiting step in catecholamine biosynthesis, hydroxylation of tyrosine. This study examined whether plasma concentrations of DOPA are related to tyrosine hydroxylase activity. Plasma concentrations of DOPA, norepinephrine, and the norepinephrine metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) were measured in arterial blood and blood draining the heart, brain, and forearm of 21 patients undergoing cardiac catheterization. Rates of entry of norepinephrine into arterial plasma and plasma draining the heart were estimated using infusions of radioactive norepinephrine. Arterial plasma DOPA correlated positively with arterial plasma DHPG (r = 0.63), MHPG (r = 0.47), norepinephrine (r = 0.67), and the rate of entry of norepinephrine into arterial plasma (r = 0.62). There were significant arteriovenous increments in plasma DOPA: 28% across the heart, 18% across the brain, and 32% across the forearm. Arteriovenous increments in plasma DOPA across the brain correlated positively with increments in plasma DHPG (r = 0.83), but not with increments in norepinephrine or MHPG. In the arm, where MHPG was the major metabolite, arteriovenous increments in DOPA correlated positively with increments in MHPG (r = 0.52) and with the combined increments in MHPG, DHPG, and norepinephrine (r = 0.60). In the heart, where DHPG was the major metabolite, arteriovenous increments in DOPA correlated positively with increments in DHPG (r = 0.72) and the combined increments in DHPG, MHPG, and norepinephrine (r = 0.62). The rate at which norepinephrine entered the great cardiac venous plasma from tissues of the heart correlated positively with the rate at which DOPA overflowed from the heart into the systemic circulation (r = 0.56). The relationships between plasma DOPA and norepinephrine metabolism and the rates of norepinephrine entry into plasma support the view that plasma DOPA reflects tyrosine hydroxylase activity.
To further elucidate the neuroendocrine regulation of anterior pituitary function in women with functional hypothalamic amenorrhea (FHA), we measured serum LH, FSH, cortisol, GH, PRL, TSH concentrations simultaneously at frequent intervals for 24 h in 10 women with FHA and in 10 normal women in the early follicular phase (NC). Using the same data, we separately analyzed the cortisol-PRL responses to meals in these women. In addition, the pituitary responses to the simultaneous administration of GnRH, CRH, GHRH, and TRH were assessed in 6 FHA and 6 normal women. The 24-h secretory pattern of each hormone except TSH was altered in the women with FHA. Compared to normal women, the women with FHA had a 53% reduction in LH pulse frequency (P less than 0.0001) and an increase in the mean LH interpulse interval (P less than 0.01); LH pulse amplitude was similar. The 24-h integrated LH and FSH concentrations were reduced 30% (P = 0.01) and 19% (P less than 0.05), respectively. The mean cortisol pulse frequency, amplitude, interpulse interval, and duration were similar in the two groups, but integrated 24-h cortisol secretion was 17% higher in the women with FHA (P less than 0.05). This increase was greatest from 0800-1600 h, but also was present from 2400-0800 h. Cortisol levels were similar in the two groups from 1600-2400 h, resulting in an amplified circadian excursion. In contrast, the 24-h serum PRL levels were markedly lower at all times (P less than 0.0001), the sleep-associated nocturnal elevation of PRL was proportionately greater (P less than 0.05), and serum GH levels were increased at night in the women with FHA (P less than 0.05). Although 24-h serum TSH levels were similar at all times, T3 (P less than 0.05) and T4 (P less than 0.01) levels were lower in the FHA women. The responses of serum cortisol to lunch (P less than 0.01) and dinner (P less than 0.05) and those of serum PRL to lunch (P less than 0.05) and dinner (P = 0.08) were blunted in the women with FHA. Pituitary hormone increments in response to the simultaneous iv administration of GnRH, CRH, GHRH, and TRH were similar in the two groups, except for a blunted PRL response to TRH in the women with FHA (P less than 0.05).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Movement time for finger, wrist, and whole arm motions were investigated in relation to Fitts' Index of Difficulty (ID = log2 2A/W) over movement distances of 0.25 to 30.5 cm. Results supported Fitts' original theory that various limb segments may show different maximum information processing rates. Short-distance finger and wrist motions showed much higher rates than longer distance arm motions. Examination of motion trajectories qualitatively supported a descriptive model whereby a visually mediated discrete correction control process is used. However, evidence of severe nonlinearities in the measured humam movement responses did not support the use of linear control models in explaining the empirical validity of Fitts' law in predicting human motor performance.
Brief freezing as a means of transiently permeabilizing synaptosomes was explored. Rat brain synaptosomes frozen and thawed in the presence of 5% dimethyl sulfoxide, a cryoprotectant, were shown to release, in a calcium-dependent manner, previously accumulated [3H]norepinephrine and [14C]acetylcholine in response to elevated [K+]. In addition, synaptosomes subjected to freeze/thaw were shown to retain their ability to exhibit resting protein phosphorylation, as well as stimulated protein phosphorylation occurring in response to calcium influx. Brief freezing of synaptosomes in the presence of [gamma-32P]ATP and either the catalytic subunit of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase or calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II rendered the synaptosomal interior accessible to these agents, as reflected by the phosphorylation of substrate proteins, such as synapsin I, which reside within the nerve terminal. Inclusion of inhibitors of these protein kinases during freeze/thaw blocked synaptosomal protein phosphorylation, indicating that the inhibitors were also introduced. After freezing, the synaptosomes resealed rapidly and spontaneously, as shown by the inability of any of the agents to elicit an effect on phosphorylation when added at the end of the freezing period. The permeabilization procedure should contribute to an understanding of the functional roles of phosphoproteins, and of their associated protein kinases and protein phosphatases, in nerve terminals.
Binding assays of [3H]muscimol and [3H]-flunitrazepam have been performed on brain homogenates of brainstem, cerebellum, and forebrain of genetically epileptic quaking (qk) mutant mice 20, 40, 70, and 90 days old and their corresponding controls of the same strain (C57BL/6J). The endogenous gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) content has been determined in various brain regions of 70-day-old qk and control mice. Finally, the behavioral effects of diazepam, of the mixed GABAA/GABAB receptor agonist progabide, and of the selective GABAB receptor agonist baclofen have been assessed in adult qk mutants. Our results strongly suggest a lack of involvement of GABAergic neurotransmission in the inherited epilepsy of the qk mutant mouse.
Abstract Perfusion of Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-NH(2) (FMRFamide), an endogenous neuropeptide, through the gill of Aplysia significantly potentiates the amplitude of the gill withdrawal reflex evoked by tactile stimulation of the siphon with or without the central nervous system present. The potentiating effect of FMRFamide is reversible with washout. FMRFamide perfusion of the gill also prevented the gill withdrawal reflex from undergoing habituation when the tactile stimulus was presented repeatedly. Rather than habituate, the gill withdrawal reflex increased in amplitude. FMRFamide continued to prevent habituation in the absence of the parietal-visceral ganglion. We hypothesize that FMRFamide plays a role in the mediation of behavioural state primarily by affecting activity in the peripheral nervous system in the gill.
Abstract Magnocellular neuroendocrine cells of the rat supraoptic nucleus undergo numerous morphological changes during chronic dehydration of the animal. These changes include increases in cell size, the percentage of neuronal membrane in direct apposition and formation of new multiple synapses (i.e. terminals which form more than one synapse with adjacent somata and/or dendrites). Previous studies of multiple synapse formation in the supraoptic nucleus did not include adjustments for changes in somatic size, thus the full extent of synapse formation relative to increases in cell size was not known. That multiple synapse formation is a compensatory mechanism for increased somatic size was investigated by comparing animals that were either chronically dehydrated (by drinking 2% saline) or were well hydrated. Using morphometric techniques the percentage of somatic membrane contacted by single and multiple synapses was obtained. Estimates of somatic surface area were used together with stereologically derived estimates of the number of synapses per mum(2) to calculate the number of single and multiple axo-somatic synapses per neuron. Measures of soma-somatic and soma-dendritic membrane apposition and glial coverage were made to confirm earlier estimates of these parameters. Somatic surface area increased by more than 70% in dehydrated animals. Percentage of somatic membrane contacted by single synapses was lower (by 41%) and that contacted by multiple synapses was higher (by 100%) in dehydrated as compared to control animals. The number of single synapses was not different between the two groups but dehydrated animals had more multiple synapses per soma (23) than controls (6). With dehydration, there was an eight-fold increase in the percentage of somatic membrane contacted by adjacent somatic/dendritic membrane. The surface area per somain such direct apposition was fifteen-fold higher in dehydrates compared to controls. Glial processes covered the same proportion of somatic membrane in the two groups, while the actual area covered by glial processes per soma was higher in dehydrated animals. These results are consistent with the hypothesis that multiple synapse formation at least partially compensates for probable relative decreases in synaptic efficacy as synaptic density decreases when cells increase in size due to dehydration. This altered synaptic input as well as the increased direct apposition between adjacent neurons probably contribute to their enhanced activation during periods of increased hormone demand.
B50/GAP43 is a neuron-specific phosphoprotein whose expression is associated with neural development and synaptic plasticity. Its postnatal ontogeny was investigated in the primary olfactory pathway of the rat using immunohistochemical methods. The unique ability of the olfactory neuroepithelium to generate new neurons from a population of precursor cells present in the basal cell layer of this tissue makes it a valuable model in the study of neural development. In newborn rats B50/GAP43 is present throughout the entire population of olfactory receptor neurons. These cells are stained throughout, from the ciliated dendritic knob to their axon terminals in the bulb. This appears to be the first example of unambiguous B50/GAP43 expression in dendritic processes. With increasing age the distribution of this protein becomes progressively restricted to a subpopulation of olfactory neurons. Comparison of the expression of B50/GAP43 and the olfactory marker protein (OMP), a polypeptide only present in mature olfactory neurons, revealed that during postnatal development of the olfactory system these 2 proteins are expressed in a nearly reciprocal fashion. In adult animals (3.5 months-6 months of age), B50/GAP43-positive cells are exclusively present adjacent to the basal cell layer of the neuroepithelium. Basal cells appear to be unstained. The region of the epithelium containing the B50/GAP43-positive cells is virtually devoid of OMP-positive neurons. A significant fraction of these B50/GAP43-containing cells bear dendritic and neuritic processes. However, these cells do not express olfactory cilia. It is probable that the olfactory neurons expressing the growth-associated B50/GAP43 protein may correspond to a particular subset of olfactory neurons at an intermediate state of maturation.
In the motornervous system of the large parasitic nematode, Ascaris suum, the dorsal and ventral nerve cords are connected by a repeating pattern of single identified motorneuron processes, called commissures (Stretton et al., 1978). By making microelectrode penetrations of the commissures, we here report the first successful intracellular recordings of nematode neurons. These cells, like muscle cells of Ascaris, exhibit resting potentials of approximately -30 to -40 mV. Several tests indicate that these are the normal resting potentials of the cells and are not low due to damage. Using 2 intracellular microelectrodes (one for stimulation and one for recording), we have determined the input resistance and cable properties of commissural motorneurons. Over the physiological voltage range, the steady-state I-V plots are linear with little indication that voltage-sensitive conductances are contributing substantially to signaling. The membrane capacitance is comparable to that of single biological membranes (range, 0.4-0.9 microF/cm2) and the internal resistivity (range, 79-314 omega cm) is similar to that found in other cells. Because of unusually large membrane resistances (range, 61-251 k omega cm2), the space constants, lambda, are high (range, 4-10 mm). Such membrane properties produce cells that are well-designed for conducting passive signals over long distances. This long-distance signaling ability appears to be due to the intrinsic properties of the motorneuron membrane itself.
Regulation of neural protein kinase C (PKC) activity appears to directly affect the persistence of long-term potentiation (LTP; Akers and Routtenberg, 1985; Lovinger et al., 1985, 1986, 1987; Routtenberg et al., 1985, 1986; Akers et al., 1986; Linden et al., 1987), a model of neural plasticity (Bliss and Lomo, 1973). In addition, the in vitro phosphorylation of a brain-specific PKC substrate, protein F1 (Mr 47 kDa, pl 4.5), has been directly correlated with persistence of LTP (Lovinger et al., 1986). Because PKC has been implicated in neurite outgrowth and is present at high levels in growth cone-rich areas of fetal brain, we investigated and characterized PKC substrates in a preparation of isolated nerve growth cone fragments from fetal rat brain and compared them with PKC substrates found in adult rat hippocampus. Four major proteins in the growth cone preparation showed endogenous phosphorylation levels at least 10-fold greater than any other phosphoproteins. Three of these 4 phosphoproteins, termed pp40, pp46, and pp80 (Katz et al., 1985), were phosphorylated by exogenous PKC in a dose-dependent manner, indicating that PKC activity might be of particular importance relative to other kinases in growth cone function. The 2 most highly labeled PKC substrates, pp46 and pp80, comigrated on 2-dimensional gels with the adult hippocampal proteins F1 and &quot;80k&quot; (Mr 78-80 kDa, pl 4.0), respectively. In addition, similarities in charge heterogeneity, 2-dimensional phosphopeptide maps, and increased phosphorylation in the presence of exogenous PKC or PKC stimulators suggest that protein F1 and 80k are highly homologous to, if not identical to, pp46 and pp80, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The commissural motorneurons of the nematode Ascaris are capable of transmitting signals passively over long distances with little decrement. This ability is due to the high resistivities of their membranes (Davis and Stretton, 1989). Although these cells rely on their passive properties for long-distance signaling, voltage-sensitive channels are present in commissural membranes. These channels underlie the graded active responses that can be elicited at the offset of abrupt hyperpolarizing and depolarizing intracellular current pulses. The inhibitory motorneurons generate membrane potential oscillations when they are strongly depolarized. All-or-none action potentials have never been observed to occur spontaneously, nor has it been possible to evoke them even when the cells have been strongly hyperpolarized to remove any possible channel inactivation. Our findings indicate that the typical all-or-none action potentials so commonly used in nerve cells throughout the animal kingdom do not occur in these cells. Synaptic transmission is therefore mediated without spikes and is graded. The resting potentials of Ascaris motorneurons lie where the synaptic input-output curves are steepest, above the threshold for release of neurotransmitter. Tonic transmitter release from commissural motorneurons may be the neural mechanism underlying the hydrostatic skeleton of Ascaris.
The relationship between a postsynaptic potential (the 'test PSP') and the profile of the cross-correlation that it produces in a repetitively discharging mammalian motoneuron, with and without synaptic noise, has been explored by computer stimulation. In a noiseless motoneuron the cross-correlation profile represents the first derivative of PSP shape except where 'shadowing' occurs (Eqn. 1a-c). When synaptic noise is present the relationship changes. When the amplitude of spike-like 'noise PSPs' occurring at regular intervals reaches a critical value (Eqn. 2), all threshold crossings involve noise PSPs. Under these circumstances termed 'just maximally effective synaptic noise', the cross-correlation represents test PSP directly (Eqn. 3a). When the interval between noise PSPs is shortened the relationship reverts to the first differential (Eqn. 4a-c). If the amplitude of the noise PSPs is less than the critical value (Eqn. 5) the cross-correlation profile is represented in a complex way by a combination of the first derivative of the upper part and the direct representation of the lower part of the test PSP. The area of the cross-correlation peak above baseline provides the most reliable estimate of EPSP amplitude in a noiseless motoneuron (Eqn. 6a). This area may fall to half for the same triangular test EPSP in the presence of just maximally effective synaptic noise (Eqn. 7a). In general, the presence of synaptic noise leads to underestimation of EPSP amplitude. These general principles remain valid for physiological noise consisting of randomly occurring EPSPs and allow certain experimental findings in cat motoneurons to be understood.
This article reviews the legislative process at the national level and gives individual and group strategies neuroscience nurses can utilize to influence legislators and become involved in the political arena. In addition, selected current health care legislative issues are presented along with AANN's categories for prioritizing legislative action.
Gonadal hormones have been shown to modulate adaptive responses of the mesostriatal dopaminergic system to antipsychotic challenge. We examined the role of endogenous gonadal steroids in the regulation of D1 receptor function after chronic treatment with sulpiride, a D2 specific antagonist. Chronic sulpiride treatment induced a desensitization of striatal D1 receptor-simulated adenylate cyclase activity in intact male rats with no change in the number of D1 or D2 receptors. This desensitization of D1-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity was expressed as a decrease in Vmax with no change in the activation constant. Castration of male rats blocked the chronic sulpiride-induced desensitization of D1 receptor function. Castration of male rats also resulted in a decrease in the number of D1 receptors as measured by [3H]SCH23390 binding. Ovariectomy of female rats had no effect on striatal D1 receptor-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. Preliminary studies showed no effect of chronic sulpiride treatment on D1 receptor function in intact or ovariectomized female rats. We conclude that testicular hormones have a permissive effect on the expression of the chronic sulpiride-induced desensitization of D1 receptor function.
The relationship between muscarinic receptor-mediated inositol lipid hydrolysis and the generation of Ca2+ signals has been examined in human SK-N-SH neuroblastoma cells. The resting cytoplasmic calcium concentration [( Ca2+]i) as determined by fura-2 fluorescence measurements was 59 +/- 2 nM. Upon the addition of oxotremorine-M, there was a 4-fold increase in [Ca2+]i (293 +/- 18 nM), with half-maximal stimulation obtained at an agonist concentration of 8 microM, a value similar to that previously observed for the enhancement of phosphoinositide hydrolysis. Addition of partial muscarinic agonists for phosphoinositide turnover (bethanechol, oxo-2, and arecoline) elicited correspondingly smaller increases in [Ca2+]i than did oxotremorine-M. Inclusion of EGTA lowered the basal [Ca2+]i within 2 min and markedly reduced (greater than 60%) the magnitude of the agonist-induced rise in [Ca2+]i. Addition of muscarinic agonists to SK-N-SH cells that had been prelabeled with [3H]inositol led to the rapid (5-15 sec) release of inositol mono-, bis-, and triphosphates. When assayed under conditions similar to those employed for the fluorescence measurements, EGTA also inhibited both the basal and oxotremorine-M-stimulated release of inositol phosphates by 45-61%. Conversely, ionomycin both elevated [Ca2+]i and stimulated the release of inositol phosphates. The addition of Ca2+ (10 nM-2 microM) to digitonin-permeabilized cells directly stimulated the release of labeled inositol mono-, bis-, and trisphosphates by 3-4-fold with a half-maximal effect (EC50) observed at 145 nM free Ca2+ (Ca2+f). A further (6-fold) calcium-dependent increase in inositol phosphate release was obtained by inclusion of either guanosine-5-O-(3-thio)-trisphosphate (GTP gamma S) or oxotremorine-M. In the combined presence of agonist and GTP gamma S, a synergistic release of all three inositol phosphates occurred, with half-maximal stimulation observed at 35-40 nM Ca2+f, a value similar to the [Ca2+]i in quiescent cells. These results indicate (i) that the magnitude of the initial rise in [Ca2+]i is directly related to the production of phosphoinositide-derived second messenger molecules and (ii) that the phospholipase C-mediated breakdown of inositol lipids in SK-N-SH cells is particularly sensitive to regulation by physiologically relevant Ca2+ concentrations. It is concluded that, in SK-N-SH cells, either an elevation above or reduction below basal [Ca2+]i can modulate the extent of hydrolysis of inositol lipids and the subsequent generation of calcium signals.
The meta- and para-isothiocyanato derivatives of t-butylbicycloorthobenzoate (TBOB) were synthesized by catalytic reduction of the corresponding nitro compounds, followed by treatment with thiophosgene. p-NCS-TBOB (2) inhibited the binding of both [3H]TBOB and [35S]t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (TBPS) with potencies (IC50 of 61 and 23 nM, respectively) similar to the parent compound. In contrast, the meta derivative (m-NCS-TBOB, 1) was more than 1 order of magnitude less potent (IC50 of 1588 and 149 nM, respectively). The IC50 values for both 1 and 2 were strongly dependent on the tissue concentration, in a manner characteristic of irreversible inhibitors. Moreover, preincubation of tissue with these compounds, followed by extensive washing, resulted in a concentration-dependent reduction in the number of [35S]TBPS binding sites and in the apparent affinity of this radioligand. Similar effects were not observed in tissues treated in identical fashion with either TBOB or picrotoxin. Preincubation with p-NCS-TBOB at concentrations that significantly inhibit [35S]TBPS or [3H]TBOB binding did not affect radioligand binding to either benzodiazepine or gamma-aminobutyric acid receptors. These findings suggest that m- and p-NCS-TBOB bind irreversibly to sites labeled by cage convulsants such as TBOB and TBPS, which are on or near GABA-gated chloride channels. p-NCS-TBOB should prove useful in determining the molecular characteristics of the benzodiazepine receptor-coupled GABA-gated chloride ionophore.
Adult cholinergic interneurons of the neostriatum are not immunoreactive for monoclonal antibody to NGF receptor, whereas the developing neostriatum is immunoreactive for this same antibody. Chronic NGF infusion into the adult neostriatum resulted in reexpression of the NGF receptor such that many cholinergic interneurons became immunoreactive for NGF receptor. NGF infusion dramatically increased the size and choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity of these same cholinergic neurons. Additionally, in situ hybridization demonstrated an increase in the number of cells expressing NGF receptor mRNA in the NGF-infused striatum. These findings indicate that central cholinergic neurons which lose their NGF receptors during postnatal development will resume their NGF responsiveness when the tissue is damaged. Such a damage-induced mechanism may act to enhance the action of trophic factors, including NGF, released at the site of injury and enhance the responsiveness of damaged CNS neurons to exogenously administered trophic factors.
The pharmacology of two muscarinic responses, recorded from the ventral roots of the spinal cord in the neonatal rat, have been compared: the depolarising response and the inhibition of the monosynaptic compound action potential (CAP). Pirenzepine was more potent than AF-DX 116 in antagonising the depolarising response. However, the potencies of these compounds indicated that this response may be mediated by neither M1 nor M2 (cardiac-like) receptors. The drug AF-DX 116 (1 microM), but not pirenzepine, selectively reduced the inhibitory effect. It is concluded that the receptors mediating these two responses are different.
Unilateral dilatation of the lateral ventricle in adults is rare. We report 2 cases of unilateral hydrocephalus with obstruction at the foramen of Monro. Both patients presented with symptoms of raised intracranial pressure.
It has been well established that acquired lesions of the corpus callosum such as surgical section bring about disturbances of interhemispheric transfer of visual information. In contrast, patients with callosal agenesis do not display these specific deficits. The mechanisms of this compensation have been postulated as follows; (1) bilateral development of language function, (2) exploitation of extracallosal commissure fibers such as the anterior commissure. Several studies have reported, however, minor disturbances of interhemispheric visual transfer in callosal agenesis, such as less efficient interhemispheric transfer of complex visual stimuli (Gott &amp; Saul, 1978), slower reaction time in interhemispheric comparison of visual stimuli (Sauerwein &amp; Lassonde, 1983), or deficits in spatial localization in the right hemi-field (Martin, 1985). In order to settle these issues, we have administered four kinds of tachistoscopic visual recognition tests on 4 patients with complete agenesis of the corpus callosum confirmed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). This technique enabled us to see the mid-sagittal plane of the corpus callosum and diagnose its total absence with much higher certainty and precision than previous studies employing computed tomography (CT) or pneumoencephalography. Case 1: A 41-year-old right-handed man visited us because of recurrent numbness in the four extremities. Neurological examination revealed no abnormalities. MRI has confirmed that the corpus callosum was totally lacking, and that the anterior commissure was normally visualized. Case 2: A 31-year-old right-handed man was referred to us for the treatment of partial complex seizure. Total agenesis and lipoma of the corpus callosum was diagnosed by MRI and reconstructed sagittal view of CT scan.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of the anticholinergic atropine and azaprophen, a novel, conformationally restricted analog of atropine, were examined in rhesus monkeys using delayed match-to-sample and detection tasks. Both compounds (0.01-0.32 mg/kg) produced dose-dependent decreases in the rate of responding under both tasks. Drug effects on the match-to-sample task correlated with drug effects on the detection task. Both compounds produced decreases in the percentage of correct responses on the match-to-sample task when choice trials occurred 4 or 16 sec, but not 0.01 sec, following sample presentation. Doses of atropine and azaprophen decreasing accuracy on the match-to-sample task also decreased the number of responses on the task. In general, atropine was slightly more potent than azaprophen on both tasks. These results further characterize azaprophen's anticholinergic effects.
The present experiment was conducted to determine whether the plasma hormonal and pituitary cyclic AMP responses observed following a single exposure to an acute stressor would diminish following reexposures to the same stressor. Fifteen-min stress exposures (forced running) were separated by 45-min recovery periods. Separate groups of control and stressed animals were sacrificed before and after each of four 15-min stress periods and after each recovery period. The first exposure to 15 min of forced running raised plasma ACTH, corticosterone and pituitary cyclic AMP levels approximately 6-fold and more than tripled levels of plasma prolactin. Plasma ACTH and pituitary cyclic AMP responses to the second, third and fourth stress exposures were very similar to the responses to the first stress exposure, and levels of these substances returned to prestress levels during each 45-min recovery period. Plasma prolactin responses to the four stress sessions were somewhat variable but no significant trend among the responses was seen. Plasma prolactin levels also returned to prestress levels between stress exposures. Corticosterone levels were similar following each of the four stress sessions but levels remained elevated compared to prestress levels between stress exposures. These data suggest that pituitary responses to acute stress are rapid, that return to prestress levels is also rapid, with the exception of corticosterone, and that repeated responses of the same magnitude may be evoked when stressors are separated by short recovery periods.

The effects of chronic cocaine (50 mg/kg per day for two weeks) administration on two alpha 2-adrenoceptor-mediated responses were studied in rats. Chronic administration of cocaine significantly (compared to sham controls) attenuated the alpha 2-adrenoceptor-mediated inhibition of noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) neurons as well as alpha 2-adrenoceptor elicited mydriasis. Noradrenergic LC neurons from the cocaine treated and sham sham groups differed significantly in their responsiveness to the inhibitory effects of clonidine (ED50 values micrograms/kg: sham 7.35 +/- 1.13 and cocaine-treated 17.17 +/- 4.40, P less than 0.05). The ED50 values for the mydriatic response were sham 5.71 +/- 0.49 and cocaine-treated 16.42 +/- 0.69 micrograms/kg, respectively, P less than 0.001. No differences in cardiovascular responses to systemically injected clonidine between the chronic cocaine- and sham-treated groups were observed. Chronic cocaine treatment attenuates the two alpha 2-adrenoceptor-mediated responses most likely via an interaction with central catecholaminergic neurotransmission.
By studying the binding of [3H]glycine and [3H]glutamate to rat synaptic membranes in the presence of 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV) and kynurenate (KYN) we have demonstrated that KYN is more potent than APV in displacing [3H]glycine, while an opposite order of potency was seen in displacing [3H]glutamate. Moreover, 2-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid (CPP) inhibited only [3H]glutamate binding. The [3H]MK-801 specific binding was inhibited by all of the above antagonists; this action was abolished by glutamate, while glycine partially reversed only the action of KYN. Hence, KYN inhibits glutamate receptors by preferentially interfering with glycine recognition sites, while APV preferentially interacts with N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) recognition sites.
The study of developmental patterning has been facilitated by the availability of mutations that produce changes in cell fate, in animals such as Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster. We now describe a zygotic lethal mutation in the zebrafish, Brachydanio rerio, that also changes how particular embryonic cells develop. Severe pattern deficiencies are observed that are restricted to a single body region, the trunk. The mutation may directly affect mesoderm, as somites do not form in the trunk. Head and tail structures, including tail somites, are relatively undisturbed. The earliest detected expression of the mutation is during gastrulation, when movements of mesodermal cells occur incorrectly. We injected prospective trunk mesodermal cells with lineage tracer dye and observed that in mutants these cells may enter a new body region, the tail, and there may express a new fate appropriate for the changed position.
The effects of thrombin and histamine on protein phosphorylation in intact cultured human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVEC) prelabeled with 32PO4 were investigated. Incubation of HUVEC with either thrombin or histamine, agonists known to induce rapid transient increases in intracellular calcium levels in HUVEC, caused a rapid reversible increase in the phosphorylation of a protein with a Mr = 100,000 independent of the presence of extracellular calcium. Immunological and biochemical studies demonstrated that this Mr = 100,000 protein is elongation factor 2 (EF-2), a substrate previously shown to be phosphorylated by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase III (Nairn, A. C., and Palfrey, H. C. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 17299-17303). EF-2 is crucial for protein synthesis because it catalyzes the translocation of peptidyl-tRNA on the ribosome. Phosphoamino acid analysis of the EF-2 immunoprecipitated from HUVEC revealed that all of the thrombin-stimulated phosphorylation occurred on threonine. EF-2 was also phosphorylated when HUVEC were treated with the calcium ionophore, ionomycin. Phosphorylation of EF-2 was not increased by treatment with D-Phe-Pro-Arg-chloromethyl ketone thrombin, phorbol dibutyrate, forskolin, or 8-bromo-cGMP. The transient nature of the phosphorylation of EF-2 is consistent with it having a role in mediating some of the transient effects of thrombin and histamine on endothelial cell protein synthesis and functional capabilities.
The ability of embryonic raphe cells grafted into the hippocampus to restore spatial learning ability was tested in rats with combined serotonergic/cholinergic deficits. Embryonic raphe cells (E14) were transplanted into the hippocampus of serotonin-depleted rats. Two to 3 months after transplantation, control, lesioned and grafted rats were tested in a spatial memory task (a water maze) with and without the addition of atropine. All 3 groups could negotiate the water maze equally well, in non-drug conditions. The injection of atropine caused a severe disruption of performance only in the serotonin depleted rats. The presence of an active serotonergic graft was examined in the intact rat hippocampus using the serotonin releasing drug fenfluramine (FFA). A pronounced depression of hippocampal EEG was observed in control and grafted but not in lesioned rats 15 min after the injection of FFA. These results suggest the involvement of serotonin in cognitive functions in the rat. Furthermore, it is suggested that an interaction between serotonergic and cholinergic neurotransmission occurs in the hippocampus.
A deficiency of the protein dystrophin is known to be the cause of Duchenne's muscular dystrophy. To examine the expression of dystrophin in symptomatic female carriers of this X-linked recessive disorder, we performed immunohistochemical studies on muscle-biopsy specimens from three such carriers, using an antiserum raised against a synthetic peptide fragment of dystrophin. In all three carriers, most individual muscle fibers reacted either strongly or not at all to the antiserum for dystrophin; only 2 to 8 percent of fibers showed partial immunostaining. This mosaic staining pattern was present on both cross-sectional and longitudinal muscle specimens. Although the mosaic pattern was seen in all fiber types, more than 80 percent of type 2B and 2C fibers from two of the carriers did not react with the antiserum. Similar studies in nine normal subjects showed consistently strong staining of all muscle fibers. No muscle fibers from 31 patients with Duchenne's muscular dystrophy reacted with the antiserum. We conclude that symptomatic carriers of Duchenne's muscular dystrophy can be identified by a distinct mosaic pattern in the immunohistochemical staining of the surface membrane of skeletal-muscle specimens. This finding may have practical implications for genetic counseling, although it remains to be shown whether the same staining pattern will be found in muscle specimens from asymptomatic carriers of Duchenne's muscular dystrophy.
Simultaneous recording of activity from multiple cortical laminae in alert monkeys, using multichannel electrodes, has been used to identify the intracranial generators of surface-recorded, visually evoked potentials (VEP) to stroboscopic flash. Beyond their clinical implications, these results offer an unique view of the timing and sequence of cortical visual processing in the alert monkey, including the somewhat surprising findings of an extremely short-latency response in lamina IVA, a contra- over ipsilateral latency advantage throughout lamina IV, and the lack of a consistent flash-evoked response in the major cortical recipient of the magnocellular system, lamina IVCa. The present study used similar techniques to examine flash-evoked activity in LGN and in optic tract, both to elucidate the role of the subcortical pathways in establishing this pattern, and to provide a parallel, detailed view of the timing of visual activity in LGN and optic tract in the alert monkey. Flash-evoked responses are robust in both parvo- and magnocellular laminae, but these responses differ along several dimensions: (1) parvocellular multiunit activity (MUA) is 1/4 to 1/2 the amplitude of magnocellular MUA; (2) oscillatory activity is higher in frequency and shorter in duration in parvo- than in magnocellular responses; (3) inhibitory processes appear less prominent and diverse in parvo- than in magnocellular activity; (4) mean onset latencies of MUA are longer in parvo- than in magnocellular laminae, but there is extensive overlap in these distributions. Latencies encountered in ipsilateral lamina 3, and at laminar borders dorsal to 3, group more clearly with those of the magnocellular laminae than with those of the other parvocellular laminae. As a result, in the parvocellular division as a whole, the average latency to ipsilateral stimulation is shorter than that to contralateral stimulation. The optic tract exhibits a dorsal-to-ventral progression of onset latency and oscillation frequency consistent with a dorsal/ventral segregation of the inputs to parvo- and magnocellular layers. Comparison of optic tract and LGN data reveals that while many LGN response characteristics are initiated in the retina, significant modification of retinal output occurs at LGN. The techniques used here permit a particularly sensitive and reliable assessment of the timing and distribution of visual responses in the optic tract and LGN of alert monkeys. Our data support the view that in the alert monkey, the surface-VEP to passive, binocular flash primarily reflects activation of parvocellular thalamorecipient laminae of Area 17.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Excitatory amino acid-induced currents were examined in voltage-clamped rod horizontal cells dissociated from the catfish retina. The cells responded to glutamate (GLU) and the GLU analogues kainate (KA), quisqualate (QA), and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA), while N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) produced inconsistent responses. Of the effective agonists, only KA produced large, concentration-dependent current responses. While QA, AMPA, GLU, and NMDA were poor agonists, these compounds were able to block rod horizontal cell responses to KA. The rank order potency for this inhibition was: QA greater than AMPA greater than or equal to L-GLU much greater than D-GLU = NMDA. Several excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists were also able to inhibit rod horizontal cell responses to KA. The rank order potency for the inhibition by the compounds tested was: kynurenate greater than cis-piperidine-dicarboxylic acid much greater than D,L-alpha-amino-adipate. Comparison of the potency of several ligands to inhibit rod and cone horizontal cell responses to KA suggested similarities in the KA binding sites of both cell types.
A possible interaction between serotonergic and cholinergic neurotransmission was examined in relation to the performance of a spatial memory task. Blockade of cholinergic transmission with a high dose of atropine was sufficient to impair performance of a water maze task. A partial reduction of cholinergic transmission using a low dose of atropine had no effect on this performance. Reducing serotonin synthesis, using a specific inhibitor of tryptophane hydroxylase p-chlorophenylalanine (PCPA) also had no effect on performance of such a task. However, a combined treatment with a low dose of atropine and PCPA severely impaired the performance of rats in the water maze. The rats were impaired in both acquisition of the initial spatial task and in reacquisition of a new spatial position (= working memory). These findings suggest an interaction between cholinergic and serotonergic transmission in acquisition and retention of spatial information. Furthermore they propose that deficits in cognitive abilities, observed in aging or Alzheimer's disease, may result from the combined reduction in cholinergic and serotonergic transmission.
Intradentate administration of colchicine has been reported to affect the cholinergic muscarinic system in the hippocampus, causing a reduction in quinclidinylbenzilate binding sites and an increase in choline acetyltransferase activity. Since the cholinergic muscarinic system is coupled to the formation of inositolphosphates in the brain, the effect of intradentate administration of colchicine on the agonist-induced turnover of inositollipid was studied in rats. The animals were sacrificed 12 weeks after injection, and the hippocampi removed and sliced. [3H]Inositol was incorporated into slices in the presence of lithium, and carbachol, a cholinergic muscarinic receptor agonist, was used to study the stimulated turnover of inositollipids. Hippocampal slices taken from colchicine-treated rats showed an increased carbachol-stimulated accumulation of inositolmonophosphate. Thus, intradentate colchicine appears to alter the signal transduction process for the muscarinic cholinergic receptor in the hippocampus, a change that may be associated with compensatory processes following damage to the hippocampus.
Incorporation of plasma [14C]palmitate into the hypoglossal nucleus of the rat following transection, with and without regeneration of the hypoglossal nerve, was studied using quantitative autoradiography. The left hypoglossal nerve of 3-month-old, male Fischer-344 rats was transected using either: (1) an R-operation, which allowed nerve regeneration; or (2) a D-operation, in which regeneration was prevented. One to 84 days after axotomy, [14C]palmitate was injected intravenously and its rates of incorporation into stable structures of the left and right hypoglossal nuclei were measured at 4 h after injection. Following the R-operation, incorporation into the left hypoglossal nucleus was increased during and following axonal regeneration (up to 23% compared to control side), whereas incorporation was decreased 6-7% in the absence of regeneration, using the D-operation. The time courses of incorporation in both cases corresponded to histological changes, especially cell membrane changes following axotomy and suggest that [14C]palmitate incorporation reflects regenerative and degenerative neuronal changes associated with changes in lipid synthesis.
Vitamin A movement between rod outer segment (ROS) membranes, interphotoreceptor retinoid-binding protein (IRBP), and liposomes was examined by two different methods. Equilibrium exchange of all-trans-retinol was followed by assessing the transfer of [3H]retinol from liposomes to ROS membranes as compared to a nontransferable marker, [14C]triolein. In the absence of IRBP, a rapid, spontaneous transfer of [3H] retinol to the ROS membranes occurred. In the presence of 2 microM IRBP, retinol transfer decreased by approximately one-half, whereas a similar concentration of bovine serum albumin had no effect on this spontaneous transfer. Kinetics of retinol transfer between single unilamellar vesicles were determined by the method of fluorescence energy transfer. The first order rate constant for this transfer was 0.85 s-1 at 22 degrees C at either pH 7.4 or pH 2.8. This rate was not affected by varying the concentration of acceptor vesicles 50-fold or by varying their concentration 10-fold at a constant ratio of donor-to-acceptor vesicles. The presence of IRBP as an additional acceptor did not change the rate. The transfer was temperature-dependent with an activation energy of 7.8 kcal/mol. The transfer rate appeared to be an increasing exponential function of ionic strength since high concentrations of NaCl decreased the transfer rate significantly. The transfer rate of retinol from IRBP to single unilamellar vesicles also followed first order kinetics with a rate constant of 0.11 s-1 at 22 degrees C, which was approximately 8 times slower than that of transfer between vesicles. We conclude that the transfer of all-trans-retinol between liposomes and membranes can be accomplished rapidly via the aqueous phase, and that IRBP retards rather than facilitates this transfer process.
A rhesus monkey was trained to move its arm in a direction that was perpendicular to and counterclockwise from the direction of a target light that changed in position from trial to trial. Solution of this problem was hypothesized to involve the creation and mental rotation of an imagined movement vector from the direction of the light to the direction of the movement. This hypothesis was tested directly by recording the activity of cells in the motor cortex during performance of the task and computing the neuronal population vector in successive time intervals during the reaction time. The population vector rotated gradually counterclockwise from the direction of the light to the direction of the movement at an average rate of 732 degrees per second. These results provide direct, neural evidence for the mental rotation hypothesis and indicate that the neuronal population vector is a useful tool for &quot;reading out&quot; and identifying cognitive operations of neuronal ensembles.
We have examined the influence of dopamine (DA) on the spontaneous and electrically evoked release of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) from striatal slices prepared from rat brain. We observe that DA has at least 3 separate effects on GABA release. These effects include both excitatory and inhibitory influences, and involve DA receptors of the D1- and D2-subtypes as well as a mechanism that is not mediated by either of these receptors.
Whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings were undertaken in granule cells acutely dissociated by a simple enzymatic procedure from the dentate gyri of hippocampal slices obtained from adult or aged rats. This dissociation procedure also allowed the concomitant isolation of other neuron types from diverse hippocampal subfields for the study of ionic currents through voltage- and neurotransmitter-gated channels. For example, in isolated granule cells of the dentate gyrus both transient and sustained Ca2+ currents could be observed in the presence of extracellular tetrodotoxin (TTX) and intracellular Cs+. In addition, ionic currents mediated by activation of excitatory amino acid receptors of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) type were present. A technique for the rapid dissociation of neurons from brain slices of adult or aged rats is described in detail.
The effects of the antipsychotic drug haloperidol (HAL) on the electrophysiological activity of dopamine (DA)-containing cells in the substantia nigra was assessed in rats 6 weeks after partial 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA)-induced lesions of the nigrostriatal DA pathway. Depleting 75% or more of striatal DA altered the response of DA neurons to acute HAL administration. Whereas acute HAL administration generally accelerates DA neuron firing in control rats, similar HAL doses given to lesioned rats not only increased firing rate but induced depolarization block of DA neuron spike generation similar to that resulting from chronic neuroleptic administration. In contrast, acute administration of doses of HAL up to lethal levels typically could not induce depolarization block of DA neurons in non-lesioned rats. This preparation thus could be an effective model for investigating the exacerbation of behavioral deficits produced by an increased demand placed upon a compromised DA system, as may occur in Parkinson's disease or with antipsychotic drug treatment.
Slices of 400 microns thickness were prepared from various regions of the adult rat brain using a vibratome, and incubated in oxygenated Krebs-Henseleit medium for 3 h prior to processing for light and electron microscopy. Previous findings in cerebellar slices suggest that the structural recovery requires at least a 1 h period of incubation. In the present study, vibratome-cut slices of other brain areas such as the hippocampus, parietal cortex, striatum and median eminence were shown to display after this period a gross and fine structure comparable to in situ fixed tissues, and to retain it for at least 3 h of incubation. These areas are thought to be promising for further in vitro functional morphological experimentation.


Computed tomographic features of 7 cases of the late infantile form of MLD confirmed by sural nerve biopsy are presented. Diffuse symmetrical white matter, low attenuation of the cerebral parenchyma was the common feature. Hypodensity of the temporal lobes and the cerebellar hemispheres are 2 features which have not been reported earlier. Three patients had brainstem atrophy without evidence of cerebral atrophy. Awareness of the various CT features of MLD may help in more definitive radiological diagnosis of the disease and to differentiate it from other dysmyelinating diseases of the central nervous system.
Four of seven patients with nemaline myopathy had severe, rapidly progressing symptoms. These four showed an increase in acid phosphatase activity in muscle fibers demonstrated by histochemistry and cathepsin B&amp;L activity by biochemical measurement. On electron microscopy, nemaline bodies, occasionally disorganized myofibrils and autophagic vacuoles containing sarcoplasmic debris and glycogen particles were seen. Focal myofibrillar degeneration, through an unknown pathogenetic mechanism, induces an increase in lysosomal enzymes in the skeletal muscles which may be closely correlated with a rapid aggravation of muscle weakness in nemaline myopathy.
The neuropathological heterogeneity of Alzheimer's disease (AD) is increasingly recognized. Diffuse Lewy body disease, for example, most frequently occurs in cases fulfilling histopathological criteria for AD, and these patients usually present with dementia rather than parkinsonism. We report five cases of concomitant AD and diffuse Lewy body disease with still another coexistent neuropathological feature: localized and stereotyped spongiform change in the neuropil. This spongiform change was most striking in the superior and inferior temporal, entorhinal, and insular cortex and the amygdala and was virtually indistinguishable from that seen in Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease. Electron microscopic study on one case revealed membrane-containing vacuoles in close association with neuritic plaques and plaired helical filament-filled processes. Immunocytochemistry using antibodies to prion proteins (PrPsc or PrP27-30) failed to label plaque or vascular amyloid in the five cases. Four primates inoculated with brain tissue from one case have not evidenced neurological disease in the 3 years since the transmission experiment. We conclude that these cases represent a neuropathological subset of AD with relatively widespread Lewy bodies and a localized spongiform change, predominantly involving the medial temporal region. Despite the light and electron microscopic commonality with Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, there is no clear evidence that these cases represent a form of transmissible spongiform encephalopathy.

In this study 35 consecutive patients diagnosed as having psychalgic depressive disorder (PDD) who lacked sadness but presented with chronic pain have been described. The patients were mainly female, middle-aged and from an urban background. Pain, usually at multiple sites, was reported to be severe by most patients. Predominant depressive symptoms were lack of interest in surroundings (97%), although this was not directly reported, early morning awakening (91%), loss of appetite (100%), and suicidal ideas (66%). None had marked sadness or weeping spells. Lack of reactivity of mood was present in only 2 cases. These psychalgic depression cases were compared with a group of 30 patients diagnosed as having psychogenic pain disorder. PDD cases were significantly more often female, married, less educated, and from an urban background. Pain was significantly more intense and at multiple sites, as compared with the psychogenic pain disorder cases. Clinical outcome was better for PDD cases.

Increases in mean arterial pressure and heart rate have been documented after the intrathecal administration of [Arg8]vasopressin (AVP) in rats. Prior studies in our laboratories with conscious rats indicated that these cardiovascular changes were associated with a marked hindlimb sensorimotor dysfunction. In this study, which represents the first systematic comparison of the effects of intrathecal AVP in conscious and anesthesized rats, we demonstrate that in conscious male Sprague-Dawley rats 1) the motor dysfunction induced by intrathecal AVP is accompanied by a rise in mean arterial pressure that is significantly greater than that produced by an equal intravenous dose of AVP, and 2) both paralytic and pressor effects of intrathecal but not intravenous AVP are blocked by the intrathecal administration of the V1-receptor antagonist d(CH2)5[Tyr(Me)2]AVP (V1-ANT) but are not blocked by intravenous phenoxybenzamine, hexamethonium, or [Sar1, Thr8]angiotensin II, an angiotensin II antagonist. In contrast, in anesthesized rats the arterial pressor response to intrathecal AVP was blocked by intrathecal V1-ANT, intravenous hexamethonium, and intravenous phenoxybenzamine. Furthermore, conscious but not anesthesized rats exhibited a tachyphylaxis to intrathecal AVP. These results indicate that intrathecal AVP produces both the cardiovascular changes and the sensorimotor deficits through interactions with centrally located V1-receptors. In addition, sympathetic catecholaminergic mechanisms mediate the rise in mean arterial pressure produced by intrathecal AVP in anesthesized rats, but they do not in conscious rats.
The hypothesis that gap junction (GJ) formation between myometrial cells at term improves electrical coupling was tested. We measured the spread of electrical excitation from six extracellular electrodes aligned on uterine strips in either the longitudinal (axial) or transverse (circumferential) direction. Spontaneous bursts propagated over the entire 15-mm recording distance in the axial direction at both preterm and parturition and showed some characteristics of a system of coupled relaxation oscillators. However, individual spikes within the bursts propagated further and with higher velocity at parturition than at preterm. In the circumferential direction, both bursts and individual spikes propagated further at parturition than before. Propagation in this axis at parturition appeared to require an intact circular muscle layer. Spikes evoked by electrical stimulation also propagated further and with higher velocity in both axes at parturition. Electron microscopy showed many GJs between uterine smooth muscle cells during parturition, but few and sometimes no GJs at preterm. Thus improved propagation was associated with increased GJ contact between myometrial cells, consistent with the hypothesis that gap junction formation at term improves electrical coupling.
The development of the neocortex of the marsupial Monodelphis domestica has been studied from birth until adulthood. Monodelphis is born after a gestational period of 14 days, a time when the neocortex is still at a two-layered &quot;embryonic&quot; stage of development, that is equivalent to a 13-14 day rat embryo or 6 week human embryo. The cortical plate does not begin to appear until 3 to 5 days postnatal. Thus the whole of neocortical development is a postnatal phenomenon in this species, as has been previously described in other marsupials. The general pattern of development of the characteristic layers of the immature neocortex and the subsequent development of a six-layered adult neocortex is similar to that found in eutherian species. However there are some differences. The depth of the immature cortical plate when compared to the thickness of the neocortical wall is less than in eutherians and the subplate zone is much deeper in Monodelphis; this transient subplate zone consists of widely spaced rows of cells that are aligned parallel to the cortical surface. Unlike eutherians there appears to be no secondary proliferative zone in the subventricular zone of the dorso-lateral neocortical wall. Maturation of the neocortex is apparent by 45 days postnatal and by 60 days (around the time of weaning) the characteristic six-layered adult neocortex is clearly present. The neuronal marker PGP 9.5 was used to define neuronal populations in the adult brain. The density of neurons in Monodelphis appears to be considerably less than in eutherians such as the rat. The suitability of postnatal Monodelphis for studies of neocortical development is discussed.
There are numerous discrepancies within the literature concerning the sources of spinovestibular fibers and their distribution in the vestibular complex. Sources of afferents from all spinal levels were sought using the retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. Following injections of this tracer in all portions of the vestibular complex retrograde labelling was densest at upper cervical levels, especially within the contralateral central cervical nucleus. Labelling was also observed in laminae VI (ipsilaterally), IV, V, VII, and VIII (bilaterally). At progressively more caudal levels, numbers of labelled cells decreased but were similarly distributed in these laminae. The terminal distribution of spinal efferent fibers within the vestibular complex was revealed by injecting wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase or tritiated amino acids into various levels of the spinal cord. These studies showed that all spinal levels project to the descending vestibular nucleus and group x. The f-tail of the descending vestibular complex receives projections from upper cervical and thoracic levels. Terminations within the medial vestibular nucleus arise from both upper cervical and lumbar levels. No conclusive evidence was found supporting the presence of substantial direct spinal projections to the lateral vestibular nucleus, superior vestibular nucleus, or group z. Possible functional roles for the spinovestibular projection in posture and gaze are discussed.
We report our ongoing work to characterize the molecular nature of neurofibrillary tangles (NFT). An epitope map of tau protein using monoclonal antibodies that crossreact with NFT reveals the presence of epitopes that span the entire tau molecule from the amino terminus to the carboxy terminus. Several antibodies that recognize tau protein including Alz50 do not recognize primary amino acid sequence but are directed either against a post-translational modification or a complex higher order structure. The importance of tau protein in the development of the pathology is underscored by the extent of the tau-reactive neuritic lesions. These dystrophic neurites or &quot;curly fibers&quot; extend well beyond the classical distributions of the senile plaques and NFT. Furthermore, the neuropil lesion is considerably more extensive than either the senile plaques or neurofibrillary tangles. One of the features of the dystrophy in Alzheimer's disease is widespread neuronal sprouting characteristic of dystrophic neurites and tangle-bearing cells.

The computation of ITD begins with preservation of the phase angle of spectral components by eighth-nerve fibers and by cells of the nucleus magnocellularis. At the level of the nucleus laminaris, the difference in phase angle of corresponding spectral components in the left and right ears is extracted. At the next level, the central nucleus, neurons are consolidated into tonotopic ensembles in which preferred delta phi and frequency covary, so that only a single ITD coactivates all constituent neurons. Neurons of such ensembles project convergently on space-specific neurons, endowing the space-specific neuron with a selectivity for ITD and, therefore, a selectivity for azimuth. Ensembles representing ITDs corresponding to ipsilateral and contralateral auditory hemi-fields are found in the core and lateral shell of the central nucleus, respectively. The lateral shell receives its representation of the contralateral hemi-field from the opposite central nucleus core. The central nucleus core is innervated by the contralateral nucleus laminaris, which contains a representation of contralateral space. The projection from the lateral shell to the ipsilateral external nucleus forms a map of contralateral space in the external nucleus.



Depolarization of neurons either in culture or in vivo results in the rapid, calcium-dependent induction of several, so-called, immediate-early genes; the prototypes being c-fos and c-jun. The proteins encoded by c-jun, c-fos, and several fos-related genes all participate in a complex that interacts with the AP-1 consensus DNA sequence, previously shown to be important for the &quot;transcriptional activation&quot; of certain genes. Thus it is proposed that neuronal stimulation, via elevated intracellular calcium, leads to the induction of a series of genes, some of which encode proteins involved in transcriptional regulation, that contribute to long-term adaptive and plastic responses. Surprisingly, the molecular composition of the brain AP-1 binding complex varies with time after stimulation. This is because some of the inducible Fos-related proteins accumulate with much slower kinetics than Fos itself and only appear in significant amounts when Fos has disappeared. Of some considerable interest is the result these compositional alterations have upon the transcriptional activity of the AP-1 complex. Given the foregoing findings we consider some of the possible implications this might have for aging and neurodegenerative disorders particularly with regard to alterations in cellular calcium homeostasis.








Evidence suggests that lithium treatment alters serotoninergic (5-HT) function in laboratory animals and humans. Since 5-HT function may be abnormal in patients with affective disorders, we studied 23 such patients by measuring responses to intravenous infusion of the 5-HT precursor tryptophan before and during short-term (less than one week) or long-term (greater than three weeks) lithium treatment. The prolactin response to tryptophan was significantly enhanced after short-term lithium treatment; long-term lithium treatment had no effect. Other studies have shown that the prolactin response to tryptophan is also enhanced after long-term tricyclic antidepressant treatment in depressed patients and after short- and long-term lithium treatment in healthy subjects. The present findings suggest that lithium treatment enhances 5-HT function, but that homeostatic responses of the 5-HT system to long-term lithium treatment may differ in patients with affective disorder and healthy subjects.
Views about the roles and nature of the enteric nervous system have changed dramatically in the last ten years. This system of neurons is recognized to control, through reflex pathways intrinsic to the gut wall, motility, transport of water and electrolytes, and blood flow in the small and large intestines. There are thus a range of neuron types in the enteric nervous system, including sensory neurons, motor neurons, and interneurons, involved in the control of each of these functions. The present paper deals with the recent efforts to provide an integrated functional and structural description of the nerve circuits. One of the challenges in this quest has been to identify primary sensory neurons and final motor neurons involved in motility control. Evidence is presented that in the guinea-pig small intestine the primary sensory neurons have Dogiel type II morphology and are, electrophysiologically, AH neurons. They send circumferential processes to adjacent myenteric ganglia and some of them, at least, have processes leading from the mucosa. Motor neurons are S neurons, with cell bodies in the myenteric plexus. Those that supply the circular muscle are Dogiel type I neurons and provide processes that run circumferentially for about one third of the circumference of the intestine. The circuits for secretomotor reflexes have been partly worked out. The secretomotor neurons have cell bodies in the submucous ganglia and are activated to return water and electrolytes to the lumen during digestion. The secretomotor reflexes are regulated, in accord with whole body water and electrolyte homeostasis, via sympathetic neurons which lower the excitability of secretomotor neurons.
A brief review of the Rett syndrome is presented. The main clinical features are onset of mental deterioration, in girls only, between the ages of6 and 18 months, all of whom later develop peculiar stereotyped repetitive movements resembling hand washing. The cause is unknown; the condition occurs more often than phenylketonuria and laboratory tests are normal. Random sequences of hyper-ventilation-apnoea-normal breathing appear in a considerable number of girls and are accompanied by certain EEG features. The nature of the repetitive manual and respiratory phenomena is discussed. We suggest that these behavioural peculiarities may be a form of communication, possibly pleasurable and to some extent interchangeable.
The accurate measurement of water intake by rats is essential to many physiological and pharmacological studies. Various methods have been developed to monitor water intake by counting the number of times the tongue touches the drinking spout, e.g. electric contact and photocell type drinkometers. An underlying assumption in these techniques is that each lap results in a constant intake volume. Evidence suggests that this assumption may not hold true. Our method removes the need for this assumption and allows one to continuously monitor actual water volume in the drinking tube. A 52 cm glass tube was equipped with a drinking spout at the lower end while the upper end was sealed with the inlet to a pressure transducer. Since the bottom is open to atmosphere, the pressure in the sealed upper tube where the transducer is located is proportional to water height and volume. The technique was validated by 24 hr monitoring of the water consumption of a rat in a chronic monitoring cage equipped with the drinking tube. To compare behavioral patterns a means for monitoring food consumption and urine output were also included.
To summarize, the neuropsychologic findings in MSUD and MMA children in both groups demonstrated deficits in cognitive/language areas, but interesting individual differences existed. For example, a marked contrast in abilities existed between NT and GV, even taking into account the age difference between these children with MSUD. While NT's general intellectual functioning was within the low-average range, GV was severely impaired. In more specific areas of cognitive functioning, NT had an uneven performance profile with areas of strengths and weaknesses, while GV evidenced a flat profile with significant impairment in all areas. NT demonstrated mild delay in visual-spatial processing, articulation development, motor-speech abilities, and selective attention and concentration; however, his language and psychosocial development were within the broad range of normality. In contrast, GV exhibited severe dysfunction in speech, language, and perceptual/conceptual development. The three children with MMA also exhibited a range of disabilities in cognitive functioning. TJ and SH contrasted in the degree of developmental delay across language and cognitive domains. Both were distractible and exhibited very short attention spans but there was a measurable difference in the extent of their speech, language, visual-spatial development. CH was markedly delayed in all areas of cognitive development, which is consistent with global retardation. The severity of her disease and its probable impact on brain development were undoubtedly related to her intellectual impairment. These datasets illustrate the challenges we face, because within each group we see a range of impairment. Nevertheless, we are optimistic that our efforts to relate metabolic, anatomic and neuropsychologic findings for such children will lead to a better understanding of these disorders. We are hopeful that this will result in new advances in diagnosis and intervention, which will ultimately improve the prognosis for cognitive development. In summary, a multidisciplinary center has been established at UCSD to study the neurologic basis of disorders of language, learning and behavior in infants and children. The center draws together a group of researchers from many fields including neurology, biochemistry, pediatrics, cognitive and developmental neuropsychology, psycholinguistics, neurophysiology and communicative disorders. Because of the diverse interests and expertise of our group, it is hoped to forge a synthesis of the behavioral and neurosciences to study populations of children with a variety of neurologic, metabolic, and language/learning disorders. Disorders currently under study include Lesch-Nyhan disease, oculocutaneous tyrosinemia, propionic acidemia, carnitine palmityl transferase deficiency, Schwachman-Diamond syndrome, histidinemia, Hartnup disease, citrullinemia, galactosemia, maple syrup urine disease, and methylmalonic acidemia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. The purpose of this study was to evaluate possible changes in brain morphology and evoked potentials associated with daily administration of 300 mg kg-1 vigabatrin in dogs. 2. Somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) and auditory evoked potentials (AEP) were recorded at baseline and weekly for 12 weeks of treatment and every 2 weeks for 17 weeks of recovery. Morphology was assessed immediately after treatment for two treated dogs and after recovery for the remaining five treated and two control dogs. 3. Vigabatrin produced a significant slowing of the central transmission measure of the SEP with no alteration in the AEP. Vigabatrin was associated with microvacuolation in select regions of the brain including the fornix, septum, optic tract, hypothalamus, thalamus and cortex. In addition, some microglial proliferation was noted. 4. Changes in SEP and the microvacuolation fully recovered after 17 weeks of treatment. 5. The study confirms vigabatrin-induced microvacuolation in the dog and suggests these changes are associated with functional slowing of conduction in the somatosensory pathways.
The problems associated with the treatment of large pituitary adenomas are discussed with reference to 41 patients operated on by the author. All adenomas had either suprasellar extensions greater than 2 cm and/or more than two intracranial extensions. Ninety-five per cent were suffering from chiasmal compression pre-operatively. All underwent transfrontal surgery with 76% being deemed totally excised and 24% being subtotal. After surgery 29% regained normal vision, 53% had improved vision and 18% had unchanged vision. Thirty-four per cent had no postoperative complications and the majority had a variety of complications, some minor and some major. Other aspects, including endocrinology and recurrence, are also discussed.

The application of molecular biological techniques to the study of lympho-erythroid neoplasms, colo-rectal carcinoma and neuroblastoma has led to fundamental insights into the nature of cellular proliferation, transformation and immortalisation as well as providing prognostic information about the biological behaviour of certain tumours. The study of the molecular genetics of central nervous system tumours with particular reference to oncogenes is however in its infancy. Most of the current literature concerns studies of small numbers of glial tumours or of glial tumour cell lines. In this review the results of these studies are analysed and compared with relevant oncogene findings in experimental cerebral neoplasia, extracranial tumours and postulated mechanisms of oncogene activation. The role of proto-oncogenes in the development of the brain, and the clinical relevance of advances in molecular biology to central nervous system neoplasia are discussed.
Unilateral lesions of the substantia nigra were performed on baboons which had been previously trained to perform a visual pointing movement. The resulting motor impairment consisted of an increase in movement duration. This bradykinesia shows as a regular decrease in velocity. A possible change in mode of motor control caused by lesion of the SN is discussed. Partial exclusion of SN might bring about a shift from the feedforward to a feedback mode relaying more heavily on visual cues.
Unilateral injections of 6-hydroxydopamine into the substantia nigra of monkeys disrupted the initiation of learned movements performed with the contralateral forelimb. Failure to respond was observed in two types of behavioral tasks. The one involved a hand movement directed towards a target and the other, hand withdrawal without any spatial requirements at the end of the movement. The results suggest that the ability to perform the required response was recovered more quickly in the case of the task involving visually controlled movement.
Previous studies have demonstrated that the large-celled, optic pretectal nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (nLM) is essential for horizontal optokinetic nystagmus, yet little is known about its neurophysiology. In the present study, single-unit analysis of nLM utilized a large-field, patterned stimulus presented for 8 directions and 3 velocities of movement. All units localized in nLM were spontaneously active, motion sensitive, with response profiles that ranged from strongly directional and narrowly tuned to asymmetric and broadly tuned. Only about one-third of the units could be classified as directional, and no response bias for horizontal or temporal-to-nasal motion was observed. The majority of directional units showed greatest responsiveness at the lowest stimulus velocity, while the reverse occurred for many broadly tuned units. These low-velocity, highly directional units may be comparable to the 'retinal slip' neurons recently described in the large-celled pretectal nucleus of mammals. Directional information in the nLM of Rana pipiens thus appears to be represented in the activity of a large population of motion-sensitive units which includes both narrowly and broadly tuned individual response profiles. These results are consistent with the population-coding hypothesis recently advanced to account for directional coding in other sensorimotor systems, including primate motor cortex and superior colliculus.
The number of large myelinated axons was markedly decreased in almost all the intramuscular nerve bundles included in 32 muscle biopsies from patients with Werdnig-Hoffmann disease compared to that in normals. The morphometric analysis of peripheral nerves in 5 epon-embedded sections also showed a selective loss of larger myelinated fibers. The ultrastructural findings of the nerves were similar to those seen in Wallerian degeneration including axonal degeneration, myelin breakdown with phagocytosis, Schwann cell proliferation forming Schwann cell columns, axonal sprouting and probable remyelination. The earlier and more striking peripheral nerve involvement than that previously believed was not different from that seen in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). The earlier damage to the peripheral nerves probably resulted from a degeneration of the anterior horn cells or anterior spinal roots as in ALS rather than from a dying-back process.
The brain pathology in very prematurely born infants with intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) was studied particularly as to the severity and site of the complicated brain lesions responsible for the prognosis. A high frequency of leukomalacia, pontosubicular necrosis and/or olivocerebellar neuronal loss was found in the cases of IVH, and these non-hemorrhagic brain lesions showed an increasing frequency with the grade of IVH. However, there was marked reduction of IVH, periventricular leukomalacia and, in particular, brainstem lesions in prematurely born cases of sudden infant death. These IVH and associated conditions have different pathogenesis, but factors responsible for their occurrence may be present together in each case.
The hair copper and zinc concentrations in patients with the Rett syndrome in 9 hospitals or institutions, and female age-matched controls were investigated. The copper and zinc concentrations in the 23 patients were 15.1 +/- 3.6 and 177 +/- 20 micrograms/g dry weight (mean +/- SD), respectively, and those in the 22 controls were 14.7 +/- 3.4 and 181 +/- 22, respectively. No significant differences were detected between the copper or zinc concentrations in the patients and controls. The copper and zinc concentrations did not change with age, or the hospital or institution. The ratio of the copper and zinc concentrations was also constant. We conclude that the hair copper and zinc concentrations in patients with the Rett syndrome are the same as those in controls.
Cultured skin fibroblasts from patients with tuberous sclerosis were analyzed as to their sensitivities to proline, glutamic acid and arginine, and their analogues by means of a cell growth study. A difference was observed between tuberous sclerosis and normal cells when proline was added. Skin fibroblasts derived from normal-appearing skin of tuberous sclerosis patients exhibited sensitivity to proline. Skin fibroblasts derived from tumorous skin of tuberous sclerosis patients exhibited resistance to proline in the cell growth study and was found to be rather sensitive to proline in a colony formation study. This aberrant sensitivity to proline of tuberous sclerosis cells may indicate abnormal proline metabolism in tuberous sclerosis patients.
Findings from a Golgi study of the visual cortex in patients with the Down syndrome were compared with those from neurologically normal, age-matched control subjects. The dendritic atrophy seen in childhood continued into adulthood, with a marked decrease in dendritic branching, dendritic length, and spine frequency in elderly adults with the Down syndrome. Subject more than 30 years old occasionally had degenerating pyramidal neurons in the cerebral cortex and degenerated pyramidal neurons and aspiny stellate cells, particularly in the temporal cortex. These dendritic abnormalities may be related to mental retardation in children and early dementia in older adults who have the Down syndrome. The genetic and extrinsic factors may be important determinants of Alzheimer type dementia in the Down syndrome.
Clinical and biochemical studies were performed on 6 cases of type C Niemann-Pick disease. Neurological symptoms started in early infancy in 3 cases, and in childhood in the other 3 cases. However, no clear discriminations were possible with regard to neurological and general somatic manifestations between these two groups. All patients showed normal or slightly low sphingomyelinase and beta-glucosidase activities in fibroblasts, and a defect of esterification of exogenous cholesterol. The extent of these abnormalities was not correlated with the clinical course or severity of this disease.
Collagen components in neurofibroma tissue from patients with von Recklinghausen disease were investigated, in comparison with those in normal skin and peripheral nerve tissue. Biochemical analysis of collagen isolated from the tissues by limited pepsin digestion indicated that the neurofibroma tissue contained type I collagen as the major constituent and increased amounts of types III and V collagen. The relative ratios of alpha 1(III)/alpha 1(I) and alpha 1(V) + alpha 2(V)/alpha 1(I) in the tissue were 0.87-0.92 and 0.16-0.17, respectively, while in normal skin, these ratios were 0.36-0.45 and less than 0.024, respectively. Amino acid analysis and circular dichroism studies of types I, III and V collagen purified from the tissue showed that these collagens were essentially the same as the corresponding types of collagen isolated from fetal human skin and placenta. The increased deposition of types III and V collagen suggested that alternation of collagen metabolism had occurred in the neurofibroma tissue.
We report the clinical and histochemical findings in 7 patients with myotubular (centronuclear) myopathy aged from 2 months to 32 years. The clinical symptoms varied from patient to patient. Three patients developed severe muscle weakness and hypotonia with respiratory distress from infancy, and 4 had muscle weakness from 2-5 years of age with no apparent delay in developmental milestones. In addition to an increased number of fibers with centrally placed nuclei, there were 3 other histochemical characteristics of this disorder, i.e., type 1 fiber predominance, type 1 fiber hypotrophy and type 2B fiber deficiency. Other histological findings included a peripheral halo in the sarcoplasm on NADH-TR staining and an increased number of undifferentiated type 2C fibers, indicating a delay in muscle fiber growth and differentiation due to a probable defective neural supply in the developing muscles.
Two patients who were deeply unconscious (GCS = 4) following head injuries, sustained whilst intoxicated with alcohol, became hypothermic due to cold exposure. Despite negative prognostic factors both underwent craniotomy and evacuation of large acute subdural haematoma. After intensive postoperative management and rehabilitation both have made satisfactory recoveries. The contribution of hypothermia to their unpredicted favourable outcome is discussed, and the importance of recording temperature in head-injured patients is emphasized.

Bulbar potentials wer bilaterally recorded in the frog following electrical stimulation of one olfactory nerve bundle. The general features of the contralateral evoked response were very similar to those of ipsilateral ones. The contralateral response was shown to be produced in situ, not being electronically transmitted from the bulb on the stimulated side. Its response disappeared after section of the olfactory interbulbar adhesion but was not affected by sectioning through either the anterior or the habenular commissure. It was concluded that messages from the neuroreceptors belonging to either the ventral or the dorsal olfactory mucosa on one side, reach both olfactory bulbs.
In the behaving cat, motion expectancy of an event to occur (for a prey to appear) is accompanied by the development of 14 Hz electrocortical mu rhythms in the hand subarea of cortical somatic area SI. Our first aim here was to identify subcortical sites projecting to this cortical mu focus, using localised retrograde HRP marking. The only site thus labelled was the thalamic zone well known to project to the cortical mu area, and to act as a generator for the mu rhythms (ventral posterior nucleus, VP); no other deep structure could be identified, that could have been considered as a putative zone for control of cortical mu. We then injected minute amounts of HRP into the thalamic mu zone; labelled neurones were located (apart from those expected in the relays of the somatic pathway) in locus coeruleus (bilaterally) and ipsilaterally in the thalamic nuclei anteroventralis and laterodorsalis. In brief then, it seems that the regulation of the VP-SI mu channel (that we could previously demonstrate), by other deep structures is exerted upon the thalamic side.
The aim of the present experimental series was to investigate the central organization of the coordination between posture and movement in a bimanual load lifting task. The seated subject was instructed to maintain horizontal one forearm (postural arm) which was loaded with a 1 kg weight. The unloading was performed either by the experimenter (imposed unloading) or by a voluntary movement of the other arm (bimanual unloading). With the bimanual unloading, the movement control was accompanied by an anticipatory adjustment of the postural forearm flexors activity, which resulted in the maintenance of the forearm position despite the unloading. No change in the anticipatory postural adjustment was observed in one patient with complete callosal section. It was reduced in 5 patients with lesion of the SMA region, but only when the postural forearm was contralateral to the lesion. It is suggested that the SMA region contralateral to the postural forearm may select the circuits responsible for the phasic postural adjustments which are necessary to ensure postural maintenance, whereas the motor cortex contralateral to the voluntary movement controls both the movement and, via collaterals, the preselected circuits responsible for the associated postural adjustment.
GFAP (Glial Fibrillary Acidic protein) was quantified in unfractionated homogenates of different brain regions from 10 Alzheimer patients versus 25 controls using immunoblot techniques and anti-human GFAP. There was a strong increase of GFAP in the brain regions that contained the characteristic Alzheimer lesions. This corresponds to the &quot;astrocytic gliosis&quot;. Moreover, there was a 11 fold GFAP increase (p less than 0.001) in the other regions of the Alzheimer brains that do not present the Alzheimer pathology, such as caudate nucleus, cerebellum or brain stem. Different from the gliosis, the physiological signification of such an increase in the whole brain is unknown, but it might reflect the prominent part played by astrocytes during Alzheimer's disease (AD).
Two polyclonal antibodies, the first raised against Alzheimer's disease PHF and the second raised against human native Tau proteins, led us to find two Tau proteins with an abnormal molecular weight of 64 and 69 kDa in Alzheimer brain cortices. Tau 64 and Tau 69 were never detected in control brains. The molecular weight of Tau 64 and 69 dramatically decreased after dephosphorylation by the alkaline phosphatase, showing that they are abnormally phosphorylated. This is the first report demonstrating their specific presence in brain regions having the Alzheimer pathology. They could be a very useful tool for the study of the early events that lead to neuronal death.
Corticotropin releasing hormone (CRH) stimulation of ACTH release and cyclic AMP-mediated events involved in the control of ACTH release were compared in sham-operated and adrenalectomized rats. CRH-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity was decreased in pituitary homogenates from adrenalectomized animals. CRH-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation was essentially abolished and CRH-stimulated cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (A-kinase) activity was decreased in freshly prepared anterior pituitary cells from adrenalectomized animals. Basal and CRH-stimulated ACTH release was elevated in these cells. Since ACTH release is increased in adrenalectomized rats despite the down regulation of CRH-linked pituitary mechanisms, we speculate that the site of action of disinhibition by corticosterone of ACTH release (or synthesis) following adrenalectomy is distal to the generation of cyclic AMP and/or that non-CRH mediated mechanisms assume a greater role in ACTH regulation following adrenalectomy.
The distribution of nerve cell bodies and fibres with immunoreactivity for gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) has been studied in the guinea-pig small intestine. Cell bodies were common in myenteric ganglia but were extremely rare in the submucosa. Reactive fibres were numerous in the tertiary component of the myenteric plexus and in the circular muscle but they were rare in both myenteric and submucous ganglia. Reactive nerve fibres were absent from the mucosa. This distribution conforms to previous descriptions. Exposure to exogenous GABA, in vitro, was used to supplement endogenous stores of GABA. The morphology of cell bodies was better defined after this treatment. Nearly all cell bodies had type-I morphology, i.e., the cells had numerous short lamellar dendrites and one axon. Most axons ran anally. Some could be traced to the tertiary component of the myenteric plexus, others to the circular muscle. Removal of the myenteric plexus from a short length of intestine caused a loss of nerve fibres from the circular muscle beneath the site of operation and a decrease in fibre density in the circular muscle that extended anally from the lesion for about 1 mm. The nerve lesions caused no significant changes in the tertiary plexus. It is concluded that GABA is contained in motor neurons supplying the longitudinal and circular muscle, and that the neurons supplying the circular muscle may be inhibitory.
Positron emission tomography (PET) enables the study of neuropharmacological variables, such as regional receptor densities, alterations in receptor occupancy from endogenous neurotransmitters and exogenous drugs, and receptor plasticity in living human subjects. The purpose of this paper is to review the procedures currently used to study brain pharmacology based on the use of radioactive tracers and PET, and to identify open issues in this field. In particular, the article reviews methodology for tracer validation, including essential biochemistry and kinetic modeling, as well as present clinical applications of tracers used to study dopamine, opioid, benzodiazepine, and cholinergic receptors.
The linking event between the activation of muscarinic M1 receptors and the stimulation of polyphosphoinositide (PPI) turnover was studied in rat brain synaptosomes from the muscarinic M1 enriched cerebrum and M2 enriched cerebellum. The muscarinic M1 selective antagonists, pirenzepine and trihexyphenidyl, and M2 selective antagonist AF-DX-116 were chosen to displace the non-selective labeled cholinergic ligand, 3H-QNB, binding to these two regions of the brain synaptosomes. The IC50 values obtained for these agents revealed a typical characterization of the receptor subtypes of these two regions as they are. Carbachol-induced a stimulation of the PPI turnover cycle: namely, a decrease in 32Pi incorporation into phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate (TPI) and phosphatidylinositol-4-phosphate (DPI), and an increase in this incorporation into phosphatidylinositol (PI) and phosphatidic acid (PA) in rat brain synaptosomes from the cerebrum. However, this event was only barely detectable in the synaptosomes from the cerebellum. The IC50 values obtained for these antagonists to block the carbachol-induced PPI turnover cycle in the synaptosomes from the cerebrum were close to the values obtained for the displacement of 3H-QNB binding to the same preparation, and were far away from those values obtained in the synaptosomes from the cerebellum. Our results suggest that there is evidence to support the view that muscarinic M1 receptors are coupled to the PPI turnover event in rat cortical synaptosomes.
Effects of chronic glucocorticoid treatment on arterial baroreflex function and on cardiac beta- and vascular alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated responses were assessed in conscious, unrestrained Wistar-Kyoto rats. Cortisol (25 mg/kg/day) was administered for seven days using a subcutaneous reservoir pump. Arterial baroreflex-cardiac sensitivity was assessed by examining the relationship of the cardiac interbeat interval to the mean arterial blood pressure during phenylephrine or nitroprusside challenge; baroreflex-sympathoneural sensitivity was assessed from the ratio of the increase in the arterial norepinephrine concentration to the decrease in mean arterial pressure at 15 min during intravenous infusion of nitroprusside; cardiac beta-adrenoceptor-mediated responsiveness was estimated from heart rate responses to bolus-injected isoproterenol; and vascular alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated responsiveness was estimated from peak mean arterial pressure responses to bolus-injected phenylephrine. Cortisol treatment increased mean arterial pressure, decreased heart rate, and increased heart rate responses to isoproterenol, whereas baroreflex-vagal sensitivity, baroreflex-sympathoneural sensitivity, and pressor responses to phenylephrine were unaffected. The results indicate that hypertension due to chronic cortisol administration is not associated with decreased sensitivity of the baroreceptor-cardiac reflex. Baroreflex-sympathoneural sensitivity and alpha 1-adrenoceptor responsiveness also remain normal, whereas beta-adrenoceptor responsiveness is increased. The findings suggest that the pattern of neurocirculatory adjustment in glucocorticoid hypertension differs from that seen in other forms of hypertension.
The latency of the P300 event-related potential is though to reflect the time it takes to conclude that a task-relevant stimulus has been presented, i.e. it is an index of cognitive processing time. Reaction time (RT) also reflects cognitive processing time, but additionally reflects the time taken physically to respond to the stimulus. If serial models of information processing are correct, then the P300 latency must be less than RT, and a positive correlation between the 2 measures is to be expected. We examined these hypotheses in 100 normal subjects aged from 18 to 92 years. The P300 component elicited via a 2-tone discrimination task, and RT to the task-relevant tones was measured simultaneously. The resulting correlation between these measures was weak (r = 0.26, p greater than 0.05), and there were instances in which RT preceded the P300 latency. These results are consistent with parallel rather than serial models of information processing. Fifteen patients with Alzheimer's disease were also examined. Three had an abnormally delayed P300 latency, and 7 had abnormally delayed RTs compared with age-matched controls. Simultaneous measurement of the P300 latency and RT may thus help resolve whether dysfunction is evident in neuronal networks concerned with stimulus evaluation or in those concerned with response execution.
A number of studies have reported that an abnormal delay in the latency of the P300 event-related potential (ERP) is characteristic of the majority of patients with a dementing process. Another body of research suggests regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) is significantly reduced in Alzheimer's disease (AD). No previous study has compared the effectiveness of these 2 measures in identifying the same patients with AD. Furthermore, most of the studies on which the above findings are based examined patients in the moderate to severe stages of the disorder. In this study we examined P300 latency and rCBF in 10 patients with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease, and compared their responses with those of normal subjects of similar age. The P300 component was not evident in 2 of the patients: the remaining 8 had a latency within normal limits for their age. On the other hand, 8 of the patients had abnormally reduced rCBF. These results suggest rCBF measures may be useful for identifying AD in its early stages.
The possible toxical effect of heavy metals in the pathogenesis of brachial and lumbar plexopathies during heroin addiction has been previously hypothesized by some authors, but never detected. A 24-year-old man, addicted to heroin showed the clinical picture of a symmetrical brachial neuropathy, without other neurological involvement. Lead poisoning was detected in this patient and the chelating therapy induced a marked improvement of the clinical symptoms.

1. The links between behavioural state, gross electrophysiology and the activity of neurons and astrocytes are reviewed to stimulate interest in the contributions that glia make to behaviour. 2. Behavioural arousal in which neuronal responsivity (&quot;sensitivity&quot;) is elevated is also associated with a sustained (0.5-10 sec) potential shift (SPS). 3. There is powerful and accumulating evidence that the SPS is primarily of glial origin. 4. In epilepsy neurons are hyperactive and there is a massive SPS during seizures. In seizure free periods, epileptic animals frequently have elevated arousal responses and increased neuronal sensitivity, indicating that seizures may be due to elevation of the activity of a normally adaptive sensitizing mechanism. 5. The common finding of an astrocytic pathology in epilepsy and the links between arousal, neuronal sensitization, SPSs and seizures implicates a modulatory role for astrocytes in both health and disease. 6. Glia, especially astrocytes, may modulate neuronal responsiveness by regulation of the microenvironment. 7. At the current state of knowledge, regulation of extracellular ionic K+, Ca2+ and neurotransmitter glutamate and GABA seem to be the most important candidates for modulating neuronal sensitivity in arousal and abnormally for seizure genesis. 8. Both in phylogeny and in ontogeny, glia and neurons have intimate associations. 9. The functional astrocytic syncitium is in a prime position to control the ecology of neuronal populations and thereby their activity. 10. The physiology and biochemistry of glia-neuronal interactions offers exciting new prospects for developments in behavioural neuroscience.

1. The concentrations of norepinephrine (NE), 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the central nervous system of Wriggle mouse Sagami (WMS), which is a new ataxic mutant mouse, were studied. 2. NE and MHPG levels were increased most remarkably in the cerebellum. 3. 5-HT and 5-HIAA levels were increased most remarkably in the brain stem and spinal cord. 4. The present results suggest enhancement of catecholamine and indoleamine metabolism in the cerebellum and bulbospinal cord, respectively, of the WMS, and these changes seem relevant to the specific motor dysfunction of the WMS.
A set of software utility programs is described which, in association with a microcomputer and a commercially available analog-to-digital converter may be used to acquire, store, manipulate and display large amounts of behavioral and/or physiological data in digitized form.
Experiments in autoradiography involve the use of radiotracers to achieve a &quot;functional mapping&quot; between structures of the central nervous system and observed behavior in animals. A typical experiment produces 100-300 sections per animal. Computer systems such as DUMAS (Drexel's Unix based iMage Analysis System) are used to analyze these sections. Each section has two images associated with it--an autoradiographic image and a histological image. The latter is used to establish a correlation between anatomical structures and areas on the autoradiogram. User drawn outlines on the histological image are transferred to the autoradiographic image to obtain quantitative measures (such as average gray level). Existing systems do not take advantage of the fact that consecutive sections obtained from a brain are often similar. As a result, much of the effort involved with region outlining is repetitive. Also, the criteria for region selection varies not only across experiments, but also between users. This paper presents an approach to design an integrated database management system to manage both pictorial and quantitative data in autoradiography. Briefly, such a system is used to (a) store sets of reference outlines and images for use during the analysis of sections, (b) provide a bank of information to the user from across experiments, (c) provide an on-line help facility to the novice, and a reference guide to the expert. Based on specific requirements, we chose the relational model for data management. We developed a preliminary version of the database using INFORMIX-ESQL/C, which is a commercially available relational system. We also developed a graphics editor that is actively linked to the database. The results of our efforts have established the feasibility of using a commercially available relational system for autoradiographic data management.
Since the discovery of opioid peptides, the brain opioid system has been implicated in the pathophysiology of a spectrum of mental disorders, including depression and epilepsy. For example, a growing body of evidence demonstrates that these neuropeptides are activated by seizures. Specifically, using electroconvulsive shock, it has been possible to describe an array of antinociceptive, autonomic, behavioral, biochemical, and electroencephalographic responses that appear to be mediated by endogenously activated opioids. A primary role for opioid peptides as neuromodulators of postictal seizure arrest and refractoriness is now recognized, and the existence in the central nervous system (CNS) of an endogenous anticonvulsant substance activated by electroconvulsive shock (ECS) has been determined. This review focuses on the more recent developments regarding ECS-induced modulation of brain opioid systems. The ability of ECS to alter opioid receptors, to influence the release and biosynthesis of the various opioid peptides, and to activate endogenous anticonvulsant mechanisms will be addressed.

Dopamine (DA) autoreceptor and postsynaptic receptor changes following repeated electroconvulsive shocks (ECS) were investigated in rats using the indices of low- and high-dose apomorphine-induced motility responses. Repeated ECS produced no changes in the DA autoreceptors; however, enhanced postsynaptic receptor-mediated responses were observed, suggesting increased sensitivity of the DA postsynaptic receptors.
The nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAcChR) is a ligand-gated ion channel found in the postsynaptic membranes of electric organs, at the neuromuscular junction, and at nicotinic cholinergic synapses of the mammalian central and peripheral nervous system. The nAcChR from Torpedo electric organ and mammalian muscle is the most well-characterized neurotransmitter receptor in biology. It has been shown to be comprised of five homologous (two identicle) protein subunits (alpha 2 beta gamma delta) that form both the ion channel and the neurotransmitter receptor. The nAcChR has been purified and reconstituted into lipid vesicles with retention of ion channel function and the primary structure of all four protein subunits has been determined. Protein phosphorylation is a major posttranslational modification known to regulate protein function. The Torpedo nAcChR was first shown to be regulated by phosphorylation by the discovery that postsynaptic membranes contain protein kinases that phosphorylate the nAcChR. Phosphorylation of the nAcChR has since been shown to be regulated by the cAMP-dependent protein kinase, protein kinase C, and a tyrosine-specific protein kinase. Phosphorylation of the nAcChR by cAMP-dependent protein kinase has been shown to increase the rate of nAcChR desensitization, the process by which the nAcChR becomes inactivated in the continued presence of agonist. In cultured muscle cells, phosphorylation of the nAcChR has been shown to be regulated by cAMP-dependent protein kinase, a Ca2+-sensitive protein kinase, and a tyrosine-specific protein kinase. Stimulation of the cAMP-dependent protein kinase in muscle also increases the rate of nAcChR desensitization and correlates well with the increase in nAcChR phosphorylation. The AcChR represents a model system for how receptors and ion channels are regulated by second messengers and protein phosphorylation.
Experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an autoimmune disease of the central nervous system (CNS). Its immune mechanism is well understood at the cellular and molecular levels, which is herein reviewed. Susceptibility to EAE is under the control of the genes partially inside and partially outside the H-2 complex. There are two myelin constituents known to be encephalitogenic, myelin basic protein and proteolipid apoprotein. EAE is mediated by effector T cells sensitized to the encephalitogen. Effector T cells bear surface phenotypes of Lyt1+2-, L3T4+, and they are activated by the encephalitogen/self Ia complex or certain alloantigens and acquire encephalitogenic activity. By unknown homing mechanisms, the effector T cells invade the CNS and induce the target phase phenomena, which include Ia-antigen expression in the local tissue, activation of procoagulant activity, breakdown of the blood-brain barrier, and excretion of lymphokines which induce inflammation and demyelination, resulting in functional alteration. Possibility of specific immune therapy is postulated as a model for human autoimmune disease.
Neurons from the early trigeminal (V) region of the basal plate and from the early ventral spinal cord of chick embryos were dissociated. Their responsiveness to muscle-conditioned medium (MCM) derived from age-matched appropriate and inappropriate target was compared. The V neurons responded to appropriate but not inappropriate MCM by enhanced survival and increased neurite production. Conversely, there were no differences in these measures in spinal cord neurons cultured in control medium and in MCM derived either from appropriate or inappropriate (trigeminal) target. The differences in specificity expressed by these two early populations is discussed.
Three models have been proposed for the arrangement of proteolipid protein (PLP) in the myelin membrane. We have tested these models by determining to what extent each is consistent with the membrane-membrane interactions and electron density profile of central nervous system myelin obtained from X-ray diffraction. Equilibrium periods and membrane separations were calculated from the proposed organization of lipids and proteins in the membrane, and compared with values obtained experimentally as a function of pH and ionic strength. The orientation of the proteins was also used to calculate electron density levels in the cytoplasmic and extracellular spaces. We found that the Stoffel and Hudson models for PLP were more consistent than the Laursen model with the range of pH over which the intermembrane separation at the extracellular apposition is a minimum. The Hudson model also fits better the swollen periods observed at alkaline pH. The Hudson PLP model has many more residues in the extracellular side of the membrane than does either of the other models, resulting in higher electron density in the extracellular space compared to the cytoplasmic space. Such an asymmetric distribution of electron density is offset by the electron density of myelin basic protein which is localized in the cytoplasmic space. The resulting similar levels of electron density at the two appositions are like those in profiles calculated from the X-ray data.

Neurotoxins isolated from snake venom exhibit very specific actions on nervous structures. Their use in neurobiological research contributed to a better understanding of neuromuscular transmission and led to the isolation of a receptor, the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor.
Long term primary rat intermediate pituitary cells cultured in complete serum-free medium (CSFM) were previously shown to exhibit a low basal secretory rate and maintain a stable cellular level of immunoactive pro-ACTH/endorphin (PAE)-related peptides. The present studies used biosynthetic labeling techniques to demonstrate that the biosynthesis of PAE-derived peptides declined as a function of the time the cultures were maintained in CSFM. Compared to hormone biosynthesis in freshly isolated cells, the ability of melanotropes maintained in CSFM to synthesize hormone declined approximately 3-fold after 5 days and 7-fold after 10 days. The endoproteolytic processing of PAE was not changed. This diminution in biosynthetic rate was not observed in serum-supplemented cultures; the rates of hormone secretion and hormone biosynthesis were both substantially higher in cultures maintained in serum-containing medium, suggesting that stimulatory factors were present in serum supplements. Chronic treatment of intermediate pituitary cultures in CSFM with 100 microM (Bu)2cAMP or 100 nM isoproterenol mimicked the effects of serum on total PAE production, hormone biosynthesis, and PAE mRNA levels. The diminished biosynthetic ability of cultures maintained in CSFM for several days could be restored by subsequent chronic (B mu)2cAMP or isoproterenol treatment. Taken together with previous information, these results suggest that melanotropes maintained in CSFM exist in a functionally basal state and that stimulatory agents, in addition to inhibitory inputs such as dopamine, exert significant regulatory control over intermediate pituitary lobe function in vivo.
Nineteen institutionalized patients with frequent seizures (group average two to three per day; seizure types--generalized, akinetic/myoclonic), were treated randomly with either placebo or N,N dimethylglycine (DMG) for 28 days. Dosage was 300 mg/day for the first 14 days and then 600 mg/day. Plasma levels were measured at baseline, days 2, 5, 8, 15, 22, 30, and 1 and 2 weeks after the study ended. No differences in seizure frequency were noted between placebo and DMG or between baseline and test conditions. No toxicity was noted.
Using a combination of single maximal stimuli and maximum voluntary contractions, a comparison has been made of muscle properties in pre- and post-pubertal male subjects. In the dorsiflexor and plantarflexor muscles of the ankle, the twitch and maximum voluntary torques were approximately twice as large in the older subjects; the mean height and mean weight increased by factors of 1.20 and 1.86 respectively. The only other muscle parameter that changed, as a function of age, was the contraction time of the ankle dorsiflexors; the mean value was significantly longer in the older subjects. In the younger subjects, there were already clear differences between the dorsiflexor and plantarflexor muscles, the former developing smaller torques and having shorter contraction and half-relaxation times, greater post-activation potentiation and more susceptibility to fatigue. Even in the youngest subject, motor unit activation was complete in the ankle dorsiflexors; although this was not always true of the plantarflexors, the difference between the two subject groups was not significant.
Rat soleus muscles were partially denervated by removal of the L5 ventral ramus at either 4 - 6 days or 17 - 19 days. Local application of leupeptin, a potent inhibitor of the calcium activated neutral protease to these operated muscles, resulted in a significantly greater maximal tetanic tension and motor unit size, when compared to untreated partially denervated muscles. This was achieved in the 4 - 6 day operated animals by an increased number of terminals and in the 17 - 19 day old animals by increased number of axonal sprouts that maintain contact with muscle fibres. In both groups of operated animals in the leupeptin treated muscles large numbers of motor units were able to maintain or achieve an expanded territory, whilst the size of the largest motor unit did not appear to be increased. It is proposed that leupeptin exerts its effect by inhibiting the degradative action of the neuronal calcium activated neutral protease on the axonal cytoskeleton. Such inhibition may act to prevent or decrease the degradation of cytoskeletal structures in the nerve terminal, and so provide protection for weak terminals at a synapse and growth cones of sprouting axons following partial denervation.
445 cases of chronic subdural hematomas have been operated on during the last 35 years (1951-1986). The ages of the patients ranged from 14 to 91 years and averaged 54 years. Two groups of patients were considered and compared: (A) extremely aged patients, who were over 75 years old, and (B) patients in their sixth decade of life whose age was in fact close to the mean age of chronic subdural hematoma patients in our experience. There were 35 cases (8% of the total number of cases) in group A and 113 cases (26%) in group B. Presumably etiological trauma was less severe in elderly patients who more frequently showed a background of hormonal derangement, such as liver and/or prostatic disease. Bilateral hematomas were detected more frequently in older patients. They usually presented with mental retardation, unlike younger patients who more frequently had symptoms and signs of increased intracranial pressure. Early postoperative complications occurred more frequently in older patients. However, this did not preclude obtaining good results in more than three quarters of them. The implications of these findings are discussed.
Although rigidity and akinesia are two of the cardinal features of Parkinson's disease, their exact pathophysiology remains uncertain. Mechanisms which may contribute to rigidity include accentuation of the long-latency component of the stretch reflex and enhanced fusimotor drive causing increased sensitivity of muscle spindles. Current evidence concerning the role of these factors in rigidity is reviewed. The relationship between akinesia, prolonged reaction times, and delay in initiation of internally generated movements in parkinsonian patients is discussed.
Prebranchial blood pressure (Pva), heart rate (fH) and plasma catecholamine concentration were measured in the mudpuppy Necturus maculosus at rest and during exercise. During exercise, both fH and Pva increased, as did the plasma noradrenaline concentration. There was no significant effect on Pva after injection of the adrenergic neuron blocker, bretylium, in resting animals, neither did bretylium affect the exercise-induced increase in Pva. This suggests that there is no adrenergic nervous tone on the vasculature at rest or during exercise. The alpha-adrenoceptor antagonist yohimbine had no effect on the resting Pva in the bretylium-treated animals, but it abolished the increase in Pva during exercise. This is compatible with the view of no influence on Pva by the plasma catecholamines at rest, while during exercise the increase in plasma noradrenaline concentration is responsible for the increase in Pva. Injection of atropine elevated resting fH, and reduced or abolished cardiac arrythmia, indicating an inhibitory cholinergic tone on the heart at rest, and that variations in this tone are responsible for the intrinsic variation seen in untreated animals. After the atropine treatment, there was still an increase in fH during exercise. The beta-adrenoceptor antagonist sotalol decreased fH in resting atropinized animals, and inhibited the exercise-induced tachycardia, implying that there is an additional beta-adrenoceptor-mediated adrenergic tone, affecting the heart both at rest and during exercise. The cholinergic tone decreased during exercise with a concomitant increase in adrenergic tone. Falck-Hillarp fluorescent histochemistry was used to study the presence of adrenergic nerve fibres and other catecholamine-storing cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Mechanical or electrical stimulations in the area of the mouth evoke two phases of inhibition in the masseter muscle (early and late inhibitory reflex, also called masseter silent periods). The question whether the afferents of the human masseter inhibitory reflex are nociceptive or non-nociceptive has not yet been settled. We showed that an innocuous stimulus, such as a fine jet of saline directed to the lips of healthy humans, evokes an early and a late masseter inhibitory reflex, similar to those following electrical stimulation. We measured the efferent and afferent delay of the masseter early inhibitory reflex in patients submitted to intracranial stimulation of the motor and sensory trigeminal root, and found that the reflex afferents belong to the intermediately-fast conducting fibre group.
The acquisition of co-ordination between posture and movement was investigated in human subjects performing a load lifting task. Sitting subjects held their left (postural) forearm in a horizontal position while supporting a 1 kg load via an electromagnet. Perturbation of the postural forearm position consisted of the load release triggered either by the experimenter (control) or by the subject voluntarily moving the other arm. In the latter case, the movement involved the elbow joint (load lifting (A), isometric force change at the wrist level (B), elbow rotation (C) and pressing a button with the wrist (D] or the fingers (grip isometric force change). We recorded the maximal amplitude and maximal velocity of the rotation of the postural forearm, the EMG of the forearm flexors on both sides and the force exerted either by the load on the postural arm or by the isometric contraction of the moving arm. The maximal forearm angular velocity after unloading was known to be related to the level of muscle contraction before unloading. 1. In the control situation, repetition of the imposed unloading test resulted in a progressive reduction in the maximal forearm rotation without any decrease in the maximal velocity. The amplitude and duration of the unloading reflex were found to increase in parallel. These results suggest that an adaptive mechanism took place which increased the gain of the unloading reflex loop and reduced the mechanical effect of the perturbation. This mechanism was found to come into play not only in the control situation but also in other paradigms where the perturbation was expected by the subjects. 2. A decrease in both maximal amplitude and velocity of forearm rotation together with a weak &quot;anticipatory&quot; deactivation of the forearm postural flexors was observed when the unloading was caused by an elbow movement (situations A, B, C) which indicates that a feedforward postural control took place. An interlimb coordination was built up and stabilized after 40-60 trials. Pressing a button with the wrist (weak force and displacement) was a less effective means of inducing an anticipatory control of the flexors of the postural forearm, which indicates that the intensity of the central control plays a role in the building up of the coordination. 3. A distal grip action exerting either weak (100 g) or a high (1 kg) force was able to reduce the maximal amplitude of the forearm rotation, but not the maximal velocity, which indicates that an improved reflex action takes place, but not a feedforward anticipatory postural control.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Monkeys were trained to perform a fixation task and a visual discrimination task. During the fixation task, one or two light bars were presented at different positions in the receptive fields of TE neurons. During the discrimination task, the animal was required to detect the positive stimulus when one or two of the paired small colored spots or two-dimensional patterns were presented. In both behavioral conditions, when the two light stimuli were presented simultaneously, almost none of the TE neurons showed an increase in responding over the single stimulus condition; the response was usually similar or less than the stronger response in the single stimulus condition. In the neurons that responded selectively to the discriminanda during the discrimination task, various interactions between the two antagonistic stimuli occurred depending on the location or the effectiveness of the two stimuli. These results may be related to gain control mechanisms in the wide receptive fields of TE neurons.
Adult rats with unilateral fimbria-fornix lesion received fetal hippocampal grafts into the lesion cavity. Seven to ten months after the transplantation the graft was examined for long-term potentiation (LTP) in response to host hippocampus and direct graft stimulation. High frequency tetanizing trains delivered to either the host hippocampus or the graft resulted in augmented field potentials and prolonged neuronal discharges in the graft lasting several hours. Very low currents (10-30 microA) were required to induce LTP by direct graft stimulation. In addition to the enhancement of evoked responses, the frequency of occurrence of spontaneously occurring EEG spikes and concurrent population neuronal bursts in the graft increased significantly after the tetanizing trains. These findings suggest that the physiological-biochemical mechanisms required for plastic changes of synaptic efficacy are present in the grafted hippocampus.
Changes in the firing probability of single motor units in response to electrical stimulation of muscle nerves and to tendon taps were used to derive the projections of large muscle afferents to the motoneurons of various thigh muscles in man. Homonymous facilitation was demonstrated to virtually all of the sampled motor units of biceps (BI), semitendinosus (ST), vastus lateralis (VL) and vastus medialis (VM). Heteronymous facilitation was readily demonstrated between VM and VL but was never obtained from ST to BI and never unequivocally obtained from BI to ST. Reciprocal inhibition was demonstrated from femoral nerve afferents to all of the sampled units of BI, and ST but reciprocal inhibition of VM or VL was never obtained from BI afferents and infrequently from ST afferents. These projections of group I afferents in man show certain specific differences from those of the cat and baboon that may reflect the normal function of the limb.
For cat retinal ganglion cells whose receptive field centres were distributed in specified sections of the left visual field, the deviations of the major axis from the radial, horizontal, and circumferential directions were determined. The percentage of cells with deviations within +/- 20 degrees from the radial, horizontal, and circumferential directions were, respectively, 33%, 68%, 16%. In addition, comparison between values of deviation from the horizontal direction for cells located at eccentricities of 10 degrees and 20 degrees from the area centralis showed a statistically significant trend; the bias for the horizontal increased with eccentricity.
New Zealand albino rabbits received either parasagittal or coronal knife cuts in the lateral hypothalamus (LH). Other animals received ibotenic acid lesions of LH. Pavlovian conditioning was studied in these animals and compared with that of sham operated, vehicle, or unoperated control animals. Tones served as conditioned stimuli (CSs) and periorbital electric shocks as unconditioned stimuli (USs). Coronal knife cuts that interrupted fibers passing through LH abolished the bradycardia elicited by these contingencies, as well as the cardiac component of the orienting reflex (OR), which also consisted of bradycardia. Parasagittal knife cuts medial to the temporal lobe but lateral to the major nuclei of the hypothalamus also completely abolished conditioned bradycardia, but had no effect on the OR, compared to sham and unoperated control animals. These lesions also had no effect on concomitantly occurring eyeblink conditioning. Ibotenic acid lesions of LH had no effect on conditioned bradycardia but diminished the magnitude of the cardiac OR. Control experiments suggest that the damage produced by these manipulations had no effect on either sensitivity to the CS or US and produced no general motoric difficulties. These data thus suggest that structures rostral to the hypothalamus, probably in the amygdala and/or agranular prefrontal cortex, mediate the bradycardia associated with classical conditioning contingencies, but that hypothalamic mechanisms may mediate the OR.
We studied the activity of 123 cells in the arm area of the motor cortex of three rhesus monkeys while the animals performed a 2-dimensional (2-D) step-tracking task with or without a delay interposed between a directional cue and a movement triggering signal. Movements of equal amplitude were made in eight directions on a planar working surface, from a central point to targets located equidistantly on a circle. The appearance of the target served as the cue, and its dimming, after a variable period of time (0.5-3.2 s), as the &quot;go&quot; stimulus to trigger the movement to the target; in a separate task, the target light appeared dim and the monkey moved its hand towards it without waiting. Population histograms were constructed for each direction after the spike trains of single trials were aligned to the onset of the cue. A significant increase (3-4x) in the population activity was observed 80-120 ms following the cue onset; since the minimum delay was 500 ms and the average reaction time approximately 300 ms, this increase in population activity occurred at least 680-720 ms before the onset of movement. A directional analysis (Georgopoulos et al. 1983, 1984) of the changes in population activity revealed that the population vector during the delay period pointed in the direction of movement that was to be made later.
The Ca++ -dependence of the repetitive firing of neostriatal neurons was studied in an in vitro slice preparation of the rat neostriatum. Neuronal firing was evoked by injecting depolarizing currents of 100-200 ms duration. In normal conditions, the mode of firing was tonic and showed very little adaptation. The frequency-current relation was linear over a wide range of frequencies. The repetitive firing was first enhanced and later suppressed by Co++, Mn++ and Cd++. These effects on the repetitive firing by the Ca++ -channel blockers paralleled the suppression of the slow afterhyperpolarizing potential. The lowering (0.2 mM) of Ca++ had similar effects. In the presence of TEA (up to 10 mM), the cell fired both Na+ and Ca+ action potentials. The results suggest that, as in other CNS neurons of the vertebrate, in neostriatal neurons the slow afterhyperpolarizing potential (AHP) is due to a Ca++ -activated K+ -conductance, and that the AHP plays a crucial role in the repetitive firing of these neurons.
An in vitro slice preparation was used to obtain intracellular recordings of neostriatal neurons. Indirect evidence for the presence of an early outward conductance in neostriatal neurons is presented. With near threshold stimulation neostriatal neurons fired very late during the pulse. The long firing latency was associated with a slow (ramp-like) depolarization. In the presence of TTX the slow depolarization was lost and outward-going rectification dominated the subthreshold response. This finding demonstrated that both, outward- and inward-going conductances play a role during the ramp-like depolarization. Outward-going rectification during depolarizing responses could be further augmented if the depolarizing stimulus was preceded by a conditioning hyperpolarization. A conditioning hyperpolarization prolonged the firing latency and slowed the firing frequency. A conditioning depolarization had opposite effects. After TTX treatment, the response showed a hyperpolarizing &quot;sag&quot; when depolarizing stimulation was preceded by conditioning hyperpolarization. 4-AP (0.5-2.5 mM) blocked the effects of the conditioning hyperpolarization on the firing latency and on the voltage trajectory. 4-AP also disclosed a slow depolarization which could produce neuronal firing very early during the pulse. This depolarization was TTX-sensitive and Co++-insensitive. In contrast to 4-AP, TEA (20 mM) did not produce a reduction in the firing latency but disclosed a membrane oscillatory behavior most probably produced by the interplay of these opposing conductances: the slow inward (probably Na+) and the transient outward (probably K+). Repetitive firing during 4-AP treatment was of the &quot;phasic-tonic&quot; type with an initial burst riding on the initial Co++-insensitive slow depolarization and a somehow irregular train of spikes during the remainder of the stimulation. Action potentials during 4-AP treatment were followed by an afterdepolarization which dominated the initial part of the interspike interval.
A magnetic stimulus applied to the human scalp over the motor cortex causes a short latency contraction of contralateral limb muscles. This is presumed to result from the indirect excitation of corticospinal neurons with monosynaptic connections to motoneurons. The excitability of these cortical neurons can be estimated from the magnitude of the postsynaptic potentials produced in spinal motoneurons by a given magnetic stimulus. In man the characteristics of these postsynaptic potentials can be derived from changes in the firing probability of single motor units. When a subject increases the level of a sustained voluntary contraction the excitability of the corticospinal neurons estimated in this way becomes less. We conclude that the additional synaptic input to motoneurons required to maintain a stronger muscle contraction comes from fiber systems other than the population of fast corticospinal neurons activated by magnetic stimulation.
In Nembutal-anesthetized, immobilized, and artificially ventilated cats, we studied the connectivity of medullary collaterals of bulbospinal inspiratory (BS-I) neurons in the ventral respiratory group (VRG). BS-I neurons which projected to the contralateral spinal cord were isolated extracellularly and intracellular recordings were made from the respiratory neurons in the contralateral VRG. The intracellular membrane potentials were averaged using extracellular spikes of the BS-I neurons as triggers (spike-triggered averaging method). Fast-rising and short-lasting depolarizing potentials locked to the triggering spikes were obtained and shown to be unitary EPSPs induced monosynaptically by the medullary collaterals of BS-I neurons. A total of 137 pairs were analyzed and unitary EPSPs were found in 11 pairs. Four BS-I neurons and 7 inspiratory vagal motoneurons received EPSPs from the medullary collaterals of BS-I neurons. These findings suggest that 1) BS-I neurons in the VRG drive medullary motoneurons of accessory respiratory muscles and phrenic or intercostal motoneurons simultaneously, 2) BS-I neurons on both sides synchronize via the excitatory connections, and 3) the augmenting firing pattern of BS-I neurons might partly be produced by this reexcitatory connection within the population of BS-I neurons.
Electrophysiological evidence is presented showing that the pyramidal tract (PT) of the hamster modulates spinal reflexes in an in vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparation. Three spinal reflexes were studied. Stimulation of a dorsal root (DR) while recording from a ventral root (VR) of the same spinal segment evoked two reflexes: the monosynaptic reflex, and a long latency polysynaptic reflex. Stimulation of a DR while recording from a DR immediately rostral to it elicited a volley of antidromic discharges characteristic of the dorsal root reflex (DRR). The effect of PT stimulation on reflex transmission was tested by stimulating the PT at varying intervals prior to evoking a reflex. The results show that the amplitude of the monosynaptic reflex is progressively inhibited when preceded at shorter delays by a train of PT stimuli. Similarly, PT stimulation also suppresses the long latency reflex. In contrast, the PT facilities the DRR and repeated stimulation of the PT may evoke antidromic discharges recorded from the DRs. These data from the in vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparation indicate that the PT of the hamster exerts both inhibitory and facilitatory effects on reflex transmission in the spinal cord. The present study shows that it is possible to examine the descending control of spinal circuitry using an in vitro brainstem-spinal cord preparation.
We investigated the hypotheses (1) that the initial flexion part of the wipe reflex elicited in the spinalized frog has the same EMG pattern for wipes to different target locations (Berkinblit et al. 1986), thereby reducing the complexity of the control of this task, and (2) that this initial flexion is the same as occurs in the flexion withdrawal reflex (Easton 1972). The activities of seven muscles of the hindlimb of the spinal frog were recorded via intramuscular electromyograms (EMGs) during the wipe reflex to two target locations and during the flexion withdrawal reflex. The EMGs were analyzed during the interval between stimulus placement and movement onset for mean integrated EMG and duration from EMG onset to movement onset. This analysis revealed significant differences (p less than 0.0001) in the EMG patterns that preceded the initial flexion posture for all three movements. These findings suggest that the spinal circuitry coordinating the initial flexion part of the wipe reflex to different target locations and the flexion withdrawal reflex may not be uniformly shared.
The role of the sensorimotor cortex in the postural adjustments associated with conditioned paw lifting movements was investigated in the cat. Cats were trained to stand quietly on four strain gauge equipped platforms and to perform a lift-off movement with one forelimb when a conditioned tone was presented. The parameters recorded were the vertical forces exerted by the paws on each platform, the lateral and antero-posterior displacements of rods implanted on the T2, T12, L5 vertebrae as well as their rotation, and the EMG of triceps and biceps of both forelimbs. Before lesion, the postural adjustment consisted of a &quot;non-diagonal&quot; pattern where the CG was displaced laterally inside the triangle formed by the three remaining supporting limbs. Here a lateral bending of the thoracic column toward the supporting forelimb could be observed. The associated EMG pattern consisted of an early activation of the triceps lateral head in the moving limb which was probably responsible for the body displacement toward the opposite side, and a late biceps activation associated with the lift. In the supporting forelimb, a coactivation of the biceps and triceps was usually present. After contralateral sensorimotor lesion, the conditioned lifting movements were lost for 4-15 days after the lesion, before being subsequently recovered. The same lateral CG displacement and bending of the back was seen after lesion as before, which indicates that the goal of postural adjustment was preserved. However, the means of reaching it were modified.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Consequences of transient (15-20 min) ischemia on the neuronal activity of the dentate gyrus and hippocampal CA 1 region were investigated in chronically implanted Sprague-Dawley rats. Forebrain ischemia was produced by occlusion of the carotids for 15 or 20 min, following cauterization of the vertebral arteries. Following the release of the carotids, both spontaneous and evoked activity showed a steady but partial recovery, reaching a maximum 12 to 24 h after the ischemic insult. From this plateau, both the power of rhythmic slow activity recorded during walking and the power of slow delta activity obtained during alert immobility decreased monotonically, with large changes occurring between postischemic days 2 and 4. The changes in spontaneous activity were accompanied by a decrease and eventual disappearance of the Schaffer collateral evoked responses in CA 1. Perforant path volleys were less efficient in activating the granule cells following ischemia compared to baseline levels. This decreased responsiveness was paralleled by a relative impairment of paired pulse depression. Neurophysiological signs of spontaneous or evoked neuronal hyperexcitability were not observed at any time point during the 8 postischemic days. Neuronal damage in the CA 1 region varied from moderate to complete loss of pyramidal cells. In addition, degenerating neurons were also observed in the hilus of the dentate gyrus. These findings do not support the &quot;overwork&quot; version of the excitoxic hypothesis of delayed neuronal damage and indicate that the cause of ischemic cell death should be sought in factors other than neuronal hyperactivity.
The physiological properties of 355 motor units (MUs) recorded in the extensor carpi radialis muscles were studied in 34 healthy human subjects during isometric contractions. MU selective twitches were educed from the whole muscle force using the spike-triggered averaging method. The twitch contraction times and twitch forces were measured. From these data it was attempted to estimate the distribution of fast and slow MUs in the muscles studied. Mu recruitment thresholds were systematically measured during stereotyped slow ramp contractions (force increase = 0.25 N. s-1). Degrees of correlation between contraction times, twitch forces and recruitment thresholds were pair analysed by computing simple regression curves and correlation coefficients. The degrees of correlation were compared between 245 Mus recorded in 34 subjects and 66 MUs recorded in a single subject. Analysis of the instantaneous discharge frequency of 132 MUs showed the existence of a remarkable degree of correlation (correlation coefficient, r = -0.75) between the &quot;frequency rise times&quot; (discharge onset to maximal frequency) and the MU twitch contraction times; i.e., the &quot;frequency rise times&quot; increase when the twitch contraction time decrease. The possibility that muscle contraction may be differentially modulated on the basis of this discharge property of the M Us is discussed. The results are compared to previous data and the limitations of the spike-triggered averaging method applied to long muscles in man are extensively discussed.
Evoked potentials were recorded to the separate tachistoscopic presentation of a variety of faces and other simple and complex visual stimuli. A positive potential of 150-200 ms peak latency which responds preferentially, but not exclusively, to faces was identified in 8 out of 9 subjects. This potential, best recorded from midline central and parietal electrodes, was evoked by all face stimuli, including photographs, outline drawings, and fragmentary figures. Changes in stimulus size and other parameters which do not affect the clarity of the face, generally had little effect on the peak amplitude. Stimulus changes such as face inversion, reversing the contrast polarity of photographic images, and selectively removing particular facial features, produced a marked increase in latency but often only slight attenuation of this peak. These response properties correspond well with those reported for face-related single cells in the temporal cortex of the rhesus monkey. The scalp distribution of this face-responsive peak also appears consistent with bilateral sources in the temporal cortex.
Mechanisms of action of norepinephrine (NE) on dentate gyrus granule cells were studied in rat hippocampal slices using extra- and intracellular recordings and measurements of stimulus and amino acid-induced changes in extracellular Ca2+ and K+ concentration. Bath application of NE (10-50 microM) induced long-lasting potentiation of perforant path evoked potentials, and markedly enhanced high-frequency stimulus-induced Ca2+ influx and K+ efflux, actions blocked by beta-receptor antagonists and mimicked by beta agonists. Enhanced Ca2+ influx was primarily postsynaptic, since presynaptic delta [Ca2+]o in the stratum moleculare synaptic field was not altered by NE. Interestingly, the potentiation of both ionic fluxes and evoked population potentials were antagonized by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (APV). Furthermore, NE selectively enhanced the delta [Ca2+]o delta [K+]o and extracellular slow negative field potentials elicited by iontophoretically applied NMDA, but not those induced by the excitatory amino acid quisqualate. These results suggest that granule cell influx of Ca2+ through NMDA ionophores is enhanced by NE via beta-receptor activation. In intracellular recordings, NE depolarized granule cells (4.8 +/- 1.1 mV), and increased input resistance (RN) by 34 +/- 6.5%. These actions were also blocked by either the beta-antagonist propranolol or specific beta 1-blocker metoprolol. Moreover, the depolarization and RN increase persisted for long periods (93 +/- 12 min) after NE washout. In contrast, while NE, in the presence of APV, still depolarized granule cells and increased RN, APV made these actions quickly reversible upon NE washout (16 +/- 9 min). This suggested that NE induction of long-term, but not short-term, plasticity in the dentate gyrus requires NMDA receptor activation. NE may be enhancing granule cell firing by some combination of blockade on the late Ca2+-activated K+ conductance and depolarization of granule cells, both actions that can bring granule cells into a voltage range where NMDA receptors are more easily activated. Furthermore, NE also elicited activity-independent long-lasting depolarization and RN increases, which required functional NMDA receptors to persist.
In vivo voltammetry was used to monitor dopamine (DA) neuron activity during the course of reinnervation of the initially denervated caudate-putamen by grafted mesencephalic neurons. Fetal DA neurons were implanted as a cell suspension into the depth of the caudate-putamen in adult 6-hydroxy-dopamine-lesioned recipient rats. Recordings were performed over a period of 2.5-4 months, starting within a week after transplantation, using chronically implanted surface-treated multifiber carbon electrodes. The voltammetric method used in this study has generated considerable discussion centred on the ability of the multifiber electrodes to measure DA alone in vivo, but the results of previous studies have led to the conclusion that changes in the voltammetric signal most probably reflect dopaminergic terminal activity. It seems therefore possible to follow the time-course of changes in the voltammetric signal amplitude during the process of dopaminergic reinnervation of the host striatum from the grafts. A 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the mesostriatal dopamine pathway caused a substantial (greater than 80%) reduction of the voltammetric signal within 8-10 days, and the low residual signal remained essentially unchanged for time periods up to at least 5 months in the non-grafted control rats. In 7 of 11 rats with DA-rich grafts there was a recovery of the signal amplitude to levels within, or close to, the range recorded from the striatum of normal intact rats. The increase was observed 6-8 weeks after grafting in the rats which had received the largest transplants, and at about 13-14 weeks after grafting in the rats which had received the smallest ones. The recovery of the signal amplitude, from baseline to maximal response, was quite rapid and typically developed between two or three recording sessions, i.e. over a period of one to two weeks. In contrast to the intact striatum, the recovered signal in the graft-reinnervated striata showed a progressive decline within one hour of sampling time at high sampling frequencies (1 per min to 1 per 3 min). Grafted striata also showed a larger response to systemically administered amphetamine than did intact striata. Since the changes in the voltammetric signal recorded with the multifiber electrode mainly reflect dopaminergic terminal activity, the results provide evidence that the intrastriatal DA-rich grafts are spontaneously active, and that the grafted DA neurons can restore DA neuro-transmission in the reinnervated part of the host caudate-putamen to levels which are within the normal range.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have developed an in vitro model in which cells responding to trauma in the immature and mature CNS can be isolated, placed into serum-free culture, and characterized. By implanting nitrocellulose filters into the brains of neonatal and adult rats under different conditions, we are able to harvest populations of cells responding to trauma in the neonate (critical period implant), in the adult (scar implant), and in implants that have remained in vivo past the critical period (postcritical period implant). Upon placement in culture, we have found that astrocytes represent the majority of cells occupying both the critical period and postcritical period implants, whereas fibroblasts and macrophages represent the majority of cells in the glial-fibroblastic scar. The morphologies of the astrocytes on the surface of the different implants, after 3 days in culture, differs markedly--the critical period astrocytes exhibiting a more ordered distribution compared to the haphazard arrangement of astrocyte processes on the surface of the postcritical and scar implants. After migration from the implant, critical period astrocytes assume an epithelioid morphology and cluster together setting up definite boundaries between themselves and the endothelial cells. In contrast, postcritical period astrocytes exhibit a more elongated morphology under the same culture conditions and appear to be randomly dispersed among the endothelial cells. The scar astrocytes exhibit a wide range of morphologies and, although they tend to cluster, do not exhibit the ordered association seen with the critical period astrocytes. We propose that the plasticity of the neonatal astrocytes and the rapid and ordered cellular response seen in vitro reflect the ability of the immature CNS in vivo to respond to injury without the formation of a glial-fibroblastic scar.
The hippocampus is among the regions in the brain richest in M1 cholinergic receptors. Topical application of acetylcholine (ACh) onto hippocampal slices produces a characteristic complex response consisting of a depolarization, an increase in input resistance especially upon depolarization and a blockade of a slow afterhyperpolarization (AHP). The first two of these responses can be recorded also in non-cholinergic septal neurons in an area which contains about 8% of the M1 muscarinic receptors found in the hippocampus. The responses of hippocampal but not septal neurons to ACh involve an increase in the spontaneous synaptic activity and a decrease in evoked responses to afferent stimulation. The dissociated hippocampal culture was used to study these presynaptic effects. The neurons in culture possess muscarinic receptors which develop gradually over a period of several weeks after plating. ACh rarely depolarizes hippocampal neurons in culture. Instead, it causes an increase in spontaneous discharge of small postsynaptic currents (PSC's) and a marked decrease of large, evoked PSC's. In some cultured hippocampal cells ACh reduced ICa without affecting any of several outward K currents studied. It is suggested that ACh reduces evoked activity by reducing Ca currents at presynaptic terminals.
Recent progress has been made in defining the requirements for survival, growth and function of damaged cholinergic neurons of the central nervous system. In particular, the responsiveness of cholinergic neurons to nerve growth factor (NGF) in the regulation of development, cell survival, axon elongation, and response to injury has led to the formulation of the Neurotrophic Hypothesis, a unifying hypothesis of neuronal responsiveness to growth-promoting substances. NGF-mediated effects on cholinergic neurons in culture as well as in the septum, basal nucleus, striatum, and hippocampus, and the ability of NGF to prevent lesion-induced cell death and to ameliorate the effects of aging, provide the foundation for this work. A potential role for glia and microglia in mediating the effects of NGF is proposed.
Single unit studies indicate that increased activity in the cholinergic nucleus basalis (NB) correlates with behavioral activation and neocortical desynchronization. Lesions of the NB result in neocortical slow delta waves, similar to the action of antimuscarinic drugs, and the lesion releases the oscillation of GABAergic neurons in the reticular nucleus of the thalamus, resulting in high voltage neocortical spindles. Extensive damage of the thalamus does not produce slowing of neocortical activity but it abolishes neocortical spindles. We suggest that the NB plays a key role in neocortical activation by a) blocking the afterhyperpolarizations and accommodation in neocortical pyramidal neurons and b) suppressing the rhythm generation in the reticular nucleus-thalamocortical circuitry. We further suggest that the NB system may serve as a structural basis for the concept of the generalized activation described by Moruzzi and Magoun (1949).
Data on development of studies in the field of physiology of the neuroendocrine system conducted at the Kiev University under the leadership of professor B. G. Novikov are presented. Hypothalamus has been studied for its significance in the control of the endocrine gland function and periodic formogenic processes.

In the present study, the effect of intracerebroventricular (icv) injection of GABA, its agonist--muscimol, and antagonist--picrotoxin, has been studied on histoenzymological alterations of acetylcholinesterase (AChE). butyrylcholinesterase (BuChE), monoamine oxidase (MAO), and succinic dehydrogenase (SDH) by cytophotometric technique. This study was conducted on medial preoptic area (mPOA), nucleus paraventricularis hypothalami (PVH), area lateralis hypothalami (LHA), nucleus dorsomedialis hypothalami (DMH), and nucleus ventromedialis hypothalami (VMH). Results showed that GABA and muscimol inhibited AChE, BuChE, MAO, and SDH in all the areas while picrotoxin stimulated these enzymes. These changes in enzyme activity by GABA, muscimol, and picrotoxin and their possible mode of action are discussed.
The effect of acute IIIrd ventricle injection of GABA, muscimol, and picrotoxin on the activity of monoamine oxidase (MAO) has been investigated in serum and a few hypothalamic nuclei of the rat brain using biochemical, histochemical, and cytophotometric techniques. Biochemical estimation demonstrated a significant reduction in MAO enzyme activity after GABA and muscimol injection, whereas picrotoxin produced pronounced increase in the enzyme activity. Histochemical and cytophotometric studies confirmed the biochemical findings. Even in brain, GABA and muscimol inhibited and picrotoxin stimulated the MAO activity. From the above findings, it may be concluded that GABA, muscimol, and picrotoxin regulate the MAO activity, possible mechanisms for which are being discussed.
The ability of various cofactors to substitute for ascorbate in the biosynthesis of alpha-aidated peptides from pro-ACTH/endorphin (PAE) was compared in corticotrope tumor cells (AtT-20) and in primary anterior and intermediate pituitary cultures. In all three systems, ascorbate was the most potent cofactor tested. In AtT-20 cells, dopamine, norepinephrine, epinephrine, dehydroascorbate and dihydro- and tetrahydrobiopterin supported significant alpha-amidation of joining peptide [PAE(77-94)NH2]. In contrast, amidation of joining peptide by primary corticotropes was stimulated only slightly by catecholamines and not by tetrahydrobiopterin. Neither catecholamines nor tetrahydrobiopterin stimulated peptide amidation by melanotropes. The ability of cofactors to support the synthesis of alpha-amidated peptides is cell-type specific.
We studied the immunomodulatory mechanism of 15-deoxyspergualin (DSG), a novel antitumor agent. To assess this, we used a mixed culture of antigen-primed lymph node cells (LNC) and spleen cells (SPC). In normal or untreated conditions, SPC suppressed the proliferative response of LNC to the antigens. In contrast, SPC from DSG-treated animals did not show any suppressive activity. This suppression was mediated by adherent cells in SPC but the suppression mechanism was recovered when DSG-treated spleen macrophages were reconstituted with control spleen nonadherent cells. These data suggest that DSG abrogates nonspecific suppressive activity of spleen cells by acting on both adherent and nonadherent cells.
1. The incorporation of 32Pi into 4 phospholipids of rat cortical synaptosomes was altered in the presence of carbachol (1 mM), viz. a decrease of phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate and phosphatidyl-4-phosphate by 34 and 21%, and an increase of phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidic acid by 52 and 96% of basal controls respectively. 2. The IC30 values calculated from the dose-response curves for drugs affecting carbachol-induced 32Pi incorporation into these phospholipids, and [3H]QNB binding to the cortical synaptosomes were similar for the typical antimuscarinic agents (i.e. atropine, pirenzepine and trihexyphenidyl), and tricyclic antidepressants (i.e. amitriptyline, doxepin and imipramine) studied. 3. The IC30 values obtained for drugs affecting carbachol-induced 32Pi incorporation into these phospholipids, and high potassium-induced 45Ca2+-uptake by this preparation were similar for neuroselective calcium channel blockers (i.e. cinnarizine and flunarizine) studied. 4. Our results suggest that the neuroactive drugs studied can either act at, or beyond the receptor level, perhaps on the availability of calcium ion, to block carbachol-induced polyphosphoinositide turnover in rat cortical synaptosomes.
The effects of zopiclone (7.5 mg/per os/day), a new non-benzodiazepine drug, on anxiety levels, time of sleep induction, hours of sleep, number of nocturnal arousals, quality of sleep and of daytime arousal were evaluated by using psychometric ratings. A random double-blind cross-over study versus nitrazepam (5.0 mg/per os/day) was performed on 20 patients affected by insomnia and generalized anxiety disorder (DSM III-R). The effects were evaluated by using the Hamilton Rating Scale for Anxiety, the Toulouse-Pieron Attention Test and a time-signed quantitative scale for anxiety. The results of the trial confirmed the effectiveness of zopiclone in the treatment of insomnia with effects similar to nitrazepam on the quality and duration of sleep and number of nocturnal arousals, but with an improvement in all the other parameters.
The study reports the effects of daily subcutaneous injections of the biogenic polyamines putrescine, spermidine and spermine (10 mg/kg each) given for a short postnatal period, on growth and development of rats. Polyamine treatment, while only slightly enhancing normal body weight gain, prevented the weight loss caused by surgical injury of 5-day-old animals. The treatment resulted in earlier eyelid and ear opening and in earlier maturation of righting and gripping responses. Increased number of neurons in the superior cervical ganglion that is caused by polyamine treatment, could not be prevented by castration of newborn rats, thus excluding the testes as a site through which polyamines may exert their action. An apparent increase in immunohistochemically detectable nerve growth factor was evident in iris and submaxillary salivary gland of polyamine-treated animals, but no change in epidermal growth factor immunohistochemistry was detected in the salivary gland. We conclude: (1) treatment of newborn rats with polyamines can accelerate somatic and neurobehavioral development; (2) further studies are required in order to verify and quantitate the effects of polyamines on growth factors, and (3) the results imply that exogenous polyamines may exert their growth-promoting effects on a number of cell types when these cells experience periods of polyamine dependence.
Tadpoles at premetamorphic stages of development were used to compare the precocious responses of lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and hindlimb bud (tissues destined for growth) with the responses of tail DRG and tail muscle (tissues destined for resorption) following exogenous administration of triiodothyronine (T3) and thyroxine (T4). Responses to intraperitoneal (i.p.) hormone treatment were assessed at varying times by injection of [3H]leucine i.p. and determination of 3H-labeled protein in tissues after an additional 1.5 hr. Incorporation of [3H]leucine in lumbar DRG and hindlimb bud was markedly stimulated by either hormone. T3 and T4 effects were both maximal at 0.3 nmol/g body wt although, as examined in lumbar DRG, the response to T4 was more rapid and of lesser magnitude than that to T3. By contrast, incorporation in tail DRG and tail muscle was significantly depressed in response to T3 and was unaffected by T4. Co-injection of T3 and T4 (either 1:1 or 1:6 as occurs during the peak surge of circulating thyroid hormones during metamorphic climax) did not produce an additive effect; the hindlimb bud response was reduced while the lumbar DRG, tail DRG and tail muscle responses to the individual hormones were virtually eliminated. The present data suggest that the responses of lumbar and tail sensory neurons to thyroid hormones parallel the responses of their peripheral target tissues.
Some of the known neuroanatomy and neurophysiology relevant to male sexual responses is briefly reviewed. A theory is presented which attempts to explain many of their properties. In particular, increases in chemical concentrations of neuroexcitatory chemicals due to stimulation of genital receptors leads by wave-like spread to ejaculation with orgasm as a concomitant. Threshold phenomena and refractoriness are natural consequences of the theory.
The classification of diseases represents an important, yet often enigmatic, process. This is especially true in the case of stress-related diseases. Until the 1980s, stress-related diseases were categorized on the basis of the target organ system affected. A merger of 20 years of clinical data with research and theoretical formulations from the neurosciences gave us the opportunity to reformulate, or at least add a fresh perspective to, the understanding of the nature and treatment of stress-related diseases. Based upon over two decades of research and clinical trials, one such reformulation is presented here. It is contended that many psychiatric and somatic stress-related diseases are but manifest variations on a theme of limbicogenic neurological hypersensitivity and resultant pathogenic arousal. The resultant stress-related diseases are, therefore, viewed as &quot;disorders of arousal.&quot; From the reformulation offered herein emerges a neurologically-based rationale for the clinical use of the &quot;relaxation response&quot; in the treatment of stress-related diseases.

An accelerated loss of dopaminergic neurons with advancing age leads to Parkinson's disease. The incidence of this disease is suggested to be lower in nicotine users. As the body ages, the number of dopamine receptors in the striatum decrease, an effect that has been shown to be slowed by reduction in body weight via dietary manipulations. To investigate the potential role of nicotine in aging of dopaminergic neurons, therefore, using a dose of nicotine that has no effect on body weight becomes essential. The results presented here show that administration at up to 1.0 mg% nicotinewater to rats for one year does not alter their body weight.



Recent developments in neurobiology, diagnostic classification, and drug/psychotherapy trials have increased our ability to manage patients with anxiety disorders. These recent developments, along with epidemiologic surveys showing the high frequency of anxiety disorders in the general population as well as in the primary care population, have reemphasized the importance of anxiety disorders in family practice. This review presents treatment recommendations, including dosage, products, guidelines for monitoring, and discontinuation. Advances in the neurobiology of anxiety are also included.
In restoring the angular position after a displacement, the role of the muscle stretch reflex was investigated by comparing the restored angular torques and angular positions in the wrist under ischaemic and non-ischaemic conditions in normal human subjects. The wrist compliance (COM), defined as the dynamic relation between the angular position and the angular torque of the joint, was calculated to quantify the changes in the restoration of a displacement after abolishing the stretch reflex by ischaemia. The elasticity from the COM-function was found to be single most important factor controlled by the stretch reflex. The elasticity that equals the static stiffness of the system increased by more than 100%, from 0.21 Nm degree-1 with abolished reflex to 0.45 Nm degree-1 with intact reflex. Our results have shown that the stretch reflex assists in the rapid return of the limb to its original position after a mechanical displacement. When the reflex was blocked by ischaemia, the perturbation displaced the limb further away from the initial position.
This article reviews the basic electronics that are important to clinical neurophysiology. It is divided into six sections: basic principles of electronics; filters; transistors and amplifiers; displays; electrodes and the electrode-amplifier interface; and electrical safety. In addition, at the end of the review is a brief electronics glossary (Appendix A) and an annotated bibliography (Appendix B) to guide further reading.
We describe an in vivo method for the quantitative analysis of human necrotical anatomy. The technique allows unfolded regions of functional and morphological interest to be measured planimetrically. Two-dimensional cortical maps and surface area determinations derived from magnetic resonance images of monozygotic twins are presented. In addition, reconstructions and measurements of published post-mortem human and rhesus monkey hemispheres are reported. Potential applications for the study of brain organization in relation to cognitive, motor, and perceptual performance in normal and neurological populations are considered.
Long-latency components of event-related brain potentials (ERPs) recorded from subjects reading meaningful text are sensitive to semantic relationships among the major lexical items of sentences. In particular, the N400 components are enlarged to words that are semantically unrelated to or incongruous with the context provided by preceding items in a sentence. The present experiment was aimed at finding out whether this inverse relationship between N400 amplitude and semantic association would extend to situations where words were presented in isolated pairs, using a design that dissociated changes in N400 from confounding ERP waves elicited by active decision making. KRP's were recorded to 320 word pairs presented to eleven subjects. Each pair of words was followed by a letter, and subjects made a differential response according to whether or not the letter had been present in either of the words. After the ERP recording session, subjects rated the degree of semantic association between the words in each pair. ERP averages were formed on the basis of the subjects' ratings and on the basis of normative, a priori categories. For both types of averages the N400 amplitude was found to be a sensitive index of semantic association, even though the association was incidental to the subject's assigned task. These findings suggest the utility of the N400 measure in studies of semantic priming and as a probe of the automaticity of contextual influences in language processing.

Mechanoreceptor channels were localized by using the ligands, tubocurarine (TC), decamethonium (Deca), and gallamine (Gall), which have been shown to bind specifically to these channels. The binding of radioactively labeled TC (TC*) was found to be directly proportional to the cell surface area suggesting that the channels are uniformly distributed over the cell surface. Intracellular TC and Gall injections did not depress mechanical stimulus sensitivity though these drugs did depress sensitivity when applied extracellularly at the same concentrations; therefore, the ligand binding sites are on or near the external surface of the cell. Autoradiographs revealed that radioactively labeled Deca (Deca*) bound to the pigmented stripes but not to the ciliary stripes or membranellar band. Further, Stentor induced to shed their membranellar band through exposure to 8% urea were more sensitive to mechanical stimuli than were controls; therefore, the membranellar cilia do not appear to contain mechanoreceptor channels. Collectively, these data indicate that the mechanoreceptor channels are located in the somatic surface covering the pigmented stripes. The density of mechanoreceptor channels in the plasma membrane covering the somatic surface is tentatively estimated to be between 5500 and 14,500 microns-2 based on the density of TC* binding, the apparent number of TC molecules binding per mechanoreceptor channel, and data suggesting that only one fifth to one fourth of the bound TC* is bound to structures in the plasma membrane.
A surface matching technique has been developed to register multiple imaging scans of the brain in three dimensions, with accuracy on the order of the image pixel sizes. Anatomic information visualized in X-ray CT and magnetic resonance images may be integrated with each other and with functional information from positron emission tomography. Anatomical structures and other volumes of interest may be mapped from one scan to another, and corresponding sections through multiple scans may be directly compared. This capability provides a novel quantitative method to address the fundamental problem of relating structure to function in the brain. Applications include basic and clinical problems in the neurosciences and delivery and assessment of brain tumor therapy.

We describe a method for isolating milligram quantities of the four neutral glycosphingolipids, glucocerebroside, lactosylceramide, traiosylceramide, and globoside, from human placental tissue. This procedure is carried out on a silicic acid column eluted with a continuous chloroform-methanol gradient (19:1 to 4:1); the four glycosphingolipids elute as separate fractions with no need for further separation. The method is simple, rapid, and yields sufficient material to use as analytical standards for several hundred runs. The lipids have been identified by NMR spectroscopy. Placental tissue is freely available in most centers and is an excellent untapped source for these compounds. Given that lactosylceramide is not commercially available and that triaosylceramide (ceramide trihexoside) cannot be obtained in a reliable state, this technique represents an effective solution to this dilemma.
Recently, a subset of fucosidosis patients was identified in which the single EcoRI site in the open reading frame of the human cDNA encoding alpha-L-fucosidase was obliterated. We have employed the polymerase chain reaction technique to amplify alpha-L-fucosidase DNA from the five patients known to carry the EcoRI abnormality as well as four patients and two additional fucosidosis patients who do not carry the EcoRI abnormality. Sequence analysis of the amplified DNA has determined that the EcoRI site was destroyed by a C-T transition in the last position of the EcoRI site. This single base change results in the generation of a stop codon 120 base pairs upstream of the normal stop codon. In addition, we have determined that EcoRI cleavage of amplified DNA may be a useful diagnostic tool in the diagnosis of heterozygotes and in prenatal diagnosis of fetuses at risk for this disease.

Protein phosphorylation systems regulated by cyclic adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cyclic AMP), or calcium in conjunction with calmodulin or phospholipid/diacylglycerol, have been studied by phosphorylation in vitro of particulate and soluble fractions from human postmortem brain samples. One-dimensional or two-dimensional gel electrophoretic protein separations were used for analysis. Protein phosphorylation catalyzed by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase was found to be highly active in both particulate and soluble preparations throughout the human CNS, with groups of both widely distributed and region-specific substrates being observed in different brain nuclei. Dopamine-innervated parts of the basal ganglia and cerebral cortex contained the phosphoproteins previously observed in rodent basal ganglia. In contrast, calcium/phospholipid-dependent and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphorylation systems were less prominent in human postmortem brain than in rodent brain, and only a few widely distributed substrates for these protein kinases were found. Protein staining indicated that postmortem proteolysis, particularly of high-molecular-mass proteins, was prominent in deeply located, subcortical regions in the human brain. Our results indicate that it is feasible to use human postmortem brain samples, when obtained under carefully controlled conditions, for qualitative studies on brain protein phosphorylation. Such studies should be of value in studies on human neurological and/or psychiatric disorders.
Cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase displays an uneven distribution in brain, being highly concentrated only in cerebellar Purkinje cells. Using DARPP-32 (dopamine- and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr 32,000) as exogenous substrate, and performing assays in the absence or presence of the protein inhibitor of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, we have now identified both cyclic AMP-dependent and cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase activities in the rat neostriatum and substantia nigra. Quinolinic acid-induced degeneration of neostriatal neurons and the straitonigral fibers emanating from neostriatal neurons decreased the activities of both cyclic nucleotide-dependent enzymes by 70-85% in the neostriatum, while cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase was decreased by 44% and cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase was decreased by 18% in the substantia nigra. In the basal ganglia, cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase therefore appears enriched in striatonigral neurons, while cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase is present both in striatonigral neurons and in other cells. The results indicate that cyclic GMP-regulated protein phosphorylation may play a role in the function of distinct basal ganglion neurons.
Soluble calmodulin-stimulated protein kinase II has been purified from 2-day and adult chicken forebrain. At both ages the holoenzyme eluted from a Superose-6B column with an apparent molecular weight of approximately 700,000 daltons and contained three subunits. The subunits were found to be the counterparts of the alpha, beta, and beta' subunits of the enzyme purified from adult rat brain in that they had one-dimensional phosphopeptide maps that were indistinguishable from those of the corresponding subunit in the rat enzyme and they migrated in SDS-polyacrylamide gels with the same apparent molecular weights. However, the doublet formed by the beta subunit was much more clearly resolved in the chicken enzyme and the beta' subunit, which was much more abundant in the adult chicken than in the adult rat, was also found to be a doublet. The ratio of the concentrations of the alpha and beta subunits changed during development. By autoradiography following autophosphorylation, the alpha:beta ratios of the 2-day and adult enzymes were 0.89 +/- 0.07 and 1.92 +/- 0.26, respectively; by silver staining the alpha:beta ratios were 0.95 +/- 0.11 and 1.85 +/- 0.17, respectively. The concentration of the beta' subunit was equal to that of the beta subunit at both ages. Autophosphorylation produced a decrease in the electrophoretic mobility of the alpha and beta subunits in SDS-polyacrylamide gels and a marked decrease in the calcium dependence of the substrate phosphorylation activity of the enzyme at both ages. The purified enzyme from chicken brain appeared to be more stable under standard in vitro assay conditions than the rat enzyme, and this was particularly so for the enzyme from 2-day forebrain.
Microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP-2), a cytoskeletal protein of 280 kilodalton that is highly enriched in dendrites and neuronal perikarya, is subject to both cyclic AMP-, calcium/calmodulin-, and calcium/phospholipid-regulated phosphorylation when incubated with [gamma-32P]ATP in vitro. We have analyzed the different sites in MAP-2 phosphorylated by these three kinases in fresh or boiled cytosol from different regions of the rat brain, in particular the olfactory bulb, where only one form (MAP-2B) is present, and the cerebral cortex, where both forms (MAP-2A and MAP-2B) are equally enriched. Cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II phosphorylated four common phosphorylation sites, as well as a number of distinct sites that were unique to each enzyme. Calcium/phospholipid-dependent protein kinase phosphorylated a minimum of 15 sites, only one of which appeared to be shared with the other protein kinases. Only serine residues were phosphorylated by cyclic AMP-dependent and calcium/phospholipid-dependent protein kinases, while both serine and threonine residues were phosphorylated by calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. No differences were observed in the peptide maps of phospho-MAP-2 prepared from different brain regions. These results emphasize the complexity of the phosphorylation systems that may regulate the function of MAP-2 in situ.
We investigated regulation of the dynamic state of enkephalin and endorphin brain stores during morphine tolerance and dependence using cDNA hybridization and radioimmunoassay of the biologically active peptide(s) and their respective peptide precursors. Rats were made tolerant to morphine with the subcutaneous implantation of three morphine pellets (75 mg each) for a period of five days. Hypothalamic proopiomelanocortin (POMC) mRNA, POMC, and corticotropin-like intermediate lobe peptide content were decreased by 50% in morphine-dependent rats. However, beta-endorphin content remained unchanged. Enkephalin and proenkephalin mRNA content in various brain structures failed to change. A single injection of naltrexone (2 mg/kg) 1 hour before decapitation did not reverse the decrease in POMC mRNA and POMC content elicited by morphine. However, a slower, spontaneous withdrawal caused by removal of the pellets did reverse (after two days) the down-regulation of the hypothalamic POMC system. A single injection of morphine (10 mg/kg) failed to affect any parameter used to assess the dynamic state of opioid peptides.
The high-affinity binding of 3H-serotonin and 3H-DPAT was studied in membrane preparations and tissue sections of cerebral cortex and basal ganglia of human brain. In tissue sections, 3H-serotonin bound to sites present at high density in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus and basal ganglia. 3H-DPAT bound predominantly to the outer layers of the cerebral cortex and the hippocampus, no significant binding was observed in the basal ganglia. In cortical membranes 3H-serotonin bound to a heterogeneous population of sites, one of which was similar to a binding site labelled by 3H-DPAT (the putative 5HT-1A receptor). 3H-serotonin binding to membranes prepared from the putamen displayed low affinity for DPAT, mesulergine and spiperone, RU24969 was considerably less potent than serotonin itself. This 3H-serotonin binding site does not have the properties of those sites described in rodent brain (5HT-1A, 5HT-1B, and 5HT-1C), and may represent a novel serotoninergic binding site.
The previous companion paper detailed a technique which allowed embryonic retinal ganglion cell axons to grow from the anterior eye chamber across a PNS bridge, and enter the adult host forebrain. Embryonic eyes of E11, E14, E18 and E21 animals were sutured to a PNS bridge, the embryonic eye implanted into an adult host eye, and the distal end of the bridge implanted into the host forebrain. Results indicate that when eyes of all ages are used for implantation, axons could be observed to grow from the embryonic retina, through the bridge and into the adult host forebrain. The axons extend for long distances in the host brain, reach various layers of the cortex and in a few animals enter the caudate/putamen complex. Control studies show that the bridge is used exclusively as the conduit to the brain, as opposed to the degenerated host optic nerve. Thus, the results presented in this paper indicate that successful grafting and transplantation is possible using the aforementioned technique. The results suggest that the described visual system reconstruction technique can be used for the study of development and transplantation in this system.
Metalloendoprotease activity that was sensitive to the metal chelator 1,10-phenanthroline and to synthetic dipeptide substrates of the enzyme was detected in homogenates of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and spinal nerve from the bullfrog. Exposure of an intact in vitro preparation of DRG and spinal nerves to 1,10-phenanthroline led to a dose-dependent depression in the accumulation of fast-transported 3H-labeled protein proximal to a nerve ligature. In nonligated preparations, the chelator treatment reduced the amount of transported protein entering the nerve; no marked effect on the transport rate was observed. Exposure of a desheathed region of spinal nerve to 1,10-phenanthroline, while DRG were maintained in control medium, resulted in a slight depression of fast transport. This effect was not dose dependent over the range that produced a dose response when both DRG and spinal nerve were exposed to the drug. Treatment of DRG and spinal nerve with the metalloendoprotease substrate analogues carbobenzoxy (CBZ)-Ser-Leu-amide or CBZ-Gly-Leu-amide inhibited fast axonal transport, whereas treatment with CBZ-Gly-Gly-amide, which is not a substrate, had no detectable effect on transport. Selective exposure of desheathed nerve trunk to CBZ-Ser-Leu-amide inhibited fast transport, but the effect was less marked than when DRG and nerve trunk were treated. Although previous studies have focused on the role of metalloendoprotease activity in exocytosis, the present data suggest that the enzyme may also be involved in earlier stages of intracellular transport.

1. Whole-cell recordings have been obtained from intact, photoactive retinal neurons using patch-clamp electrodes in the amphibian superfused retina eyecup preparation. 2. After removal of the vitreous humor from the surface of the retina, using a collagenase with low tryptic activity, high-resistance seals (1-10 G omega) could be formed between the patch pipette and the cell membrane by applying mild suction to the pipette. Additional suction broke the membrane patch and provided continuity between the low-resistance pipette and the interior of the neuron. 3. Measurements of input resistance and time constant were obtained from bipolar, amacrine, and ganglion cells. Assuming the membrane capacitance was 1 microF/cm2, time constant data were used to derive the specific membrane resistance. The average specific membrane resistance for the inner retinal neurons in our sample was 68,000 omega.cm2. 4. Analysis of the charging curve induced by a brief current pulse applied to the soma was used to analyze the average electrotonic length of dendrites. The charging curves of some ganglion cells were well represented by a single exponential, suggesting that they were essentially isopotential. 5. The voltage decay along an equivalent cylinder model of a ganglion cell was calculated, using the experimentally obtained values of membrane resistance to compute decay of steady-state voltages along the dendritic tree. The calculations indicate that with the high membrane resistance values implied by this study, the electrotonic length of dendritic cables were short, and there may be relatively little attenuation of the synaptic potentials irrespective of their location along the dendritic tree.
The principal antischizophrenic neuroleptic drugs in current clinical use act by blocking dopamine receptors, which mediate extrapyramidal side effects and tardive dyskinesia. As an alternative strategy, researchers have sought agents that do not influence dopamine receptors but whose behavioral effects in animals resemble those of neuroleptics. Some promising &quot;new generation&quot; candidate drugs have shown beneficial effects in schizophrenic patients in early clinical trials. These new agents share a selective, high affinity for sigma receptors, sites where psychotomimetic opiates act. A systematic screen for drugs that block sigma receptors may provide a valuable strategy in identifying novel antischizophrenic agents and in clarifying the pathophysiology of psychosis.


It has previously been demonstrated that monkeys exhibit certain event-related potential (ERP) components showing latency, polarity, and contingency similarities to those observed in humans. In the present study, monkey P300-like components were studied in order to evaluate the hypothesis that the noradrenergic locus coeruleus (LC) system participates in their generation or modulation. ERPs were recorded from untrained squirrel monkeys (Saimiri sciureus) twice a week for 4 weeks before and after bilateral LC lesions and interruption of dorsal bundle (DB) fibers. Stimuli consisted of 2 and 6 kHz tone pips (40 msec duration, 60 dB above nHL) presented once a second in random order. In most sessions, one tone constituted 90% of the stimuli and the other tone 10%, while in some sessions tones were made equiprobable to test the effects of manipulating stimulus probability. LC and DB lesions were made by first localizing the nucleus and creating an electrolytic lesion. Then, the electrode was placed at the anterior pole of the nucleus and a knife cut effected. The extent of damage to LC perikarya and ascending axons was assessed by reconstructing lesions from Nissl-stained sagittal sections through the brain stems. The effect of lesions on cortical noradrenergic axons was immunohistochemically verified utilizing antisera directed against dopamine-B-hydroxylase and tyrosine hydroxylase to label noradrenergic and dopaminergic axons, respectively. The prelesion ERP results replicated previous findings of P300-like components recorded in response to low-probability tones. The postlesion ERP data indicated that following damage to LC cell bodies, combined with interruption of histochemically detectable ascending noradrenergic axons, monkey P300-like potentials exhibited decreased areas, altered brain-surface distribution, and reduced sensitivity to stimulus probability. The correlation between the extent of cell body lesions and percentage reduction in the magnitude of P300-like responses was significant. However, interruption of DB fibers alone did not have similar effects. Neither type of lesion had any effect on amplitudes, latencies, or brain-surface distributions of P52, P172, or N250-900. There was, however, a significant effect on N106. Stimulus probability effects on the frontally distributed P52 and N106 were not altered by the lesions. These data support the hypothesis that the integrity of the LC nucleus and its ascending fibers is important in the generation and modulation of surface-recorded P300-like activity.
Burst responses to stimulation of excitatory fiber tracts in olfactory cortex slices after removal of extracellular Mg2+ or decreases in extracellular Cl-, resulted in long-lasting changes in response properties of neurons following a return to normal bathing medium. After bursting activity, the response of pyramidal cells to stimulation of afferent or associational fiber systems consisted of the normal graded depolarizing postsynaptic potential and a new, high-amplitude depolarizing potential that followed the graded potential at a variable latency. The new late potential had a waveform that resembled the initial graded response, but it occurred in an all-or-none fashion with a discrete threshold and persisted for many hours. Threshold for the late potential was similar for different cells in the same slice and was not affected by intracellular current injection, indicating that a synchronized interaction among a large number of cells is involved in its generation. Properties of the late potential indicate that it is an EPSP. NMDA receptor antagonists (APV and ketamine) had little effect on the late potential but prevented its development if present during bursting activity. The possible relevance of these findings to the study of the neuronal substrate for long-term memory and epilepsy is discussed.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate is a second messenger generated by stimulation of the phosphoinositide cycle, thought to release calcium from intracellular stores. We have mapped the distribution of 3H-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor binding sites in rat brain by autoradiographic techniques. The cerebellum contains the highest level of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate binding sites in brain, which appear to be selectively localized to Purkinje cells. Moderate levels of binding sites are present in the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, caudate, and substantia nigra. Lesion studies indicate that binding in the hippocampus is restricted to intrinsic neuronal elements and in the nigra is found on terminals of the striatonigral projection. Overall, the autoradiographic distribution of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptors resembles the distribution of phorbol ester binding sites associated with protein kinase C. However, the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor has a more restricted distribution since it is not detectable in the spinal cord or olfactory bulb, regions with substantial levels of protein kinase C.
Monoclonal antibody J1-31 (MAb J1-31, isotype IgG 2b) was raised against crude homogenate of brain tissue from a multiple sclerosis (MS) patient (autopsy sample; Malhotra et al.: Microbios Letters 26:151-157, 1984). In human brain, MAb J1-31 recognizes an intracellular protein antigen (J1-31 antigen), which bands at approximately 30,000 daltons under reducing conditions for sodium dodecyl sulfate gel electrophoresis (Singh et al.: Bioscience Reports 6:73-79, 1986). By immunofluorescence microscopy, MAb J1-31 stains those cells that are also stained by antiserum to glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), namely astrocytes, retinal Mller cells, and tanycytes in the ependyma (Predy et al.: Bioscience Reports 7:491-502, 1987). In addition, MAb J1-31 stains ciliated ependymal cells that do not express GFAP. Using a model system for gliosis (laceration-type injury of rat spinal cord), we were able to show that astrocytes responding to central nervous system injury exhibit greatly enhanced staining for J1-31 antigen (Predy et al.: Journal of Neuroscience Research 19:397-404, 1988; Predy and Malhotra: Brain Research Bulletin in press, 1989). In this article, we demonstrate that immunofluorescence staining owing to MAb J1-31 is greatly enhanced in MS plaques, as compared to adjacent &quot;apparently normal&quot; white matter. (This is consistent with previous results as MS plaques characteristically show an astroglial response [reactive gliosis] leading to the formation of a glial scar [McKhann: Annual Review of Neuroscience 5:219-239, 1982].) In addition, we present further evidence that J1-31 antigen is distinct from GFAP, although these two proteins may be associated spatially with one another.
The present review summarizes how the nervous system responds to trauma. The goal is to provide an introduction to the problems, techniques, experimental paradigms, current issues, and future promise. The review is especially designed for basic scientists and clinicians who are not currently involved in research on CNS reorganization, and for students just entering the field. The review characterizes the secondary degenerative events that occur after trauma, and the types of growth that commonly occur. A standard terminology is set forth with criteria for differentiating between related phenomena. Experimental methods are described that can be used documenting reorganization of circuitry. The principles that determine whether a given process will or will not occur are summarized, and some of the factors that may regulate the nature and extent of growth are considered. Research strategies are outlined that have been used to evaluate whether reorganization of circuitry is functionally significant. Finally, future directions in research and clinical application are discussed, focusing especially on the efforts to facilitate regeneration, and the work on transplants of CNS tissue to facilitate growth of surviving connections, and to replace tissue destroyed by trauma.
The neuronal uptake and metabolism of 2-fluorodopamine (2F-dopamine), 6-fluorodopamine (6F-dopamine) and tritium-labeled dopamine were compared in heart, submaxillary gland and spleen of rats to assess the utility of 18F-labeled 2F- or 6F-dopamine for positron emission tomographic imaging of sympathetically innervated tissues. Tritiated dopamine with and without 2F- or 6F-dopamine, or tritiated 2F-dopamine alone, were injected i.v. into rats that were or were not pretreated with desipramine to block catecholamine neuronal uptake or with reserpine to block vesicular translocation of catecholamines. Tissue and plasma samples were obtained at intervals up to 1 hr after injections. At 1 hr after injection of tritiated dopamine, tritium-labeled norepinephrine, dopamine, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and dihydroxyphenylglucol accounted for less than 2% of the tritium in plasma but up to 92% of that in tissues; tritiated norepinephrine accounted for 70% or more of the tritium in tissues. In contrast, at 1 hr after injection of tritiated 2F-dopamine, tritiated 2F-norepinephrine accounted for 30 to 46% of the tritium in tissues. Desipramine and reserpine pretreatment blocked the tissue accumulation of tritiated and fluorinated dopamine as well as their dihydroxy-metabolites, indicating that accumulation of exogenous norepinephrine and dopamine analogs was within sympathetic storage vesicles. Relative to the doses of dopamine precursors, less 2F- and 6F-norepinephrine accumulated in tissues than tritiated norepinephrine, due largely to inefficient beta-hydroxylation of fluorinated dopamine.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of Ro 5-4864 (4'-chlorodiazepam; the archetypic peripheral benzodiazepine receptor ligand) were examined on the electrophysiological responses of rat cerebellar Purkinje neurons maintained in vitro. Ro 5-4864 produced a biphasic response (consisting of an increase followed by a decrease in spontaneous firing) in approximately 50% of the neurons studied. The remaining neurons responded to Ro 5-4864 application with decreased spontaneous activity. The EC50 and IC50 values for the excitatory and depressant responses to Ro 5-4864 were 490 and 450 nM, respectively. Preincubation with PK 11195 [N-methyl-N-(methyl-1-propyl)chloro-2-phenyl-1-isoquinoline-3-carboxamid e; a peripheral benzodiazepine receptor antagonist] reduced the potency of Ro 5-4864 to inhibit cell firing in a competitive fashion, but did not alter Ro 5-4864-elicited excitations. A similar effect was observed with the monocarboxylic acid anion transport inhibitor UK 5099 [alpha-cyano-beta-(1-phenylindol-3-yl)acrylate]. In contrast, the increases in cell firing elicited by t-butylbicyclophosphorothionate (a GABA-gated chloride channel blocker) were enhanced 6-fold by coperfusion with both Ro 5-4864 and PK 11195. These findings suggest that the Ro 5-4864 induced depressions of Purkinje neuron spontaneous activity is mediated by peripheral benzodiazepine receptors, whereas the excitation may result from modulation of the gamma-aminobutyric acid-gated chloride ionophore.
1. The electrical and mechanical activities of different regions of the canine lower oesophageal sphincter were measured using the single sucrose gap technique. 2. Spontaneous electrical activity was found in the region 0-6 mm oral to the squamocolumnar border. 3. The electrical activity consisted of bursts of spikes superimposed on slow waves. The slow-wave frequency ranged from 0.6 to 5 min-1 in different muscle strips. 4. The slow wave-spike complex and associated contraction were insensitive to tetrodotoxin and atropine. 5. In the pacemaker region, electrical stimulation of intrinsic nerves evoked excitatory junction potentials (atropine sensitive), inhibitory junction potentials (non-adrenergic) and post-stimulus excitation. 6. Increase in the frequency of the slow waves was obtained by muscarinic receptor stimulation (carbachol 10(-7) M) and 10 mM-KCl. 7. The distal lower oesophageal sphincter exhibited a high basal tension but did not show spontaneous electrical activity and stimulation of intrinsic nerves revealed only non-cholinergic, non-adrenergic inhibition. 8. The electrical slow-wave activity observed in the proximal sphincter may constitute the control mechanism for the phasic nature of the contractile activity seen during both the postprandial period and phase III of the interdigestive migrating myoelectric complex. 9. The neural cholinergic activity present in the proximal lower oesophageal sphincter suggests the possibility of neural modulation of the myogenic control activity.
In the present report, we have examined the anti-tumor potential of melatonin by utilizing the MtT/F4 anterior pituitary transplantable tumor. The tumor was obtained (Bogden Labs.) in cryopreserved condition and transplanted (in the left rear thigh), and allowed to grow for 8 weeks in adult Fischer 344 rats, maintained under uniform laboratory conditions of light (LD 14:10; lights on at 06:00 h), and temperature (21-23 degrees C). Subsequently, the tumor was dissected out, minced, and washed in Medium 199, and similarly transplanted into groups of adult Fischer 344 rats representing the final tumor recipient groups utilized for the evaluation of melatonin's anti-tumor effects. Melatonin (50 micrograms/0.1 ml/animal) was administered subcutaneously either early in the morning (at 08:00 h), or late in the afternoon (at 18:00 h), for 6 weeks, beginning the day after tumor transplantation. The matched controls were given equal volumes of physiological saline. A careful record of the appearance and growth of the tumor was maintained by examining the animals every morning. At the termination of the experimental schedule, the tumor masses were carefully dissected out, rinsed with normal saline, dried, and weighted on a sensitive Mettler balance. Our results showed that melatonin significantly increased the latency period of the tumor, irrespective of the time of drug administration. Analysis of the final tumor weights showed that afternoon, but not morning, injections of melatonin significantly reduced both the absolute (P less than 0.025) and relative (P less than 0.05) tumor weights in comparison to the saline-injected matched control. These results suggest that a) melatonin exhibits its anti-tumor efficacy on MtT/F4 tumor, by delaying the appearance of the tumor, and b) the anti-tumor potential of melatonin is greatly dependent on the time of administration of the drug within the daily light-dark cycle.

The transient impairments of memory produced by the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine have been adopted as a pharmacological model of Alzheimer-type dementia in normal volunteers. In this study we examined the effects of chronic (72 h) transdermal administration of scopolamine on memory, attention, sedation and visual function. The transdermal patches provided constant plasma levels of scopolamine for the duration of the study. Indices of the peripheral effects of scopolamine (visual near-point and pupil size) showed impairments that were sustained for 3 days. However, measures of sedation and memory revealed impairments that were maximal the day after patch application and which were no longer present 3 days after application. This pattern of results is discussed in relation to pharmacological modelling of Alzheimer's disease.

Illness behaviour patterns were evaluated in 31 psychiatric patients, who had predominant somatic complaints to which there were no organic basis, using the Illness Behaviour Assessment Schedule. Psychiatric examination was also done and diagnosis given according to ICD-9. The relationship between abnormal illness behaviour and certain socio-demographic variables was examined. Younger patients more often had disease phobia (p = 0.05) and pre-occupation with disease (p = 0.003). Interesting trends were observed in different religious groups, as regards their beliefs about the 'cause' of somatic symptoms. Patients diagnosed as neurotic (anxiety or depression) significantly more often (p = 0.024) regarded their illnesses to be somatic in origin. The relationship between somatisation and abnormal illness behaviour is found to be complex, and the cause-effect relationship is not fully understood.
The behavioral effects of ceruletide in Wriggle Mouse Sagami (WMS) and Rolling Mouse Nagoya (RMN) were observed in an open-field study. Ceruletide decreased the movements of both types of mice, improving the ataxic gait in WMS; however, no such improvement was observed in RMN. There may be different mechanisms underlying the ataxic manifestations in WMS and RMN.
In order to establish an assay for the in vitro growth of myogenic cells, we investigated whether creatine kinase (CK) activity can be used as an index for the estimation of growth. The content of CK activity in a primary myogenic cell culture, almost all of which originated from myotubes, was shown to be linearly proportional to the content of proteins in the myotubes and increased concomitantly with myotube growth. CK activity can be easily and accurately assayed and used for routine assay of the cell growth. As an example of the application of CK activity for the bioassay of growth promoting substances, the relative potency (Pr) of turkey transferrin (Tf) to chick Tf in the promotion of chick myogenic cells was examined with a parallel line assay. The calculation limited that Pr = 0.363, ranging from 0.356 to 0.370, at 95% safety. The results demonstrated the usefulness of CK activity for estimating cell growth, as well as the value of a statistical method for the assay of a growth factor in vitro.
The opiate antagonist naloxone was found to block nitrous oxide analgesia in a stereospecific fashion. Using a modified hotplate test in mice, the (-)-enantiomer of naloxone (which has a KD of approximately 1 nM for opiate receptors) antagonized the analgesic actions of nitrous oxide in a dose-dependent (2.5-20 mg/kg) fashion. In contrast, the (+)-enantiomer (KD approximately 10,000 nM) had no effect on nitrous oxide analgesia at the highest dose tested (40 mg/kg). These data strongly suggest that nitrous oxide analgesia is mediated via opiate receptors and is consistent with the hypotheses that this effect occurs either through the release of endogenous opioids or by physical perturbation of the opiate receptors.
The effect of ethanol, either administered by gavage or voluntarily ingested, on brain dopamine (DA) metabolism was studied in alcohol-preferring and alcohol non-preferring rats. In alcohol non-preferring rats ethanol administration (2 g/kg) increased 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) and reduced DA levels in the caudate nucleus and olfactory tubercle but was ineffective in the medial prefrontal cortex. In alcohol-preferring rats ethanol effect was greater than in non-preferring animals and ethanol influenced DA metabolism also in the medial prefrontal cortex. The effect of voluntary ethanol ingestion was studied in alcohol-preferring rats trained to consume their daily fluid intake within 2 hrs. Voluntary ingestion of ethanol (3.1 +/- 0.7 g/kg in 1 hr) increased DA metabolites and reduced DA levels in the caudate nucleus, olfactory tubercle and medial prefrontal cortex. The results suggest that voluntary ethanol ingestion increases the release of DA from nigro-striatal and meso-limbic DA neurons.
It has been previously shown that treatment of newborn rats with the polyamines putrescine, spermidine and spermine can rescue sympathetic neurons from naturally occurring cell death and from induced death after axotomy or immunosympathectomy. The present study demonstrates that polyamine treatment can also prevent the neurodegenerative effects in the retina and the loss of body weight caused by monosodium glutamate. The findings indicate that polyamine treatment may have a rather general beneficial effect on neuron survival.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid is a potent and selective ligand for the glycine modulatory site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex. This compound blocks (ED50 234 mg/kg) the convulsions and deaths produced by N-methyl-D-aspartate (125 mg/kg) in a dose dependent fashion. In contrast, 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid does not protect mice against convulsions induced by pentylenetetrazole (80 mg/kg), strychnine (2 mg/kg), bicuculline (6 mg/kg), or maximal electroshock (50 mA, 0.2 s), and does not impair motor performance on either a rotarod or horizontal wire at doses of up to 2 g/kg. The methyl- and ethyl- esters of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid are 5- and 2.3-fold more potent, respectively, than the parent compound in blocking the convulsant and lethal effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate. However, these esters are several orders of magnitude less potent (IC50 greater than 40 microM) than 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid as inhibitors of strychnine-insensitive [3H] glycine binding, indicating that conversion to the parent compound may be required to elicit an anticonvulsant action. These findings suggest that 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylates may be useful in the treatment of neuropathologies associated with excessive activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor coupled cation channels.
Long-term neuroleptic administration produces a behavioral supersensitivity to dopamine agonists. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactive synapses in the striatum are closely associated with putative glutamate-mediated synapses, on dendrites and dendritic spines of the same neuronal population. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether chronic neuroleptic administration would alter the behavioral response to glutamatergic drugs. Mice were chronically administered haloperidol for 28 days. After four days of withdrawal, behavioral activity was measured following intraventricular administration of quisqualic acid or intraperitoneal injection of glutamic acid diethyl ester. Both agents decreased behavioral activity. This response to glutamatergic drugs at low dosages was attenuated by chronic haloperidol administration. It is concluded that chronic haloperidol administration alters the behavioral responsivity of animals to glutamatergic drugs.
The effects of the administration of serotonergic drugs on infusion rates of rats self-administering cocaine and amphetamine on an FR-10 schedule of reinforcement in daily 4 hour sessions were compared. Pretreatment with fluoxetine (2.5, 5, and 10 mg/kg), an inhibitor of serotonin reuptake, significantly decreased rates of responding maintained by amphetamine, but had no effect on responding maintained by cocaine at any of the doses tested. Pretreatment with cinanserin (3, 10, and 17.5 mg/kg), a serotonergic receptor antagonist, decreased rates of amphetamine self-administration at the highest dose tested, and also had no effect on cocaine self-administration. These data suggest a differential sensitivity of cocaine and amphetamine self-administration to pharmacological manipulation of central serotonin systems. They are consistent with biochemical data which demonstrates a negative correlation between the reinforcing potency of amphetamine-like drugs, but not cocaine-like drugs and their potency at serotonin binding sites.
Dexamethasone, a synthetic glucocorticoid, has been shown to decrease basal and stress-elevated levels of the pituitary hormone ACTH. Glucocorticoids are known to bind to multiple sites within the brain and pituitary and it is not known which site(s) is most important in mediating the observed inhibition of ACTH release. At the level of the corticotroph, there is contradictory data from in vitro studies regarding whether dexamethasone acts proximal or distal to the formation of the cyclic AMP second messenger that has been shown to be involved in CRF-stimulated ACTH release. In the present report, we have examined the effects of dexamethasone pretreatment on stress-induced elevations in pituitary cyclic AMP and the release of ACTH in vivo. Acute stress (15 min of intermittent footshock) elevated levels of pituitary cyclic AMP and plasma ACTH consistent with previous studies. Dexamethasone administration (0.4 mg/kg 24 hr prior to sacrifice plus 0.2 mg/kg 2 hr prior to sacrifice) inhibited stress-induced elevations in plasma ACTH but did not affect pituitary cyclic AMP response to acute stress. These findings suggest that dexamethasone inhibits the release of ACTH via an action distal to the generation of cyclic AMP.
We have reported earlier that administration of lithium, the widely-used drug for the treatment of acute mania and prophylaxis of recurrent manic-depressive bipolar disorders, leads to a disruption of estrous cycle and a significant suppression of the proestrous surge of luteinizing hormone (LH) in a number of laboratory rodents. In this report we have examined the effects of this antimanic drug on plasma and pituitary levels of LH and follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) in rats following ovariectomy (OVX), an altered endocrine state in which the levels of serum LH and FSH are highly and chronically elevated. Adult OVX rats, maintained under standardized laboratory conditions (LD 12: 12; white lights on at 06.00 h, CST) were injected (ip) with lithium, 40 days post-operation, at a dosage of 3.0 and 2.0 mEq/Kg b. wt. for 3 and 7 days respectively (twice daily at 08.00 and 16.00 h). Control OVX rats received nothing or saline injections, whereas an intact control (C) received no surgical manipulation or drug injections of any kind. As expected, the levels of plasma LH and FSH in OVX (only) group showed nearly 6-fold and 75-fold increase respectively compared to those in C. Lithium injections in OVX rats for 3 and 7 days resulted in a significant reduction in plasma LH (P less than .005 and P less than .02 respectively) and FSH (P less than .001) levels when compared with those in the OVX control groups. Lithium also led to a significant reduction in the levels of pituitary LH after both 3 (P less than .02) and 7 days (P less than .02), but the levels of pituitary FSH remained unchanged. These results suggest that the pituitary gonadotropes constitute a definitive target for lithium's action, either directly or via the hypothalamus.
The opioid antagonist properties of nor-binaltorphimine (nor-BNI; 17,17'-Bis(cyclopropylmethyl)-6,6',7,7'-tetradehydro-4,5:4', 5'-diepoxy-6,6'-(imino) [7,7'-bimorphinan]-3,3',14,14'-tetrol) were evaluated in vivo in the rat maximal electroshock (MES) seizure model. Following s.c. or i.c.v. pretreatment, nor-BNI selectively antagonized the anticonvulsant effects of the kappa opioid U50, 488, significantly increasing its ED50 by 2.3 and 4.5 fold, respectively. In contrast, pretreatment with nor-BNI (s.c. or i.c.v.) failed to antagonize the anticonvulsant effects of the selective mu opioid, DAMGO. At the doses and injection routes used, nor-BNI itself had no apparent effect on overt behavior or MES-induced convulsions. These data support the earlier suggestion that the anticonvulsant effects of U50,488 are mediated by kappa opioid receptors and confirm 1) the selectivity of nor-BNI as a kappa antagonist and 2) its applicability as a pharmacological tool in the differentiation of multiple opioid receptors.
In order to investigate possible neurobiologic mechanisms underlying carbon dioxide-induced anxiety, the effects of oral alprazolam 0.75 mg and intravenous clonidine 2 mcg/kg on CO2-induced increases in ratings of subjective anxiety, pulse rate, and ventilation were measured in healthy human subjects. Pretreatment with alprazolam but not with clonidine significantly reduced the CO2-induced increase in ratings of anxiety. Neither drug altered CO2-induced increases in pulse rate or ventilatory responses. Clonidine did produce potent sedative and hypotensive effects. The behavioral data suggest that the mechanisms through which CO2 induces anxiety-like effects involve neural systems regulated by benzodiazepine receptors and, secondly, that they appear not to require normal functioning of noradrenergic systems. Carbon dioxide may provide a useful model system for identification of new drugs with anxiolytic properties.

Arginine vasopressin (AVP) potentiates corticotrope responses to CRH by increasing the percentage of target cells that secrete in a reverse hemolytic plaque assay for ACTH. The present studies were designed to test more specific effects of AVP and its second messengers on CRH binding to individual corticotropes. Spectrophotometric analyses of 560 corticotropes from fractions enriched to 90% by counterflow centrifugation showed a 30% increase in the average area of the dark blue label for biotinylated CRH after a 1-h exposure to 10 nM AVP or after activation of protein kinase-C [by 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol-13-acetate (TPA) or L calcium channels (by Bay K 8644). In addition, computer analysis of the color of the label (wavelength 476-483) showed a 13% increase in saturation (intensity of the blue) and a 23% decrease in brightness (amount of white) after stimulation. The gray level readings of the blue color were also 18% lower after stimulation, which indicates an increase in density (less light transmitted). Taken together, the increases in label area and intensity indicated that activation of L calcium channels or protein kinase-C enhanced CRH binding by individual corticotropes. When mixed pituitary cell populations were analyzed for percentages of labeled cells, exposure to Bay K 8644, TPA, angiotensin II, or AVP resulted in 30-40% increases in the percentage of CRH-bound cells. Dual reactions for biotinylated CRH and ACTH showed that most of the added CRH-bound cells stored ACTH. The effect of exposure to two of the activators was not additive, however. If L calcium channels were blocked with nimodipine, the protein kinase-C-mediated enhancement in CRH binding and ACTH release was blocked, indicating that these actions are dependent on extracellular calcium. In contrast, nimodipine did not block the TPA-mediated enhancement of ACTH storage. These studies show that the potentiation of CRH-mediated ACTH release by AVP or angiotensin II may occur by the enhancement of CRH binding to individual corticotropes. This appears to promote the cytochemical detection of additional CRH-bound corticotropes which may stem from a reserve cell population that normally has levels of CRH receptors or ACTH stores below thresholds needed for detection. The source of these cells (from stem cells or multipotential cells) remains to be determined.
In dissociated cellular preparations of adult rat cortex, M1 and M2 muscarinic receptors were shown to mediate phosphoinositide metabolism and cAMP inhibition, respectively. Additionally, in dissociated striatum, an M2 receptor was shown to inhibit the level of cAMP. The components of &quot;receptor reserve&quot; in these three receptor-effector systems were evaluated by the method of partial receptor inactivation and the dissociation constants for the full agonist carbachol were determined. In dissociated cellular preparations of cortex, and in the presence of 10 mM lithium ion, carbachol (EC50 = 116 microM) activated an M1 receptor subtype (atropine Ki = 0.9 nM; pirenzepine Ki = 9.3 nM) to elicit up to a 7-fold release over the basal level of [3H]inositol 1-phosphate. Carbachol was 100-fold more potent (EC50 approximately 1 microM) in the inhibition of forskolin-elevated [3H]cAMP levels in both the cortex (maximally 28%) and striatum (maximally 49%). Pirenzepine blocked the [3H]cAMP inhibition responses to carbachol in cortex and striatum with Ki values of 334 nM and 313 nM, respectively, which indicated that cortical and striatal M2 receptors mediate [3H]cAMP inhibition. The equilibrium dissociation constants for the full agonist carbachol in mediating these two biochemical responses were determined after partial receptor inactivation with propylbenzilylcholine mustard. The results indicate that cortical M1 receptor-mediated phosphoinositide metabolism is elicited by carbachol through a low affinity agonist-receptor complex (carbachol Kd = 90 microM). However, the cortical and striatal M2 receptor-mediated inhibition of [3H]cAMP is mediated by a high affinity agonist-receptor complex (carbachol Kd = 8.5 microM and 2.9 microM, respectively). Thus, the agonist is bound in a low affinity active conformation of the M1 receptor but the agonist is bound in a high affinity active conformation of the M2 receptor. In contrast to the cortical M1-phosphoinositide system, the central M2 receptors exhibited a significant receptor reserve in their mediation of [3H]cAMP inhibition, as elicited by the full agonist carbachol. Whereas the ratio of Kd/EC50 for carbachol was 0.9 at the cortical M1 receptor, this ratio was 9.4 and 3.2 at the cortical M2 and striatal M2 receptors, respectively.

Guinea-pigs were treated with morphine for 6-8 days by subcutaneous implantation of pellets, each containing a mixture of morphine base (120 mg) and morphine hydrochloride (35 mg). Each guinea-pig received a single pellet. Mechanical activity of the circular muscle was recorded in vitro in preparations comprising the circular muscle and myenteric plexus. Exposure to morphine was maintained by addition of 1 microM morphine to the organ baths. After 90 min, morphine was withdrawn, either by repeatedly washing tissues in morphine-free Krebs' solution, or by addition of naloxone to reduce the occupancy of the opioid receptors by morphine. Withdrawal of morphine resulted in markedly enhanced contractile activity compared with that in circular muscle-myenteric plexus preparations from untreated control guinea-pigs. The withdrawal contractions were abolished by tetrodotoxin (600 nM) and greatly reduced by hyoscine (1 microM), indicating that they resulted from action potential discharge in myenteric neurons that release acetylcholine onto the circular muscle. Activation of the cholinergic excitatory motor neurons was not secondary to synaptic activation by cholinergic interneurons, because hexamethonium (100 microM) did not affect withdrawal contractions. The withdrawal response may therefore arise in the cholinergic excitatory motor neurons themselves, or in neurons that activate them via noncholinergic mechanisms.
Twelve- and 28-month-old Fischer 344 rats of both sexes received five 60-trial sessions of Pavlovian conditioning in which the CS was a 75 dB, 10,000 Hz tone, and the US was a 0.5-mA, 0.5-sec duration footshock. Right foreleg flexion was measured as the conditioned response (CR). Other animals received a random sequence of unpaired tones and footshock and served as pseudoconditioning control groups. Interstimulus intervals (ISIs) of 1.5 and 3.5 sec were studied. The longer ISI resulted in higher rates of responding in both the conditioning and pseudoconditioning groups. However, with the exception of the young males, all animals showed significantly higher levels of responding in the conditioning groups. Females also showed faster acquisition and higher levels of responding than males. A significant sex by age by sessions interaction occurred, suggesting that old males may be somewhat retarded in acquiring the leg flexion CR compared to the other groups of animals. Old males were also slower to reach a criterion of 5 successive CRs than either young males or young or old females.
The IgM monoclonal antibodies, Elec-39, HNK-1 and NC-1, recognize the same subset of Torpedo electric organ acetylcholinesterase (AChE). We show that they react against a glycosphingolipid (SGPG) containing a sulfated glucuronic acid (SGA). The three antibodies appear essentially identical in their specificity but differ in their affinity for the antigens. We have examined their binding in the CNS, nerves and muscles of several vertebrate species, at the optical and in some cases at the electron microscope level. All three antibodies label the same structures: they show diffuse staining around neuromuscular endplates and label the plasma membrane of the Schwann cells, surrounding the outer layer of myelin sheaths. In the adult rat CNS, the antibodies label certain defined structures, notably extracellular material in the habenula and in the CA2 layer of the hippocampus. In the cortex and cerebellum, they label the surface of neural processes and terminals apposed to large multipolar neurons and Purkinje cells, as well as membranous material contained in inclusions dispersed in the cytoplasm of these neurons. These localizations are consistent with the suggestion that the SGA-antigens may be involved in cellular interactions.
[(3)H]Lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) in the presence of 40 nM ketanserin labeled the 5-HT(1A) receptor subtype in rat hippocampal membranes. In the presence of guanosine triphosphate (GTP), the B(max) and affinity of [(3)H]LSD binding to the 5-HT(1A) binding site were significantly decreased. [(3)H]LSD in the presence of 40 nM WB4101 labeled the 5-HT(2) receptor subtype in homogenates of rat frontal cortex. In contrast to the effect on [(3)H]LSD binding to the 5-HT(1A) binding site, GTP produced no significant effect on either the B(max) or the K(D) of [(3)H]LSD binding to the 5-HT(2) binding site. Competition of 5-HT for [(3)H]LSD binding to the 5-HT(2) binding site was best described by a computer-derived model assuming two binding sites. In the presence of GTP, the 5-HT competition curve was shifted significantly to the right with an approx. 3-fold increase in the IC(50). These binding characteristics are consistent with [(3)H]LSD acting as an antagonist at the 5-HT(2) receptor which has multiple affinity states for agonists and is coupled to a guanine nucleotide regulatory subunit. Thus, [(3)H]LSD has binding characteristics consistent with it acting as an agonist at the 5-HT(1A) receptor subtype but as an antagonist at the 5-HT(2) receptor subtype in rat brain.
Release of ?-aminobutyric acid (GABA) can be elicited by electrical field stimulation even in the absence of external Ca(2+). Indeed, the release of GABA under such conditions is even higher than in the presence of Ca(2+). To investigate the underlying mechanism of this phenomenon, the release of endogenous GABA from rat striatal slices was measured by high performance liquid chromatography with electro- chemical detection. Electrical stimulation at 2 Hz for 3 min elevated GABA efflux by 4.5-fold. Withdrawing external Ca(2+) and adding 1 mM EGTA produced a small, transient increase in the basal efflux of GABA and increased electrically-evoked overflow 3-fold. Tetrodotoxin (5 ?M) did not affect basal efflux in either normal or Ca(2+)-free conditions, but abolished electrically-evoked release. In the presence of normal Ca(2+), nipecotic acid (1 mM) enhanced both spontaneous efflux and evoked overflow. Nipecotic acid also increased spontaneous release when external Ca(2+) was removed. However, in the absence of Ca(2+), nipecotic acid failed to increase electrically evoked GABA overflow. These results suggest that there exists a Ca(2+)-independent process for GABA release via the same carrier system that is utilized for high affinity GABA uptake.

67 consecutive, unselected patients with seizure onset after the age of 60 were studied prospectively in a general hospital with only neurosciences facilities for a population of 500,000. Investigations in most cases included CT scan of the brain and EEG. Etiology could be determined in 44 (66%): tumor- 16 (22%), stroke - 15 (22%) and miscellaneous - 13 (20%). Seizures were partial in 45 (67%) and generalized from onset in 22 (33%). Seizures were exclusively nocturnal in 8 of 23 (35%) cases with unknown etiology.
All Olmsted County, Minnesota, residents who experienced brain injury from 1935 through 1979 were identified and their medical records reviewed for survival and neurologic outcome. Minimum inclusion criteria included loss of consciousness or post-traumatic amnesia or neurologic evidence of brain injury or skull fracture. Of 4,660 cases identified, skull fractures were observed in 28%. Over half of brain-injured patients who died did so within 24 hours of trauma; among 1-day survivors, subsequent survival was moderately impaired, especially in older individuals. Mortality was lowest in subjects without a skull fracture and increased with fracture severity. Associated neurologic injuries, complications, and deficits were generally more common in patients with skull fracture than those without and were much more frequent with more severe skull fractures. The types of neurologic deficits differed little between those with and without fractures, except that subjects with complicated skull fractures had higher proportions of special sensory deficits and multiple deficits.
Developing motoneurons in zebrafish embryos follow a stereotyped sequence of axonal outgrowth and accurately project their axons to cell-specific target muscles. During axonal pathfinding, an identified motoneuron pioneers the peripheral motor pathway. Growth cones of later motoneurons interact with the pioneer via contact, coupling, and axonal fasciculation. In spite of these interactions, ablation of the pioneer motoneuron does not affect the ability of other identified motoneurons to select the pathways that lead to appropriate target muscles. We conclude that interactions between these cells during pathfinding are not required for accurate pathway selection.
The high affinity binding of the phencyclidine derivative [3H]TCP to cortical membranes of the rat was investigated. In an extensively washed membrane preparation the binding of [3H]TCP was enhanced in the presence of L-glutamate and NMDA. The stimulation of the binding of [3H]TCP by L-glutamate was inhibited competitively by AP5 and non-competitively by MK801. The binding of [3H]TCP was also enhanced in the presence of glycine; this effect was insensitive to strychnine and inhibited non-competitively by AP5. Saturation experiments demonstrated that MK801 was a competitive inhibitor of the binding of [3H]TCP. These results suggest that [3H]TCP binds to a site similar to that which binds MK801; this site may be associated with the ion channel of the NMDA receptor.
Dichotic speech (CV syllables) and non-verbal stimuli (melodies, tones and triple tones) were presented to 20 French Canadian (10 men, 10 women) and 19 Chinese (10 men, 9 women) right-handed university students to investigate cultural and sexual differences in auditory functional asymmetry. Analyses of variances on correct scores showed a REA in the perception of speech and a LEA in the perception of melodies and triple tones for both groups. Cross-cultural effects were observed for speech only, indicating a better overall performance on the part of French Canadian students. Moreover, women were better than men in the perception of tones and triple tones, suggesting that women may attend more to intonational information. Finally, the results for both ethnic groups showed the same pattern of interhemispheric functional asymmetry for speech and non-speech material.
There is a well-documented propensity of males affected with developmental language/learning impairment. Results from this study demonstrate, unexpectedly, that this sex-ratio difference of males to females with developmental language/learning disorders was found to occur significantly only in families with a language/learning-impaired mother. In addition, a remarkably aberrant offspring sex-ratio was found in families of language/learning-impaired children who had an affected mother, but not father. Mothers who were developmentally language/learning-impaired had three times as many sons as daughters, and five times as many language/learning-impaired sons as daughters. Genetic and hormonal influences that might affect both sex-ratio and neuroanatomical development and disorders are discussed.
The role of brain catecholamines in covert orienting was tested in normal subjects using a cued reaction time paradigm which measures the directional engagement, disengagement and movement of attention. Droperidol and clonidine were administered intravenously to suppress central dopamine and noradrenaline transmission. Both drugs produced reductions in the cost of invalid cueing without change in the benefit of valid cueing suggesting that both noradrenaline and dopamine are involved in facilitating the disengagement of attention. These results are relevant to the slowed disengagement observed with parietal lesions in monkeys and humans since this region of the cortex associated with visuospatial analysis receives a dense innervation by both dopamine and noradrenaline projections in primates.
Tests of learning and memory are currently not typically included in first-tier screening batteries even though there is ample evidence that chemical exposure can produce deficits in these cognitive processes. The approach taken in behavioral toxicology has been to restrict these cognitive tests to second tier or hazard characterization studies, yet there is little agreement on which tests are most appropriate. The present survey was designed to determine the current testing strategies in toxicology for detecting and characterizing the effects of chemical treatment on learning and memory, and to make comparisons to similar data from the fields of psychopharmacology and neurobiology. The survey data revealed a number of discipline-dependent effects on the selection of tests. A number of these effects were clearly related to the subject matter as well as the particular chemical/treatment being examined. Given the youth of the field, behavioral toxicology has the advantage of gaining valuable information from both of these disciplines. Behavioral testing in neurotoxicology should consider strategies which maximize unification of these closely related fields of neuroscience.



Denervation of skeletal muscle stimulates increased turnover of muscle nuclei and connective tissue cells. The present investigation tests whether denervation &quot;primes&quot; myogenic precursor cells, so that the onset of DNA synthesis in muscle precursors after traumatic injury occurs earlier than in innervated muscle. The left legs of 29 male BALBc mice were denervated, and 1 week later small incisions were made in the tibialis anterior muscles of both legs (denervated and innervated). At specific times after injury each mouse was injected once with tritiated thymidine to label replicating muscle precursors. Muscle lesions were sampled 10 days after injury (when all precursors had fused to form myotubes) and prepared for auto-radiography. The presence of labelled myotube nuclei showed that muscle precursors had been synthesizing DNA at the time when [3H]thymidine had been injected. Our data suggest that very few precursors were proliferating in denervated muscle within 30 h after injury, and the onset of myogenesis at 30 h was essentially the same in denervated and innervated muscle. The retrospective analysis indicates that there were also similar proportions of muscle precursors proliferating at different times after injury, in regenerating lesions of both denervated and innervated muscle. Thus, denervation does not stimulate an earlier regenerative response in injured skeletal muscle.
The importance of subcellular storage, nerve impulse rate and pattern, and feedback regulation, as well as resupply by axonal transport for the release of noradrenaline and neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity, was studied in the blood perfused pig spleen in vivo. Vasoconstrictor responses were recorded as perfusion pressure changes. Subcellular fractionation experiments using sucrose density gradients showed a bimodal distribution of noradrenaline (peak concentrations at 0.8 and 1.1 M sucrose) while only one main peak of neuropeptide Y was present (at 1.1 M sucrose). Overflow suggesting release of noradrenaline and neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity could be detected after 10 s stimulation at 10 Hz. The ratio for the output of noradrenaline and neuropeptide Y upon continuous nerve stimulation in control animals decreased with frequency. After inhibition of noradrenaline reuptake by desipramine the vasoconstrictor response and noradrenaline output were enhanced while the corresponding overflow of neuropeptide Y was reduced by 50% at 0.5 Hz. Stimulation with the irregular or regular bursting patterns at high frequencies caused larger perfusion pressure increase and relative enhancement of neuropeptide Y output compared to noradrenaline than a continuous stimulation both before and after desipramine treatment. A similar fractional release per nerve impulse was calculated both for [3H]noradrenaline (5.6 +/- 1.0 x 10(-5) and neuropeptide Y (7.3 +/- 0.3 x 10(-5). After reserpine treatment combined with preganglionic denervation the vasoconstrictor responses were more long-lasting, neuropeptide Y release was enhanced while noradrenaline content and release were reduced by 99%. The difference in neuropeptide Y overflow between continuous and bursting types of stimulation was smaller after reserpine treatment. After prolonged intermittent stimulation with regular bursts (20 Hz) for 1 h the splenic content of neuropeptide Y was reduced by 58%, while no change was observed for noradrenaline. The maximal perfusion pressure increase upon prolonged nerve stimulation after reserpine was similar in control and reserpine-treated animals, but after reserpine the vasoconstrictor response and neuropeptide Y release were subjected to fatigue. Ligation experiments of the splenic nerves revealed the splenic neuropeptide Y content was resupplied by axonal transport with a calculated total tissue turnover time of 11 days. In contrast, axonal transport contributed only to a marginal extent for the resupply of noradrenaline.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In the present study we have examined the topographic and temporal patterns of expression of the limbic system associated membrane protein by light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry in organotypic cultures of the rat brain. The regional, cellular and subcellular distribution of staining in young cultures was similar to that in the intact brain of corresponding age. Since the tissue in vitro is isolated both from afferents and targets, short-term protein expression appears to be regulated by factors intrinsic to the neuron. In culture, the protein was present on the surface of neurons which are physiologically interconnected, such as neurons belonging to the septohippocampal system (cholinergic neurons in the septum and pyramidal and granule cells in the hippocampus). It was also present on the surface of axons and growth cones during process outgrowth. Thus, the limbic system associated membrane protein is expressed in an appropriate spatial and temporal pattern for mediating interactions between growing axons and their targets. The expression of the protein in culture showed some important differences as compared to the intact brain. With increasing age, there was an increasing scattering and disappearance of immunoreactivity in cultures fixed with paraformaldehyde/glutaraldehyde. The decreased immunoreactivity in aged cultures does not appear to reflect decreased protein synthesis, because unfixed and acetone-fixed explants continued to show immunostaining. Furthermore, dot-blot assays showed similar amounts of immunoreactivity in culture as in the intact brain of corresponding age. Thus, the age-dependent decrease of immunoreactivity may reflect altered insertion of the protein into the membrane or a modification of the epitope recognized by the antibody. There was a rapid increase (within 1 hour) of immunostaining on the surface of sprouting processes following mechanical lesion of mature, unstained axons. The altered distribution after tissue injury could be a means of ensuring specificity of connectivity during nerve fiber regeneration. On the basis of the reported findings, we suggest that system-specific membrane proteins, including the limbic system associated membrane protein, may mediate the formation of specific connections in the brain. Furthermore, we suggest that the reinnervation processes taking place after central nervous system injury may exhibit a similar molecular basis to the development of neural pathways.
Secretogranin II (chromogranin C) is a peptide related to chromogranin A and secretogranin I (chromogranin B) which is secreted by a regulated pathway from both neurons and endocrine cells. In the present study we have determined by light microscopic immunocytochemistry its distribution in the cerebellum and in adjacent brain stem regions. Secretogranin II was found to be widely distributed throughout the gray matter of these regions. Highly immunoreactive structures in the cerebellar cortex included the majority of climbing fibers, a large number of mossy fibers, sparse varicose fibers in the molecular layer and a subpopulation of neuronal perikarya in the granule cell layer. The location and shape of these neurons are very similar to those of a novel type of cerebellar neurons which has been recently described. A moderate level of immunoreactivity was observed on fibers travelling among Purkinje cells and parallel to the pial surface in the Purkinje cell layer. A variable, but in general low, degree of immunoreactivity was also detectable in the perikarya of Purkinje cells. In the deep cerebellar nuclei a loose network of secretogranin II-positive fibers was visible. Neurons of the nuclei, however, were non-immunoreactive. A dense network of highly immunoreactive fibers was found throughout the brain stem regions adjacent to the cerebellum. Our results indicate that secretogranin II has in the cerebellum and adjacent regions a distribution more widespread than that of known regulatory peptides and suggest that the peptide-mediated signaling in the cerebellum plays a role more important that has been acknowledged so far.
The purpose of the present study was to identify processes of plasticity in the receptive field of neurosecretory neurons of the supraoptic nucleus during hibernation in the hedgehog, in order to correlate them with the increased neurosecretory activity observed in this nucleus during this annual period. Using the Rapid Golgi method, a quantitative study was conducted in the receptive field of bipolar and multipolar neurons (the main components of the nucleus). Results indicate a generalized increase in the following characteristics: (1) number of dendritic spines per millimeter along the dendritic shafts; (2) degree of branching in the dendritic field; and (3) dendritic density around the neuronal soma. These data demonstrate modification of the dendritic field in the supraoptic nucleus during hibernation, a change undoubtedly related to functional conditions. Since the observed changes affect structures such as dendritic spines which are directly related to the arrival of neural afferences, the discussion is centered on the types of stimuli which may be responsible for the observed processes.
The responses of single units in the cerebellum, the vestibular nuclear complex and adjacent regions of the brainstem and in the oculomotor nucleus were studied in decerebrate, paralysed rainbow trout (Salmo gairdneri). Natural vestibular stimulation was provided by horizontal, sinusoidal oscillation of the fish and extraocular muscle afferents of the eye ipsilateral to the recording were activated either by passive eye-movement or by electrical stimulation of the trochlear (IV) nerve in the orbit. Unit responses to vestibular and/or orbital stimuli were examined in peristimulus-time histograms interleaved in time. In the cerebellum and brainstem, of 124 units exposed to both types of stimulus, 26 (21%) responded only to vestibular input, 26 (21%) were affected only by the orbital signal and 23 (18%) received both signals. The remaining 49 units (39%) responded to mechanical stimulation of the head or body or to vibration; they were labelled &quot;polymodal&quot; and discarded. The recording sites of 56 units were verified by histology; 30 were in the cerebellum and 26 in the brainstem. Input from the eye muscles had excitatory or inhibitory effects upon the vestibular responses. The effects of the orbital signal were usually phasic but rare tonic responses also occurred. About half (15 of 34) of the units which responded to passive eye-movement showed statistically significant differences in the magnitude of their responses to horizontal and to vertical eye-movement. More units preferred horizontal movement (11) than preferred vertical passive eye-movement (four). Note that the plane of vestibular stimulation was always horizontal. In the region of the oculomotor nucleus, of 19 units, five (26%) gave vestibular responses only and three (16%) were affected only by the orbital signal; three units (16%) with polymodal responses were discarded. Of the eight units carrying both signals, histological confirmation that the recording site lay in the column of cells forming the oculomotor/trochlear nuclei was obtained in four. The responses and interactions were similar to those found in the brainstem. The results present two principal points of interest. 1. They reinforce the accumulating body of evidence that, in species with widely different oculomotor and visual behaviour, signals from extraocular muscle proprioceptors reach the vestibulo-ocular system; this, in turn, suggests that these signals may play some rather fundamental role in the oculomotor system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have investigated the redistribution of filipin-cholesterol complexes at freeze-fractured presynaptic membrane of pure cholinergic synaptosomes isolated from Torpedo electric organ during acetylcholine release. After chemical depolarization, filipin-induced lesions increase at the presynaptic membrane. These changes do not take place when synaptosomes are stimulated in a calcium-free medium. Botulinum neurotoxin type A blocks both acetylcholine release and the rearrangement of filipin-induced lesions induced by depolarization. Since botulinum neurotoxin type A does not block either membrane depolarization or calcium entry into the nerve terminal, our results suggest that the redistribution of filipin-cholesterol complexes is linked to the acetylcholine release process.
Antisera against peptide histidine isoleucine and peptide histidine methionine were found to label a subpopulation of amacrine and displaced amacrine cells in the rabbit retina with processes ramifying in sublaminas 1, 3 and 5 of the inner plexiform layer. Preadsorption controls demonstrated that this immunoreactivity was specific for a peptide histidine isoleucine- or peptide histidine methionine-like (peptide histidine isoleucine/peptide histidine methionine-like) peptide, and was not caused by cross-reactivity of the peptide histidine isoleucine or peptide histidine methionine antibodies with vasoactive intestinal peptide vasoactive intestinal peptide. In double-label studies, vasoactive intestinal peptide and peptide histidine isoleucine/peptide histidine methionine-like immunoreactivity were colocalized in the same population of retinal neurons. Electron microscopic analysis revealed that the peptide histidine isoleucine/peptide histidine methionine-labelled cells interacted with processes of bipolar cells, amacrine cells and ganglion cells. Peptide histidine methionine and peptide histidine isoleucine were slightly less potent than vasoactive intestinal peptide in stimulating adenylate cyclase activity in the rabbit retina, while the related peptides secretin, glucagon, and the C-terminal vasoactive intestinal peptide fragment, vasoactive intestinal peptide (10-28), showed little or no stimulatory activity. Stimulation of adenylate cyclase by high concentrations of vasoactive intestinal peptide and peptide histidine methionine were non-additive. These results suggest that a peptide histidine isoleucine/peptide histidine methionine-like peptide may function as a neuroactive peptide in the mammalian retina, and that this peptide appears to be cosynthesized and colocalized with vasoactive intestinal peptide and to mimic the activity of vasoactive intestinal peptide through interaction with vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor-adenylate cyclase complexes.
Retinae from fetal rats and mice were transplanted to the brains of neonatal rats: retinae from fetal rats were transplanted to the brains of adult immunodeficient nude mice. Using immunocytochemistry with monoclonal antibodies directed against cell surface antigens on macrophages and lymphocytes, we examined the leukocyte populations in transplants. We have shown that the transplants become populated by macrophages which have the morphology and phenotype of microglia. Furthermore, we have shown that in xenogeneic transplants most, if not all, of these cells are derived from the host. The microglia in the transplant retinae are more numerous and less precisely distributed when compared to normal retinae. Some microglia, particularly those associated with large blood vessels, express antigens typical of reactive microglia, including Class II antigens. We find that large numbers of macrophages and microglia are associated with the outer segments of the photoreceptors. In the absence of the retinal epithelium the macrophages may phagocytose discs shed from the outer segments of rods. We suggest that microglia derived from the host may be an important component of the instability of xenogeneic grafts.
In the present investigation the role of astrocytes and their precursors in guidance of outgrowing corticospinal tract axons in the rat is studied. Antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein and vimentin are used to analyse immunogen expression of glial cells, whereas the postnatal outgrowth of corticospinal tract axons through the spinal cord was studied using anterogradely transported horseradish peroxidase. The first, leading corticospinal tract axons, being the objective of the present study, are characterized by dilatations at their distal ends, the growth cones. Growth cones of pioneer corticospinal tract axons are randomly distributed in the presumptive corticospinal tract area of the ventral most part of the dorsal funiculus. A dramatic change in glial cell labelling is found from the majority being vimentin immunoreactive and glial fibrillary acidic protein-negative at birth to almost all being the reverse at the end of the fourth postnatal week. From double labelling experiments it can be concluded that the vimentin-glial fibrillary acidic protein transition occurs within astrocyte precursor cells. The absence of glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactive glial cells during the outgrowth period of pioneer corticospinal tract axons indicates that they cannot play a role in the guidance of outgrowing corticospinal tract pioneer axons. Vimentin-immunoreactive glial cells are present throughout the presumptive corticospinal tract area at the time of arrival of the leading corticospinal tract fibres. The vimentin-immunoreactive glial cells, which themselves are orientated perpendicular to the outgrowing corticospinal tract axons, are mainly arranged in longitudinal tiers parallel to the rostrocaudal axis. Electron microscopically, growth cones of pioneer corticospinal tract axons frequently exhibit protrusions into vimentin-immunoreactive glial cell processes, suggesting an adhesive type of contact. Therefore, in addition to a positional role, vimentin-immunoreactive glial cells probably play a chemical role in guidance of pioneer corticospinal tract axons. A prominent vimentin-immunoreactive glial septum was noted during corticospinal tract outgrowth in the midline raphe of the medulla oblongata and spinal cord whereas it is absent in the decussation area of corticospinal tract fibres. After the first postnatal week the major vimentin-immunoreactive glial barrier either completely disappears (medullary levels) or gradually reduces to a minor glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactive one (spinal cord levels).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We investigated the neuronal distribution of microtubule-associated protein 2 in gerbil brain and monitored the progression of ischemic damage immunohistochemically by using this protein as a dendritic marker. The reaction for microtubule-associated protein 2 in normal gerbil brain clearly visualized neuronal soma and dendrites but other structures such as axonal bundles, glia and endothelial cells exhibited little immunoreactivity. In a reproducible gerbil model of unilateral cerebral ischemia, we could detect the ischemic lesions as early as 3 min after right common carotid occlusion at the subiculum-CA1 region of the ipsilateral hippocampus as faint loss of the reaction in the dendrites. After ischemia for 30 min, the ischemic lesions were clearly detected as loss of the reaction in the nerve cell bodies, dendrites and the neuropil in the hippocampus, cerebral cortex, thalamus and the caudoputamen. Although the mechanism for prompt disappearance of the immunohistochemical reaction for microtubule-associated protein 2 is not clear, the present investigation suggests that dendrites in the vulnerable regions may be quite susceptible to ischemic stress and that the immunohistochemical procedure for microtubule-associated protein 2 may be very useful for demonstration of dendritic damage in various pathophysiological states of the central nervous system.
The distribution of 5-hydroxytryptamine receptors of the 5-hydroxytryptamine3 type was examined in human brain post mortem tissue, using quantitative in vitro autoradiography. The selective and potent 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor antagonist [3H]ICS 205-930 [(3 alpha-tropanyl)-1H-indole-3-carboxylic acid ester] was used as ligand. Highest levels of labelling were found in discrete nuclei of the lower brainstem. At all levels of the spinal cord the substantia gelatinosa was also densely labelled. In contrast, specific binding in the forebrain was very low and concentrated in some regions of the limbic system. The enrichment of [3H]ICS 205-930 binding sites in nuclei of the dorsal medulla and spinal cord is in good agreement with the proposed role for 5-hydroxytryptamine in sensory processing. High densities of 5-hydroxytryptamine3 binding sites in the area postrema support a central site of action for 5-hydroxytryptamine in emesis. Finally, the presence of [3H]ICS 205-930 binding sites in the limbic system provides an anatomical substrate for the behavioural effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine3 receptor antagonists.
The electrical activity of 99 neurons located in the locus coeruleus-complex, namely in the dorsal (n = 26) and the ventral part of the locus coeruleus (n = 46) as well as the locus subcoeruleus (n = 27), has been recorded in precollicular decerebrate cats during sinusoidal displacement of the neck. This was achieved by rotation of the body about the longitudinal axis of the animal, while maintaining the head stationary. A proportion of these neurons showed some of the main physiological characteristics attributed to the noradrenergic locus coeruleus neurons, i.e. (i) a slow and regular resting discharge, and (ii) a typical biphasic response to fore and hindpaw compression consisting of short bursts of impulses followed by a period of quiescence, due at least in part to recurrent or lateral inhibition of the corresponding neurons. Moreover, 14 out of the 99 neurons were activated antidromically by stimulation of the spinal cord at T12 and L1, thus being considered as coeruleo- or subcoeruleospinal neurons. Among these locus coeruleus-complex neurons tested, 73 out of 99 (i.e. 73.7%) responded to neck rotation at the standard frequency of 0.15 Hz and at the peak amplitude of displacement of 10 degrees. In particular 40 of 73 units (i.e. 54.8%) were excited during side-down neck rotation and depressed during side-up rotation, while 18 of 73 units (i.e. 24.7%) showed the opposite pattern. In both instances the peak of the responses occurred with an average phase lead of +34.2 degrees for the extreme side-down or side-up neck displacement; however, the response gain (impulses/s per deg) was on the average more than two-fold higher in the former than in the latter group of units. The remaining 15 units (i.e. 20.5%) showed phase angle values which were intermediate between those of the two main populations. As to the coeruleo or subcoeruleospinal neurons, 11 of 14 units (78.6%) responded to the neck input, the majority (nine of 11 units, i.e. 81.8%) being excited during side-down neck rotation. Within the explored region, the proportion of responsive units was higher in the locus subcoeruleus (85.2%) than in the locus coeruleus, both dorsal and ventral (69.4%). Moreover, units located in the former structure showed on the average a response gain higher than that found in the latter structures. Similar results were also obtained from the population of locus subcoeruleus-complex neurons which fired at a low rate (less than or equal to 5.0 impulses/s).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of gamma-hydroxybutyrate have been studied on the membrane properties of pars compacta neurons within the guinea-pig substantia nigra maintained in vitro. The effects of gamma-hydroxybutyrate are to (i) lower input resistance, (ii) hyperpolarize the cell membrane in a dose-dependent manner and (iii) facilitate calcium conductances. These effects are resistant to the blockade of sodium channels with tetrodotoxin and blockade of potassium channels with tetraethylammonium or 4-aminopyridine. Furthermore, these effects are only partially blocked by high doses of the GABA receptor antagonist bicuculline: indeed the effects of the GABA receptor agonist muscimol can be differentiated from those of gamma-hydroxybutyrate in that the latter is sensitive to application of barium ions. The results suggest that gamma-hydroxybutyrate acts to increase utilization of calcium, which in turn leads to an initiation of calcium-dependent events. The functional consequences of these effects of gamma-hydroxybutyrate are discussed with regard to its possible endogenous modulatory actions.
Differences in the uptake of tracers from radioactive 2-deoxyglucose ([1,2-3H] and [2,6-3H]), and glucose ([1-3H], [3-3H]) into hippocampal regions were investigated by freeze-mount microautoradiography after 45 min for 2-deoxyglucose, and after 15 and 45 min for glucose. Silver grains were assessed quantitatively by an image analyser. (1) The radioactivity (silver grains/mm2) in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare of Ammon's horn from 2-deoxyglucose autoradiograms was significantly higher than that in other hippocampal regions (P less than 0.01), while lowest in the hilus fascia dentata (P less than 0.01). (2) Autoradiograms of [1-3H]glucose and 15 min of [3-3H]glucose showed the radioactivity in the dentate molecular layer to be significantly higher than that in other regions, excepting the stratum lacunosummoleculare (P less than 0.05). (3) The 2-deoxyglucose and 45-min glucose autoradiograms showed intensely labeled perikarya of pyramidal cells in the CA3a sector. (4) Radioactivity in the dentate granular layer from the 45-min autoradiogram of [3-3H]glucose was significantly higher than that in the molecular layer (P less than 0.05). The results imply that the metabolic fate of glucose, i.e. whether it is mainly used for energy production or amino acid synthesis, depends on each structure of the hippocampus.
In this study the distribution of the cholinergic neurons was examined in relation to the compartmental organization of nucleus accumbens. This was accomplished by charting the location of the choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons and mapping their distribution in relation to cytoarchitectural features and the patterns of acetylcholinesterase activity and enkephalin immunoreactivity. Choline acetyltransferase-containing perikarya are inhomogeneously distributed in nucleus accumbens. Their density is lowest at the rostral pole and highest, caudomedially, at the septal pole. The cells form a compact, medial column and a diffuse, lateral zone and, moreover, there are distinct gradients in their distribution. The highest numbers of immunoreactive perikarya occur within the intensely immunostained zones of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neuropil in ventral and ventromedial parts of the nucleus, whereas lower numbers coincide with choline acetyltransferase-poor zones in the central part of the nucleus. Zones of intensely choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neuropil are largely in register with regions of high acetylcholinesterase activity in middle and caudal parts of the nucleus but do not coincide rostrally. Choline acetyltransferase-rich zones correspond to moderate enkephalin immunoreactivity in the outer shell of the nucleus, but a moderately choline acetyltransferase-immunostained matrix surrounds &quot;patches&quot; of intense enkephalin immunoreactivity in the core. Small aggregates of cells, which feature commonly in nucleus accumbens, seem to be avoided by both choline acetyltransferase- and enkephalin-immunoreactive zones. Choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive processes are mostly confined by the boundaries of their respective immunoreactive zones. Few choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons lie in the enkephalin-rich patches and those that lie close to the patches show little preference in the directionality of their processes such that some cross the borders, whereas others do not. Thus, our findings show that the cholinergic elements are differentially distributed within nucleus accumbens; that these elements are compartmentally ordered; and that, in light of their limited access to other compartments, they possibly play only a minor role in intercompartmental communication.
To establish the functional nature of the anatomically demonstrated main olfactory bulb inputs to the supraoptic nucleus, electrophysiological responses of intracellularly recorded supraoptic neurons to lateral olfactory tract stimulation were recorded in horizontal slices of basal forebrain and hypothalamus. A total of 71 synaptically influenced neurons were studied in slices from adult rats of both sexes. Of these, 60 cells (84%) were monosynaptically activated by olfactory tract stimulation; seven cells (10%) were activated via polysynaptic pathways; and four cells (6%) were characterized by long latency inhibitory responses. Lucifer Yellow was injected into 64 cells and subsequent immunocytochemical identification of 44 of these neurons showed that both oxytocin and vasopressin cells, in approximately equal numbers, were excited by olfactory stimulation. Polysynaptically mediated excitation, however, was only associated with oxytocin cells (six of the six identified cells). These results corroborate anatomical tract tracing data showing main olfactory bulb efferents to both supraotic neurons and to neurons of the perinuclear zone. Also supported are earlier speculations of olfactory participation in release of oxytocin and vasopressin during various physiological states.
Parachlorophenylalanine, an inhibitor of tryptophan hydroxylase, induced a virtually total disappearance of serotonin-immunoreactivity in the hypothalamus of the cat. After intrahypothalamic injection of 5-hydroxytryptophan, an immediate precursor of serotonin in cats pretreated with parachlorophenylalanine, serotonin-immunoreactivity was detected in many fibers surrounding the injection site. Furthermore, when 5-hydroxytryptophan was injected with inhibitor of monoamine oxidase, a large number of small neurons immunoreactive to serotonin was identified in many discrete regions: the anterior and lateral hypothalamic areas, preoptic area, suprachiasmatic nucleus, dorsal hypothalamic area, dorsomedial nucleus, posterior hypothalamic area and nucleus of the fields of Forel. Serotonin-immunoreactivity was also evident in the thick axon bundles in the lateral hypothalamus. The distribution pattern of these cells was quite similar to that of aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase, which catalyses the conversion of 5-hydroxytryptophan to serotonin and that of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine to dopamine. However, we failed to demonstrate serotonin-immunoreactivity in these parvocellular neurons without monoamine oxidase inhibitor. It is possible that 5-hydroxytryptophan is decarboxylated to serotonin by aromatic L-amino acid decarboxylase but rapidly degraded by monoamine oxidase-A, the enzyme which preferentially deaminates serotonin. In contrast, serotonin-immunostaining was always demonstrable after intrahypothalamic injection of 5-hydroxytryptophan without monoamine oxidase inhibitor in magnocellular neurons located in the ventrolateral posterior hypothalamus and which contain exclusively monoamine oxidase-B and histidine decarboxylase. It appears that in these cells and axons, serotonin, possibly formed by histidine decarboxylase, is not rapidly oxidized by monoamine oxidase-B. Possible roles of serotonin as a neurohormone in sleep-waking regulation and of trace amines in the brain are discussed.
The existence of presynaptic muscarinic acetylcholine receptors on motor nerve terminals of the isolated frog sartorius muscle was investigated. The modulatory role of these receptors was studied by observing the effects of muscarinic ligands on the frequency of miniature endplate potentials and on the quantal content of endplate potentials. The agonist oxotremorine reduced in concentration-dependent fashion the frequency of spontaneous potentials and the amplitude of evoked potentials. Also, high concentrations of oxotremorine depolarized the postsynaptic membrane and reduced the amplitude of the miniature endplate potentials. The depolarizing action of the drug was blocked by D-tubocurarine. The muscarinic antagonist atropine attenuated agonist-induced reductions in endplate potential amplitude and miniature endplate potential frequency but did not affect the depression in amplitude of the spontaneous potentials evoked by oxotremorine. It is concluded that activation of presynaptic muscarinic receptors inhibits the release of acetylcholine from motor nerve terminals. Atropine itself had no effect on the quantal content of evoked potentials or on the frequency of spontaneous potentials suggesting that the nerve terminal is not affected by non-quantal acetylcholine.
Interleukin-1, first identified as a macrophage factor of importance in infections and inflammation, is a protein with properties of an endogenous pyrogene and lymphocyte activating factor. Occurrence of interleukin-1-like immunoreactivity was demonstrated in the noradrenergic chromaffin cells of the rat and mouse adrenal gland by means of two antisera raised against synthetic peptides corresponding to the amino acid sequences 169-194 and 201-215 of the murine interleukin-1 precursor protein. These antisera also inhibited stimulation of interleukin-2 receptor expression by purified human interleukin-1. Reserpine, which is known to deplete catecholamines, also caused release of the interleukin-1-like immunoreactive material. The interleukin-1 content of the rat adrenal medulla was estimated by radioimmunoassay, and if released the adrenal interleukin-1 pool may result in plasma interleukin-1 levels of about 10(-12). The interleukin-1-immunoreactive material obtained from the rat adrenal gland was characterized as a trypsin-sensitive protein with a molecular weight in the range of 13,000-19,000. This protein fraction stimulated interleukin-2 receptor expression on human T-cells as earlier shown for interleukin-1.
The occurrence, effects and sensitivity to capsaicin and stimulation of adenylate cyclase of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) in the rat kidney have been investigated. CGRP-like immunoreactivity was higher in the medulla than in the papilla and the cortex. Capsaicin pretreatment significantly reduced CGRP-like immunoreactivity in the medulla and papilla while a small reduction was found in the cortex. CGRP-immunoreactive nerve fibres were observed surrounding blood vessels and occasionally in the vicinity of renal tubules and between the collecting ducts in the papilla. Some CGRP-immunoreactive fibres were also seen in kidneys from capsaicin-pretreated rats. Infusion of capsaicin (1 microM) through the renal artery of isolated and perfused rat kidney increased the CGRP-like immunoreactivity outflow from the venous effluent. This effect exhibited desensitization at the second challenge with the drug. Infusion of either capsaicin (1 microM) or CGRP (1 microM) reduced the increase of perfusion pressure induced by norepinephrine in isolated perfused rat kidney. Plasma protein extravasation was studied in the various regions of the rat kidney following infusion of capsaicin. No significant change was observed in the medulla, papilla or cortex after capsaicin administration. Adenylate cyclase activity was studied in membrane preparations from cortex, medulla and papilla of rat kidney. Cortical and medullary adenylate cyclase was stimulated in a concentration-dependent manner by salmon calcitonin, rat calcitonin and rat CGRP. Salmon calcitonin in these two areas showed half-maximal effective concentration approximately 1000 times lower and maximal stimulation only slightly higher than those of rat calcitonin and rat CGRP. However, in the papilla, only rat CGRP was able to induce a 60% increase of enzyme activity (half-maximal effective concentration, 19 +/- 1.6 nM). It is concluded that CGRP contained in capsaicin-sensitive sensory nerve may exert a local function in discrete areas of the rat kidney.
In situ hybridization histochemistry was used to localize calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNAs in spinal cord, brain stem and dorsal root ganglion neurons of the rat and guinea-pig. A 32P-labeled 23-base-long (23mer) oligodeoxyribonucleotide (oligomer) complementary to calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNA sequences encoding residues 23-30 of calcitonin gene-related peptide was used primarily as a probe (CGRP I probe). A 32mer complementary to mRNA sequences for residues 10-20 of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP II probe) was also used as a positive control for specificity of the 23mer for calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNA. In both the guinea-pig and rat calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNA was localized specifically to neurons of the dorsal root ganglion, to spinal motoneurons and to motoneurons of the hypoglossal, facial and accessory facial motor nuclei. Differences in the distribution of calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNA between the rat and guinea-pig included a higher proportion of rat dorsal root ganglion neurons containing calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNA and the localization of calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNA to motoneurons of the ambiguus motor nucleus, parabrachial and peripeduncular nucleus of the rat but not the guinea-pig. In the guinea-pig, in contrast, calcitonin gene-related peptide mRNA was localized also to motoneurons of the abducens, trigeminal, trochlear and oculomotor nerves. The neuronal groups in the intact rat found here to contain calcitonin gene-related mRNA have also been shown previously to contain calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity in colchicine-treated rats. Colchicine-treated rats, however, have been found to contain additional groups of calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactive neurons which, in the intact rats used in the present study, showed no detectable hybridization with the calcitonin gene-related peptide probe.
Axon terminals which could be interpreted as dorsal root boutons, were photographed from a series of 98 ultrathin sections with a Jeol 100B electron microscope. A total of 13 boutons were recovered for computer reconstruction. Two of them were terminal boutons, eight en passant boutons and three boutons were only partially recovered. All boutons contained multiple synaptic sites (maximum 33 and minimum seven) at which axodendritic and axoaxonic synapses were established. Axodendritic synapses were of the asymmetric type and they were directed toward adjacent dendrites. In axoaxonic synapses, which were of the symmetric type, the boutons were invariably on the postsynaptic side. Among the presynaptic profiles axons with spherical and pleomorphic vesicles and dendrites with flattened vesicles could be discerned. On average, each 2.67-microns2 bouton surface area contained one presynaptic site at which an axodendritic synapse was established, and each 7-microns2 surface area contained one postsynaptic site for an axoaxonic (or dendroaxonic) contact. A tendency of grouping of synaptic sites was observed. Distance measurements between the closest neighbours of all synaptic sites were made in four combinations in boutons with the original and with a random distribution of synaptic sites. The arithmetic mean of distances measured between the presynaptic and the closest postsynaptic sites was almost twice as big as that measured in the reverse direction. The difference between these values became greatly reduced in the case of random distribution. The arithmetic mean of distances between the closest neighbours of presynaptic sites was about the same as that between the closest neighbours of postsynaptic sites. This latter value was considerably increased with randomly distributed synaptic sites. The results suggest a non-random distribution of synaptic sites on the surface of boutons. The analysis of cluster formation of synaptic sites performed with a numerical taxonomy technique revealed that the majority of the 153 synaptic sites were comprised in 27 clusters containing both pre- and postsynaptic sites within the 1-micron similarity level. All postsynaptic sites were within 1 micron of one or more presynaptic sites. On the basis of the assumption that the postsynaptic sites are occupied by inhibitory axoaxonic synapses, it is suggested that the transmitter release from the presynaptic sites can be individually controlled in this structural arrangement. A probable mechanism of this function may be the passive invasion of the bouton by the impulse propagating actively along the dorsal root fibre.
Forty-one-residue corticotropin-releasing factor is a physiologically significant mediator of the hypothalamic control of corticotropin secretion by the anterior pituitary gland. This releasing hormone is produced by parvicellular neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus that project to the external zone of the median eminence. Recent immunocytochemical evidence based on work with a rabbit antiserum against rat corticotropin-releasing factor (code rC70) suggests that about half of the parvicellular corticotropin-releasing factor-containing neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus synthesize vasopressin, another potent corticotropin secretagogue, while the rest of the cells do not. If this is indeed the case, the neurohumoral control of corticotropin release may be mediated via distinct hypothalamic effector pathways utilizing releasing hormone cocktails of varying composition. In the present study we have examined the specificity of various antisera against rat corticotropin-releasing factor in immunocytochemical staining. Male Wistar rats pretreated with colchicine were used throughout. The brain was fixed by perfusion with a Zamboni type fixative solution. Vibratome sections of the hypothalamus were immunostained with three different primary antisera (codes rC70, rCRF-3, oCRF-N) using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase or avidin-biotin complex methods. All three antisera stained cell groups previously described to be immunopositive for corticotropin-releasing factor. Most notably, however, rC70 labelled a significant number of additional cells, most readily identified in the arcuate and suprachiasmatic nuclei, as well as in the dorsolateral hypothalamic area caudal to the paraventricular nucleus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A differential distribution of vasoactive neuropeptides and serotonin in chromaffin cells and nerve fibers within the adrenal glands of the pig (Sus scrofa) was found using immunohistochemical methods. Met- and leu-enkephalins, present at high levels in the medulla (measured by radioimmunoassay), occurred in adrenaline storing cells, some of which contained calcitonin gene-related peptide. Islets of chromaffin cells beneath the capsule also contained enkephalins and calcitonin gene-related peptide. Nerve fibers with enkephalin-like immunoreactivity were sparse, but many varicose fibers in the inner cortex and medulla showed calcitonin gene-related peptide immunofluorescence in a pattern similar to vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Neuropeptide Y was mainly associated with perivascular fibers and neither neuropeptide Y nor vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactive chromaffin cells were detected. In contrast to the neuropeptides, most serotonin-like immunoreactivity coincided with noradrenaline histofluorescence. It is concluded that the distribution of nerve fibers with calcitonin gene-related peptide and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide would allow interactions between chromaffin and inner cortical cells. Stimuli activating noradrenaline chromaffin cells could release serotonin while stimulation of adrenaline storage cells would release enkephalin and, to a lesser extent, calcitonin gene-related peptide. Met-enkephalin, which occurs 3 4:1 over leu-enkephalin, is the most likely of the co-released peptides to reach distant receptors via the venous outflow.
Various alterations of the immune system have recently been reported to attenuate the severity of morphine withdrawal. The effect of the immunosuppressive agent ciclosporine A on the naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal syndrome in the chronically dependent mouse was investigated. Ciclosporine A significantly suppressed stereotyped behaviour such as jumping and forepaw treading while wet shakes were potentiated. Withdrawal diarrhoea was diminished as a consequence of a promotive action of ciclosporine A on the intestine. A ciclosporine derivative, which is devoid of immunosuppressive activity, had no influence on withdrawal signs. The attenuating effect of ciclosporine A was observed at a dose of 20 mg/kg i.p., which is not regarded as immunosuppressive in the mouse. It was also effective in animals lacking an intact immune system as a result of a genetic T-cell defect (nude mouse) or after selective ablation by whole body irradiation. Nude mice and irradiated normal mice developed dependence on morphine to the same extent as normal animals, as could be derived from the severity of their withdrawal signs. These results suggest that an intact immune system is not a necessary prerequisite for ciclosporine A to attenuate morphine withdrawal and that its action may be attributable to mechanisms other than immunosuppression. It is possibly a result of a direct effect of ciclosporine A on the central nervous system structures involved in the behavioural expression of the opiate withdrawal syndrome.
In mature rats with unilateral cortical lesions, choline acetyltransferase activity was found to decrease by 40% in the ipsilateral nucleus basalis magnocellularis, compared with control animals. Intraventricular administration of the monosialoganglioside GM1 (5 mg/kg per day), via minipumps, over a period of 14 days prevented this fall in choline acetyltransferase activity. The activity of this enzyme in the sham operated subjects was not significantly different from that in the unoperated group. This biochemical data is in full agreement with regards to the protective action of monosialoganglioside GM1 on forebrain cholinergic neurons. In this study the behavioral effects of these cortical lesions were investigated for the first time. Results show that these lesions, with their associated retrograde neuronal degenerative effects, altered a variety of sensorimotor and memory-based behaviors. In particular, the limited unilateral devascularization of the neocortex increased baseline locomotor activity above control; affected motor coordination; impaired passive avoidance retention and reacquisition; and decreased the retention of learnt Morris water-maze information. Infusion of the monosialoganglioside into the ventricles, whilst having no effect on the increased motor activity or motor coordination deficit, did enhance the reacquisition of information in both memory-related tasks.
The cellular mechanisms underlying the genesis of thalamic ponto-geniculo-occipital waves were studied in reserpinized cats under urethane anaesthesia. Simultaneous field potential and intracellular recordings were performed in the lateral geniculate nucleus after acute lesions of retinal and visual cortical inputs. In most relay cells, reserpine-induced ponto-geniculo-occipital waves were associated with a transient depolarization that was often interrupted by a unitary inhibitory postsynaptic potential. The depolarization grew in size with membrane hyperpolarization and was accompanied by an increase in membrane conductance. The inhibitory postsynaptic potential is likely to have resulted from the activation of intrageniculate interneurons since perigeniculate cells were always inhibited during the occurrence of ponto-geniculo-occipital waves. Under reserpine, thalamic ponto-geniculo-occipital waves could also be triggered by peribrachial or auditory stimulation. These evoked ponto-geniculo-occipital waves were associated with intracellular events identical to those occurring spontaneously after reserpine administration. In addition, thalamic spindle oscillations were readily blocked by the occurrence of spontaneous or evoked ponto-geniculo-occipital waves. On the basis of the present results and those already published in the literature, the conclusion is reached that lateral geniculate ponto-geniculo-occipital waves result from a nicotinic activation of relay cells and from a parallel muscarinic inhibition of perigeniculate cells by peribrachial afferents. The functional significance of the ponto-geniculo-occipital activity is discussed on the basis of the antagonistic action of these signals on thalamic oscillations. It is proposed that these signals are the central correlates of orienting reactions elicited by sensory stimuli during waking (the so-called eye movement potentials) and by internally generated drives during paradoxical sleep.
Endopeptidase-24.11 (&quot;enkephalinase&quot;) appears to play a key role in the metabolism of a number of neuropeptides at cell surfaces. It has been previously mapped in the central nervous system, but some doubt has been expressed concerning the identity of the cell type expressing this peptidase. Primary cell cultures derived from striata of new-born piglets were set up and cells were characterized by immunocytochemistry using antibodies to neurofilament protein, a glial fibrillary acidic protein and a neuronal antigen recognized by a monoclonal antibody BM88 and by histochemistry for acetylcholinesterase. Some cultures were set up in which neurons were selectively enriched. Cells which were thus morphologically defined as neurons were recognized by an affinity-purified polyclonal antibody to endopeptidase-24.11. The staining for the peptidase, which was punctate in appearance, was shown to be at the cell surface and extended to the perikaryon and all neurites. Compared with the number of neurofilament protein-positive cells, relatively few cells were positive for endopeptidase-24.11. No glial cells, immunochemically defined by glial fibrillary acidic protein, were stained by the antibody to endopeptidase-24.11. We conclude that endopeptidase-24.11 is expressed on the surface of a set of neurons derived from the striatum in primary culture and not by any glial cells in these cultures.
Neurons in the hippocampal formation vary markedly in their susceptibility to colchicine toxicity. The present study was directed at evaluating the effects of colchicine on the proteolytic breakdown of the cytoskeletal protein spectrin within the hippocampus in the rat. Quantified by immunoblot analysis of spectrin breakdown products, the extent of proteolysis was found to correlate with the relative vulnerability of different hippocampal subfields to colchicine toxicity. Levels of breakdown products increased dramatically between 1 and 2 days after colchicine injection, peaked between 2 and 4 days, and remained detectably elevated for at least 35 days. Two days after colchicine injection, the spectrin breakdown products were significantly more concentrated in the molecular layer than in the granule cell/hilar region of the dentate gyrus. The colchicine-induced increase in spectrin breakdown products was significantly reduced by pretreatment with the protease inhibitor leupeptin and was significantly elevated by pretreatment with the lysosomal inhibitor chloroquine. Immunohistochemical analyses of the hippocampus at various times after colchicine injection revealed changes in the distribution of spectrin-like immunoreactivity that paralleled the changes observed by Western blot analysis. Thus increased staining was observed in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus at 2 and 4 days after the injection, while staining in CA3 was only slightly increased. In addition, abnormal staining of reactive astrocytes was prominent at 2 days. The mechanism whereby colchicine results in neuronal death is as yet unknown. However, the results presented here demonstrate that extensive proteolysis of a cytoskeletal protein occurs in response to the drug, suggesting a plausible mechanism for its neurotoxicity. The protease responsible for the effect is likely to be calpain since the process is non-lysosomal, leupeptin-sensitive and produces spectrin breakdown products indistinguishable from those generated by calpain treatment in vitro. These data support the hypothesis that calpain-mediated degradation of cytoskeletal elements is a common and early response to neurodegenerative events and serves as a trigger in the development of various neuropathologies.
A technique combining retrograde tracing of wheat germ-conjugated gold particles with immunocytochemical demonstration of enkephalin-containing neurons was used to study intramedullary enkephalin-containing pathways to the pressor area of the rostral ventrolateral medulla in rabbits. The rostral ventrolateral medulla represents a main source of bulbospinal sympathoexcitatory neurons, and is critical to the tonic and reflex control of blood pressure. Firstly, the distribution of enkephalin-positive neurons and terminal fibres in rabbit medulla were described, with special reference to a moderately dense terminal plexus in the rostral ventrolateral medulla. Then, retrograde tracing studies were conducted; the rostral ventrolateral medullary pressor region was first localized by injection of L-glutamate (25 nmol in 50 nl). Slow (30-min) injections of wheat germ-gold (1.00 microliter) were then made at the same coordinates, resulting in a restricted injection site corresponding to the C1 pressor area, verified by the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase- and neuropeptide Y-containing neurons. Transported gold was revealed by silver reduction, and enkephalin immunoreactive cells were revealed by immunocytochemistry. Enkephalin-positive gold-containing neurons were found primarily in the nucleus tractus solitarius, especially in the commissural and medial intermediate subnuclei. Cells in the nucleus tractus solitarius containing other transmitters (substance P. galanin, neuropeptide Y and catecholamines) did not show the same degree or pattern of double-labelling, suggesting that the transport was not due to non-specific silver reduction or spread from the pipette track. The potential importance of this endogenous intramedullary opiate system is discussed in terms of medullary control of the cardiovascular system. It is hypothesized that this opiate projection from the nucleus tractus solitarius to the rostral ventrolateral medulla could play an important modulatory function, influencing baroreceptor or other cardiopulmonary reflex pathways involved in the primary regulation of the cardiovascular system. Furthermore, this pathway could represent a central substrate underlying opiate effects on the cardiovascular system during such conditions as hemorrhagic shock, stress or opiate intoxication.
The pharmacological and physiological characteristics of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor-mediated ion current in mouse neuroblastoma N1E-115 cells have been investigated by superfusion of voltage clamped cells with known concentrations of agonists and antagonists for short periods. The acetylcholine-induced inward current is blocked by d-tubocurarine and by kappa-bungarotoxin with IC50 values of 0.5 microM and 30 nM, respectively. The inward current is resistant to alpha-bungarotoxin up to a concentration of 0.5 microM. This allows classification of the acetylcholine receptors of N1E-115 cells as neuronal type nicotinic receptors. The amplitude of the inward current increases with increasing concentration of the agonists acetylcholine and carbamylcholine, resulting in concentration-effect curves with EC50 values of 53 and 240 microM and slope factors slightly below unity. Conversely, at the highest concentrations of the agonists the amplitude of the inward current is reduced and a transient increase of the current appears when the agonist is removed. The characteristics of this transient tail current indicate that the agonists cause rapid ion channel block by interacting with a low affinity site. In the continued presence of acetylcholine the peak inward current is reduced by desensitization. The IC50 value and the slope factor of the steady-state desensitization curve are 1.1 microM and 0.58, respectively. At a low concentration of acetylcholine both the onset of desensitization and the inward current decay are described by similar dual exponential kinetics, but the steady-state inward current is smaller than expected from the degree of desensitization. Neuronal nicotinic receptors in N1E-115 cells and end-plate nicotinic receptors have several characteristics in common. However, the present results indicate that these receptors are distinct, not only in their sensitivity to snake toxins, but also with respect to functional properties.
Previous studies have suggested that insulin may play a role in the hormonal regulation of neurotransmitter metabolisms within the central nervous system. In order to provide additional information to support this hypothesis, we examined the distribution of insulin receptors within the forebrain of adult male rats. Insulin receptors were localized by immunocytochemistry, using an antibody directed against the carboxy-terminus of the beta-subunit of the insulin receptor. The antibody specificity was tested by immunoprecipitation of brain insulin receptors with antiserum and the purity of the receptor-antibody preparation was determined using hormone binding-assays with radiolabeled insulin and insulin-like growth factor-l. Insulin receptor-like immunoreactivity was found in a widespread, but selective, distribution on neurons throughout the rat forebrain. Double-labeling with glial fibrillary acidic protein did not demonstrate any detectable insulin receptor-like immunoreactivity on glial cells. Areas with the highest density of insulin receptor-like immunoreactivity were found in the olfactory bulbs, hypothalamus and median eminence, medial habenula, subthalamic nucleus, subfornical organ, CA 1/2 pyramidal cell layer of the hippocampus and piriform cortex. Double-staining of hypothalamic sections with somatostatin and vasopressin antisera revealed insulin receptor-like immunoreactivity on a subpopulation of somatostatin neurons in the periventricular region and on vasopressin neurons in the supraoptic nucleus. A moderately dense insulin receptor-like immunoreactivity was observed in layers II-IV of cerebral cortex, medial amygdala, reticular thalamic nucleus, zona incerta, and preoptic and septal regions, whereas a low density of insulin receptor-like immunoreactive neurons was found in basolateral amygdala and most thalamic regions. The basal ganglia and most parts of the thalamus were almost devoid of insulin receptor-like immunoreactivity. Our findings provide morphological support for a direct action of insulin on selected regions of the rat forebrain and suggest that the insulin receptor may modulate synaptic transmission or the release of neurotransmitters and peptide hormones in the CNS.
The intracellular effects of brainstem peribrachial stimulation on lateral geniculate neurons were investigated in the cat. Experiments were performed in cats under barbiturate or urethane anaesthesia and in non-anaesthetized deafferented animals. Most animals were pretreated with reserpine and were acutely deprived of their retinal and visual cortical inputs. Short trains of stimuli triggered a transient depolarization in most relay neurons (latency: 20-30 ms; duration: 200-300 ms). This depolarization could be interrupted by a short-duration unitary inhibitory postsynaptic potential. The depolarization increased with membrane hyperpolarization and was associated with an increase in membrane conductance. The inhibitory postsynaptic potential had an intrathalamic origin and likely resulted from parallel activation of intrageniculate interneurons. The above responses were largely enhanced in reserpinized cats and were completely abolished by small doses of barbiturates. Iontophoretic applications of the nicotinic blocker, hexamethonium, eliminated peribrachial-evoked discharges in these cells, while similar applications of the muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine, were devoid of any effect. The conclusion is reached that the depolarization of lateral geniculate relay neurons by peribrachial afferents represents a direct postsynaptic effect and does not result from a global disinhibitory mechanism involving inhibition of perigeniculate cells and intrageniculate interneurons. This peribrachial-evoked transient excitation of relay neurons results from a nicotinic mechanism.
The ventral quadrant of embryonic spinal cord with its motoneurons prelabelled by 5-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine was grafted into the spinal cord of adult rats. The ventral horn of the host had been previously partially depleted of its own motoneurons by a neonatal nerve lesion. To enhance the chances of survival of the transplanted embryonic motoneurons a target muscle was provided for their axons. Two to three months after the grafts were inserted into the cord nuclei containing 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine were found in the graft and in the host's spinal cord. Many of the stained nuclei were much larger than those of embryonic motoneurons, and their size distribution was similar to that of nuclei from control motoneurons. Retrograde labelling with horseradish peroxidase, injected into the target muscle provided for the embryonic motoneurons, showed that some motoneurons had reached the muscle and presumably made contact with it. Physiological and histological examination of the target muscle showed that it was innervated and that it contained at least three different types of muscle fibres. Thus embryonic motoneurons can survive and develop in the adult spinal cord. Moreover, they seem to be able to make functional connections with skeletal muscle fibres. The heterogeneity of the muscle indicates that the motoneurons that supply them are able to differentiate into various types of cells.
The termination patterns of axons in the phrenic nucleus immunoreactive to synthetic enzymes for catecholamines and for serotonin and GABA were studied in rats. Spinal cord tissue in which phrenic motoneurons were retrogradely labeled with horseradish peroxidase was incubated with antisera against dopamine beta-hydroxylase, phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase, 5-hydroxytryptamine, and GABA to identify presumptive terminations of monoaminergic and GABAergic neurons onto identified phrenic motoneurons. In the C3 to C5 spinal cord, 5-hydroxytryptamine-, dopamine beta-hydroxylase- and GABA-like positive terminals with varicosities formed a dense network, with presumptive synaptic contacts on dendrites and somas of phrenic motoneurons. A similar pattern of terminations was also observed in adjacent (non-respiratory muscle) motoneuron pools. There were fewer phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-positive terminal arborizations in the cervical spinal cord compared to thoracic spinal cord; phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase terminals were not seen in the vicinity of phrenic motoneurons. These results suggest that phrenic motoneuronal activity is influenced by multiple supraspinal inputs utilizing different neurotransmitters. These transmitters also mediate inputs to other (nearby) spinal motoneurons and thus are not unique for signal transmission to phrenic motoneurons.
The mode of action of afferents arising from the brainstem peribrachial region at the midbrain-pontine junction on neurons recorded from the reticular thalamic sector adjacent to the lateral geniculate nucleus (perigeniculate cells) was investigated at the intracellular level in the cat. Experiments were performed in cats under barbiturate or urethane anaesthesia and in non-anaesthetized deafferented animals. Most cats were pretreated with reserpine (1-2 mg/kg) and were also acutely deprived of their retinal and cortical visual inputs. It was found that peribrachial stimulation produced a short train of fast-rising depolarizations followed by a long-lasting period of hyperpolarization in all perigeniculate neurons. Although the latest part of the early depolarizations preceding the hyperpolarization resulted from a parallel activation of lateral geniculate relay neurons by peribrachial afferents, those occurring at shortest latencies appear to result from a direct excitation produced by peribrachial afferents. Furthermore, these early excitatory postsynaptic potentials persisted under deep barbiturate anaesthesia, a condition that prevents activation of thalamic relay neurons by peribrachial stimulation. The evoked hyperpolarization decreased with membrane hyperpolarization, was associated with a 40-50% increase in membrane conductance and was insensitive to Cl injections. It was no longer observed within one hour after i.v. injection of scopolamine. However, the depolarizing responses were not depressed by this muscarinic antagonist. Iontophoretic applications of scopolamine also removed peribrachial-evoked inhibition of synaptic responses triggered by optic chiasma stimulation. The peribrachial input exerted a powerful control on the oscillatory behavior of perigeniculate neurons. Spindle oscillations which are generated within the reticular thalamic complex were readily blocked by peribrachial stimulation. It is then concluded that the transition from an oscillatory to a relay mode of operation in the thalamus is controlled at least in part by a muscarinic inhibition of reticular thalamic neurons. The synaptic mechanism responsible for the early depolarization remains to be elucidated.
In IMR32 neuroblastoma cells, the two adenosine receptor agonists N6-R-phenylisopropyladenosine and 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine dose-dependently stimulated membrane adenylate cyclase activity with potencies consistent with the presence of adenosine receptors of the A2-subtype. The S enantiomer of N6-R-phenylisopropyladenosine induced a significantly lower stimulation of adenylate cyclase, accordingly to its lower ability to activate adenosine receptors. These effects were selectively counteracted by the adenosine receptor antagonist theophylline and, conversely, were not affected by the A1-adenosine receptor selective blocker 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine. No adenosine receptors belonging to the A1-subtype seem, therefore, to be present in this cell line, as also shown by the lack of inhibitory activity of N6-R-phenylisopropyladenosine on both basal and forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity. Activation of A2-receptors did not modify intracellular basal calcium levels, did not influence calcium influx through voltage-dependent calcium channels and did not modify calcium influx and redistribution induced by muscarinic receptor activation. Prolonged exposure of cells to either N6-R-phenylisopropyladenosine or 5'-N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine was associated with a small but significant degree of morphological differentiation, comparable to that induced by dibutyryl cAMP, and therefore presumably related to the prolonged increase of intracellular cAMP levels elicited by the two adenosine agonists. After cellular differentiation induced with either dibutyryl cAMP or 5-bromodeoxyuridine, a selective desensitization of A2-receptor stimulated adenylate cyclase activity was found.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The composition of alpha-tubulin in axons was compared with that in cell bodies and dendrites in the rat. Pure axons and highly enriched preparations of cell bodies and dendrites were obtained from explant cultures of sympathetic neurons, dissolved directly into sodium dodecyl sulfate, and analysed by isoelectric focusing gel electrophoresis. Immunoblots using two different monoclonal antibodies against alpha-tubulin and fluorographs of [35S]methionine- and [3H]tyrosine-labeled alpha-tubulin all show several variants common to both compartments, and an additional variant, more basic than the others, prominent in the somatodendritic compartment but absent from the axonal compartment. This variant, termed alpha s, partitions with both cytoskeletal and soluble tubulin pools, indicating that microtubules in the somatodendritic compartment differ from microtubules in the axonal compartment with respect to alpha-tubulin composition. Pulse-chase and immunoprecipitation analyses suggest that extensive post-translational modification of alpha-tubulin occurs in the neuron. Newly synthesized alpha-tubulin (10-min pulse-label) is relatively simple in profile, consisting of a major band with the mobility of alpha s, and a minor band slightly lower in isoelectric point. The profile is somewhat more complex after 5 h chase time, but is much more complex after 20 h. The generation of additional bands appears to be at the expense of the band co-migrating with alpha s, suggesting that alpha s is the unmodified form of a primary translation product that undergoes extensive post-translational modification. The unmodified form of the primary translation product is restricted to the somatodendritic compartment, while many of its derivatives are present throughout the neuron.
The distribution of immunohistochemically demonstrable glutamate decarboxylase, the synthetic enzyme for GABA, was examined in the rat interpeduncular nucleus at the light and electron microscope levels. Immunoreactive perikarya were distributed in a characteristic pattern among the subnuclear divisions. The rostral, ventral and caudal portions of the nucleus possessed numerous immunoreactive perikarya, while few immunoreactive somata were observed in the subnuclei of the dorsal aspect. A dense field of immunostained axons and terminals was also present throughout. Ultrastructural examination of glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity revealed numerous labelled somata, dendritic processes, axons and boutons. Axodendritic and axosomatic synapses with immunoreactive postsynaptic profiles were numerous throughout those subnuclei with large numbers of immunoreactive somata. Immunostained terminals in contact with both immunoreactive and non-immunoreactive somatic and dendritic profiles were also present. An abundance of immunostained terminals was observed in the subnuclei that possessed a sparse population of immunoreactive somata. Immunoreactive myelinated axons of unknown origin were also present. This investigation demonstrates that the rat interpeduncular nucleus possesses a large population of glutamate decarboxylase-immunoreactive neurons coextensive with a plexus of immunostained axons and terminals. The results suggest that the immunoreactive neurons give rise to axons which contribute to an intrinsic circuit interconnecting the different subnuclear divisions. These immunoreactive neurons are in receipt of non-immunoreactive afferent inputs of variable morphology, as well as projections from intrinsic immunoreactive neurons.
The constancy of orientation tuning in vertical columns of the visual cortex of the cat was examined with conventional and newly developed multi-electrode methods. Preferred orientation was measured with single- and multi-unit recordings in 68 penetrations approximately perpendicular to the cortical layers and with inter-recording steps of only 40-70 microns. The tuning curves obtained revealed three types of penetration sequences: no-shift penetrations (37%), one-shift penetrations (41%) and double-shift penetrations (22%). Particular attention was paid to the orientation tuning at the transition zones below layer IV. The use of the multi-unit recording technique enabled the measurement of cross-oriented activity within a single electrode position mostly around the border between layers IV and V. Altering the type of anaesthesia (ventilation with room air or nitrous oxide-oxygen) produced only a quantitative change in the percentage of the encountered penetration types. The results suggest that upper and lower layers follow different principles of functional organization. As a consequence different types of columns, especially iso- and cross-oriented ones, are produced in a systematic way.
The amygdaloid central nucleus and the pontine parabrachial nucleus receive direct, ascending projections from autonomic regulatory nuclei of the dorsal medulla and are recognized as important components of a forebrain system which contributes to autonomic regulation. The present study was designed to provide more detailed information on the anatomical organization of this ascending system in the rabbit by determining (a) the extent to which separate populations of neurons within the solitary complex project to the central nucleus and parabrachial nucleus, (b) the topographical distribution of the projections of the solitary complex within the amygdaloid central nucleus and parabrachial nucleus and (c) the extent to which projections from the solitary complex to the parabrachial nucleus terminate in the region of origin of projections from the parabrachial nucleus to the amygdaloid central nucleus. A fluorescent dye, double retrograde-labeling technique demonstrated that separate populations of neurons in the solitary complex projected to the amygdaloid central nucleus and parabrachial nucleus. Neurons of both populations were more heavily concentrated within the caudal two thirds of nucleus of the solitary tract and were most numerous within the commissural, medial and dorsomedial subnuclei. Labeled neurons were also located within the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve. Autoradiographic experiments demonstrated that injections of amino acids into the solitary complex resulted in terminal labeling in the central nucleus. This labeling extended rostrally into the adjacent sublenticular substantia innominata and lateral component of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Label was also observed within the lateral, medial, and Kolliker-Fuse regions of the parabrachial nucleus. A particularly dense field was observed overlying cells located within the ventrolateral region of the lateral parabrachial nucleus. This region contained the majority of labeled neurons within the parabrachial nucleus following fluorescent dye injections into the central nucleus. Furthermore, injections of amino acids into this region resulted in terminal labeling within the central nucleus, with a particularly dense area observed within the medial aspect of the nucleus. The results demonstrate that separate populations of neurons within the solitary complex of the rabbit project to the central amygdaloid and parabrachial nuclei and that the majority of these are located within the caudal two-thirds of the complex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cells of origin of the entorhinohippocampal pathway were retrogradely labeled by injection of Fast Blue into the ipsilateral hippocampus. The cells, which were located in layers I, II and III of the lateral entorhinal cortex, were then intracellularly injected with Lucifer Yellow to reveal their complete morphology. We could thus establish that among the hippocampally projecting entorhinal cells there are pyramidal and pyramid-like cells, spiny stellate cells of various shapes, sparsely spinous horizontal and multipolar cells. The involvement of horizontal and multipolar neurons in projections has not previously been recognized although all of these cell types have already been described in Golgi studies. The results indicate that the organization of the perforant path is more complex than has been assumed. Finally, they are at variance with the classical concept which subdivides cortical neurons into projection neurons (pyramidal and spiny stellate) and interneurons (non-pyramidal, local circuit neurons).
Tetanus toxin reduces the release of neurotransmitters in several brain areas. We have studied the effects of this toxin on the intrinsic and synaptic activity of CA1 hippocampal neurons and of neostriatal cells in the rat by utilizing intracellular and extracellular recordings from slice preparations. Tetanus toxin (10 micrograms/ml) applied by bath produced an increase of the field potentials evoked by the orthodromic stimulation of the CA1 region coupled with the disappearance of the inhibitory period following the first conditioning stimulus. Orthodromically and antidromically activated postsynaptic hyperpolarizing potentials were also decreased and spontaneous bursting activity was observed following the application of tetanus toxin. At this concentration the toxin did not alter excitability in neostriatal cells and in these neurons even 30-50 micrograms/ml of the toxin produced only a slight increase of excitability. Higher concentrations (100 micrograms/ml) of tetanus toxin reduced the excitatory synaptic transmission in the hippocampus as well as in the neostriatum. The toxin (10-100 micrograms/ml) did not alter membrane potential, input resistance or directly evoked firing in both these structures. We conclude that, although the toxin's mechanisms of action in the neostriatum are similar to those operating in the hippocampus (i.e. decrease of inhibitory and/or excitatory inputs), the local synaptic circuits produce differential electrophysiological effects in these two structures.
Lumbosacral Renshaw cells were activated by random stimulation of motor axons in muscle nerves or ventral roots. The stimulus patterns had mean rates of 9.5-13 or 20-23 pulses per second. The Renshaw cell responses were evaluated by two kinds of peristimulus-time histograms. &quot;Conventional&quot; peristimulus-time histograms were calculated by averaging the cell discharge with respect to all the stimuli in a train. &quot;Conditional&quot; peristimulus-time histograms were determined by averaging the cell discharge with respect to the second (&quot;test&quot;) stimulus in pairs of stimuli which were separated by varied intervals. The effects of the conditioning stimuli were evaluated after correcting for the effect of linear superposition of the conditioning and test stimuli. The conventional peristimulus-time histograms showed an excitatory response which often consisted of two distinct components: a narrow and high &quot;early&quot; peak and a broad and low &quot;late&quot; elevation of firing probability. The early and late excitatory components were conditioned in different ways. Whereas the late component was virtually always depressed, the early component showed three patterns: (1) uniform depression; (2) uniform facilitation; (3) a mixture of depression and facilitation. Frequency responses (coherence and gain estimates) were also calculated separately for the cell discharges underlying either the early or the late components. The estimates for the &quot;late spikes&quot; showed a stronger decline with increasing frequency than those for the &quot;early spikes&quot;. The origin of the different conditioning effects probably lies in a combination of pre and postsynaptic factors. They may play a role in tremor mechanisms.
The electrical and morphological properties of oculomotor neurons were investigated in the rat with intracellular recordings and intracellular horseradish peroxidase staining. Motoneurons were identified by their antidromic response to electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral medial rectus muscle. The antidromic action potential was followed by a delayed depolarization and an afterhyperpolarization of 20-50 ms in duration. The whole neuron input resistance calculated from intensity/voltage curves, was found between 4 and 15 M omega. Passive membrane properties showed the existence of anomalous rectifications. Motoneurons were studied on the basis of their responses to long-lasting depolarizing current pulses. The intensity/frequency curves suggest the existence of two ranges of discharges. The average intensity frequency slope during the steady state was 33 imp/s/nA. Ten oculomotor neurons were intracellularly labelled with horseradish peroxidase and fully reconstructed. The soma (23-33 microns in diameter) gave off five-eight primary dendrites which could extend over 600-800 microns from the soma. The oculomotor neurons were principally oriented in the sagittal plane. The soma size of oculomotor neurons was not related to the size of proximal tree. According to our observations, the morphological features of motoneurons did not allow us to predict the whole neuron input resistance. The comparison between in vivo and in vitro studies of oculomotor neurons revealed one major difference in the input resistance of the whole neuron which was three times higher in slices.
Intracellular recordings were made from the hypoglossal nuclear complex in brain slices from guinea-pigs. Retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase from the tongue confirmed the identity of the visually identified hypoglossal nucleus. Eighteen neurons were stained by intracellular electrophoresis of Lucifer Yellow through the recording pipette. Two types of neurons were encountered, motoneurons with maximal discharge rates of 90 Hz and another type with maximal discharge rates of 250 Hz. Motoneurons were prevalent in the hypoglossal nucleus and the other type prevailed in the adjoining nucleus prepositus hypoglossi. In both nuclei the two types were mixed. Antidromic spikes elicited from hypoglossal root fibres had initial segment and somatodendritic components. Electrical stimulation of the reticular matter dorsolateral to the hypoglossal nucleus elicited excitatory postsynaptic potentials and strychnine sensitive inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Motoneurons responded to depolarizing current pulses with a train of spikes. The initial spike interval was much shorter than the rest and fast adaptation occurred over three to four intervals. Slow adaptation was most prominent when the neuron was depolarized and discharged at a high rate. High threshold calcium spikes were evoked by depolarizing pulses when sodium spikes were blocked by tetrodotoxin and the potassium conductance reduced by tetraethylammonium bromide. Motoneurons discharged in a single range, inflections on the frequency-current plot being absent. Spikes and spike trains evoked by depolarizing pulses were followed by afterhyperpolarizations with fast and slow parts. The fast phase was eliminated by tetraethylammonium bromide, possibly because the delayed rectifier was involved. A calcium dependent potassium conductance was probably involved in the slow phase, because it was sensitive to inorganic calcium blockers. The amplitude of the afterhyperpolarization following trains of spikes depended on the frequency of the preceding spikes. At constant frequency, the amplitude depended, in addition, on the strength of stimuli arising from different hyperpolarized potentials. Afterdepolarizing potentials were absent. Lissajous plots of double ramp current stimulation showed anomalous rectification between resting potential and spike threshold. The rectification was sensitive to inorganic calcium blockers. Subthreshold responses showed initial sags and rebound responses in all healthy cells and these were eliminated by caesium. Barium, substituted for calcium, unleashed a depolarizing plateau potential sensitive to tetrodotoxin, indicating the presence of a persistent sodium conductance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Calcium permeabilities were examined in large cerebellar neurons maintained in culture, and morphologically identified as Purkinje cells. When cells were supplied with a Dulbecco Minimum Eagle's Medium with 10% horse serum added (5-10 days), somatic recordings revealed complex spikes and these were shown to be generated by Na and Ca components, the Na one being tetrodotoxin-sensitive. At the dendritic level, Ca currents were better resolved than at the soma. In dendrites, Ca entry was shown to occur through at least two distinct currents. The first was a low-threshold transient current (elicited above -60 mV from a holding potential of -80 mV) which was reduced by almost 30% by 50 microM cadmium. The second was a high-threshold current (above -20 mV) which gave rise to (1) a transient component exhibiting a steady-state inactivation and so requiring holding potentials at -80 mV, and (2) a sustained component. Both components were suppressed by 50 microns cadmium. We measured a total Ca current at the dendritic level reaching values of up to 1 nA. In another culture medium (Leibovitz medium) known to allow expression of three types of calcium currents in nodose cells we observed the development of the dendritic tree of Purkinje cells but with no simultaneous expression of the high-threshold Ca current.
Conduction velocities of rat L4, L5 and L6 dorsal root ganglion neurons were measured in vitro, from several points on the peripheral nerve and dorsal root. Conduction velocities calculated from a single stimulation point (12-26 mm from the ganglion) proved accurate for fibres conducting up to 17 m/s in the peripheral nerve and up to 14 m/s in the dorsal root, but tended to underestimate the value for faster fibres. C-fibre neurons of the L4 and L5 ganglia had a unimodal distribution of conduction velocities below 1.3 m/s. These were discontinuous with A-fibre conduction velocities, which also had a unimodal distribution and had no clear A delta peak. In contrast, conduction velocities of L6 ganglion neurons showed no discontinuity between C- and A-fibres, but had a clear A delta peak. In A-fibre neurons, dorsal root conduction velocities were on average about 14% slower than, and linearly related to, those in the peripheral nerve. However, in individual neurons the dorsal root conduction velocity could be slower or faster than that in the peripheral nerve. In C-fibre neurons dorsal root conduction velocities were almost always slower (average 28%) but not correlated with those of the peripheral nerve. Slowing of conduction velocity along the sciatic nerve was seen in most fibres conducting at less than 2 m/s, but not in faster fibres. The slowing was substantial (up to 60%), sometimes from the A delta to the C-fibre range, and sudden, occurring at a distance of between 15 and 29 mm from the ganglion.
Monoclonal antibody G10 binds to an epitope on a microtubule-associated protein and specifically labels elongating axons in the developing rat central nervous system. In this paper the expression of this microtubule-associated protein epitope has been studied in developing and regenerating rat peripheral neurons and sprouting and transplanted neurons in the central nervous system. During development bright immunofluorescent fibres were seen from embryonic day 12 (the earliest age studied) to birth, but immunoreactivity declined postnatally and was only barely detectable in adult sciatic nerves. In contrast to the situation in developing axons, immunostaining could not be demonstrated in axons regenerating after crushing of the sciatic nerve nor in axons growing from grafts of septal tissue into the adult hippocampus, despite good evidence for extensive reinnervation in both cases. Immunostaining was only seen at early stages within the septal grafts, and not as axons grew out to reinnervate the host. No staining was seen in areas of deafferented hippocampus where collateral sprouting takes place. These results suggest a molecular difference between the cytoskeletons of developing and regenerating or sprouting nerves.
Calbindin D-28k is a calcium-binding protein which is not expressed by dorsal root ganglion cells cultured from 6-day-old (E6) chick embryos. When soluble muscle extracts from embryos at E11, E18 or chickens 2 weeks after hatching were added immediately after seeding, dorsal root ganglia cells grown at E6 displayed neuronal subpopulations expressing calbindin immunoreactivity with time; the effect of muscle extract on the percentage of calbindin-immunoreactive dorsal root ganglia cells followed a dose-response curve. When muscle extract was added to cultures after a 3 day delay, the percentage of calbindin-expressing neurons was unchanged. The effect produced by muscle extract and, to a lesser degree, skin extract on the appearance of calbindin-positive neurons was not reproduced by brain or liver extracts while all four exerted a trophic action on cultured neurons. Hence it is assumed that muscle extract contains a factor which produces an inductive effect on the initiation of calbindin-expression by uncommitted subpopulations of sensory neurons rather than a trophic influence on the selective survival of covertly committed neuronal subpopulations. The fact that muscle extract promoted calbindin expression by dorsal root ganglia cells in neuron-enriched as well as in mixed dorsal root ganglion cell cultures indicates that the factor would act directly on sensory neurons rather than indirectly through mediation of non-neuronal cells. Since the active muscular factor was non-dialysable, heat-inactivated, trypsin-sensitive and retained by molecular filters with a cut-off of 30 K, this factor is probably a protein.
The melanin-concentrating hormone is a general vertebrate neurosecretory peptide which, in bony fish, serves as a neurohypophysial hormone influencing pigmentary changes in response to background colour. Young carp were reared for six months in white- or black-coloured tanks to determine how this would influence the development of the neurons producing the peptide. Cytological criteria and radioimmunoassay of tissue extracts showed that the background markedly influenced the synthetic activity of these neurons. In carp reared in black tanks, the perikarya were small and poorly granulated, with small nuclei and often undetectable nucleoli. Transfer of such fish to a white tank for six days caused no significant change in hormone content but cytological criteria suggested an increased activity of some of the neurons. In fish reared on a white background, over 50% of these neurons showed a greatly enhanced synthetic activity, while radioimmunoassays showed significantly higher concentrations of immunoreactive peptide in their hypothalami but not in their pituitary glands. After such fish were moved to black tanks for six days, the neuropeptide content of the hypothalamus and pituitary gland was significantly increased. Histologically, this was reflected in the amount of immunostainable granulation in both sites but cell nuclear size was not decreased. These changes are interpreted in terms of changes of hormone synthesis and release. The observations provide evidence that the activity of many but not necessarily all of the neurons producing melanin-concentrating hormone in the carp hypothalamus is controlled by background colour.
Experimental fluid-percussion models produce brain injury by rapidly injecting saline into the closed cranium. In the present study we characterize the physiological, histopathological and neurological responses to mechanical brain injury in the rat produced by lateral fluid-percussion injury of graded severity. Physiological experiments (n = 105) demonstrated that all levels of injury produced an acute and transient systemic hypertension and bradycardia. Acute hypertension followed by significant hypotension occurred at higher magnitudes of injury. Post-injury suppression of electroencephalographic amplitude was related to the severity of injury. An increase in slow wave (delta/theta) electroencephalographic activity with a concomitant decrease in alpha/beta electroencephalographic activity were observed only at moderate and high magnitude of injury and were correlated with a worsened neurological outcome (r = 0.84; P less than 0.05) and increased mortality (r = 0.66; P less than 0.05). Alterations in brainstem auditory-evoked potentials were also observed only at the higher levels of injury. Histopathological analysis revealed that the extent of post-injury hemorrhage, cavitation and vascular disruption (as measured by extravasation of Evans Blue dye) was greater at the higher magnitudes of injury. Neurological scoring performed over a 4-week post-injury period demonstrated that lateral fluid-percussion brain injury produces a chronic neurological deficit that is directly related to the severity of injury. Survival was also significantly reduced at the higher magnitudes of injury. These data demonstrate that the lateral model of fluid-percussion injury in the rat reproduces many of the features of head injury observed in other models and species and may therefore be a useful experimental model for the study of the pathophysiology of traumatic brain injury.
We have examined the generation of retinal cells in the wallaby, Setonix brachyurus (quokka). Animals received a single injection of tritiated thymidine between postnatal days 1-85 and retinae were examined at postnatal day 100. Retinae were sectioned, processed for autoradiography and stained with Cresyl Violet. Ganglion cells were labelled by injection of horseradish peroxidase into the optic tracts and primary visual centres. Other cells were classified according to their morphology and location. Retinal cell generation takes place in two phases. During the first phase, which concludes by postnatal day 30, cells destined to lie in all three cellular layers of the retina are produced. In the second phase, which starts by postnatal day 50, cell generation is almost entirely restricted to the inner and outer nuclear layers. Cells produced in the first phase are orthotopic and displaced ganglion cells, displaced and orthotopic amacrine cells, horizontal cells and cones. Glia in the ganglion cell layer, orthotopic amacrine cells, bipolar and horizontal cells. Muller glia, and rods are generated in the second phase. Cells became heavily labelled with tritiated thymidine in the central retina before postnatal day 7, over the entire retina (panretinal) by postnatal day 7 and from postnatal day 18, only in the periphery. The second phase of cell generation is initiated at P50, in a region extending from the optic nerve head to mid-temporal retina. Subsequently, cells are generated in annuli, centred on mid-temporal retina, which are seen at progressively more peripheral locations. Therefore, cell addition to the inner and outer nuclear layers continues for longer in peripheral than in mid-temporal retina. We suggest that such later differential cell addition to the inner and outer nuclear layers contributes to an asymmetric increase in retinal area. This non-uniform growth presumably results in more expansion of the ganglion cell layer peripherally than in mid-temporal retina and may play a role in establishing density gradients of ganglion cells.
The acute behavioural and metabolic consequences of functional changes following unilateral intracaudate kainic acid at the level of the feline caudate nucleus, the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the deeper layers of the colliculus superior were investigated. The present study became possible since it was previously found that unilateral changes in neurotransmission processes in these structures all result in behavioural alterations that can be distinguished from each other. During the first 17 min after kainic acid, all animals displayed contralateral forced staccato head turning; these movements are characteristic for an activation of dopamine receptors and/or inhibition of GABA receptors in the rostromedial caudate nucleus. Between 15 and 50 min, all animals displayed fast, uninterrupted contralateral forced head, torso or body turning; these movements are characteristic for an activation of nigral GABA receptors. From about 48 min, all animals displayed sequences of short contralateral forced ear, head, torso and body turnings; these movements are characteristic for an inhibition of collicular GABA receptors. Furthermore, most cats displayed ipsilateral orofacial dyskinetic movements during the whole 180 min observation period. Metabolism was analysed in three cats that received [14C]2-D-deoxyglucose immediately before, 5 min after, or 70 min after kainic acid. Metabolism was increased in the ipsilateral caudate nucleus; this effect was most pronounced in the cat that received deoxyglucose immediately before kainic acid. Metabolic activity was increased in the ipsilateral substantia nigra pars reticulata; this effect was most pronounced in the cat treated with deoxyglucose 5 min after kainic acid. Metabolism was increased in the ipsilateral deeper layers of the colliculus superior in the cat that received deoxyglucose 70 min after kainic acid. The present behavioural and metabolic data suggest that kainic acid produces an increasing pathology resulting successively in functional changes in the caudate nucleus, its output-station the substantia nigra pars reticulata and the nigral output-station the deeper layers of the colliculus superior. It is suggested that the successive appearance of the latter effects is inherent in the hierarchical order of the brain structures under study. The occurrence of orofacial dyskinetic movements during the whole observation period suggests that the former movements were not mediated via the striato-nigro-collicular pathway. Finally, apomorphine injected in the ipsilateral caudate nucleus 1 week after kainic acid was significantly less effective compared to apomorphine injected 1 week before kainic acid. The c
A mesencephalic locomotor region has been located in the rat brain. Electrical stimulation of the mid-brain in decerebrate animals was used to elicit locomotion on a freely mobile treadwheel. The lowest threshold stimulation sites were reconstructed from histology and accumulated from different experiments. An averaging procedure, taking into account the threshold stimulus current used in each experiment, was used to identify the brain region in which neurons would have been activated in most experiments. The mesencephalic locomotor region so defined corresponds closely to nucleus cuneiformis and the immediately surrounding pedunculopontine region.
The isolated eye of the mollusc, Aplysia californica, contains a circadian pacemaker whose phase can be regulated by serotonin. The results of previous biochemical and physiological studies indicate that serotonin is used as a transmitter of circadian information in the eye. Although the effects of serotonin on various physiological processes in the Aplysia eye have been studied, very little is known about the anatomy of the serotonergic innervation. We have examined the innervation of the eye using immunocytochemical methods. Serotonin-immunoreactive processes were observed in the optic nerve, in the accessory optic nerves, in the connective tissue capsule surrounding the eye, and within the eye itself. There appeared to be two sources of serotonergic input to the eye of Aplysia. One set of immunoreactive fibers was contained in the optic nerve and entered the eye in the neuropil region before radiating outward towards the peripheral retina in the layer below the photoreceptor cell bodies. A second serotonin-immunoreactive input to the eye entered from the accessory optic nerves and these fibers formed a dense plexus of fibers in the connective tissue capsule surrounding the eye. Serotonin-immunoreactive fibers from the plexus penetrated the eye and appeared to terminate in the peripheral portion of the retina. No serotonin-immunoreactive cell bodies were observed in the eye, nerves, or connective tissue capsule. These results support the hypothesis that serotonergic fibers innervate the retina of Aplysia and that these fibers travel through two distinct anatomical pathways: the optic nerve and the accessory optic nerves.
Immunohistochemical methods were used to analyse the distribution and morphology of serotonergic axons in normal macaque monkeys and in monkeys given (+/-)3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine. In untreated monkeys, we observed two morphologic classes of serotonergic axon terminals, which differ in regional and laminar distribution. These two axon types, fine and beaded, correspond to the serotonergic axon types which have been described in the rat. In 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine-treated monkeys, there is a profound loss of serotonergic axon terminals, yet some are consistently spared. The surviving axon terminals are nearly all of the beaded type; in contrast, fine serotonergic axons are markedly reduced in density. There are regional differences in the magnitude of denervation, which reflect differences in the distribution of these two types of serotonergic axons in controls. The present study demonstrates that 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine has differential neurotoxic effects on fine and beaded serotonergic axons. These results indicate that in the primate there are two distinct classes of serotonergic axon terminals, which differ in morphology, distribution, and vulnerability to psychotropic drugs. We hypothesize that in the primate, as demonstrated in the rat, these two classes of serotonergic axon terminals may arise from different raphe nuclei. In both rodent and primate, the dorsal and median raphe nuclei give rise to parallel ascending serotonergic projections, which are likely to have different pharmacologic properties and functions.
Acetylcholinesterase activity was demonstrated histochemically at light- and electron-microscopic levels, in Vibratome sections of the supraoptic nucleus of fixed hypothalami derived from osmotically stimulated and unstimulated Long Evans rats, from homozygous Brattleboro rats with hypothalamic diabetes insipidus, from lactating rats, from normal adult male house mice (Mus musculus) and from mice with hereditary nephrogenic diabetes insipidus (di/di). Reaction product was located in supraoptic magnocellular neurons; in dorsal and rostral aspects of the supraoptic nuclei lightly stained cells predominate, whereas in ventral and caudal regions densely staining perikarya predominate. Pre- and post-embedding immunocytochemical detection of oxytocin-neurophysin or vasopressin-neurophysin, combined with acetylcholinesterase histochemistry, showed that the lightly staining cells are oxytocinergic, and the densely staining cells vasopressinergic. Osmotic stimulation of the animals, either by substitution of drinking water for 3 days with 2.5% saline or reason of genetic defects which result in diabetes insipidus, enhanced the acetylcholinesterase activity of the vasopressin neurons but had little effect on the weekly acetylcholinesterase-reactive oxytocin cells. Acetylcholinesterase activity was particularly marked in the hypertrophied abnormal magnocellular neurons of homozygous Brattleboro rats which do not release significant amounts of vasopressin. The increased acetylcholinesterase activity in osmotically stimulated animals cannot, therefore, be a function of vasopressin. Acetylcholinesterase activity was also detected in large multipolar neurons lying dorsolateral to the supraoptic nucleus, and in their fine axonal processes which project towards the supraoptic nucleus. A very few synaptic boutons surrounded by acetylcholinesterase reaction product were found in contact with magnocellular neuron basal dendrites. However, much of the punctate acetylcholinesterase reactivity observed at the light microscopic level and previously interpreted as representing the loci of cholinergic synaptic boutons was shown to be intracellular, and probably caused by acetylcholinesterase activity in some large, secondary lysosomes.


To determine the effect of starvation on brain insulin receptors, rats were fed 4 g of chow/day for 14 days and then P2 fraction membranes were prepared from different brain regions. Compared to the fed state, there was an 18% reduction of insulin binding in olfactory bulbs from starved animals, but no change in the cerebellum, frontal cortex, amygdala, medial hypothalamus or lateral hypothalamus. A 15% reduction of olfactory bulb insulin binding was obtained by totally starving animals for four days. When membrane content was measured using the plasma membrane marker Na/K ATPase, insulin binding decreased by 26% and 14% in olfactory bulb membranes from starved and totally starved animals, respectively. The starvation-induced change in olfactory bulb binding was due to a loss of binding sites and not a decrease in binding affinity. Non-specific catabolism of protein and a change in the composition of membranes following starvation were excluded as causes for this effect. As streptozotocin induced diabetes had no effect on brain insulin binding, it was concluded that hypoinsulinaemia associated with starvation had not caused the reduction in olfactory bulb binding. Under similar conditions of starvation and diabetes, insulin binding in liver plasma membranes increased 26% and 38%, respectively. At 8 and 14 days of starvation, the reductions in olfactory bulb insulin binding and body weight were similar. On refeeding for three days, there was no increase in insulin binding, although body weight increased 7%. On refeeding for eight days, olfactory bulb insulin and body weight had returned to near normal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Perfusion fixation with highly concentrated aldehydes suggests that the synaptic vesicles undergo disintegration within the presynaptic ending upon touching the presynaptic membrane rather than being released by exocytosis into the intersynaptic cleft. Three factors have been explored in order to inquire further into the possible significance of the findings: (a) fixative concentration; (b) physiological activity; (c) cell depolarization. The transformation of the vesicles into amorphous, electron-dense material was observed in all experiments in all synapses, including those fixed with the lowest concentration of aldehydes. Besides, after acute ischemia and perfusion of excitatory and depolarizing pharmacological agents, the synaptic vesicles were seen to conflue upon the intersynaptic cleft in well-aligned rows. It was also found that the vesicles flow post mortem towards the intersynaptic cleft with absolute specificity.
Resiniferatoxin is an extremely irritant diterpene present in the latex of several members of the genus Euphorbia. Its mechanism of action has been shown to be clearly distinct from that of the structurally related phorbol esters. Since resiniferatoxin possesses a 4-hydroxy-3-methoxyphenyl substituent, a key feature of capsaicin, the major pungent ingredient of plants of the genus Capsicum, we examined the ability of resiniferatoxin to induce typical capsaicin responses. We report here that treatment of rats with resiniferatoxin, like treatment with capsaicin, caused hypothermia, neurogenic inflammation, and pain. These responses were followed by loss of thermoregulation, by desensitization to neurogenic inflammation, and by chemical and thermal analgesia, with cross-tolerance between resiniferatoxin and capsaicin. Resiniferatoxin was 3 4 orders of magnitude more potent than capsaicin for the effects on thermoregulation and neurogenic inflammation. Resiniferatoxin was only comparable in potency to capsaicin, however, in the assay for induction of acute pain, and the desensitization to acute pain appeared to require less resiniferatoxin than did desensitization for the other responses. We conclude that resiniferatoxin acts as an ultrapotent capsaicin analog and hypothesize that it may distinguish between subclasses of capsaicin response.
Immunohistochemical screening of monoclonal antibodies raised against Triton X-114-treated synaptic membranes revealed two monoclonal antibodies, namely BM88 and BM72, with characteristic binding specificities in the central and peripheral nervous systems of the pig. Monoclonal antibody BM88 was exclusively associated with neuronal elements while BM72 was myelin-specific. Thus, in the central nervous system, immunostaining with BM88 was observed throughout the gray matter of all regions of the forebrain and spinal cord tested. In the peripheral nervous system, BM88 strongly labelled the perikarya and processes of dorsal root ganglion neurons as well as the myelinated and unmyelinated neuronal processes of the dorsal roots; BM88 immunoreactivity was also detected in neuronal cell bodies and fibres of the enteric ganglia. In addition, BM88 immunolabelled the cell-surface of cultured neurons derived from brain. In mixed cultures the staining was uniformly distributed on the perikarya and along the neurites of these cells. However, in neuron-enriched cultures where 95% of the cells were immunochemically identified as neurons, the staining of the neuronal surface membrane was patchy. This phenomenon was independent of days in culture and suggested that the distribution of the BM88 antigen on the cell surface of neurons may be regulated by neuron glia interactions. By Western blotting, the antigen recognized by BM88 in brain membrane fractions which had undergone reducing sodium dodecyl sulphate/polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis was shown to be a 22,000 mol. wt polypeptide. When extracted with Triton X-114 this polypeptide partitioned into the detergent-rich phase, a property typical of an amphipathic membrane protein. In non-reducing conditions BM88 bound to a band with a molecular weight of 43,000. These results show that the BM88 antigen is composed of two polypeptide chains of equal molecular weight linked by disulphide bridges. Monoclonal antibody BM72 recognized a myelin-associated antigen in the central and peripheral nervous system. Immunohistochemical evidence suggested a cell-surface location for this antigen. By solid phase radioimmunoassay, monoclonal antibody BM88 was shown to cross-react with brain membrane fractions from pig, rabbit and rat while BM72 recognized only a pig membrane antigen. Both monoclonal antibodies BM88 and BM72 may be used as specific cellular markers in the nervous system.
The effect of postischemically injected cyclohexyl adenosine has been studied in gerbils. The animals were subjected to 30 min of bilateral carotid occlusion. Fifteen minutes after ischemia, one group of gerbils received a cerebroventricular injection of 251 of 0.5 M solution of cyclohexyl adenosine. The second group of ischemic animals was injected with the vehicle. After injections, the animals were randomly divided into two groups. Survival of one group of animals was monitored for 10 days. The second group was killed 5 days after ischemia, and the brains were used for a qualitative and quantitative histological evaluation. At the end of the 10-day monitoring period, 53% of the cyclohexyl adenosine-injected and 10% of the vehicle-injected ischemic animals were still alive (P less than 0.01, logrank test). Morphological preservation of the hippocampus and striatum was considerably improved in the cyclohexyl adenosine-treated animals (P less than 0.001, Student's t test). The nature of the protective effect of cyclohexyl adenosine is unknown, but it is suggested that reduction of neurotoxic excitatory amino acid release may be involved.
Beta-Endorphin, infused into the pre-optic/anterior hypothalamus (40 pmoles bilaterally) of the male rat before he was placed in an arena containing an oestrous female, inhibited mounting, intromitting and ejaculation, but investigative behaviour continued at control levels. If the infusion was delayed until the male had made an intromission, then beta-endorphin no longer had any effect on sexual interaction, the male mounting and ejaculating as if he had received a control infusion of artificial cerebrospinal fluid. However, if the male was returned to a different female after the infusion had been completed, then the suppressive effects of beta-endorphin returned. Males infused during the refractory period following an ejaculation (and returned to the same female) showed unimpaired return of sexual activity. Imposing a delay of up to 2 h after an intromission and an infusion showed that the effect of beta-endorphin was still antagonized when the male was again paired with the same female; however, by 6 h, its inhibitory effects were beginning to return. Allowing the male to mount (but not intromit) a female whose vagina had been taped partially counteracted the behavioural effect of beta-endorphin. If the female was separated from the male by a small wire cage which allowed limited interaction with her, subsequently infusing the males with beta-endorphin suppressed their mounting behaviour. These results show that both investigative and mounting behaviour can occur after infusions of beta-endorphin into the pre-optic/anterior hypothalamus, but that the transition between them is prevented if infusions are made before a critical point in the behavioural sequence. This is the onset of following the female and mounting her. Analysis of the behavioural sequence after either artificial cerebrospinal fluid or beta-endorphin infusions confirmed this; beta-endorphin interrupted the sequence at the first transition between investigative and mounting behaviour. These results suggest that beta-endorphin acts on a neural mechanism in the medial preoptic area/anterior hypothalamus which allows matching of incentive stimulus to specific behavioural response, and this may be a general property of this part of the brain.
Efferent projections of intrastriatally implanted striatal neurons have been studied using a combination of anterograde and retrograde axonal tracers. Adult rats subjected to a unilateral ibotenic acid lesion of the head of the caudate putamen received cell suspension grafts obtained from 14 15-day-old striatal primordia. Three and a half to 20 months after transplantation the rats received either intratransplant injections of the anterograde axonal tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin or injections of fluorescent retrograde tracers. Fluoro-Gold and rhodamine-labelled latex beads, into the host globus pallidus and substantia nigra. Injections of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin located entirely within the grafts labelled axons that ramified extensively within the tissue itself, as well as axons that extended caudally, across the graft host border, along the myelinated fascicles of the internal capsule to arborize in the medial parts of the host globus pallidus. A few axons also reached the entopeduncular nucleus. Injections of Fluoro-Gold into the host globus pallidus labelled large numbers of graft neurons, which had a prominent patchy distribution and were most abundant in the caudal portions of the grafts. Clear retrograde labelling was also seen after injection of Fluoro-Gold or rhodamine beads into the host substantia nigra, although the number of labelled graft neurons was 30-50 times lower than that seen after pallidal injections. Combined injections of Fluoro-Gold into the pallidus and rhodamine beads into the nigra showed that the vast majority of cells labelled from the nigra were also labelled by Fluoro-Gold from the pallidus. In some of the grafted and Fluoro-Gold-injected animals, the fetal donor tissue had been labelled with [3H]thymidine prior to transplantation. Many examples of neurons labelled with both [3H]thymidine and Fluoro-Gold were found after tracer injections into the host globus pallidus, and double-labelled neurons were identified also after Fluoro-Gold injections into the host substantia nigra. In several animals retrograde tracing was combined with labelling of host dopaminergic afferents (by tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry) and cortical afferents (by injections of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into the host frontal cortex). Comparison of adjacent sections revealed a striking overlap between the patches of Fluoro-Gold-labelled graft neurons (labelled from the host pallidum) and the dense patches of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive terminals. In addition, many of the Fluoro-Gold-labelled cell patches received a high density of cortical afferents labelled by Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Grafts of fetal striatal tissue, implanted into the ibotenic acid-lesioned caudate-putamen in adult recipient rats, have previously been shown to receive extensive afferent inputs from various subcortical areas in the host. In the present study, the formation of graft afferents from the host neocortex has been analysed, 3-12 months after transplantation, by means of the anterograde axonal tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, iontophoretically injected at multiple sites into the host frontal cortex, in combination with intra-transplant injections of the fluorescent retrograde tracer, Fluoro-Gold. From the cortical injection sites, fibres labelled with Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin could be traced through the corpus callosum, along the myelinated fascicles of the internal capsule, into the host caudate-putamen. The labelled axons passed in large numbers across the host-graft border zone to form a rich terminal plexus that covered large parts of the grafted tissue, in close association with the grafted neurons. The labelled corticostriatal terminal network was dense, particularly in the peripheral portions of the grafts, although it did not reach the density seen in the spared portions of the host caudate-putamen. Injections of Fluoro-Gold into the depth of the striatal grafts labelled large numbers of neurons in the frontoparietal cortical regions. Consistent with previous findings, labelled neurons were also found, ipsilateral to the graft, in the intralaminar nuclear complex of the thalamus, basolateral amygdala, substantia nigra and dorsal raphe. The host neocortical neurons labelled by Fluoro-Gold injections into the graft had the same laminar and regional distribution as the neurons labelled from the homotopic area of the intact striatum, indicating that the cortical afferents to the graft were derived from those corticostriatal neurons which projected to the area of the ibotenic acid-lesioned caudate-putamen into which the graft had been placed. The number of Fluoro-Gold-labelled cortical neurons ipsilateral to the graft reached in the best cases about 1/3 of the number labelled by identical Fluoro-Gold injections into the intact caudate-putamen. Labelled neurons occurred, with a similar distribution, also in the contralateral frontoparietal cortex, but they were considerably fewer in number. The results demonstrate that fetal striatal tissue, implanted into the previously neuron-depleted adult caudate-putamen, receives innervations from all normal principal cortical and subcortical striatal afferent systems, thus pointing to a remarkable capacity of the implanted fetal striatal neurons to become anatomically integrated into the lesioned host striatal circuitry.
Electrophysiological characteristics are described for 67 neurones localized to subnuclei of the solitary tract or the area of the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus in alpha-chloralose-anesthetized, paralysed cats which received vagal and hindlimb sural or peroneal nerve excitation. The peroneal and sural nerves were stimulated in an exposed hindlimb preparation; the ipsilateral vagus was stimulated at the cervical level. Compound action potentials were recorded from all three nerves. Neurons were recorded with extracellular microelectrodes from the brain stem solitary area contralateral to the stimulated somatic nerves. Ninety-one percent of the recorded neurons were spontaneously active. Eighteen percent and 5% of the neurons received only peroneal or sural excitation, respectively, while 59% of the neurons received convergent peroneal and sural excitation. Thirty-nine of the 67 neurons were also tested for vagal input of which 41% responded with excitation. All of the neurons tested for vagal input also received converging excitation from one or both of the somatic nerves. Thirty-one percent of the vagal-excited neurons received converging input from both the peroneal and sural nerves. The combined mean minimal conduction velocity for peroneal and sural input was 31 +/- 1 m/s (mean +/- 1 S.E., range 9-54 m/s). Thirty-six percent of the peroneal and 31% of the sural afferents were Group II fibers. Significant periods of inhibition of spontaneous neuronal spike activity followed peroneal and sural excitation in 43 and 39% of the neurons, respectively. In many neurons, both excitation and inhibition of spike activity could be elicited at stimulus intensities as low as 1.2 times threshold for the lowest threshold fibers in each nerve. Somatic nerve-induced inhibition of spontaneous neuron activity without prior excitation was also observed. These results suggest that neurons of the solitary tract nuclei receive Group II and Group III somatic afferents which converge on neurons also receiving excitatory vagal input. Consequently, somesthetic and kinesthetic as well as visceral receptor activation may directly modulate solitary tract neurons. A possible conclusion is that the nucleus tractus solitarius is the initial central site of mediation of somatosympathetic reflexes. Modulation of the nucleus tractus solitarius by somatic afferents may then adjust sympathetic tone, via modulation of other medullary centers, in visceral and somatic tissues to match somatic metabolic needs.
The localized metabolic effects of monocular optokinetic stimulation to the cerebellar flocculus and brain stem nuclei were measured in pigmented rats. Quantitative [14C]2-deoxyglucose autoradiography was performed on alert rats stimulated with a drum either rotated horizontally in the temporonasal direction (optokinetic group) or kept stationary (control group). The superior colliculus in both groups showed a higher amount of activity on the contralateral side to the stimulated eye than on the ipsilateral side. The dorsal cap of the inferior olive, the nucleus of the optic tract, and the lateral pontine nucleus showed a higher amount of activity on the contralateral side only in the optokinetic group. The nucleus reticularis tegmenti pontis and the ventromedial aspect of the cerebellar paraflocculus showed no lateralized activity in either group. Local glucose utilization rates of both flocculi were significantly enhanced in the optokinetic group. Only in the optokinetic group did the ipsilateral flocculus show a higher local glucose utilization rate than the contralateral flocculus. The most enhanced activity was localized in the middle aspect of the rostrocaudal extent of the ipsilateral flocculus. The activity was greater in the granular layer than in the molecular layer or in the white matter. The pattern of activation in the granular layer was characterized by a patchy appearance in the frontal sections. Serial reconstruction of these sections showed metabolic blobs appearing with intervals of several hundred micrometers.
Following intraventricular nerve growth factor infusion in adult rats, the choline acetyltransferase immunostaining of the neuropil and neuronal cell bodies of the neostriatum (caudate-putamen) and nucleus accumbens was more intense on the side of the infusion. Furthermore, the average cross-sectional size (micron2) of the cholinergic somata was increased by about 40 and 20% in the striatum and accumbens, respectively. This unilateral response could be elicited in intact rats as well as in rats receiving a prior aspirative transection of the fimbria-fornix. The reported lack of (low-affinity) nerve growth factor receptor immunostaining in these neurons suggests that the nerve growth factor effects are most likely transduced by high-affinity receptors. The ability of these apparently undamaged cholinergic interneurons to respond to exogenous nerve growth factor with an increase in choline acetyltransferase content and cell body size suggests that they are benefiting from a less-than-maximal support by endogenous nerve growth factor in the normal young adult rat.
Responses evoked in the entorhinal area by impulse volleys originating in the ipsilateral hippocampus were analysed in the guinea-pig by means of field potential analysis. Perforant path volleys, synaptically elicited by stimulation of the dorsal psalterium of one side, were used to activate the hippocampal lamellar circuit of the same side and, through interhippocampal impulses, the hippocampal pyramidal neurons of the contralateral side. Discharge of the hippocampal pyramidal neurons was followed by a response, a fast negative deflection preceded and followed by slow waves, in the dorsal third of the ipsilateral entorhinal area. Laminar distribution of the fast negative deflection and of the time-locked unit activity suggested that excitatory synaptic effects followed by neuron discharge were generated in neurons of layers VI-II of the entorhinal area. The increasing latency of the fast negative deflection and of unit firing over the cortical depth suggested that these synaptic effects were generated in temporal sequence, going from layer VI to layer II. The entorhinal response disappeared after a lesion at the caudal border of the hippocampus interrupting the caudally-directed hippocampal efferents. The anatomy of the hippocampal and subicular projections to the entorhinal area in the guinea-pig, together with electrophysiological data obtained in recordings from the ipsilateral subiculum, suggested that the hippocampal impulses were relayed to layers VI-V of the entorhinal area by the subiculum. The delayed activation of layers IV-II was possibly mediated by intracortical connections. Double-shock experiments showed that impulses of hippocampal origin inhibited the response to dorsal psalterium volleys of entorhinal neurons giving origin to perforant path fibers. The data show that the hippocampal output activates the deep layers of the entorhinal area from which it is possibly relayed to numerous cortical and subcortical regions. Moreover, the inhibitory effects exerted on neurons originating perforant path fibers give evidence of a negative feedback control system operating in the hippocampal region.
GABAA- and GABAB-receptor-specific agonists inhibit the depolarization-evoked release of acetylcholine in cholinergic synaptosomes from Torpedo electric organ. Over 60% of the release is inhibited by a 10(-4) M concentration of GABA itself. IC50s for muscimol and baclofen are 1.3 x 10(-4) and 2.2 x 10(-6) M, respectively. The effect of muscimol is totally blocked by the direct antagonist bicuculline methiodide, and also by the allosteric antagonists methyl 6,7-dimethoxy-4-ethyl-beta-carboline-3-carboxylate, picrotoxinin and tert-butylbicyclo-orthobenzoate; the effect of baclofen is blocked by delta-aminovalerate. Furthermore, the inhibitory action of muscimol on acetylcholine release is substantially enhanced by flunitrazepam and pentobarbital. These results suggest the existence of typical GABAA and GABAB receptors in the presynaptic nerve terminals of the Torpedo electric organ regulating the liberation of acetylcholine and therefore the discharge of the electroplaques.
The distribution of chromogranin B 420-493-like immunoreactivity was investigated in the pituitary gland and central nervous system of man, guinea-pig and rat, by using two different antibodies. In man, highest chromogranin B 420-493-like immunoreactivity concentrations were found in the pituitary gland, chromogranin B 420-493 (1-17)-like immunoreactivity 74.3 +/- 8.5 (mean +/- S.E.M. pmol/g wet wt tissue) and chromogranin B 420-493 (20-38)-like immunoreactivity 2017.0 +/- 142.3, followed by the hypothalamus and substantia nigra. In the spinal cord, the highest concentration was found in the sacral dorsal area. Chromogranin B 420-493-like immunoreactivity was detected in human cerebrospinal fluid, chromogranin B 420-493 (1-17)-like immunoreactivity 376.7 +/- 77.9 and chromogranin B 420-493 (20-38)-like immunoreactivity 1174.7 +/- 259.3 pmol/l cerebrospinal fluid. Chromogranin B 420-493-like immunoreactivity was also found in high concentrations in the guinea-pig and rat pituitary glands, but very low chromogranin B 420-493-like immunoreactivity levels were present in different parts of the brain of both species. Gel permeation chromatography and fast protein liquid chromatography analysis of eight different regions of human CNS showed multiple chromogranin B 420-493-like immunoreactivity peaks. The profile of pituitary extracts was different from those of other parts of the CNS and the cerebrospinal fluid. The profiles of guinea-pig and rat pituitary on gel chromatography and fast protein liquid chromatography were different again from those of human CNS. Examination of subcellular fractionation of whole rat brain showed highest concentrations of chromogranin B 420-493-like immunoreactivity in the synaptosome fractions. Chromogranin B 420-493-like immunoreactivity release was stimulated from rat pituitary cells by high potassium ion concentrations. These findings show that (1) chromogranin B 420-493-like immunoreactivity is widely distributed throughout the pituitary gland and CNS of three mammalian species, with the highest concentration in the pituitary gland, and it is also present in human cerebrospinal fluid, and (2) the processing of chromogranin B in the pituitary gland may be different from that in the other area of the CNS, so that it is possible chromogranin B or its fragments may play a neuroeffector role in the mammalian CNS.
Recent studies in the rat have demonstrated that at least two populations of sympathoexcitatory reticulospinal neurons reside in the nucleus reticularis rostroventrolateralis. It appears that only one of these populations consists of C1 adrenergic neurons. The present study used both double-labeling (one retrograde tracer and immunohistochemistry) and triple-labeling (two retrograde tracers and immunohistochemistry) to determine if C1 adrenergic neurons, which are immunoreactive for phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase, exhibit a projection pattern that is sufficiently unique to permit the electrophysiological discrimination between C1 adrenergic and non-adrenergic neurons in the nucleus reticularis rostroventrolateralis. Double-labeling experiments indicated that 71% (range: 53-80) of phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons in the nucleus reticularis rostroventrolateralis could be retrogradely labeled from the thoracic cord, as were 76% (range: 67-94) following tracer injection in the central tegmental tract at pontine levels. Triple-labeling experiments indicated that 88% (range: 82-93) of nucleus reticularis rostroventrolateralis neurons with projections to both spinal cord and central tegmental tract were phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive. Single-unit recording, in nucleus reticularis rostroventrolateralis, was used to identify antidromic potentials elicted from stimulation sites in the spinal cord and/or central tegmental tract. Since clonidine is known to reduce central adrenaline turnover, sensitivity to this drug was used to identify putative adrenergic neurons. Twenty-six nucleus reticularis rostroventrolateralis neurons with axonal projections to both the ipsilateral spinal cord and the central tegmental tract were recorded in halothane-anesthetized rats. All these cells were barosensitive, pulse-modulated, and 16 of the 16 cells tested exhibited a 66 +/- 8% reduction in activity upon the intravenous administration of clonidine (20 micrograms/kg). Most (13 out of 16) exhibited a strong respiratory modulation. The conduction velocity of their spinal collateral was generally low (0.9 +/- 0.1 m/s) and their firing rate moderate (7.4 +/- 1.2 spikes/s). Forty-three nucleus reticularis rostroventrolateralis cells with axonal projections exclusively to the thoracic cord were studied for comparison. These cells were strongly barosensitive and pulse-synchronous, had a high discharge rate (25 +/- 3 spikes/s) and a moderate conduction velocity (3.4 +/- 0.3 m/s). Only one of the 15 cells tested was inhibited by clonidine and only two to these 15 cells exhibited a detectable respiratory modulation. Thus barosensitive nucleus reticularis rostroventrolateralis neurons with axonal projections to both the spinal cord and the central tegmental tract likely belong to the C1 adrenergic cell group. It is concluded that this subgroup of adrenergic neurons probably subserves a vasomotor function.
N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) is a potent and highly selective neurotoxin which induces degeneration of noradrenergic axons. The effects of DSP-4 vary considerably in different brain regions: the drug produces nearly complete depletion of noradrenaline in neocortex, hippocampus, cerebellum and spinal cord, but only partial depletion in hypothalamus and brainstem. In this study we have employed an immunohistochemical method to assess the neurotoxic effects of DSP-4 on the structural integrity of central noradrenergic neurons in the rat, and to identify those noradrenergic axons that remain in the central nervous system 2-4 weeks after DSP-4 treatment. The staining results identified noradrenergic axon terminals as the principal site of action of DSP-4; noradrenergic cell bodies and preterminal axons were not noticeably affected. DSP-4 produced an almost all or none neurotoxic effect on noradrenergic axon terminals in different brain regions. Nearly all noradrenergic axon terminals were destroyed in the neocortex, hippocampus, olfactory bulb, thalamus, tectum, cerebellum and spinal cord dorsal horn. In contrast, most noradrenergic axons were unaffected in the basal forebrain, hypothalamus, reticular formation, brainstem motor nuclei and spinal cord ventral horn. These remaining noradrenergic axon terminals differed morphologically from sensitive axons by their thickness, size and spacing of their varicosities and their dense arborizations within terminal fields. The distribution of noradrenergic axons susceptible to DSP-4 correlates very closely with the distribution of locus coeruleus axons and possibly all regions in which noradrenergic terminals are unaffected by DSP-4 receive their major noradrenergic input from non-locus coeruleus neurons. This study provides the first direct evidence that DSP-4 destroys noradrenergic axon terminals from the locus coeruleus, but not those from non-locus coeruleus neurons. This profound differential sensitivity of noradrenergic axons to DSP-4 is matched by distinct differences in their morphology and their topographic projections. The results support the view that locus coeruleus and non-locus coeruleus noradrenergic neurons constitute two separate subsystems, which differ not only in their projections but also with respect to the pharmacological properties of their axon terminals.
Explants of anterior, intermediate and posterior pituitary lobes of rats at various ages evoked an intense nerve fibre outgrowth when co-cultured with neonatal sympathetic superior cervical ganglia in a collagen gel medium. Freezing and thawing of pituitary lobes, prior to culture, did not abolish their growth-promoting effect. Since the addition of antiserum to nerve growth factor in the culture medium inhibited totally the stimulative action of both fresh and frozen pituitary explants it is suggested that the stimulation is mediated by nerve growth factor or an immunologically related molecule. Based on the present results it is concluded that nerve growth factor is synthesized by both the anterior, intermediate and posterior lobes throughout the postnatal period, as well as in adult rats. The function of nerve growth factor in the pituitary gland is discussed.
The development of neuronal morphology and laminar organization in the central nucleus of the inferior colliculus has been studied with the different Golgi methods in kittens and cats of 1 day-2 years of age. The different Golgi methods used allowed us to selectively visualize the axonal or dendritic component of the fibrodendritic laminae. The characteristic lamination of the central nucleus defined by the fiber system of the lateral lemniscus is already present at birth. The axonal component of the laminae is constituted by parallel condensations of varicose terminals, myelinated axons, and preterminal fibers, oriented from ventrolateral to dorsomedial. The laminae are smaller in the dorsolateral edge of the nucleus. Neurons are classified mainly on the basis of their dendritic trees and the axonal ramification patterns. Three main types are distinguished: spinous disk-shaped neurons, aspinous to sparsely spinous disk-shaped neurons, and large or giant multipolar neurons. Our results suggest that the basic structures of the central nucleus--neuronal types and lamination of the lemniscal fibers--are already established at birth. The different neuronal types can be distinguished from the first days of life according to the ramification pattern of dendritic and axonal arbors. The characteristics of the different cell types, such as the density and distribution of dendritic spines, and the presence of varicose dendritic branchlets, are recognizable from the second week. At the end of the first month, neurons display an adult-like morphology, although the density of dendritic spines is higher than in the adult. Our morphological data can be related to the development of response properties in the inferior colliculus.
The present study was designed to directly examine the postsynaptic actions of serotonin on GABA-mediated inhibition of cerebellar Purkinje cells. The findings indicate that serotonin at currents that produced minimal effects on the spontaneous firing rates of Purkinje cells modified GABA effects in a biphasic manner. Serotonin initially decreased GABA-mediated inhibitions followed secondarily by either continued inhibition or, in the majority of cases, augmentation of GABA responses. When a comparison was made of the secondary effects of serotonin on GABA-mediated inhibition with the initial spontaneous firing rates of the Purkinje cells, the group in which serotonin augmented GABA actions had a significantly higher initial firing frequency than the group in which serotonin attenuated GABA-mediated inhibition. Furthermore, with increasing firing rates, the proportion of cells showing augmentation of GABA inhibition increased, and the proportion of cells displaying attenuation of GABA effects decreased. Serotonin affected beta-alanine-mediated inhibitions in a manner similar to that seen with GABA, whereas glycine was differentially altered. This study identifies another neuromodulatory role of serotonin on Purkinje cells in the cerebellum. Furthermore, the effects of serotonin on GABA inhibition seem to be governed by some intrinsic property of the Purkinje cell, which is apparently related to the firing rate of the cell.
The first peak in the voltammogram recorded with linear sweep and a carbon paste electrode implanted in the rat striatum is due to the oxidation of ascorbic acid. When the potential is held at a level slightly positive to this peak a current is recorded which is abolished by the microinjection of ascorbic acid oxidase in the vicinity of the electrode; this suggests that it is due to the oxidation of ascorbate. This current shows the same diurnal variation as the size of the ascorbate peak and its rise and fall coincides with the onset and offset of motor activity. A tail-pinch applied through a paper clip causes an immediate rise in the ascorbate current which begins to fall as soon as the paper clip is removed. Measurement of the ascorbate current at constant potential provides a technique for monitoring rapid changes in extracellular brain ascorbate in response to physiological stimuli.
The developmental status of some potential components of hippocampal circuitry was studied at the time of the emergence of the hippocampal cytoarchitectonic subfields. The laminar distribution of synapses as seen with electron microscopy was correlated with Golgi architectonics in 15- and 16.5-week-old human fetuses. A systematic electron microscopic analysis of the distribution of synapses demonstrated that they were restricted to the two zones bordering the cortical plate, viz. the marginal and subplate zones, which contain dendritic branches of pyramidal and large polymorphous non-pyramidal neurons. The density of synapses (number per unit area) was higher in the marginal zone than in the subplate zone. Most synapses were of the asymmetric axodendritic type, although some were symmetric axodendritic synapses. The possible origins of the axons forming these synapses are discussed. This study demonstrates that the human hippocampus shows an early onset of synapse formation, with a characteristic distribution of synapses in restricted laminae. The finding of early synapse formation is consistent with observations made in other cortical areas during development. The prevalence of synaptogenesis at a superficial level of the cortex seems, however, to be specific to the &quot;archicortex&quot;.
Lectin binding histochemistry was used to investigate the distribution of binding sites for the fucose-selective lectin Ulex europeus agglutinin I in the rat nervous system. It was found that this lectin bound exclusively to a surface membrane component, probably a glycoprotein, on primary olfactory and vomeronasal sensory neurons, and to no other structure in the nervous system. A similar pattern of Ulex europeus agglutinin I binding was found in adult, immature and embryonic rats. Binding was also demonstrated on olfactory axons regenerating through a peripheral nerve graft. Three other lectins, including another fucose-selective lectin, and the N-acetyl galactosamine-binding soybean lectin failed to show similar exclusive binding. The presence of a specific surface glycoconjugate solely on olfactory neurons suggests that the molecule may play some role in development or maintenance of organization of this neuronal pathway.
The isolated Muller glial cell of the neotenous tiger salamander retina is used as an experimental model for studying the effects of non-uniform membrane conductance on the shape of charging curves in response to step current inputs. A simple cable model of the Muller cell is formulated and used to interpret the experimental data. The Muller cell model is completely described by three parameters: (a) electrotonic length L; (b) the membrane time constant tau m; and (c) the percentage of the total membrane conductance accounted for by the endfoot S. Model analysis indicates that increasing S produces monotonic decreases in the rise time of charging curves. This effect is greatest when L is small. In such cases charging curve rise time can be substantially faster than that of a semi-infinite cable. When S greater than 0, the first time constant obtained by fitting the late exponential tail of the charging curve is not the membrane time constant (as is the case when S = 0), but is instead an equalizing time constant equal to the membrane time constant times a scale factor in the range of 0 to 1. This scaling factor becomes quite small as S approaches 100%. We describe a convergent numerical procedure for generating unique estimates of all three model parameters from charging curves. Application of the algorithm to experimentally measured Muller cell charging curves confirms Newman's finding that a large fraction of membrane conductance in these cells is accounted for by the endfoot (greater than 90%). The model prediction that charging curve rise time may be substantially faster than that of the semi-infinite cable when S greater than 0 is also confirmed. The error that results from misinterpreting the first equalizing time constant tau l as the membrane time constant tau m can have a significant effect on estimates of specific membrane resistance and capacitance. The algorithm described in this paper provides a means for obtaining direct estimates of the membrane time constant and will make possible more accurate estimates of specific membrane resistance and capacitance in Muller glial cells. The fact that the estimation procedure is based on a simple electrophysiological measurement suggests that it may be useful for studying asymmetry of membrane conductance in glial and neural elements of the intact nervous system.
The fluorescent Ca2+ indicator FURA-2 was used to characterize the depolarization-related intracellular Ca2+ signalling process in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells. Depolarization with high K+ (10-65 mM) gave rise to a very rapid increase in intracellular free Ca2+ concentration, which subsequently decayed slowly towards a &quot;plateau&quot;. The size of this initial increase varied sigmoidally with the calculated membrane potential, the relationship being described well by a Boltzmann distribution function for a transition between two states (transition potential, -23 mV). A dihydropyridine calcium channel agonist [(+)202-791, 1 microM] raised intracellular free Ca2+ concentration further in the presence of 30 mM K+, and it enhanced the initial intracellular Ca2+ response to depolarization. Voltage-sensitive calcium channels in chromaffin cells are believed to include the L-type. Several dihydropyridine calcium channel antagonists [(-)202-791, nifedipine, nitrendipine; 1-5 microM], known to be active on L-type channels, caused only modest inhibition of K+ -induced increase in intracellular free Ca2+ concentration: c. 50% (at 30 mM K+) and 25% (at 40-70 mM K+). In addition, omega-conotoxin GVIA (1-10 microM), a blocker of neuronal N- and L-type calcium channels, reduced the initial increase in intracellular free Ca2+ concentration only slightly at 55 mM K+. Further, the dihydropyridine-insensitive component of the intracellular Ca2+ signal was also insensitive to omega-conotoxin, which was otherwise quite active in a central nervous rat in vivo preparation Gd3+ (40 microM), a potent calcium antagonist in the chromaffin cell, blocked the intracellular Ca2+ response to depolarization. When added at different times after K+ stimulation, however, Gd3+ reduced intracellular free Ca2+ concentration to control levels along a slow time course of several minutes. Similar results were obtained when EGTA was added to reduce extracellular Ca2+ concentration to sub-nanomolar levels, in the presence of high K+. We conclude that bovine chromaffin cells are equipped with at least two different classes of voltage-dependent calcium channels, only one of which is likely to be the L-type channel. We also propose that depolarization, in addition to stimulating Ca2+ influx, may also lead to enhancement of Ca2+ release from an intracellular store.
By use of intracellular recording and staining with horseradish peroxidase it was found that alpha and probably also gamma motoneurons were able to reinnervate ventral root implants after an avulsion of ventral roots at the spinal cord surface in the cat. The reinnervation of the implant was achieved after an initial growth of new axons in central nervous system tissue. Reinnervating neurons could be excited or inhibited by segmental reflex activity and their axons could conduct nerve impulses. The character of muscle twitch responses elicited by electrical stimulation of implanted roots strongly indicated that denervated muscles were reinnervated by new motor axons via the implant.
When paired for 15-min periods for 5-8 consecutive days, castrated, testosterone-treated hamsters consistently assumed the dominant status, based on a higher aggression index (18 +/- 3) and frequency of flank marking (15 +/- 3) as compared to their castrated, untreated subordinate partners (-1.3 +/- 1 and 2.4 +/- 1, respectively). In addition to these hamsters with established dominant/subordinate relationships, control hamsters with no social interactions were killed, and in all animals the vasopressin level in the anterior hypothalamus-medial preoptic area was assessed by counting vasopressin immunoreactive perikarya following immunocytochemistry, or by radioimmunoassay of vasopressin from tissue punches. In the socialized pairs the subordinate hamsters had a significantly (P less than 0.01) lower number of vasopressin staining perikarya in the anterior hypothalamus, specifically the area of the nucleus circularis, than their dominant partners (n = 6 pairs). There was also a significantly (P less than 0.001) lower level of vasopressin immunoreactivity in punches taken from the area of the nucleus circularis in subordinate hamsters as compared to their dominant partners (n = 14 pairs). However, there were no significant differences in the number of perikarya or the concentration of immunoreactive vasopressin between subordinate and dominant hamsters in the supraoptic nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, suprachiasmatic nucleus or bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. The number of perikarya (n = 5 pairs) and concentration of vasopressin (n = 8 pairs) for all vasopressin immunoreactive sites, including the nucleus circularis, were similar for testosterone-treated and untreated hamsters that remained isolated and not subjected to daily aggressive encounters.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Kindling stimulations were applied to the Schaffer collateral/commissural fibers in the CA1 area of the dorsal rat hippocampus. In fully kindled animals the ultrastructural distribution of calcium was studied at different time intervals after an induced generalized seizure, using the oxalate-pyro-antimonate technique. Semi-quantitative analysis of the amount of precipitate revealed no change in the investigated structures analysed after 2 h or 24 h: boutons and spines of the Schaffer-collateral/pyramidal-dendrite synaptic contacts, cytoplasm and mitochondria of terminals on pyramidal cell bodies and smooth dendrites. The major change was found 15 min after a seizure, when calcium precipitate in boutons and spines of stratum radiatum was strongly increased, precipitate in somata terminals only slightly, while smooth dendrites were not affected. These results imply a seizure-related increase of the intracellular calcium concentration. The transient character suggests that the investigated cellular compartments in kindled tissue are still capable of maintaining calcium homeostasis. The observed increase in precipitate density for at least 15 min may initiate the neurochemical mechanisms leading to an enhanced seizure sensitivity in the kindling model of epilepsy.
Endogenous cholecystokinin immunoreactivity released by depolarization of slices of rat cerebral cortex undergoes extensive degradation (85% of released immunoreactivity) before reaching the incubation medium. In order to identify the responsible peptidases, a large number of inhibitors of the four catalytic classes were tested for their protective effects. Inhibitors of metallopeptidases (bestatin, amastatin, puromycin, Thiorphan, captopril, o-phenantroline), thiol-peptidases, (leupeptin, antipain, p-hydroxymercuribenzoate) or carboxyl-peptidases (pepstatin) had generally low if any protective effect. By contrast, several serine peptidase inhibitors, i.e. diisopropyl-fluorophosphate, phenylmethylsulphonylfluoride or the chloromethylketone Ala-Ala-Pro-Val-CH2Cl, doubled the recovery of cholecystokinin immunoreactivity and the effect was amplified in the co-presence of bestatin, an aminopeptidase inhibitor and/or Thiorphan, an enkephalinase inhibitor. High-performance liquid chromatographic analysis of the cholecystokinin immunoreactivity recovered in medium in the absence of any inhibitor showed cholecystokinin-8 to be the major peak, representing 8% of the released immunoreactive material. Non-sulphated cholecystokinin-8 represented less than 1%, indicating that desulphation does not constitute a major inactivation pathway for the endogenous octapeptide. Cholecystokinin-5 was the major clearly identifiable immunoreactive fragment, representing 9% of released immunoreactivity in the absence of inhibitors. Its formation was decreased by about 50% in the presence of either diisopropyl-fluorophosphate or bestatin and Thiorphan and abolished when they were associated, suggesting that it resulted from the actions of a serine peptidase(s) and an aminopeptidase(s). Cholecystokinin-6 (or cholecystokinin-7) was less abundant, representing 4% of the released immunoreactivity, and its level was augmented in the presence of diisopropyl-fluorophosphate. Hence a serine endopeptidase cleaving the Met3-Gly4 bond of cholecystokinin-8 may represent a major inactivating peptidase for the endogenous neuropeptide. Additional metabolic pathways not blocked by serine peptidase inhibitors and resulting in the formation of cholecystokinin-6 (or cholecystokinin-7) and, possibly, cholecystokinin-4, are also suggested by the present approach.
The neurotransmitter cytochemistry of neurons in the substantia nigra and zona incerta which project to the cat superior colliculus was examined. Neurons in both structures were double-labeled with an antibody to the transmitter GABA and a retrograde tracer, [3H]n-acetylated wheat germ agglutinin, injected into the superior colliculus. All cells in the zona incerta and substantia nigra which projected to the superior colliculus were labeled by the GABA antiserum. Most other neurons within the zona incerta and virtually all within the substantia nigra pars reticulata and pars lateralis were also labeled by the GABA antibody. By contrast, neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta were not labeled by either the GABA antibody or wheat germ agglutinin. Nigrotectal cells in the substantia nigra were of medium to large size and most had stellate-shaped cell bodies. Zona incerta cells projecting to the superior colliculus were also of medium to large size, but most had horizontal fusiform cell bodies. This study demonstrates two new findings: (1) that all nigrotectal neurons in cat are immunoreactive to a GABA antibody and probably contain the neurotransmitter GABA; and (2) that these GABA immunoreactive neurons in cat are found not only in the substantia nigra pars reticulata but also within the pars lateralis. Zona incerta cells projecting to the superior colliculus have a different morphology but are also apparently GABAergic. These data provide an anatomical substrate for the known inhibitory action of the nigrotectal pathway on superior colliculus neurons.
Acetylcholinesterase staining on successive frontal or sagittal sections was used to determine the three-dimensional organization of the striosomal and matrix compartments in the adult cat caudate nucleus. Reconstruction drawings of the acetylcholinesterase-poor zones (striosomes) indicated that the striosomal compartment is a labyrinthine network organized in the rostrocaudal and mediolateral axis which is reproducible from one animal to another. Four main anteroposterior channels converging in the mediorostral pole of the caudate nucleus were distinguished. Seven to eight diagonally oriented channels crossing the previous ones were seen also in the mediolateral axis on the central core of the caudate nucleus. The pattern of organization of the numerous and tortuous striosomal channels was more complicated medially, while the lateral part of the caudate nucleus was represented mainly by the matrix compartment. In addition, a sub-compartmentation of the matrix was demonstrated by retrograde tracing studies made by injecting either horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin, [14C]amino acids or a mixture of horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin and [14C]amino acids in several areas of the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Labelled patches were seen with both tracers, their topographical localization depended on the nigral injection site but reconstruction analysis indicated that the populations of cells which innervate the substantia nigra pars reticulata originate in the two third lateral parts of the caudate nucleus all along its rostrocaudal extension. Examination of horseradish peroxidase-wheat germ agglutinin labelled cells indicated that not all cells were labelled in patches suggesting a further sub-compartmentation of these patches. Finally, a comparison of the topographical distributions of labelled patches and of striosomes revealed that most patches were located in the extrastriosomal matrix.
The corticostriatal projection in rat neostriatal grafts was studied by using the axonal transport of Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin. The neostriatal primodia from 15-18-day embryos were used to make a cell suspension which was implanted unilaterally into the rat neostriatum 3-5 days after kainic acid lesion. Two to four months later, regions of the frontal cortex ipsilateral to the grafts were injected iontophoretically with Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin. There were many Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin labeled cortical fibers in the host neostriatum. Although the density of labeled fibers in the grafts was much lower than that in the surrounding host tissue, some fibers could be seen to enter the grafts and form terminal arborizations. The morphology of labeled fibers in the graft differed from that of corticostriatal fibers from the same injection but distributing in the host neostriatum. The labeled fibers in the host neostriatum arborized in an extended pattern, branching infrequently and making most of their synapses en passant at varicosities along their courses. The labeled fibers in the grafts made more dense arborizations with many short branches that formed clusters of terminals confined to small foci along their courses. The cellular composition and the structure of the neuropil in the neostriatal grafts were similar to that of the neostriatum. As those in the host, labeled corticostriatal terminals in the grafts contained densely packed round vesicles and made asymmetric synapses on dendritic spines, dendritic shafts and somata. A quantitative analysis, however, revealed that the distribution of postsynaptic elements of labeled boutons in the grafts was different from that in the hosts. More than 90% of the labeled cortical terminals in the host neostriatum contacted dendritic spines whereas only 47% of the labeled terminals in the grafts contacted spines, and 50% of them terminated on the dendritic shafts. The present study provides direct anatomic evidence to demonstrate the restoration of the corticostriatal projection in grafts. The difference in the distribution of postsynaptic elements in the grafts and the hosts may represent a response to the decreased innervation density of cortical inputs to the graft tissue, and may contribute to the recovery of corticostriatal responses by increasing the effectiveness of transmission by the fibers that do grow into the graft and form contacts there.
In primary cultures of dorsal root ganglion cells from rat embryos, neurons undergo a morphological transformation from a bipolar to a differentiated pseudo-unipolar shape, resembling their developmental stages in vivo. Cells present in these cultures are characterized here by immunological criteria using monoclonal and polyclonal antibodies against microtubule associated proteins MAP1 and MAP2 and against tubulin. After development for seven days in culture, antibodies against microtubule associated proteins MAP1 brightly labeled cells with neuronal morphology and lightly stained cells with the shape of Schwann cells. In addition, an extended network of neuronal processes was labeled with this antibody. Anti-microtubule associated protein MAP2 stained only neurons and a more restricted network of neuronal processes. The compartmentalization of microtubule associated protein MAP2 during the maturation process was followed by double-labeling with antibodies to microtubule associated proteins MAP1 and MAP2. Initially, microtubule associated protein MAP2 was present in the cell body and the two processes of bipolar neurons. Subsequently, the labeling of both processes changed, depending on neuronal morphology. In neurons in which both processes were approaching one another, one of these neurites was stained predominantly with anti-microtubule associated protein MAP2. Finally, in pseudo, unipolar neurons, anti-microtubule associated protein MAP2 labeling was found in the cell body and excluded from the more distal processes.
This study has re-examined, by immunohistochemistry, a proposed serotonergic innervation of major cerebral vessels in the rat. Previous studies had demonstrated a dense perivascular plexus of 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactive nerve fibres upon major cerebral vessels in this and many other species. The present work has shown, however, that 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactive nerve fibres are rarely observed in cerebral vessels prepared by perfusion-fixation in situ, and only form a well-developed plexus in vessels prepared, as in previous studies, by immersion-fixation. Prior treatment with a predominantly noradrenergic uptake inhibitor desmethylimipramine but not the serotonergic uptake inhibitor fluoxetine produced a major diminution in the 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactive plexus visualized in these immersion-fixed vessels. In addition, 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactive nerves were only occasionally observed in immersion-fixed vessels from animals that had been pretreated with 6-hydroxydopamine to produce adrenergic denervation. The removal, firstly, of vessel-contained blood, by left ventricular perfusion with Krebs' solution, prior to vessel dissection and immersion-fixation, resulted in an absence of 5-hydroxytryptamine immunoreactivity in perivascular nerves. Immunoreactivity could then be restored by briefly incubating vessels in Krebs' solution containing either blood or 5-hydroxytryptamine before fixation. It would appear therefore that 5-hydroxytryptamine is rarely present under normal circumstances in the perivascular nerves of major cerebral vessels, and that previous descriptions of a dense serotonergic nerve plexus represent 5-hydroxytryptamine in blood released during vessel dissection being taken up via the noradrenaline-uptake system into perivascular sympathetic nerves. The possibility is thus raised that 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake and interaction within perivascular adrenergic nerves could occur in those cerebrovascular disorders where blood is released.
The properties of the release of exogenous radioactive taurine and GABA from cerebellar slices from developing and adult mice were investigated using a superfusion system. Potassium stimulation (50 mM K+) caused, approximately, a 1.4-fold enhancement in the release of preloaded taurine from slices from adult mice, while the response to potassium in 7-day-old mice was about 6-fold. The potassium stimulation caused, approximately, a 3-fold increase in the release of preloaded GABA from cerebellar slices from 7-day-old mice, whereas the enhancement was about 10-fold in the adult. The actual molar amount of taurine released from the immature cerebellum was strikingly large, about 16 times larger than the amount of GABA released upon the same stimulus. Spontaneous taurine efflux was potentiated by taurine and GABA, the responses being more pronounced in the 7-day-old cerebellum, suggesting that the immature cerebellum is more prone to stimulation by homo- and heteroexchange than the mature cerebellum. Potassium-stimulated taurine release was inhibited by GABAergic substances in the adult but not in the developing cerebellum. Potassium-stimulated GABA release from the adult cerebellum was greatly increased by GABA and also moderately by muscimol and bicuculline, the effect of the latter being antagonized by taurine and hypotaurine. Taurine was thus able to modulate GABA release through bicuculline-sensitive receptors, but this modulation was not evident in cerebellar slices from 7-day-old mice. An exposure of the slices to sodium-free media greatly enhanced taurine and GABA release in both age groups. The stimulated release of GABA generally exhibited a similar calcium dependency in the adult and 7-day-old cerebella but in 7-day-old mice the stimulated release of taurine was not strictly calcium-dependent.
A combination of autoradiographical techniques and computerized image analysis has been used to study the distribution and density of cholecystokinin receptors in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of animals in which the magnocellular-posterior pituitary axis is activated, namely, in salt-loaded (2% sodium chloride) and homozygous Brattleboro rats. [125I]cholecystokinin octapeptide binding was greatly elevated in the paraventricular, supraoptic and accessory nuclei of salt-loaded and homozygous Brattleboro rats, compared to the respective control animals. Furthermore, under these conditions [125I]cholecystokinin octapeptide binding in the paraventricular nucleus was localized almost exclusively to magnocellular subdivisions, and especially to those containing predominantly oxytocin neurons. Autoradiographical competition studies revealed that the increase in [125I]cholecystokinin octapeptide binding in magnocellular nuclei reflected an increase in receptor number (Bmax) rather than affinity (Kd). These results suggest that cholecystokinin receptor density in the paraventricular, supraoptic and accessory magnocellular nuclei is closely linked to magnocellular neurosecretory activity and raises the possibility that cholecystokinin receptors may be involved in oxytocin and vasopressin release processes.
Dendrotoxin, a snake polypeptide that facilitates the release of neurotransmitters, is a putative ligand for certain voltage-dependent, rapidly-activating K+ channels. Using a 125I-labelled derivative, the location of high-affinity acceptors for this toxin in the rat central nervous system was established by quantitative sheet film autoradiography. A widespread distribution of binding sites was observed, with high densities of acceptors being found in most gray matter regions and along nerve tracts. Heterogeneity in these acceptors was deduced from their differential interaction with beta-bungarotoxin, another probe that perturbs transmitter release. Whereas the latter blocked the majority of dendrotoxin sites in gray matter areas, it competed much less efficaciously for the acceptors in white matter. These collective findings demonstrate the occurrence of dendrotoxin acceptor sub-types which display characteristic distributions in the central nervous system. Notably, this heterogeneity can be related to electrophysiological evidence for the presence in neurons of multiple, dendrotoxin-sensitive, K+ conductances, though some of these remain to be shown directly in brain preparations.
Neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease show a predilection for cortical pyramidal and subcortical projection neurons. The antigenic composition, neuronal specificity and distribution of aluminum-induced neurofibrillary degeneration were examined in regions of rabbit brain analogous to those that develop neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease. Neurofibrillary degeneration was induced by intraventricular instillation of aluminum chloride. In aluminum-treated rabbits, intensely immunoreactive filamentous aggregates were seen in affected neuronal perikarya after staining with an antiphosphorylated neurofilament antibody (SMI 31), while in controls immunoreactivity was confined to axon-like elements. Monoclonal antibodies against Microtubule-associated protein 2 and tau, which stain human neurofibrillary tangles, did not stain aluminum-induced neurofibrillary degeneration. Pyramidal neurons exhibiting neurofibrillary degeneration formed a discrete linear pattern in layers III and V of cortex. Cortical somatostatin and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate diaphorase-reactive neurons identified in double-stained sections were unaffected. Large perikarya in the vicinity of the globus pallidus, some of which contained acetylcholinesterase, were frequently SMI 31-immunoreactive. Among the cell groups affected in the upper brainstem were the nucleus raphe dorsalis and locus coeruleus. These findings show that aluminum-induced neurofibrillary degeneration differs antigenically from neurofibrillary tangles in Alzheimer's disease. Nevertheless, many neuronal subsets that are particularly susceptible to Alzheimer's disease, including cortical pyramidal neurons, basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and upper brainstem catecholaminergic neurons, are also affected by aluminum-induced neurofibrillary degeneration.
The activity of 62 antidromically identified prepositus hypoglossi neurons was recorded in 10 alert cats during spontaneous, vestibular or visually induced eye movements. Neurons were antidromically activated from stimulating electrodes implanted in the ipsilateral medial longitudinal fasciculus (n = 24), the ipsilateral interstitial nucleus of Cajal (n = 6), the ipsilateral parabigeminal nucleus (n = 2), the contralateral superior colliculus (n = 6) and the contralateral cerebellar posterior peduncle (n = 24). Neurons were identified as eye-movement-related when their rate-position and/or rate-velocity plots showed correlation coefficients greater than or equal to 0.6. They were further classified as &quot;position&quot;, &quot;position-velocity&quot; and &quot;velocity-position&quot; according to their relative eye position and velocity coefficients. However, they seemed to be distributed as a continuum in which a progressive decrease of eye velocity sensitivity was accompanied by a proportional increase in eye position sensitivity. &quot;Position-velocity&quot; neurons (n = 9) were mainly horizontal type II neurons projecting to the vicinity of the oculomotor complex; two of these neurons with vertical sensitivity were also activated from the interstitial nucleus of Cajal. Mean position and velocity sensitivity of these neurons were 5.2 spikes/s per degree and 0.62 spikes/s per degree per second, respectively. Pure &quot;position&quot; neurons (n = 7) also showed activation during ipsilateral eye fixations; their mean position gain was 7.3 spikes/s per degree and they projected to the ipsilateral oculomotor and Cajal nuclei, and to the contralateral superior colliculus. &quot;Velocity-position&quot; neurons (n = 18) were type I or II neurons with rather irregular tonic firing rates and a mean velocity gain of 0.75 spikes/s per degree per second. Type II &quot;velocity-position&quot; neurons projected mainly to the oculomotor area, while type I neurons projected preferentially to the cerebellum. A special type of &quot;pause&quot; neuron (n = 5), with very low firing rate and pausing mainly for contralateral saccades, was activated exclusively from the contralateral posterior peduncle. Many neurons with weak eye movement sensitivity (n = 22) were activated mainly (73%) from the cerebellum. It can be concluded that the prepositus hyperglossi nucleus distributes specific eye movement related signals to motor and premotor brainstem and cerebellar structures. The variability of interspike intervals of representative prepositus hypoglossi neurons of each class was compared to the discharge variability of identified abducens motoneurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
[3H]Acetylcholine receptor binding characteristics (under muscarinic conditions) have been investigated using membrane binding assays and in vitro receptor autoradiography. In rat, guinea-pig and monkey brain membrane preparations, [3H]acetylcholine binds with high affinity (25-50 nM) to an apparently single class of sites which is differentially distributed across brain regions. The ligand selectivity pattern reveals that the potency of (-)quinuclidinyl benzylate is greater than (greater than) atropine greater than scopolamine greater than oxotremorine greater than carbamylcholine greater than pirenzepine greater than methylcarbamyl-choline = nicotine in competing for [3H]acetylcholine binding sites, indicating that [3H]acetylcholine selectively binds to muscarinic sites under these incubation conditions. Moreover, the low potency of pirenzepine suggests that [3H]acetylcholine does not label a significant proportion of the M1 receptor sub-type but most likely binds to putative M2-like receptor sites. This hypothesis is also supported by the autoradiographic distribution of [3H]acetylcholine binding sites in all species studied here. High densities of [3H]acetylcholine binding sites are seen in various nuclei of the medulla and pons, certain thalamic nuclei, medial septum, laminae III, V and VI of the cortex and just above the pyramidal cell layer of the hippocampus. Such localization is much different from that seen with the non-selective antagonist [3H]quinuclidinyl benzylate and the selective M1 receptor ligand [3H]pirenzepine, although it resembles that of the selective M2 receptor antagonist [3H]AF-DX 116. Thus, [3H]acetylcholine apparently mostly binds with high affinity mainly to non-M1 muscarinic receptor types in mammalian brain tissues. Moreover, the ligand selectivity pattern and in vitro receptor autoradiographic data suggest that at low concentrations (10-20 nM) most of [3H]actylcholine labelled sites are of the M2-like receptor class.
The specificity of nicotinic receptors in the neocortex has been questioned previously because: (i) electrophysiological responses to nicotine could not be blocked by nicotinic antagonists, and (ii) the effect of nicotine was not mimicked by acetylcholine. In the present study, the presence of functional nicotinic receptors in rat neocortex has been assessed in a slice preparation of prefrontal cortex, using evoked field potential and unit recordings. Nicotine and the nicotinic agonists, dimethylphenylpiperazinium, cytisine, acetylthiocholine, applied by iontophoresis, produced an increase in the negative wave of field potentials, reflecting an increased excitability of cortical neurons. This effect was blocked by the selective probe for neuronal nicotinic receptors Toxin F (1.4 microM in the perfusion medium) and by dihydro-beta-erythroidine (100 microM). Alpha-bungarotoxin, the blocker of skeletal muscle acetylcholine receptor had no effect. Iontophoretically applied acetylcholine, muscarine and pilocarpine, on the other hand, produced a decrease in the field potential amplitude, which was blocked by atropine and scopolamine (1-10 microM). In the presence of eserine (10 microM), the muscarinic effect of acetylcholine was dramatically altered, leading to the development of a nicotinic response sensitive to Toxin F. Thus, the physiological activation of nicotinic receptors in rat prefrontal cortex appears to require higher concentrations of acetylcholine than do muscarinic receptors. Our results show that: (i) the rat prefrontal cortex possesses functional nicotinic receptors with a pharmacological profile clearly distinct from muscle receptors, and (ii) a nicotinic effect of acetylcholine can be revealed when its degradation by acetylcholinesterase is inhibited.
We examined the retinae of two monkeys whose left striate cortex had been removed eight years previously and compared the transneuronally degenerated hemiretina of each eye with the normal hemiretina, and with the retinae of normal monkeys. All retinae were prepared as whole mounts. One from each pair was stained with Cresyl Violet; the other was reacted for horseradish peroxidase two days after placing pellets of the enzyme in the optic nerve. Measurements of ganglion cell density in the Nissl-stained retina of the contralateral right eye showed that approximately 80% of retinal ganglion cells were missing in the central 30 degrees of the degenerated hemiretinae. More peripherally the percentage loss was less extensive. Measurements of cell soma size and dendritic field size of peroxidase-labelled classified surviving cells in the degenerated temporal hemiretina of the ipsilateral eye showed them to be morphologically normal. In comparison with the normal hemiretina, however, the mean soma size at three selected eccentricities was larger than normal, suggesting selective loss of smaller ganglion cells. Classification of peroxidase-labelled ganglion cells in the normal and degenerated hemiretinae revealed that the population of P beta cells was reduced by as much as 85% in the degenerated region. There was comparable change in the density of P alpha or P gamma cells. The degeneration of the great majority of P beta cells, which are believed to be the morphological substrate of ganglion cells with small and colour-opponent receptive fields, must set limits on the visual sensitivity and discrimination that survive damage to striate cortex.
The magnitude and duration of release of monoamines evoked by local applications of potassium were measured in vivo in the medial prefrontal cortex using high-speed chronoamperometry. Typical electrochemical signals reflecting released of electroactive species ranging from 0.5 to 3.0 microM and lasting 90-120 s were detected at a variety of dorsal-ventral and anterior-posterior electrode placements in the medial prefrontal cortex. The magnitude of the reduction current measured following the oxidation reaction suggests a contribution of both serotonin and dopamine to the electrochemical signal, dopamine serving as the predominant monoamine in the medial prefrontal cortex proper and serotonin appearing to predominant in the more posterior regions of the frontal cortex. This conclusion was reinforced by the fact that unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of ascending dopamine fibers almost completely abolished electrochemical signals in the ipsilateral but not in the contralateral medial prefrontal cortex. The present study provides an in vivo characterization of monoamine release in the mesocortical dopamine terminal field, where it has been suggested that psychomotor stimulants may produce some of their positive reinforcing effects.
Modulation of dopaminergic transmission in the nucleus accumbens by the dopaminergic pathways reaching the prefrontal cortex (anteromedian and the suprarhinal parts) and the lateral septum was investigated. Changes in dopaminergic transmission in the nucleus accumbens were assessed by in vivo voltammetry using pretreated carbon fiber electrodes. This technique allows the selective detection of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, the main presynaptic metabolite of dopamine. Dopaminergic transmission in the prefrontal cortex (anteromedian and suprarhinal parts) and the lateral septum was altered by local injection of the dopaminergic agonist (d-amphetamine) and the dopaminergic antagonists (alpha-flupenthixol and sulpiride). Pharmacological interventions, either stimulation or blockade, in the anteromedian and suprarhinal parts of the prefrontal cortex induced, respectively, a decrease or an increase in extracellular 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in the nucleus accumbens. The same pharmacological interventions in the lateral septum had exactly opposite effects in the nucleus accumbens. The inhibitory action of the mesocortical and mesorhinal dopaminergic projections and the facilitatory action of the mesoseptal dopaminergic projection on dopaminergic input in the nucleus accumbens were shown to rely on the activity of inhibitory fugal pathways which could be blocked by local injection of tetrodotoxin in the three structures. In a previous work, it was demonstrated that dopaminergic projections in the amygdala exert an inhibitory influence on dopaminergic transmission in the nucleus accumbens. Thus the present results suggest that functional interdependence between the different dopaminergic pathway arising in the ventral mesencephalon is a general property of this neuronal group. Data obtained after manipulation of dopaminergic transmission in these various projection areas may need to be interpret in a different light. Similarly, neurological and psychiatric observations may need to be reconsidered in view of the interdependence of the dopaminergic mesencephalic pathways.
The transient appearance of intense acetylcholinesterase reactivity in some immature, noncholinergic neurons has not been adequately explained. In this study two questions were investigated that relate to several possible roles for acetylcholinesterase. First, what factors influence the onset and maintenance of reactivity? Second, what are the temporal and spatial features of the cellular expression in relation to stages of neuronal development? Using light- and electron-microscopic histochemical methods, the non-cholinergic ventrobasal complex in thalamus of the immature rat was examined. Ultrastructural observations on fetal ventrobasal complex demonstrated that the onset of acetylcholinesterase reactivity precedes ingrowth of most extrinsic afferents. These inputs are, therefore, unlikely to provide the signal for onset. In transplants and explants, acetylcholinesterase persisted in ventrobasal complex neurons independent of their principal afferents. However, afferentation can affect reactivity. The patterned variation in intensity, characteristic of infant ventrobasal complex, was dramatically altered by unilateral interruption of its afferentation. The changes in intensity patterning could reflect changes in acetylcholinesterase metabolism, since postnatal treatment with an irreversible inhibitor (diisofluorophosphate) in vivo demonstrated resynthesis of acetylcholinesterase. The period of peak intensity of acetylcholinesterase reactivity normally began abruptly at 18 days of gestation +/- 12 h and continued until 4-6 days postnatally. This period follows neurogenesis and migration, but precedes active synaptogenesis. It coincides with outgrowth and initial contacting of cell processes in the ventrobasal complex. The timing complements the ultrastructural finding that acetylcholinesterase-dependent reaction product most commonly is localized to small patches of surface membrane, where distal processes contact each other, non-synaptically. Together these data suggest three points. First, that the expression of acetylcholinesterase in the immature ventrobasal complex neuron is probably under active metabolic control, responsive to both intrinsic and environmental factors. Second, that acetylcholinesterase expression is unlikely to result from a transient cholinergic input. Third, that the temporal and spatial characteristics of histochemical reactivity enable exclusion of several previously suggested explanations for the occurrence of acetylcholinesterase in the ventrobasal complex.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Recent studies suggest that nerve growth factor is present within the central nervous system where it may exert selective trophic effects on cholinergic neurons. We have measured the effects of nerve growth factor on septal cholinergic neurons in three-dimensional reaggregating cell cultures, a system which closely simulates the cellular environment in situ. Septal cells obtained from 15-day-old mouse embryos were dissociated into a single cell suspension and then allowed to reaggregate in culture in a rotary incubator shaker. After 17 days in culture, half of the reaggregates from a flask were sonicated for measurement of choline acetyltransferase activity, and the remaining reaggregates were processed for acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. Addition of nerve growth factor to medium containing septal reaggregates resulted in greater than a three-fold increase in choline acetyltransferase activity and in the number of acetylcholinesterase-positive cells, as well as an enhancement in the staining of acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers. All of these effects of nerve growth factor could be neutralized by antibodies to nerve growth factor. In order to evaluate the possible role of endogenous hippocampal-derived nerve growth factor, antiserum to nerve growth factor was added to the culture media containing septal-hippocampal coaggregates. After 21 days in culture, the presence of nerve growth factor antibodies did not qualitatively affect the pattern or density of cholinergic fibers observed. Synapse formation between cholinergic axons and hippocampal target cells was still in evidence as revealed by electron microscopy. However, there was a modest decrease in choline acetyltransferase activity (20%) and cholinergic cell number (30%) when compared with coaggregates grown in culture medium either without nerve growth factor antiserum or with non-immune serum. The magnitude of these effects was markedly less than the effects observed when exogenous nerve growth factor was added to septal cells grown alone in reaggregate culture. These results suggest that nerve growth factor may play a role during central cholinergic development, but that additional trophic mechanisms are likely to be required.
The role of the accessory olfactory bulb in conveying pheromonal information to tuberoinfundibular arcuate neurons was examined electrophysiologically in chloral hydrate-anaesthetized, oestrogen (0.5 micrograms in silastic capsules)-treated and untreated ovariectomized Balb/c female mice. Electrical stimulation of the accessory olfactory bulb orthodromically excited part of tuberoinfundibular neurons which were antidromically stimulated from the median eminence and histologically verified as being located within the arcuate nucleus. No inhibitions followed accessory bulb stimulation. The excitatory response to accessory bulb stimulation was reversibly blocked by the local anaesthetic lignocaine infused into the amygdala. The percentage of tuberoinfundibular arcuate neurons responding to accessory bulb stimulation was significantly higher in oestrogen-treated than in untreated animals. There was no difference between the two groups for the antidromic activation threshold, spontaneous firing rate, absolute refractory period or frequency of successful antidromic propagation into the soma of tuberoinfundibular arcuate neurons. In oestrogen-treated preparations, tuberoinfundibular arcuate neurons responsive and unresponsive to accessory bulb stimulation could be distinguished by the frequency of successful antidromic propagation into the soma. These studies demonstrate that olfactory relay neurons in the accessory olfactory bulb act to enhance the activity of a subpopulation of tuberoinfundibular arcuate neurons via the amygdala and that this neural transmission is modulated by oestrogen.
The periaqueductal gray of the rat contains significant levels of the putative peptide neurotransmitter neurotensin. The profound anti-nociceptive effects of neurotensin injected into the periaqueductal gray may involve a population of periaqueductal gray neurons having descending projections to the rostral ventral medulla, including nucleus raphe magnus and adjacent reticular nuclei. In this study, electron microscopic immunocytochemistry was used to examine the ultrastructure of periaqueductal gray axon terminals containing neurotensin-like immunoreactive material and to obtain quantitative data regarding the relationship of such terminals to other elements of the neuropil. Of particular interest was the interaction between neurotensin-like immunoreactive terminals and retrogradely labeled neurons that project to nucleus raphe magnus and adjacent reticular nuclei. Within the periaqueductal gray, the sites of retrograde and immuno-labeling were consistent with previous reports. The neurotensin-immunoreactive structures were predominantly axon fibers and terminals. In the ventrocaudal periaqueductal gray, the mean diameter of neurotensin-containing terminals was 0.93 +/- 0.02 micron and they comprised a volume fraction of 0.0010. Most of the neurotensin-positive terminals examined (74.2%) were in contact with or closely apposed to dendrites. The most common anatomical configuration observed was a single neurotensin-immunoreactive terminal juxtaposed to three dendrites. Only 2% of immunoreactive terminals were apposed to perikarya. Neurotensin-immunoreactive terminals were observed to form symmetrical synapses and 96.4% of such terminals were axodendritic. Occasional multiple neurotensin-immunoreactive terminals associated with single dendrites were observed. Although neurotensin-like immunoreactive terminals were quite prominent, only a small percentage made synaptic contact with periaqueductal gray neurons that project to the nucleus raphe magnus and adjacent reticular formation. Among the population of periaqueductal gray neurons retrogradely-labeled from nucleus raphe magnus and adjacent reticular nuclei, the frequency of direct synaptic contact by neurotensin-immunoreactive terminals was 2%. These data suggest that the periaqueductal gray circuitry by which neurotensin ultimately affects descending pathways is complex and may involve a population of local circuit neurons whose transmitters and connections remain to be elucidated.
Angiotensin II binding sites have been localized in sections of bovine adrenal glands and on living cultured bovine adrenal medullary cells using [125I]-[Sar1,Ile8]-angiotensin II and autoradiographic techniques. Binding sites were observed over both adrenaline and noradrenaline chromaffin cells. However, they were present in higher density over adrenaline cells, as determined by the distribution of phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase mRNA by in situ hybridization histochemistry and of glyoxylic acid-induced fluorescence of noradrenaline. Binding sites were also observed in low density over nerve tracts within the bovine adrenal gland. Living cultured bovine adrenal medullary cells possessed angiotensin II binding sites. Not all cells were labelled. At least 73% of identified dispersed chromaffin cells in these cultures were labelled. Some chromaffin cells were not labelled with the ligand, and at least some non-chromaffin cells in the cultures did possess angiotensin II binding sites. The results provide direct anatomical support for the known ability of angiotensin II to elicit catecholamine secretion from perfused adrenal glands and from cultured adrenal chromaffin cells. They also suggest that some of the effects of angiotensin II on calcium fluxes and second messenger levels measured in cultured adrenal medullary cell preparations may be due to angiotensin II acting on non-chromaffin cells present in these cultures.
Rat soleus muscles were partially denervated at two developmental stages. The L5 ventral ramus was sectioned in rats which were 4-6 days old, when the motor unit size of soleus muscles was still large, and at 17-19 days, when motor unit territory reached its adult value. The response of axons in the L4 ventral ramus to this procedure was then investigated. The removal of the L5 ventral ramus at 4-6 days results in an initial brief increase of motor unit size, after which the motor units retain the territory they occupied at 4-6 days. After removal of the L5 ventral ramus at 17-19 days, the L4 ventral ramus is able to expand to occupy a territory comparable in size to that of animals operated at 4-6 days. In both cases the final percentage of mean motor unit tension is two- to three-fold greater than that in normal muscles. Although the final motor unit territory is similar for both groups, it is achieved by different mechanisms. In animals operated on at 4-6 days the normal elimination of terminals does not occur, and the large neonatal motor units are retained, whereas in animals operated on at 17-19 days the peripheral field of L4 axons expands by axonal sprouting.
Intracellular recordings were made from submucous plexus neurons of the guinea-pig cecum maintained in vitro. Histamine (0.3-10 microM) produced a dose-dependent membrane depolarization (congruent to 13 mV with 3 microM) in about 28% of the cells tested; most of these cells showed a prominent calcium-activated potassium conductance (AH cells). The depolarization was due primarily to an inactivation of potassium conductance which is available at the resting membrane potential of -60 mV. Peak amplitude of the fast excitatory postsynaptic potential was depressed by histamine (0.1-10 microM) in a dose-dependent manner (congruent to 62% depression with 1 microM). This was observed even in those cells in which histamine did not produce any membrane depolarizations (mostly S cells). The depression of the fast excitatory postsynaptic potential resulted from the presynaptic inhibition of acetylcholine release. Histamine also reduced the amplitude of the non-cholinergic, presumably peptidergic, slow excitatory postsynaptic potential by suppressing peptide release from presynaptic nerve terminals. Peak amplitude of the adrenergic inhibitory synaptic potential was not depressed by histamine suggesting that histamine receptors are not present on presynaptic terminals of sympathetic nerve fibres. Both postsynaptic and presynaptic actions of histamine were blocked by cimetidine or ranitidine but not by pyrilamine implying that H2 receptors are involved.
A monoclonal antibody raised against the capsular polysaccharides of meningococcus B was used for immunohistochemical studies in the rat brain, with particular focus on the substantia nigra. This antibody recognizes polysialic acid residues specifically associated with the neuronal-cell adhesion molecule, and reacts with the highly sialylated embryonic neuronal-cell adhesion molecule, but not with the weakly sialylated adult form of the molecule. Immunoreactivity to this monoclonal antibody was intense and widespread in the brain of 1-10-day-old hooded rats. Immunolabeling was associated with cell membranes and present in the intersomata space. In sections from 16- and 25-day-old rats, marked heterogeneity in the level of immunostaining appeared among individual brain nuclei. Areas devoid of labeling with the anti-meningococcus antibody still expressed immunoreactivity to a polyclonal anti-neuronal-cell adhesion molecule antibody. This suggests that the loss of immunostaining with the monoclonal antibody did not correspond to a loss of expression of neuronal-cell adhesion molecule, but to a maturation from the embryonic to the adult form of the molecule, occurring at different rates in various brain regions. In 2-month-old rats, immunolabeling with the monoclonal antibody was still present in discrete brain areas, including the substantia nigra, suggesting that the presence of highly sialylated neuronal-cell adhesion molecule outlasts post-natal development in those brain regions. It is proposed that neuronal-cell adhesion molecule associated polysialic residues may play a role in neuronal plasticity in restricted areas of the adult brain.
The effect of systemically administered amphetamine, cocaine, phencyclidine and nomifensine on the extracellular concentrations of dopamine in freely moving rats was estimated by microdialysis in the nucleus accumbens and in the dorsal caudate. All the drugs tested stimulated dopamine output in both areas but more effectively in the accumbens as compared to the caudate. Low doses of cocaine (1.0 mg/kg s.c.) stimulated dopamine output only in the nucleus accumbens. Nomifensine (1.25-5.0 mg/kg s.c.) increased by a similar extent peak dopamine output in the two dopaminergic areas but the duration of the effect was longer in the accumbens as compared to the caudate. The effect of cocaine, phencyclidine and nomifensine was prevented by systemic gamma-butyrolactone (700 mg/kg i.p.) and by omitting Ca2+ from the Ringer used for dialysis, the effect of amphetamine was insensitive to these manipulations. Thus, in contrast with amphetamine, cocaine, phencyclidine and nomifensine increase synaptic dopamine concentrations in vivo by a mechanism which depends on intact activity of dopaminergic neurons and by an exocytotic process.
Using quantitative autoradiography of ligand binding sites combined with lesions of specific neuronal pathways, the cellular locations of A1 and A2 adenosine receptors, as well as a third binding site for the adenosine receptor ligand, [3H]N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine, and a nucleoside transporter were investigated in rat neostriatum. Intrastriatal kainic acid administration resulted in the loss of 50% of A1 adenosine receptors and virtually abolished ligand binding to A2 receptors. A small reduction in [3H]cyclohexyladenosine binding to striatal A1 receptors was found after lesioning the corticostriatal input. A2 receptor sites were unaffected by this treatment. Destruction of dopaminergic neurons using 6-hydroxydopamine or the raphestriatal serotoninergic input using 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine affected neither A1 nor A2 binding sites. These results indicate the localization of both A1 and A2 adenosine receptors on neurons intrinsic to the neostriatum and probably postsynaptic to the dopaminergic input. In addition, a binding site for [3H]N-ethylcarboxamidoadenosine which is not affected by the adenosine receptor agonist, R-phenylisopropyladenosine, was also partly abolished after kainic acid injection. In contrast, no significant change in the binding of the nucleoside transporter ligand, [3H]nitrobenzylthioinosine, was observed after any lesions, indicating the widespread association of this site with various cell types.
The present study is aimed at an electron-microscopic morphometrical analysis of the pyramidal tract of 14-month-old rats at the level of the pyramis medullae and the second cervical segment, and a comparison with data obtained for rats of two months of age. Between 2 and 14 months of age there is, at the level of the pyramis medullae of the left pyramidal tract, a statistically significant increase of the number of myelinated fibers, from 91,000 to 118,000, whereas the total number of unmyelinated fibers decreases from 133,000 to 101,000. On the right side at the same level there is no statistically significant change in the number of myelinated fibers, whereas there is a significant decrease of unmyelinated fibers at this side, from 148,000 to 89,000. At the second cervical level, a statistically significant increase in the number of myelinated fibers has been noted at both sides (from 43,000 to 60,000) between 2 and 14 months, whereas the mean total number of unmyelinated fibers at this level decreases somewhat (from 35,000 to 28,000), but is not statistically significant. Several processes which might be involved in the age-related changes observed are discussed, including the possibility of a shift from unmyelinated fibers to myelinated ones, withdrawal of corticobulbar fibers and ongoing outgrowth of myelinated corticofugal fibers after two months of age, and a summarizing scheme is presented. We conclude that the pyramidal tract of the rat changes in composition after the age of two months and that continuing outgrowth of myelinated corticospinal fibers is an important aspect of this continuing development.
Cat spinal Renshaw cells were activated by stimulating muscle nerves or ventral roots with random (pseudo-Poisson) patterns of brief electrical stimuli. This input pattern is optimal for a comparative study in both the frequency- and time-domain. The frequency-dependent variable of particular interest in this study was the coherence as a measure of the degree to which signal transmission is linear and noise-free; it was estimated via spectral analysis. Time-domain analysis consisted of calculating peri-stimulus time histograms in order to estimate the amount of nonlinearity in the cell responses to pairs of stimuli. The main result was that the amount of nonlinearity measured in this way did not profoundly depress the coherence. Two types of peri-stimulus time histogram were calculated: the &quot;conventional&quot; peri-stimulus time histogram (as a reference) computed with respect to all the stimuli in a train, and the &quot;conditional&quot; peri-stimulus time histogram computed with respect to the second in pairs of stimuli which were separated from each other by varied intervals delta. The latter type of peri-stimulus time histogram showed that Renshaw cell responses to stimuli were conditioned by preceding stimuli, which could facilitate (at small delta s) and/or more often depress (up to several hundreds of milliseconds) the subsequent responses in a nonlinear manner. The objective of this study was to test the hypothesis that nonlinear characteristics contribute significantly to depress the coherence from its optimal value (1).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The cholinergic innervation of the compact and reticular parts of the substantia nigra in the rat was investigated by use of highly sensitive retrograde and anterograde tract-tracing methods in combination with choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry. The fluorescent tracers True Blue, propidium iodide, or fluorogold were infused preferentially into either nigral subnucleus. Cells positive for choline acetyltransferase and retrograde tracer were found in both the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei, although considerably more double-labeled somata were observed in the former than in the latter component of the pontomesencephalotegmental cholinergic complex. Approximately 2-3 times more cholinergic cells were labeled in the peduculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei when tracer injections were centered in the compact nigral subdivision than when infusions of about the same size were confined totally to the reticular part. Infusions of the anterogradely transported tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin into the pontomesencephalotegmental cholinergic complex resulted in uptake and transport of that label to both nigral subnuclei, and some of the Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin-accumulating somata and proximal processes also demonstrated choline acetyltransferase-like immunoreactivity. The Phaseolus vulgaris agglutinin-labeled entities in the substantia nigra exhibited terminal-like profiles that were reminiscent of the pattern of nigral choline acetyltransferase-positive puncta demonstrated immunohistochemically by use of nickel ammonium sulfate enhancement of the final reaction product in the avidin-biotin procedure. These observations strongly support the contention that the pontomesencephalotegmental cholinergic complex is the major source of cholinergic projections to both the compact and reticular portions of the rat substantia nigra.
A new immunohistochemical method that utilizes carbodiimide as a tissue fixative was applied to study the distribution of histamine-immunoreactive neuronal fibers and terminals in the rat brain. Immunoreactive fibers were observed in almost all major regions of the brain. They were most numerous in the different hypothalamic nuclei. Dense networks of immunoreactive fibers were also seen in the medial septum, nucleus of the diagonal band and ventral tegmental area. A moderate density of fibers was seen throughout the cerebral cortex, in some parts of the olfactory bulb and tubercle, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, amygdala, basal parts of the hippocampus, inferior and superior colliculi, substantia nigra, lateral and medial parabrachial nucleus, and the nucleus of the solitary tract. Few histamine-immunoreactive fibers were seen in most parts of the caudate putamen, most thalamic nuclei, most pontine and ventral medullary nuclei. Histamine-immunoreactive neuronal cell bodies were found exclusively in the tuberomammillary nucleus, in agreement with previous reports. The results provide evidence for a widespread distribution of histamine-containing nerve fibers and terminals in the rat brain. Although immunohistochemical localization of histamine does not give direct evidence of a functional role of histamine in any brain area, this distribution suggests involvement in functions of the limbic system including the septal nuclei, hypothalamus and amygdala. The relatively dense histamine-immunoreactive fiber networks in the colliculi and dorsal cochlear nucleus indicate that this amine may play a role in visual functions and hearing. The paucity of immunoreactive fibers in the pontine and medullary areas suggests that the caudal projections originating from the tuberomammillary complex are minor ones compared to the major rostral projections. Several fiber projections originating from the tuberomammillary complex could be deduced from serial frontal, sagittal and horizontal sections. They contained fibers that crossed the midline at several levels of the brain. The results provide information on the target areas of the histaminergic neurons and form a basis for the examination of cellular contracts between the histaminergic neurons and other cells.
Physiological evidence indicates that the supraoptic nucleus may be an important integrating region for information relating to body fluid homeostasis. It is known that the supraoptic nucleus receives neural influences from brain receptive zones for plasma osmolality and angiotensin II, as well as from relay centers for blood pressure and blood volume. It is also known that these influences interact to modulate vasopressin release from the supraoptic nucleus. Therefore, a detailed investigation of the neurochemical afferents to the supraoptic nucleus from regions of the lamina terminalis and the brainstem was undertaken. Injection of a fluorescent retrograde tracer, doxorubicin, into the supraoptic nucleus was combined with histochemistry of angiotensin II and catecholamines. Following supraoptic nucleus injection, retrograde label was found in forebrain neurons of the subfornical organ, median preoptic nucleus, and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminals. Some labeled cells in the subfornical organ and organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis were also found to contain angiotensin II immunoreactivity. In the brainstem, retrograde label was found in neurons of the A1, A2 and A6 cell groups. Many of these cells were also found to contain catecholamine fluorescence or tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. Corroboration of the A2 projection was obtained by lesions of this nucleus, which reduced catecholamine fluorescence in the supraoptic nucleus. These findings provide an anatomical basis for the functional observations that the supraoptic nucleus plays a key integrative role in the maintenance of body fluid homeostasis.
A paired pulse stimulation protocol was employed to examine the loss of inhibition in the hippocampus of the kainic acid-treated rat in vivo. Extracellular recordings were obtained from the CA1 pyramidal cell layer 1, 4, 8 and 16 weeks after a unilateral intracerebroventricular injection of kainic acid. Recordings were made both ipsilateral and contralateral to the site of kainic acid injection. The results demonstrated a loss of paired pulse inhibition in hippocampal CA1 area ipsilateral to the site of kainic acid injection which did not alter over 16 weeks. While the contralateral hippocampus showed no change 1 week after kainic acid injection, a reduction of paired pulse inhibition was seen after 4, 8 and 16 weeks. It is therefore apparent that the effects of kainic acid on the state of inhibition of the hippocampus are long-lasting and, furthermore, that the response to an injection of kainic acid is widespread, affecting the inhibitory control of the contralateral hippocampus.
Developmental alterations in GABAergic synaptic transmission were examined physiologically and biochemically in hippocampus of rats from 3 days of age to adulthood. Neither antidromic nor orthodromic stimulation could elicit identifiable inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in CA1 neurons in slices from rats 5 or 6 days of age. In contrast, at this age these stimuli result in large inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in CA3 pyramidal cells. In the latter cells orthodromic stimulation produced a brief monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potential which was followed by a large prolonged biphasic hyperpolarization. These signals were strikingly similar to those recorded in 1-month-old rats. In addition, large recurrent inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were produced by antidromic stimulation. By postnatal day 9 similar inhibitory postsynaptic potentials could be elicited in a majority of neurons of the CA1 subfield. As in mature pyramidal cells, application of GABA antagonists, such as bicuculline, selectively eliminated the antidromic inhibitory postsynaptic potential and the first component of the biphasic inhibitory postsynaptic potential generated by stimulation of stratum radiatum. In the CA3 subfield, this blockade of GABA receptors resulted in prolonged afterdischarges in slices from immature but not month-old rats. Measurements of the equilibrium potential and the conductance of antidromic inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in CA3 neurons were very similar when made during the first postnatal week and at 1 month of age. While on days 10-11 the equilibrium potential was very similar to measurements made at these other ages, the conductance was 3-4 times greater. The activity of glutamate decarboxylase, the synthetic enzyme for GABA, was very low at 3 days in hippocampus, and increased until 30 days of age at which time adult values were obtained. By comparison, hippocampal GABA levels were high early in postnatal life. Glutamate decarboxylase activities in microdissected CA3 and CA1 subfields were similar in immature hippocampus. These results demonstrate dramatic differences in the ontogenesis of functional GABAergic inhibitory synaptic transmission in the CA1 and CA3 subfields of rat hippocampus. The late development of GABA-mediated synaptic inhibition in the CA1 subfield could play a role in the susceptibility of immature hippocampus to seizures. However, the large GABA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials present in the CA3 subfield at the same age have a critical role in dampening neuronal excitability.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A miniature multiple thin-film recording sensor was used to measure simultaneously the electrical activity, oxygen content and temperature of brain tissue. The chamber-type potential sensor was an Ag/AgCl electrode covered by an Si3N4 (silicon nitride) chamber. The chamber-type oxygen sensor consisted of an Au-Ag/AgCl two-electrode electrochemical cell embedded in an electrolyte-filled Si3N4 chamber. The temperature sensor was a thin-film germanium resistor. The different sensors were spaced 300 microns apart. Anaesthetics (pentobarbital, chloral hydrate, chlornembutal, halothane) were shown to depress electrical activity and to increase local oxygen tension in the hippocampus. Halothane, but not the other anaesthetics, also increased the current output of the oxygen sensor when tested in saline bath, indicating that the apparent increase in measured oxygen levels during halothane anaesthesia was partly due to an electrochemical effect of halothane on the oxygen sensors. The decrease of tissue oxygen consumption produced by the other anaesthetics is likely to be the result of metabolic depression. Cerebral ischemia, evoked by cauterization of the vertebral arteries and occlusion of the carotid arteries for 30 min, resulted in the disappearance of both spontaneous and evoked electrical activity in the hippocampus and a decrease of both local temperature and oxygen tension. There was a marked overshoot of the oxygen tension to above preocclusion level following the release of the carotid arteries. As soon as electrical activity returned, the oxygen tension fell again, often below the lowest level seen during the ischemic period. This secondary decrease of oxygen level could be reversed by administration of supplementary small doses of anaesthetic. The anaesthetic-induced increase in oxygen tension was accompanied by a marked decrease in electroencephalogram amplitude and frequency. During electrically induced seizures a decrease in hippocampal oxygen content occurred and was accompanied by an increase of local temperature. Since the rectal temperature was kept constant, the changes in temperature are likely to reflect changes in blood perfusion of the recorded area. These findings are in agreement with previous observations made with conventional electrodes. In addition, the miniature size of the chamber-type microelectrode assembly allows a correlated monitoring of parallel physiological changes with high spatial and temporal resolution during anaesthesia, ischemia and epilepsy.
Spontaneous and evoked field potentials and cellular discharges were studied in the subcortically denervated hippocampus of the freely moving rat. The fimbria fornix, the ventral hippocampal commissure, and the supracallosal afferent fibers were removed by aspiration, and recordings were made 3-5 months after the lesion. Two types of spontaneous interictal spikes were observed. Type 1 interictal spike had identical depth distribution to physiological sharp waves but they were shorter in duration (less than 40 ms), larger in amplitude (greater than 2.5 mV) and population spikes were riding on the main deflection. Type 2 interictal spikes were negative in the stratum oriens and positive in the pyramidal layer and stratum radiatum of both CA1 and CA3. The amplitude of both types of interictal spikes could exceed 6 mV. We suggest that interictal spikes were initiated randomly in different subpopulations of the CA2-3 region and the location of the initiating population burst determined the polarity and amplitude of the extracellular interictal spike. Repetitive stimulation of the perforant path (5 Hz, 6 s) evoked markedly uniform afterdischarges in both intact and fimbria fornix-deprived rats. The threshold of afterdischarges was significantly lower, the seizure spread to the contralateral hippocampus was slower, and secondary afterdischarges lasted significantly longer in the lesioned rats. We suggest that under physiological conditions the electrical stability of the hippocampus is ensured by the feed-forward inhibitory action of subcortical afferents. Removal of tonic inhibitory influences and/or sprouting of local axon collaterals allows extreme synchronization and reverberation of information in the entorhinal-hippocampal-entorhinal cortex circuitry. The presence of interictal spikes and increased susceptibility to seizures for several months after the lesion offers the fimbria-fornix-deprived hippocampus a useful chronic preparation to study the mechanisms of limbic epilepsy.
The involvement of new protein and messenger ribonucleic acid synthesis in long-term potentiation was studied in the anaesthetized rat dentate gyrus using several inhibitors of protein synthesis (anisomycin, emetine, cycloheximide and puromycin) and an inhibitor of messenger ribonucleic acid synthesis (actinomycin D). When injected for 1 h just prior to tetanization, the four inhibitors of protein synthesis produced a mild reduction of long-term potentiation of the excitatory postsynaptic potential measured 10 min after tetanization. Anisomycin produced a significantly faster decay of long-term potentiation, while the other inhibitors had more moderate effects. Actinomycin D failed to affect long-term potentiation. In a second experiment, the time-dependency of the anisomycin effect was examined. Anisomycin injected immediately after tetanization promoted decay of long-term potentiation, but when injected after a 15-min delay, the drug had no effect. Inhibition of protein synthesis for 4 h prior to tetanization did not have any more effect on long-term potentiation than inhibition for 1 h. In no experiment was long-term potentiation of the population spike affected by drug manipulation. These results suggest that for long-term potentiation of the excitatory postsynaptic potential to be maintained for at least 3 h proteins must be synthesized from already existing messenger ribonucleic acid, and that this synthesis is mostly completed within 15 min after tetanization.
A recent study reported that Alzheimer senile plaques immunostained with monoclonal antibodies against the A4 (beta-amyloid) region of the amyloid precursor protein show gradients of density (Majocha R. E., Benes F. M., Reifel R. L., Rodenrys A. M. and Marotta C. A., Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 85, 6182-6186, 1988). Although more than one explanation was suggested for this observation, the possible involvement of a diffusional process during plaque maturation was considered. In order to examine this hypothesis, specimens from prefrontal cortex, entorhinal area and hippocampal formation were immunoprocessed in a similar fashion and subjected to quantitative microdensitometric analyses of A4 amyloid reaction product. All plaques in the three brain areas examined showed a curvilinear relationship between the area of amyloid reaction product (expressed in pixel counts) and optical density (expressed as each of six grey scale levels). There was an increase in the area of amyloid at progressively lower density levels. When the area of amyloid reaction product at each density level was correlated with the overall size of individual plaques, it was found that there was a striking increase in the correlation coefficients at progressively lower grey scale levels, with r = 0.853 at the lowest level examined. When a second order derivation of these correlations was performed by expressing individual r-values with respect to an optical density index, an asymptotic relationship resulted with the lowest density levels showing an increasingly sharp rise toward unity. These data are consistent overall with a model for plaque maturation that involves diffusion of amyloid protein through the extracellular space from focal regions of high density where synthesis and/or release may occur.
The recent finding that the serine protease inhibitor, alpha 1-antichymotrypsin, is tightly associated with the amyloid deposits in brains of normal aged individuals and patients with Alzheimer's disease [Abraham C. R., Selkoe D. J. and Potter H. (1988) Cell 52, 487-501], suggests a role for this inhibitor in the progressive deposition of brain amyloid in humans. We have used immunocytochemistry to detect alpha 1-antichymotrypsin in the amyloid that accumulates in brains of aged monkeys, a naturally occurring animal model of Alzheimer-like neuropathology. In monkeys of increasing age, the earliest alpha 1-antichymotrypsin immunoreactivity was found in cortical perivascular cells, before the appearance of either Thioflavin S-detectable amyloid deposits or beta-protein reactivity in the vessel walls. Subsequently, amyloid deposits appeared in small meningeal blood vessels and cortical neuritic plaques. The oldest monkeys also showed microvascular amyloid in the cortical gray matter. Amyloid was never seen in white matter. The amyloid deposits in meningeal vessels were always positive for both beta-protein and alpha 1-antichymotrypsin, whereas in the cortex, alpha 1-antichymotrypsin immunoreactivity seemed to appear somewhat later than that of beta-protein. These findings demonstrate that two of the brain amyloid components of human senescence and Alzheimer's disease--the beta-protein and the protease inhibitor alpha 1-antichymotrypsin--are also present in the amyloid deposits of normal aged monkey brain. The extended molecular parallels between normal brain aging and Alzheimer's disease suggest that similar biochemical mechanisms may underlie progressive amyloid deposition in both situations.
Cholinergic neurons in the nucleus basalis region of the forebrain project to various portions of the cerebral cortex, including somatosensory cortex. Degeneration of these neurons and their cortical projections is a major feature of the neuropathology of Alzheimer's disease. Injecting an excitotoxin into the basal forebrain to destroy nucleus basalis neurons provides a potentially useful animal model for studying the role of these neurons in Alzheimer's disease. Previously, we demonstrated that rats with nucleus basalis excitotoxin lesions performed poorly on a tactile discrimination task and on a test of working memory. In an effort to clarify further the role of impaired memory versus other types of impairment (e.g. disrupted somatosensory processing due to cholinergic deafferentation of somatosensory cortex), we compared a group of rats with bilateral nucleus basalis excitotoxin lesions and a group with bilateral somatosensory cortical ablations on a variety of behavioral tasks. Rats with nucleus basalis lesions performed as well as controls on a battery of neurological tests but exhibited increased emotionality unlike rats with somatosensory cortical ablations which performed poorly on the battery but were not hyperemotional. The two lesion groups were impaired significantly and to a comparable degree in performing two-choice tactile discriminations in a T-maze. In contrast, only rats with nucleus basalis lesions showed deficits in working memory as tested in an eight-arm radial maze. Both lesion groups performed comparably to sham controls on a test of reference memory involving a black/white discrimination in a T-maze. The findings suggest that rats with nucleus basalis lesions manifest disturbances in several of the same spheres (emotionality, somatosensory information processing, memory) that are disrupted in Alzheimer's disease and further confirm the utility of the excitotoxin lesion approach for studying the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease.
The preceding review indicates that there is convincing evidence for the presence of adenosine in and release of adenosine from capsaicin-sensitive small diameter primary afferent neurons in the spinal cord (Fig. 1). Within the dorsal spinal cord, adenosine inhibits the transmission of nociceptive information, although details of mechanisms involved in this action remain to be established. In view of the antinociceptive actions of adenosine analogues, there has been some interest in the possibility of developing adenosine analogues as analgesic agents. However, this goal may be frustrated by this concomitant suppression of motor function, as well as the production of other side effects due to the diverse nature of pharmacological effects seen with adenosine analogues. Release of adenosine from small diameter primary afferent nerve terminals and subsequent activation of extracellular adenosine receptors in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord appears to contribute significantly to the spinal action of opioids. An understanding of spinal mechanisms of actions of adenosine therefore is an important prerequisite for our understanding of the action of this clinically important group of drugs. ATP may be a sensory neurotransmitter released from non-nociceptive large diameter primary afferent neurons (Fig. 1). The subsequent extracellular conversion of released ATP to adenosine may produce suppression of the transmission of noxious sensory information via small diameter primary afferent fibres, and contribute to the phenomenon of vibration induced analgesia. Clearly, the role of purines on spinal cord processing of nociceptive information merits considerable attention.
In the early 1970s, Andersen and colleagues proposed that the principal excitatory pathways of the hippocampal formation were organized in a lamellar fashion. This proposition, based heavily on the physiological studies of the proponents, indicated that &quot;a point source of entorhinal activity projects its impulses through the four membered pathway (of the hippocampal formation) along a slice or lamella, of hippocampal tissue oriented normally to the alvear surface&quot; [Anderson P., Bliss V.P. and Skrede K. K. (1971) Expl Brain Res. 13, 222-238] and perpendicular to the long axis of the hippocampus. Andersen et al. further suggested that, &quot;By means of this lamellar organization, small strips of the hippocampal cortex may operate as independent functional units, although excitatory and inhibitory transverse connections may modify the behavior of neighboring lamellae.&quot; The &quot;lamellar hypothesis&quot; of hippocampal anatomical organization has had tremendous influence on the conceptualization of hippocampal information processing and was largely responsible for prompting the establishment of the in vitro hippocampal slice technology. While the &quot;lamellar hypothesis&quot; was consistent with the known neuroanatomy, subsequent neuroanatomical investigations, using a variety of modern tracing techniques, have invariably demonstrated that all of the major hippocampal projections, except for those arising from the granule cells of the dentate gyrus, are much more divergent than would be consistent with a strict interpretation of the lamellar hypothesis. This has become particularly clear in ongoing studies of the intrinsic hippocampal projections using the recently introduced anterograde tracer, Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin. Citing the conclusions from several papers dealing with the anatomical organization of the hippocampal formation and using examples from recent Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin mapping studies, the following are demonstrated. (1) That the major hippocampal projections are as extensive and highly organized in the long or septotemporal axis of the hippocampus as in the transverse axis. (2) That at least some of the hippocampal projections, such as the associational projections arising from the dentate gyrus, appear to be specifically organized to integrate distant levels of the hippocampal formation. (3) That the physiological data of Anderson et al. can be re-interpreted in the light of these new anatomical data to show how the stimulation and recording protocols used at the time would, in fact, generate the appearance of a lamellar organization. It is concluded that it is heuristically most reasonable to consider the hippocampal formation as a three-dimensional cortical region with important information processing taking place in both the transverse and long axes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Review of the normally occurring neuronal patterns of the hippocampus suggests that the two principal cell types of the hippocampus, the pyramidal neurons and granule cells, are maximally active during different behaviors. Granule cells reach their highest discharge rates during theta-concurrent exploratory activities, while population synchrony of pyramidal cells is maximum during immobility, consummatory behaviors, and slow wave sleep associated with field sharp waves. Sharp waves reflect the summed postsynaptic depolarization of large numbers of pyramidal cells in the CA1 and subiculum as a consequence of synchronous discharge of bursting CA3 pyramidal neurons. The trigger for the population burst in the CA3 region is the temporary release from subcortical tonic inhibition. An overview of the experimentally explored criteria of synaptic enhancement (intensity, frequency, and pattern of postsynaptic depolarization, calcium influx, cooperativity, threshold) suggests that these requirements may be present during sharp wave-concurrent population bursts of pyramidal cells. Experimental evidence is cited showing that (a) population bursts in CA3 may lead to long-term potentiation in their postsynaptic CA1 targets, (b) tetanizing stimuli are capable of increasing the synchrony of the sharp wave-burst, and (c) activity patterns of the neocortical input to the hippocampus determine which subgroup of CA3 neurons will trigger subsequently occurring population bursts (initiator cells). Based on the experimental evidence reviewed a formal model of memory trace formation is outlined. During exploratory (theta) behaviors the neocortical information is transmitted to the hippocampus via the fast-firing granule cells which may induce a weak and transient heterosynaptic potentiation in a subgroup of CA3 pyramidal cells. The weakly potentiated CA3 neurons will then initiate population bursts upon the termination of exploratory activity (sharp wave state). It is assumed that recurrent excitation during the population burst is strongest on those cells which initiated the population event. It is suggested that the strong excitatory drive brought about by the sharp wave-concurrent population bursts during consummatory behaviors, immobility, and slow wave sleep may be sufficient for the induction of long-term synaptic modification in the initiator neurons of the CA3 region and in their targets in CA1. In this two-stage model both exploratory (theta) and sharp wave states of the hippocampus are essential and any interference that might modify the structure of the population bursts (e.g. epileptic spikes) is detrimental to memory trace formation.
The literature on ionic requirements for excitotoxicity is largely contradictory. Depending on the experimental paradigms, it has been concluded that either Ca2+ or Na+ and Cl- mediate excitotoxicity. In the present study, the dependence on Ca2+ of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced damage to neurons in immature rat hippocampal slices was investigated with light microscopy. In addition N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced cell damage was followed by measurement of release of lactate dehydrogenase from slices. When incubated in N-methyl-D-aspartate-containing (100 microM) buffer for 30 min, hippocampal neurons displayed fine chromatin aggregation and swelling of neuronal nuclei and neuropil. Slices incubated in standard medium for 90 min after exposure to N-methyl-D-aspartate contained a large number of neurons that failed to recover from the initial lesion. The acute edema was at least as severe in slices incubated in N-methyl-D-aspartate-containing, Ca2+-free buffer. In contrast, clumping of the chromatin could not be observed. CA1 neurons recovered completely from the acute changes, and granule cells recovered to some extent. While omission of Ca2+ had no obvious morphological effects on the tissue in its own right, the efflux of lactate dehydrogenase was significantly increased after incubation in Ca2+-free medium. Slices exposed to N-methyl-D-aspartate released approximately twice as much lactate dehydrogenase as controls 1-5 h after the exposure, and the same rate of release was seen if Ca2+ was absent during N-methyl-D-aspartate treatment. The morphological results suggest that N-methyl-D-aspartate toxicity is Ca2+-dependent in pyramidal cells whereas the toxicity in granule cells is partly Ca2+-independent.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The anatomical distributions of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and delta sleep-inducing peptide immunoreactivity in the rabbit brain were studied by indirect immunofluorescence technique. The comparison of adjacent serial sections, one being immunolabeled with an antiserum to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, the other with an antiserum to delta sleep-inducing peptide, showed that the respective distribution patterns of immunoreactivity exhibited a remarkable overlap through the basal forebrain and hypothalamic regions. A sequential double-immunolabelling (elution-restaining method) clearly indicated that all the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone-immunoreactive cell bodies displayed delta sleep-inducing peptide immunoreactivity. These cell bodies were sparse and mainly located throughout the septal-preoptico-suprachiasmatic region and the ventrolateral hypothalamus. The colocalization of luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and delta sleep-inducing peptide immunoreactivity was also observed in many fibres supplying all these brain regions and terminal areas such as the organum vasculosum of the lamina terminalis, the subfornical organ, the median eminence and the pituitary stalk. These neuroanatomical findings are suggestive of interaction between delta sleep-inducing peptide and luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone in various brain areas including some circumventricular organs.
The present paper contains a full methodological description of iontophoretic Lucifer Yellow injections in fixed brain slices in mammals. In brief, cortical tissue was either perfused or immersion-fixed in paraformaldehyde. After Vibratome sectioning, tissue slices were transferred to epifluorescence microscopes equipped with long distance objectives. Under visual guidance, neurons were selectively impaled with Lucifer Yellow-filled electrodes and intracellularly injected until all dendrites appeared brightly fluorescent. Excellent dendritic staining was obtained in both perfusion-fixed cat visual cortex and immersion-fixed human brain biopsies. Dendritic spines, varicosities and growth cones could be readily discerned. Filling of axonal collaterals was, however, incomplete. Callosally projecting neurons in cat visual cortex were retrogradely traced with a mixture of the fluorescent tracers Fast Blue and DiI. Subsequently the morphology of labelled cells was determined by intracellular Lucifer Yellow injection. Although the Fast Blue fluorescence had become undetectable in filled neurons the granular red appearance of DiI was still discernible. Hence the neuronal composition of even relatively sparse projections can be demonstrated. To obtain permanent preparations, dye-filled neurons were immersed in a diaminobenzidine solution and irradiated with epifluorescent illumination until all visible fluorescence had faded. Photo-oxidation resulted in the intracellular formation of a homogeneously distributed brown reaction product visible with the light microscope. Brief osmication enhanced the staining contrast, thus providing a Golgi-like image. Subsequent electron microscopy of photo-converted cells showed the fine granular nature of the electron opaque reaction product, thus revealing numerous cytological features. The precipitate was homogeneously distributed throughout the entire cytoplasm and nucleus, extending into dendrites and axon. Any apparent leakage of the label into the extracellular space was not observed. Intracellular staining in fixed tissue yields a high number of neurons with extensive filling of dendritic arbors. Photo-oxidation provides stable, non-fading preparations with the option of subsequent electron microscopy. In addition, the technique can be combined with immunocytochemistry and a variety of fluorescent tracer substances. These features, combined with its high selectivity and relative methodological simplicity, render the method to be a promising alternative to classical neuroanatomical approaches.
Extracellular single neuron recordings were made in the ventrobasal thalami of anaesthetized rats and cats. Physiological stimulation of vibrissa and hair follicle afferents was performed with an air jet (10-20 ms duration) directed at a single vibrissa or small area of hairy skin. Paired conditioning and test air jets delivered to the excitatory portion of receptive fields revealed inhibition of the response of ventrobasal thalamic neurons to test stimuli following the excitatory response to the conditioning stimulus. Such inhibitions could last up to 500 ms. An increase in neuronal excitability was sometimes observed following this inhibitory period. In addition, it was possible to produce inhibition without an excitatory response using conditioning stimuli delivered adjacent to the excitatory receptive field. Iontophoretic application of bicuculline methochloride, with currents that were adequate to antagonize iontophoretically applied GABA, was found to reduce the inhibition of test responses evoked by conditioning stimuli in almost all of the neurons studied. In most cases, no excitatory responses to conditioning stimuli directed outside the original excitatory receptive field were revealed by application of the GABA antagonist. In rats, bicuculline also led to a decrease in the post-inhibitory excitation, whereas in cats the converse appeared to be the case. These results suggest that GABAergic transmission may underlie inhibitory responses of cat and rat ventrobasal thalamus neurons to physiological stimulation of somatosensory afferents. Furthermore, removal of such inhibition does not appear to reveal excitatory inputs from outside of the original excitatory receptive field.
The involvement of the amygdala in the potentiation of responding for conditioned reinforcers following intra-accumbens amphetamine injections has been studied. Thirsty rats were trained to associate a light-noise compound stimulus with water and then implanted with guide cannulae in the nucleus accumbens. Half of these rats received excitotoxic lesions of the basolateral region of the amygdala by accumbens. Half of these rats received excitotoxic lesions of the basolateral region of the amygdala by infusing N-methyl-D-aspartate, whereas the other half received infusions of the vehicle. In the test phase, water was no longer presented but responding on one of two novel levers produced the light-noise compound (the conditioned reinforcer) whereas responding on the other lever had no effect. The two groups received four counterbalanced intra-accumbens infusions of amphetamine (3, 10 and 30 micrograms /microliter) or vehicle over four test days. Intra-accumbens amphetamine infusions dose-dependently increased responding on the lever providing a conditioned reinforcer but had no significant effect on responding on the lever which did not produce the conditioned reinforcer. Compared with controls, the lesioned group exhibited a significant, selective reduction in responding on the lever providing a conditioned reinforcer, with no change on the lever on which responding had no consequence, irrespective of drug or control treatment. Control experiments showed that the amygdala lesioned animals were not hypodipsic and exhibited similar levels of hyperactivity following intra-accumbens infusions of D-amphetamine. Furthermore, the capacity to discriminate the conditioned stimulus as well as to acquire a new motor task was not altered by the lesion. These results indicate a role for the amygdala in mediating the effects of stimulus-reward associations on behaviour, via an action on dopamine-dependent mechanisms of the ventral striatum.
Bilateral, N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced lesions of the basolateral region of the amygdaloid complex in male rats resulted in a marked decrease in instrumental responses maintained by a visual conditioned reinforcer in a paradigm in which sexual reinforcement was presented under a second-order schedule. There were no effects of lesions of the amygdala on the unconditioned sexual behaviour of the males, i.e. on behaviour elicited by primary reinforcers. Infusion of D-amphetamine bilaterally into the nucleus accumbens region of the ventral striatum resulted in a dose-dependent amelioration of the decrease in instrumental behaviour maintained by a conditioned reinforcer which followed lesions of the amygdala. This effect of D-amphetamine critically depended upon the presentation of the conditioned reinforcer (a previously neutral light which had gained reinforcing properties through its prior association with sexual interaction). The results indicate that the basolateral region of the amygdala may interact with dopamine-dependent processes in the ventral striatum in mediating the control by conditioned reinforcers over instrumental behaviour.
The participation of a serine endopeptidase, previously shown to be involved in endogenous cholecystokinin inactivation [Rose, Camus and Schwartz (1989) Neuroscience 29, 583-594], in the hydrolysis of various exogenous cholecystokinin peptides was studied with slices from rat cerebral cortex. In order to protect intermediate fragments from further degradation and mimick experimental conditions in this previous study, most experiments were performed in the presence of Thiorphan, an enkephalinase inhibitor, and bestatin, an aminopeptidase inhibitor, which did not significantly affect the rate of cholecystokinin-8 hydrolysis. All peptide fragments formed after incubation of cholecystokinin-8, non-sulphated cholecystokinin-8, cholecystokinin-6, cholecystokinin-5, cholecystokinin-4 or Asp-Tyr-Met-Gly-Trp were identified by isocratic high-performance liquid chromatography in several systems, fluorescence spectra and/or amino acid analysis. When identified, the appearing fragments were quantified by u.v. spectrophotometry and found to fully account for the substrate disappearance. The hydrolysis rate was higher for short cholecystokinin peptides than for the octapeptide and was, in all cases, diminished by 30-50% in the presence of diisopropyl fluorophosphate, a serine peptidase inhibitor. One of the main hydrolysis products of cholecystokinin-8, or its non-sulphated analogue, was cholecystokinin-5, whose formation was impaired in the presence of diisopropyl fluorophosphate. Cholecystokinin-5 itself was apparently a substrate for a serine peptidase leading to the formation of the tripeptide Gly-Trp-Met, later cleaved into Trp-Met and Trp. Hence a serine endopeptidase(s) appears to be responsible for cleavage of the two peptides bonds of the cholecystokinin-8 molecule where the carboxyl group is donated by a methionine residue.2+n addition,
Ultrastructural analysis of the synaptic input to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons has previously shown that in male rats these cells acquire an increased density of innervation with increasing age [Witkin J. W. (1987) Neuroscience 22, 1003-1013]. To determine if this aging phenomenon might be due to changes in the steroid environment, we examined luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons, using methods identical to the earlier study, in sham operated and 1 day and 4 week castrated male rats. The density of synaptic input to luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons did not vary among the three experimental groups. Furthermore, there were no differences in the relative numbers of various morphological categories of synaptic boutons (characterized by vesicle type: clear vs dense and round vs pleomorphic) among the groups. Long term castration did result in a slight decrease in immunocytochemically detectable luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neuron numbers. These results suggest that gonadal steroid deprivation does not alter the total density or morphological characteristics of synaptic input to the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neuron in the male rat.


Relationships between leucine-enkephalin fibers and cholinergic neurons in the rat sacral intermediolateral nucleus were examined by light and electron microscopy using double-immunostaining method. Cholinergic neurons in the sacral intermediolateral nucleus were labeled by a rat-mouse monoclonal antibody to choline acetyltransferase and stained bluish green with 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-D- galactoside reaction products using beta-galactosidase as a marker. On the same sections, leucine-enkephalin fibers were labeled by a rabbit polyclonal antiserum to leucine-enkephalin and stained brown by diaminobenzidine reaction products using peroxidase as a marker. After embedding in Epon, the sections were examined in light and electron microscopes. In the light microscope, choline acetyltransferase-like immunoreactive cells were seen in the sacral intermediolateral nucleus. In the same region, leucine-enkephalin-like immunoreactive cells. In the electron microscope, 5-bromo-4-chloro-3-indolyl-beta-D-galactoside reaction products were in the form of coarse electron dense deposits in the choline acetyltransferase-like immunoreactive structures and could be distinguished from the much finer grained diaminobenzidine reaction products. Choline acetyltransferase-like immunoreactive neurons received synaptic inputs from leucine-enkephalin fibers-like immunoreactive terminals. These findings suggest that leucine-enkephalin fibers may affect the activity of cholinergic parasympathetic preganglionic neurons.
The epileptogenic properties of N-methyl-D-aspartate and magnesium-free medium were investigated in the CA3 region of the hippocampal slice preparation in the rat. Bath application of N-methyl-D-aspartate (5-10 microM) or magnesium-free medium induced both spontaneous and stimulus-evoked bursts. Both endogenous and network bursts were generated, the former always preceding the latter. The paroxysmal depolarizing shift underlying the network bursts generated by N-methyl-D-aspartate and magnesium-free medium resembled a giant excitatory postsynaptic potential with a reversal potential near 0 mV and a synaptic input in the apical dendrites above the mossy fibre zone. In the presence of N-methyl-D-aspartate or magnesium-free medium, population bursts were synchronized by activating single CA3 neurons. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists prevented the development of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced spontaneous and stimulus-evoked bursts. However, the only N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist effective in preventing such bursts in magnesium-free medium was DL-3-[(+/-)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl-]-propyl-1-phosphonic acid. Endogenous bursting in the CA3 region has not been observed with other convulsants and thus may reflect the novel voltage dependence of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor gated ionic channel. N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors may also partially contribute to the excitatory interaction between CA3 neurons and thereby account for the synchronization of the population observed when activating single CA3 neurons.
Two experiments tested the hypothesis that the deficits in conditional discrimination learning produced by ibotenic acid-induced lesions of the ventral pallidum and substantia innominata are produced by loss of the magnocellular cholinergic cells in the nucleus basalis and adjacent regions. Experiment 1 replicated the previously reported deficit in conditional learning produced by ibotenate-induced lesions of the ventral pallidum/substantia innominata, but failed to demonstrate any restoration of learning by a subchronic regimen of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor physostigmine sufficient to produce significant (30%), but equivalent, degrees of inhibition in the frontal cortex of ventral pallidum/substantia innominata-lesioned or sham-operated rats. Experiment 2 examined the effects of quisqualic acid-induced lesions of the ventral pallidum/substantia innominata. According to most of the measures of learning employed, the quisqualic acid-induced lesion of the ventral pallidum/substantia innominata failed to impair conditional learning, even though the quisqualate-induced lesion produced greater degrees of cholinergic neuron destruction than the ibotenate-induced lesion, as measured in terms of reductions in cortical choline acetyltransferase activity (44% vs 27%). Although consideration of individual data suggested that very high (60%) levels of choline acetyltransferase reduction in Experiment 2 might have detrimental effects of conditional learning, the overall failure of the quisqualate-induced lesions of the ventral pallidum/substantia innominata to impair learning is to be contrasted with the significant behavioural effects of ibotenate-induced lesions. Histological and immunocytochemical analysis showed that the quisqualate-induced lesion, unlike that produced by ibotenate, tended to produce less damage to the overlying dorsal globus pallidus and to parvocellular neurons of the ventral pallidum/substantia innominata, thus implicating these nonspecific effects of ibotenate-induced lesions in their behavioural effects. The present results question previous interpretations of the behavioural effects of ibotenate-induced lesions of the ventral pallidum/substantia innominata in terms of damage inflicted on the cortically-projecting cholinergic cells of the nucleus basalis, and suggest that quisqualic acid, although also nonspecific in its excitotoxic effects, is nevertheless more selective for producing damage to cholinergic neurons in the ventral pallidum/substantia innominata than ibotenic acid.
The distribution of cholinergic fibers in rat cortex was investigated using choline acetyl-transferase immunohistochemistry. Previous studies have either shown differences in distribution, but have been limited to selected areas, or have shown no discernable differences between different cortical areas. In our study, we examined all areas of rat cortex and found that there are striking interareal and interlaminar differences in cholinergic fiber distribution. We have found that certain functionally similar cortical areas (e.g. sensory, motor, etc.) have similar patterns of cholinergic innervation and we have designated 13 general patterns of cortical cholinergic innervation. We have also compared, on an area-by-area basis, the pattern of acetylcholinesterase reactivity to that of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity, since acetylcholinesterase has been used for many years as a putative cholinergic marker. We found that in most cortical areas, the distribution of acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers paralleled that of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive fibers; however, there were some striking differences, notably primary somatosensory (the &quot;barrelfield&quot;), retrosplenial and cingulate cortices. In some areas, a revised concept of rat cortical organization, using cytoarchitectonics, was required. The results of this study provide a comprehensive microscopic analysis of cholinergic fiber innervation of the rat cortex. These results are discussed in relation to previous anatomical, physiological and pharmacological studies of cortical cholinergic innervation. The possible sources of this innervation are also discussed.
The influence of adequate vestibular stimulation on locomotor muscle activity has been investigated in the decerebrated guinea-pig. Locomotor activity was evoked by electrical stimulation of the mesencephalic locomotor region, whose location has been ascertained in this animal. Vestibular stimulation was performed by cyclic tiltings about the longitudinal and transverse axes and swinging along the vertical axis. The translation frequency was in the range of 0.02-0.8 Hz with an amplitude of +/-20% for tilting and 40 mm for swinging. Vestibular stimulation was accompanied by distinct changes in locomotor electromyographic activity of fore- and hindlimb antagonist muscles. During stimulation the intensity of discharges in extensor and flexor muscles corresponding to the stance and swing phases of the locomotor cycle was modulated; the alternation of antagonist muscle activity was not as a rule disturbed. The changes in muscle activity had the same pattern and similar phase-frequency properties to those observed under analogous vestibular stimulation during the maintenance of steady posture. It is suggested that the vestibular system is of considerable importance for the regulation of locomotor muscle activity. During locomotion the vestibular system influences mainly spinal motor output but does not act on the locomotor generator.
Electrophysiologically identified neurons of rat superior cervical ganglion were intracellularly injected with horseradish peroxidase and processed for light and electron microscopic observation. At light microscope level, neurons could be classified according to their dendritic arborization pattern in the vicinity of the soma into radiate, tufted and intermediate types. Upon electrical stimulation of the internal and external carotid nerves it was observed that radiate and intermediate neurons sent their axons into one or the other of these nerve trunks, whereas a majority of tufted neurons gave no response to stimulation of either of these postganglionic nerves. Electron microscopic exploration of horseradish peroxidase-labelled neurons revealed a surprisingly high prevalence of interconnectivity between ganglionic neurons. These contacts were both dendrosomatic and dendrodendritic, and were a universal feature of the labelled neurons explored. Twenty-two of the 23 labelled cells were found to receive direct dendritic appositions on their somata, and 13 of these 23 cells were seen each to send their dendrites into contact with at least one unlabelled neuronal soma. Dendrodendritic contacts were observed for 87% of the labelled neurons, and most of the cells (80%) were seen to form triadic contacts which included two dendrites and a preganglionic nerve ending. All these figures represent minimum incidences. None of the dendrosomatic or dendrodendritic appositions observed was overtly synaptic although several morphological features indicated the possibility of somatic and or dendritic release and uptake at sites of apposition. It is suggested that the observed appositions provide anatomical substrates for modulatory interactions between the ganglionic neurons, possibly involving slow potentials or the switching of metabolic pathways.
It has been demonstrated elsewhere that fetal thalamic tissue, when transplanted as a cell suspension into the excitotoxically neuron-depleted adult somatosensory thalamus, can grow, differentiate, and receive projections from host afferents. In the present study, we used the same paradigm to analyse the transplanted neurons during their morphogenesis, i.e. during the first month after transplantation. Using various anatomical criteria, at the light and electron microscope levels, we compared the development of transplanted neurons with the normal ontogeny of homologous neuronal populations. Confined solely to the mechanically lesioned area during implantation at seven days post-grafting, the transplant increased in size to occupy most of the previously neuron-depleted area by the third week after grafting. The final size of the transplant thus depended upon the size of the lesion. At seven days post-grafting, the neurons were small in size and the cellular density was high. At this immature stage few synaptic contacts were visible and the ultrastructure was characterized by large extracellular spaces. At 10 days post-grafting, the size of the neurons had increased and the cellular density had decreased. Both an extensive dendritic proliferation and a simultaneous active synaptogenesis could also be observed. All these events continued to evolve and during the third week the neuropil progressively acquired more mature ultrastructural characteristics. Synaptic contacts exhibiting characteristics comparable to those observed in the intact thalamus also became more numerous. At 20 days post-grafting, axonal myelination had started, the development of the graft apparently stopped and the various criteria had stabilized. Until that developmental stage, growth of grafted neurons compared to that of normal thalamic ones. At later stages, however, grafted neurons failed to grow larger and did not reach the size of the homologous population in the adult animal. It seems, therefore, that transplants of thalamic fetal neurons can be used as a tool with which to study thalamic neuronal development, within definable limits.
The rat neurohypophysis contains a population of microglial cells, the majority of which occupy a pericapillary position in the resting gland. The microglia are immunocytochemically identifiable by the presence of macrophage-associated antigens and resemble microglia of the CNS. Morphometry at light and electron microscopic levels reveals that such cells constitute approximately 19% of the intrinsic cell population, excluding the endothelial cells. Two other populations of neurohypophysial glial cells, parenchymatous pituicytes and fibrous pituicytes, do not express macrophage-associated antigens. The microglia have long processes which surround and, in some cases, engulf apparently viable portions of the magnocellular neurosecretory nerve terminals. A sequence of stages of selective endocytosis and degradation of the engulfed nerve terminals can be visualized within pericapillary microglia. Some phagosomes and secondary lysosomes contain morphologically intact neurosecretory granules; others contain partially destroyed neurosecretory granules or amorphous material all of which are identifiable as originating from the magnocellular neurosecretory terminals by their immunoreactivity for oxytocin- or vasopressin-neurophysin. This finding indicates a novel role for the microglial cells in remodelling terminal aborizations of neurosecretory neurons and in processing or degrading hormones and peptides they contain. Because of their close and selective associations with other cellular elements of the neurohypophysis, any substances produced by microglia also have the potential to influence hormone secretion, pituicyte proliferation and neurohypophysial vasculature.
The effects of electrical stimulation of the arcuate nucleus on blood pressure, heart rate and baroreflex sensitivity were studied in urethane-anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats. Stimulation of the mid-anterior parts of the arcuate nucleus at 80 Hz, 0.8 ms and 50-200 microA caused a biphasic, depressor/pressor, response and moderate bradycardia. Intravenous administration of a vasopressin V1-receptor antagonist eliminated the pressor component and unmasked a pure depressor response. This depressor response could be inhibited by naltrexone, 2 mg/kg i.v., by an antiserum against beta-endorphin, 100 nl injected directly into the ipsilateral nucleus tractus solitarii, or by deafferentation of the dorsal vagal complex (nucleus tractus solitarii and dorsal vagal nucleus) by an ipsilateral, dorsolateral knife-cut of the medulla oblongata. Stimulation of the arcuate nucleus at currents of 20-40 microA did not influence basal blood pressure or heart rate but potentiated the reflex bradycardia induced by phenylephrine, and this effect was completely blocked by naltrexone. It is concluded that a beta-endorphin-containing pathway projecting from the arcuate nucleus to the ipsilateral dorsal vagal complex is involved in depressor cardiovascular regulation and in the facilitation of baroreflex bradycardia.
The combination of microdialysis and a highly sensitive radioimmunoassay was developed in order to monitor the in vivo extracellular levels of endogenous opioid peptides from discrete regions of the rat brain. The radioimmunoassay cross-reacts 100% with peptides with alpha N-acetyl Tyr.Gly.Gly.Phe-Met or -Leu at the N terminus and thus recognizes all known endogenous opioid peptide fragments following acetylation of the sample. The assay was conducted on solid phase with antibody bound via protein A to 96-well plates and provided a limit of detection of approximately 0.2 fmol. A variety of dialysis membranes were evaluated with respect to their efficiency in recovering opioid peptides in vitro. Custom-made probes (4 mm active length) manufactured from polyacrylonitrile membranes and commercially available polycarbonate membrane probes proved most suitable with relative recoveries for [Met]- and [Leu]enkephalin in the range 6-10% at a flow rate of 2.7 microliters/min. Probes implanted in the globus pallidus/ventral pallidum of halothane/N2O anaesthetized rats recovered approximately 1.5 fmol of immunoreactive opioid material per 30-min sample in the absence of peptidase inhibitors. The majority of this immunoreactivity co-eluted with [Met]- and [Leu]enkephalin on reverse-phase high-performance liquid chromatography. A 2-min pulse of 100 mM K(+)-containing artificial cerebrospinal fluid in the perfusion medium during a 30-min sampling period increased the recovered immunoreactive material to 43.9 fmol +/- 12.4 S.E.M. A second stimulation 3 h later also resulted in elevated levels with an S2:S1 ratio of 0.64 +/- 0.03. The second stimulation was completely blocked by perfusion of a 10 mM EGTA-containing medium, basal release on average remaining unaffected.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The modulatory action of the caudate on the neural activity of the contralateral nucleus was studied in locally anesthetized, paralysed and artificially ventilated cats. This type of preparation was necessary because of a complete suppression of spontaneous spike activity after subanesthetic doses of general anesthesia. Two types of caudate action potential were characterized according to their waveform: biphasic and triphasic spikes, with a predominance of the former. These waveforms appeared to be independent of recording distance; however, their responses were similar to both central and peripheral stimuli. Caudate stimulation modified the spontaneous activity of the majority of the single units recorded within the opposite nucleus. This effect was mainly inhibitory and keeps up certain somatotopic distribution in the rostrocaudal extent of the nucleus. Kainic lesion of the site of stimulation suppressed the responses in the contralateral caudate nucleus, whereas the responses to substantia nigra and precruciate cortex remained unaltered. On the other hand, stimulation of the precruciate cortex opposite to the recording sites always excited the caudate neurons. The responses evoked by stimulation of ipsilateral substantia nigra and of contralateral sciatic nerve followed a similar pattern to those elicited by caudate stimuli. These results suggest a mostly inhibitory effect of the caudate on neuronal activity within the opposite nucleus, which is reinforced by the action of central and peripheral somatosensory inputs.
Coronal sections from the brains of male Wistar rats that underwent corpus-callosectomy in adulthood were stained with Cresyl Violet for Nissl substance or by the Fink-Heimer method for terminal axonal degeneration. Measurements of volumetric asymmetry of neocortical region SM-I were made, and the per cent of terminal degeneration computed. As in previous studies, there was a negative correlation between asymmetry coefficient and total (right plus left) architectonic volume, indicating that symmetrical brain regions are larger than the average of the corresponding regions in asymmetrical brains. It was also found that as volumetric asymmetry increased, the per cent of axonal termination decreased, partly as a result of a decrease in the number of patches of callosal axonal termination. These results are interpreted in the light of what is known about the ontogenesis of callosal connectivity, and mechanisms for the development of architectonic asymmetry in the cerebral cortex are postulated.
The effects of neonatal monocular enucleation (right eye) on the callosal connections in the rat visual cortex were studied by physiological and morphological methods. Evoked activity was recorded in the left hemisphere, i.e. contralaterally to the enucleated eye. After enucleation, trans-callosally evoked responses were recorded in a widened stripe of the lateral visual cortex. Compared with the controls, the responsive area was expanded laterally and medially, i.e. into the lateral part of the primary visual area and within the secondary visual cortex (lateral part). Within about 0.5 mm of the expansion, the responses did not differ from those recorded in areas with &quot;normal&quot; callosal connections. Morphological evidence is presented suggesting that this expansion of evoked responses with high amplitudes and short latencies corresponds to an extension of callosal connections with a high density of axon terminals in layers two and three. Further medially within the primary visual cortex, callosally evoked responses with low amplitudes and longer latencies were recorded. The main types of unit responses and characteristic interactions between visually and callosally evoked responses are shown and discussed. These results suggest that following neonatal enucleation (1) the callosal connections expand and form functional synapses in the lateral part of the visual cortex, (2) these connections can activate cortical neurons either directly or by mediation of associational connections between the lateral secondary and primary visual cortex areas and (3) callosal connections can interact with visually evoked potentials and unit responses.
Neurons and axon terminals (puncta) immunostained by an antibody against glutamic acid decarboxylase were studied in layer I of adult rats in architectonically identified area 41 of auditory cortex. The borders of area 41 and the laminar subdivisions of cortex were established in normal material and in other studies of cortical connections. Vibratomed or frozen sections were immunostained. The objectives of the study were to classify the types of (i) glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive neurons and (ii) puncta, and (iii) to examine their spatial distribution within layer I. Control sections were devoid of specific immunostaining. More than 90% of layer I cells are glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive. Four types of neuron were identified in Golgi material, including small neurons with stellate dendritic fields, horizontal cells with laterally projecting arbors, medium-sized neurons with stellate, widely ramifying dendritic fields, and large neurons with broad dendritic fields spanning the depth of layer I or branching laterally. In the glutamic acid decarboxylase material, examples with a somatodendritic shape matching each of these types were found. The average somatic diameter of glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive neurons (mean = 59 microns2, S.D. = 21 microns2) suggests that the small and medium-sized neurons predominate. Glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive neurons occur throughout the depth of layer I, but are far more numerous in the deeper half (68% in layer Ib) than in the superficial part (32% in layer Ia). Glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive neurons form small clusters of three to five cells across the cortical surface, with a range of 0-9/100 microns across the cortex. Most glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive neuronal perikarya were intensely immunostained, and the dendrites of the medium-sized and large neurons were traced as far as 50-75 microns beyond their initial branching point. Glutamic acid decarboxylase-positive puncta also had variable shapes. Both small, fine puncta (less than 0.5 micron in diameter) and larger, coarser ones (greater than 1.5 micron in diameter) were present, though the former were much more common. In traverses from the pia to the layer II border, the puncta average about 40/100 microns2 (range: 20-80), and the shape of individual pia--layer II traverses is multipeaked, often with a slight trough at congruent to 80 microns depth, then rising slowly in number toward layer II.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A histochemical method for acetylcholinesterase was used to assess the regional density of acetylcholinesterase-rich (putatively cholinergic) axons in the cerebral cortex. A dense plexus of these fibers was observed in all cortical areas. The entorhinal, cingulate and inferotemporal regions were used for quantitative analysis. The paralimbic cortical areas (entorhinal and cingulate) contained a higher density of acetylcholinesterase-rich fibers than the association cortex of inferotemporal area TE. The more superficial layers in all three regions contained a denser net of these fibers than did the deep layers. Aging was accompanied by a modest loss in the density of acetylcholinesterase-positive fibers in the entorhinal and inferotemporal cortex but not in the cingulate area. In brains from patients with Alzheimer's disease, a dramatic loss of these fibers was observed in all three areas examined but the loss was relatively less pronounced in the cingulate area. The results demonstrate that the cholinergic innervation of the cerebral cortex in the human brain displays considerable regional and laminar variations. Regional variations were also observed in the alterations that the cortical cholinergic fibers displayed as a result of normal aging and Alzheimer's disease. The age-related reduction observed in the density of cholinergic fibers in the cerebral cortex was quite modest when compared with the dramatic loss in Alzheimer's disease.
Oral administration of ethanol (20% v/v) to male Sprague-Dawley rats for different periods of time up to 28 weeks resulted in profound reductions of acetylcholine content, in vitro synthesis and release of acetylcholine, choline uptake, activities of choline acetyltransferase, acetylcholinesterase and pyruvate decarboxylase, content of noradrenaline, serotonin and, to a lesser extent, dopamine throughout the brain. Changes were fully and partially reversible by a 4 weeks' ethanol-free period following a treatment of 8 and 18 weeks, respectively. They remained persistent, however, after 28 weeks of treatment. Performance in an eight arm-radial maze revealed a severe impairment in both spatial and non-spatial reference and working memory. A similar pattern of memory impairment was obtained after ibotenate lesion of the cholinergic basal forebrain projection system. In order to test whether this memory impairment depends on cholinergic deafferentation of the cortex, cholinergic-rich fetal basal forebrain cell suspensions were transplanted into cortex, hippocampus or both these sites in ethanol treated rats. Cholinergic-rich transplants, but not cholinergic-poor transplants, were effective in ameliorating impaired memory function and measures of cholinergic activity in the basal forebrain projection system. The behavioural efficacy of the basal forebrain grafts was well correlated with measures of both transplant volume and the degree to which they restored acetylcholine content at the transplant site; these transplants had no effect, however, on brain monoamine levels. The effects of the cholinergic-rich transplants into cortical and hippocampal sites were additive in their amelioration of performance in the radial maze. Similarly, ibotenate lesions of the sites of origin of the cholinergic projections to neocortex (in the region of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis) and hippocampus (the medial septal areas and nucleus of the diagonal band), respectively, were additive in their deleterious effects on maze performance. There were no qualitative differences in the susceptibility of the four different types of memory performance measured (spatial and non-spatial reference and working memory) to the effects of ethanol, ibotenate lesions of the cholinergic projection system, or cholinergic-rich brain tissue transplants. Thus, overall, the results indicate that the forebrain cholinergic system acts as a whole, without major functional differences between the projections originating in the medial septal area/diagonal band complex and the basal nucleus, and that it discharges a very general function in cognitive processes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The neuropeptide vasoactive intestinal peptide was localized to taste buds of the posterior tongue regions of hamsters and rats by immunocytochemical techniques. Tissue sections, taken from foliate and circumvallate papillae, generally revealed taste buds in which all cells were immunoreactive; however, occasionally some taste buds were found to contain highly reactive individual cells adjacent to non-reactive cells. Additionally, some non-reactive taste buds were observed. Taste buds that displayed vasoactive intestinal peptide-like immunoreactivity usually had a tendency for much darker staining at the apical ends of the cells than the basal ends, suggesting a polar cytoplasmic distribution of the peptide. The multi-functional roles of vasoactive intestinal peptide in other physiological systems combined with both its cytoplasmic localization in taste cells and the known histochemistry/ultrastructure of taste cells raises interesting speculations of this peptide's function in gustation that include secretion, stimulation of a second messenger system, and neuromodulation.
The distribution of both monoamine oxidase subtypes, monoamine oxidase-A and -B, is demonstrated in brainstems from 16 humans by use of a histochemical technique. The results presented here, focus primarily upon the aminergic areas of the substantia nigra, the locus coeruleus and the raphe nuclei. While dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra revealed no staining for monoamine oxidase, noradrenergic neurons of the locus coeruleus stained positively with the monoamine oxidase-A substrate serotonin, and serotonergic neurons of the raphe nuclei were stained by the monoamine oxidase-B substrate beta-phenylethylamine. In addition, data are presented showing that glial cells stain predominantly for monoamine oxidase-B.
The presence of the neuropeptide C-terminal flanking peptide of neuropeptide-Y, C-PON, has been investigated in the main olfactory bulb of the rat using conventional fluorescence and peroxidase-antiperoxidase immunocytochemical techniques. The distribution of immunoreactive structures to C-PON was examined in both horizontal and coronal sections. Endogenous C-PON was localized within two types of short-axon cells including (1) superficial short-axon cells in the glomerular layer and (2) deep short-axon cells lying in the deepest portion of the granule cell layer and in the adjacent white matter. In addition, varicose immunoreactive processes were detected in all layers, although they were more numerous in the deepest portion of the granule cell layer. Immunoreactive cell bodies and processes were also observed in the nucleus olfactorius anterior and in the intrabulbar portion of the anterior commissure. Nevertheless, immunoreactive structures were not localized in the lateral olfactory tract. The indirect immunofluorescence technique to detect endogenous C-PON in combination with the enzyme histochemical demonstration of NADPH-diaphorase activity, in single sections, showed that the NADPH-diaphorase procedure is a reliable marker for these C-PON positive cells. Also, indirectly, that, in the rat main olfactory bulb, C-PON and neuropeptide-Y are contained in the same cell types. Many glomeruli were stained following the NADPH-diaphorase procedure, but they were not C-PON immunoreactives. Results of this study provide evidence suggesting that C-PON may influence polysynaptically the function of mitral cells and, therefore, the olfactory bulb output.
The binding of [3H]dihydrotetrabenazine, a specific ligand of the monoamine transporter present on serotonin and catecholamine synaptic vesicles, was studied on rat brain sections. The characteristics of binding (Kd = 5.0 nM, k1 = 0.13 x 10(6) M-1 s-1; k-1 = 0.66 x 10(-3) s-1) were similar to those previously observed on tissue homogenates. The rostrocaudal topographical distribution of dihydrotetrabenazine binding sites was analysed by quantitative autoradiography. High labelling was observed in regions richly innervated by monoaminergic systems: dopamine in the striatum and olfactory tubercles, noradrenaline in the striatal fissure and in the paraventricular and dorsomedial hypothalamus and serotonin in the lateral septum, islands of Calleja and suprachiasmatic nucleus. Cell bodies were also labelled in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area (dopamine), in locus coeruleus (noradrenaline) and in raphe nucleus (serotonin). The pituitary gland (particularly the neural lobe) and the pineal gland were also labelled. Low labelling was observed in various areas of the cerebral cortex and in the cerebellum. Unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the substantia nigra dramatically reduced [3H]dihydrotetrabenazine labelling in the ipsilateral striatum. Moreover, ketanserin has recently been shown to possess a nanomolar affinity for the vesicular monoamine transporter, and autoradiographic localization of brain monoaminergic synaptic vesicles was also obtained by means of the derivative 7-amino-8-[125I]iodoketanserin in the presence of 5-hydroxytryptamine2 and alpha 1 antagonists, although the non-specific labelling was higher than with [3H]dihydrotetrabenazine. It is concluded that [3H]dihydrotetrabenazine may represent a valuable monoaminergic marker in in vitro autoradiographic studies.
In cultured bovine adrenal medullary cells, neosurugatoxin and histrionicotoxin inhibited carbachol-induced influx of 22Na, 45Ca and secretion of catecholamines with IC50 of 27 nM and 3 microM, respectively. The inhibitory effects of neosurugatoxin were reversed by the increased concentrations of carbachol, whereas those of histrionicotoxin were not. Histrionicotoxin at concentrations higher than 10 microM also reduced veratridine-induced influx of 22Na, 45Ca and secretion of catecholamines, while neosurugatoxin had no effects. High K-induced 45Ca influx and catecholamine secretion were not altered by either neosurugatoxin or histrionicotoxin. The present findings suggest (1) neosurugatoxin competitively inhibits nicotinic receptor-ion channel complex at nanomolar concentrations, but has no effects on voltage-dependent Na channel and voltage-dependent Ca channel; (2) histrionicotoxin at micromolar concentrations non-competitively suppresses nicotinic receptor-ion channel complex. Higher concentrations of histrionicotoxin also interferes with voltage-dependent Na channel, but has no effect on voltage-dependent Ca channel; (3) neosurugatoxin, due to its high-affinity and selectivity, may be a useful probe for studying nicotinic receptors in nervous tissues.
Administration of the neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, to primates produces an excellent behavioral model of idiopathic Parkinson's disease. In the vervet monkey, regional biochemical differences in the striatum of two 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated groups were examined one to two months after treatment and compared with controls; one group displayed no observable gross motor abnormalities after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine treatment (asymptomatic), whereas the other group became markedly parkinsonian (symptomatic). In both 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-treated groups massive depletions of dopamine and homovanillic acid concentrations were observed in the striatum; generally, dopamine losses in the symptomatic group (greater than 95%) were greater than in the asymptomatic group (greater than 75%). However, in striatum, a marked heterogeneity in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine susceptibility was found; certain striatal regions having 99% depletion of dopamine even in asymptomatic monkeys. Overall, in ventromedial regions of striatum the losses of dopamine and homovanillic acid concentrations were less than in dorsolateral regions at the same coronal level. There was a significant negative correlation between control homovanillic acid/dopamine ratios and susceptibility of examined regions to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine toxicity. Unlike idiopathic, but similar to postencephalitic, Parkinson's disease, dopamine and homovanillic acid levels in caudate nucleus were not spared relative to putamen; in fact, in the asymptomatic group caudate nucleus dopamine and homovanillic acid concentrations were depleted to a greater extent than in putamen.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The synaptic organization of serotonin elements in the nucleus raphe magnus of adult rat was investigated by electron microscopic immunocytochemistry with an antiserum against serotonin itself. Immunoreactive somata in the nucleus raphe magnus were usually of the same size (7-15 microns) and showed similar cytological features as their unlabeled congeners. The serotonin perikarya were contacted by a few unlabeled axon terminals containing round synaptic vesicles, and gave rise to dendrites which often ran perpendicularly to the midline. These dendrites received many contacts from axon terminals containing round or pleomorphic synaptic vesicles, but themselves failed to show vesicular aggregates or membrane differentiations suggestive of synaptic specialization. Immunoreactive axon terminals were numerous and mostly contained round or pleomorphic vesicles. Several exhibited synaptic contacts on dendrites, but there were also others which did not show any synaptic membranous differentiation, even when followed in serial sections. Immunostained myelinated as well as unmyelinated axons could be observed. These results provide a first description of the morphology and synaptic organization of the serotonin neurons in adult rat nucleus raphe magnus.
The mechanisms involved in parafascicularis nucleus control on serotoninergic neurons projecting into the caudate nucleus were investigated in &quot;encphale-isole&quot; cats. The effects of unilateral stimulation of the parafascicularis nucleus on the release of newly synthesized [3H]serotonin were simultaneously determined in the ipsilateral caudate nucleus and the dorsalis raphe nucleus using push-pull cannulae. The actions of various pharmacological treatments performed either in the caudate nucleus or in the dorsalis raphe nucleus were also examined. The electrical or chemical stimulation of the parafascicularis nucleus induced a decrease in striatal [3H]serotonin release and an increase in [3H]serotonin release in the dorsalis raphe nucleus. The blockade of cholinergic (mecamylamine) and glutamatergic (PK 26124) transmissions at the striatal level did not modify the thalamic stimulation-induced effect on serotonin release in the caudate nucleus or in the dorsalis raphe nucleus. However, a decrease induced by parafascicularis nucleus stimulation in serotonin release in the caudate nucleus could not be observed when the autoreceptors present on serotoninergic nerve cell bodies localized in the dorsalis raphe nucleus were blocked by a methiothepin perfusion within the nucleus. These results indicate that the parafascicularis nucleus controls striatal serotonin transmission by inducing changes in the nerve activity of serotoninergic neurons in the dorsalis raphe nucleus via somatodendritic serotonin release and autoreceptors.
The in vitro rat hippocampal slice was used to study the effect of tetrodotoxin, a sodium channel blocker, on anoxic damage. Tetrodotoxin improved recovery of the evoked population spike after anoxia and reduced the fall in adenosine 5'-triphosphate during anoxia. Electrophysiological responses to perforant pathway stimulation were recorded in the dentate granule cell layer before, during and after 10 min of anoxia, with and without tetrodotoxin. Preincubation with tetrodotoxin permitted recovery of the evoked population spike to 43 +/- 10% (mean +/- standard error) in the post-anoxic period; this compared to 3 +/-3% recovery in untreated tissue (P less than 0.005). Similar studies of the CA1 pyramidal cells, which are more sensitive to anoxia, showed that tetrodotoxin improved recovery of the postsynaptic response after 5 min of anoxia. The recovery was 69 +/- 15% of its pre-anoxic level when treated with tetrodotoxin. This compares to no recovery in untreated tissue (P less than 0.005). Biochemical studies demonstrated a significantly reduced fall in adenosine 5'-triphosphate levels during levels in the dentate granule cell layer fell to 1.4 nM/mg dry wt, whereas following treatment with tetrodotoxin they only fell to 2.2 nM/mg. Since it required only 5 min of anoxia to damage the CA1 pyramidal cells, adenosine 5'-triphosphate levels were measured in this region after 5 min of anoxia. Adenosine 5'-triphosphate levels in the CA1 region fell to 2.2 nM/mg in untreated tissue after 5 min of anoxia, compared to 2.9 nM/mg in the tetrodotoxin-treated tissue.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A trophic effect on the development of the cochleovestibular ganglion in the presence of its synaptic target tissue, the embryonic otocyst, has been shown in organ cultures. The basis for this trophic effect could be increased neuronal proliferation or enhanced postmitotic survival and differentiation. In order to determine if the trophic effect influenced neuronal proliferation, organ cultures of combined otocyst and cochleovestibular ganglion (embryonic stages 23-24) were grown 14 days in vitro in the continuous presence of [3H]thymidine. Serial sections of the explants made at each stage were assayed for autoradiographic labeling of cell nuclei and for numbers of cochleovestibular ganglion neurons. Explants were well developed morphologically and contained numbers of ganglionic neurons within the same range as previously reported. Many other well differentiated cell types were also present, including hair cells, supporting cells, other epithelial cells, cartilage, connective tissue, and perineuronal satellite cells. All of these non-neuronal cell types had undergone DNA synthesis in vitro, as evidenced by their heavily labeled nuclei. The cochleovestibular ganglion neurons were the only cell type with unlabeled nuclei, indicating that they had not divided or synthesized DNA during the two-week incubation. Thus all of the identifiable cochleovestibular ganglion neurons must have become postmitotic in the explants. Since ganglion cell division is still occurring in situ when the neurons are explanted, neuroblasts either failed to divide or failed to produce neuronal progeny in the culture conditions used. Therefore, the dependence of the cochleovestibular ganglion neurons on their normal target tissues most likely reflects a trophic effect on their postmitotic survival and differentiation.
The effect of nerve growth factor on the intact versus injured septohippocampal cholinergic system of adult rats was studied. Nerve growth factor was continuously infused into the lateral ventricle of adult uninjured rats or rats that had received unilateral partial transection of the fimbria. Controls (operated and unoperated) received intraventricular infusion of cytochrome c. After 2 weeks of nerve growth factor or cytochrome c treatments, choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase activities were measured in the septal area and in the hippocampus (divided into dorsal, medial and ventral parts). The continuous infusion of nerve growth factor resulted in a marked dose-dependent increase of choline acetyltransferase activity in both septum and hippocampus of adult unlesioned rats. In lesioned rats the nerve growth factor treatment was capable of inducing choline acetyltransferase activity in the hippocampus of not only the lesioned but also the unlesioned side, as well as in the septal area. In addition, nerve growth factor affected choline acetyltransferase activity differently in the hippocampus of the operated side with respect to the contralateral side or in unoperated animals. The chronic infusion of nerve growth factor did not affect acetylcholinesterase activity in the septum or in the hippocampus of either lesioned or unlesioned rats. The present findings indicate that nerve growth factor is capable of modulating the function of not only damaged but also normal adult forebrain cholinergic neurons. This suggests that nerve growth factor may modulate the function of these neurons in adulthood.
The neuroendocrine caudodorsal cells play an important role in the control of reproduction in Lymnaea stagnalis. These neurons produce at least nine neuropeptides which are encoded by caudodorsal cell hormone-I and -II genes. The role of some of these peptides in the control of reproduction has been established. The present study demonstrates that the transcription and translation of the caudodorsal cell hormone genes also proceeds abundantly in the reproductive tract of this hermaphroditic animal. In the female part of the reproductive tract neurons were found to express gene I. These neurons are most likely involved in the control of transport of the eggs and egg-masses and in the regulation of secretory activity from the female accessory sex glands. In the male part of the reproductive tract exocrine secretory cells express gene I or gene II. The gene products are secreted into the male duct and transferred to the female copulant during copulation. Furthermore, putative sensory neurons in the skin were found to express gene I. The results indicate that in L. stagnalis the complex process of reproduction is regulated--at least in part--by a set of neuropeptides which are encoded by a small multigene family, viz. the caudodorsal cell gene family.
Immunohistochemical processing of Long-Evans retina wholemounts using an antiserum directed against rat, human corticotropin releasing factor revealed a group of immunoreactive amacrine cells. Two subpopulations could be distinguished based primarily on the location of their cell bodies. One subpopulation had cell bodies situated along the junction of the inner nuclear layer and the inner plexiform layer. The other subpopulation had cell bodies in the ganglion cell layer. The latter was judged to be displaced amacrine cells since double-label experiments indicated that the pattern of corticotropin releasing factor-like immunoreactive staining in the ganglion cell layer did not coincide with that of ganglion cells labeled retrogradely with fluorogold. Corticotropin releasing factor-like immunoreactive amacrine cells on either side of the inner plexiform layer emitted processes which ramified extensively in sublamina 5 and, to a lesser degree, in sublamina 4. A minority of these cells also sent a single process to ramify in sublamina 1. Throughout the retina, corticotropin releasing factor-like immunoreactive cells were distributed relatively evenly, with a tendency to peak in the superior temporal region. Despite the anatomical classification into two subpopulations, it is proposed that the corticotropin releasing factor-like immunoreactive cells are functionally one system, influencing preferentially synaptic interactions associated with the inner half of the inner plexiform layer. The results of this study provide anatomical basis for further investigations of corticotropin releasing factor as a putative peptidergic neurotransmitter in the retina.
It has been shown that epileptics have lower mean blood concentration of manganese than do controls but the cause of this abnormality has not been determined. In order to investigate the effects of seizures on manganese distribution in the body, rats were treated with kainic acid to produce spontaneous seizures which were quantitated for number and severity. Manganese, zinc, copper and iron concentrations were determined in blood, brain, liver, heart and kidney. Kainate-treated animals ate more food but gained less weight than controls. Liver and kidney manganese concentrations were significantly higher in kainate-treated animals than in controls. Blood manganese concentration showed a significant negative correlation with seizure index while heart manganese concentration showed a significant positive correlation with seizure index. None of the other trace elements showed a significant correlation between trace element concentration and seizure index in any of the tissues, although iron concentration was lower in brain and copper concentration was lower in kidney of kainate-treated animals than in their appropriate controls. These data show that manganese concentrations are generally elevated in tissues of kainate-treated animals. This increased manganese concentration may be related to the increased energy demand of these animals.
Three-dimensional patterns of variation in the intensity of acetylcholinesterase histochemical staining and the width of stain-defined subregions were quantified for the dentate gyrus of the adult male Long-Evans rat. Matched tissue sections sampled through the central hippocampal formation of five rats were measured with a digital image analysis computer system. The width and stain intensity were determined for defined portions of the dentate gyrus related to gross acetylcholinesterase staining patterns and the known distribution of dentate afferents. Normalized values reflecting stain intensity at defined positions within this standardized sampling array were examined to investigate regional differences in acetylcholinesterase distribution along the primary dendritic axis of dentate granule neurons. The data illustrate quantitative differences in the partitioning of acetylcholinesterase as a function of intrahippocampal position. The variation is more pronounced in the septal-temporal axis than the granule cell layer crest-tip axis. Furthermore, the septal-temporal variations in acetylcholinesterase intensity demonstrate some independence according to proximal-distal location within the molecular layer. The results suggest that acetylcholinesterase distribution within the dentate gyrus may reflect local physiological characteristics of those afferent systems related to this enzyme, including but not necessarily limited to those that are specifically cholinergic.
The effect of temperature on electrical interactions between antidromically stimulated motoneurons and dorsal root afferents was studied in the isolated and hemisected spinal cord of the frog, superfused with Ringer in which Ca2+ was equimolarly replaced by Co2+ or Mn2+ to suppress chemical synaptic transmission. Suction electrodes were used for stimulating and/or recording from dorsal and ventral roots from segments IX or X. Intrafibre recordings from sensory fibres were made at their point of entry into the spinal cord. Supramaximal ventral root stimuli elicited two distinct responses in the segmental dorsal root. First a brief short-latency depolarizing potential. Second, at temperatures below 11 degrees C, a second depolarizing root potential appeared following the short-latency depolarizing potential-I. Amplitude and duration of short-latency depolarizing potential-II reversibly increased as the bath temperature was decreased, reaching a maximum at 3 degrees C. Between 8 and 3 degrees C, short-latency depolarizing potential-II increased in amplitude by 20%/degrees C. In contrast short-latency depolarizing potential-I did not show substantial changes with temperature. The short-latency depolarizing potential-II, unlike short-latency depolarizing potential-I showed stepped fluctuations in amplitude, and appeared to be composed of unitary events. Intrafibre records revealed that the unitary events corresponded to action potentials on individual dorsal root fibres. Double shocks applied to the ventral root, at constant bath temperatures (below 11 degrees C), revealed facilitation of the short-latency depolarizing potential-II, which was maximal between 50 and 80 ms and lasted about 200 ms. Neither the antidromic motoneurone field potential nor the short-latency depolarizing potential-I were facilitated.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The lateral cervical nucleus receives input from the spinocervical tract and projects to the thalamus and mesencephalon. The organization of this nucleus was examined using two immunocytochemical methods. Pre-embedding immunolabelling was performed using an antibody against glutamate decarboxylase, and post-embedding immunogold-reaction was performed with an antibody to glutaraldehyde-fixed GABA. Light microscopic analysis of material reacted for glutamate decarboxylase revealed that punctate structures were present throughout the nucleus and were associated with large cells in the dorsolateral region of the nucleus. Electron microscopy demonstrated that the punctate structures were synaptic boutons which formed symmetrical synaptic junctions with dendrites and somata of cells in the nucleus. The ultrastructural preservation of material prepared for the post-embedding immunogold technique was superior to that prepared for pre-embedding immunostaining. Positively labelled synaptic boutons exhibited high colloidal gold density and, like those prepared for the pre-embedding method, formed symmetrical synaptic junctions with dendrites and somata of neurons. Labelled boutons were densely packed with irregularly-shaped synaptic vesicles. They displayed characteristics which were distinct from those unlabelled boutons. Boutons, revealed by both immunolabelling methods, were not observed to form synaptic associations with other axon terminals and were presynaptic to dendrites and somata only. Therefore, it is probable that such boutons are responsible for postsynaptic inhibition of cells in the nucleus. In view of this evidence, it is concluded that the lateral cervical nucleus is not simply a relay but is actively involved in processing sensory information.
The presence of the catecholamines dopamine and noradrenaline in the posterior pituitary is well documented. Dopaminergic terminals are thought to derive from cells in the periventricular hypothalamus including the rostral arcuate nucleus, but the origin of the noradrenergic terminals is uncertain. The majority of central noradrenaline-containing neurons are in the brainstem and lesions of the ventral noradrenergic tract significantly reduce the noradrenaline content of the neural lobe. We have explored the possibility of a direct noradrenergic projection from the brainstem to the neural lobe using as a retrograde tract tracer horseradish peroxidase alone or in combination with immunohistochemical detection of tyrosine hydroxylase. Horseradish peroxidase was injected into the neural lobes of 20 rats using a ventral approach, and the animals were perfusion fixed 12 h later. In all 20 cases, cells retrogradely labelled with horseradish peroxidase were found not only in the periventricular zone and magnocellular nuclei of the hypothalamus but also in the A2 region of the brainstem. In all six cases simultaneously processed for horseradish peroxidase and tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry, retrogradely labelled cells in both the arcuate nucleus and A2 region were found to be tyrosine hydroxylase-positive. These findings demonstrate the presence of a direct projection from catecholaminergic neurons in the A2 region of the brainstem to the neurohypophysis. Since catecholaminergic neurons in this region are known to be noradrenergic and lesions of the ventral noradrenergic tract deplete the neurohypophysis of noradrenaline, these neurons may represent an important source of noradrenaline in the neurohypophysis.
The ontogeny of striatal M1 and M2 muscarinic cholinergic binding sites was studied autoradiographically in cats ranging in age from embryonic day 40 to postnatal day six. Direct labeling with [3H]pirenzepine revealed M1 sites, and M2 sites were labeled with [3H]N-methylscopolamine in the presence of pirenzepine. In serial tissue sections, distributions of striatal M1 and M2 sites were compared to one another and to patterns of acetylcholinesterase staining and tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactivity. The younger fetal material demonstrated heterogeneous distributions for both subtypes of muscarinic binding sites, with patches of dense binding corresponding to islands of dopaminergic nigrostriatal innervation. For both M1 and M2 binding, lateral to medial and caudal to rostral density gradients were present in the patches and in the surrounding matrix. During fetal development and into the perinatal period, overall muscarinic binding increased, but more so in the matrix than in the patches. By postnatal day six striatal M2 binding appeared nearly homogeneous. M1 binding, however, was slightly more concentrated in patches than in matrix. The patches of elevated M1 binding were still present at maturity, and corresponded to striosomes. These findings suggest that the ontogenetic regulation of muscarinic binding sites is influenced by location relative to striatal compartments, and that expression of M1 and M2 binding site subtypes is differentially regulated.
The development pattern of a 31,000 mol. wt phosphatidyl inositol-anchored membrane glycoprotein was followed during development in mouse and rat cerebellum using monoclonal antibody 194-653. The epitope was developmentally regulated and particularly abundant in post mitotic precursors of granule cells, newly formed parallel fibres and unmyelinated axons of the white matter between the 5th and the 15th postnatal days. It decreased considerably thereafter. In the adult, a significant although relatively low staining was observed only in white matter. Observation at the ultrastructural level showed that most of the 31,000 mol. wt glycoprotein was very concentrated on neuronal plasma membranes. A little immunoreactivity was also found intracellularly at the perinuclear membrane of neuroblasts of the external germinal layer. The antigen was present in the coated pits and intracellularly in coated vesicles. Immunochemical studies indicated that 31,000 mol. wt antigen was very likely to be a previously identified transient concanavalin A-binding glycoprotein insoluble in neutral detergents (Reeber et al., 1981; Brain Res. 229, 53-65). It appeared to be one of the glycoprotein ligands for two endogenous mannosyl-lectins isolated from rat cerebellum (Zanetta et al., 1985, Devl. Brain Res. 17, 233-243, Zanetta et al., 1987, J. Neurochem. 49, 1250-1257). The affinity of the 31,000 mol. wt glycoprotein for the two endogenous lectins, together with its developmental pattern and localization indicate that it could be an important molecule for contact guidance during migration of neurons and for myelination and could take part in other ontogenetic steps.
The polarization of neuronal trees by external point stimulation is modelled. In one form of model, an almost spheroidal field encloses the dendritic tree. Radially projecting, electrically linear dendrites, along with extracellular medium, are considered to occupy the entire field. The spheroid is modified by a penetrating cone that can surround the stimulating microelectrode; here, and in the rest of the infinite volume outside the field, there is only extracellular medium. A second form of linear electrical model, representing sections of membrane and cytoplasm by means of lumped electrical components commonly known as compartments, is used to validate the field construct. A similar spatial distribution of induced steady-state membrane potential emerges from the two forms of model, for a given morphology and electrophysiology. Compartmental models are also used to demonstrate time-courses of membrane charging. At the soma, if the point source is nearby, charging proves to be essentially complete in less than one time-constant. The soma thresholds under steady-state polarization from different electrode distances are plotted for field models of various electrical space-constant, size and shape of spheroid, and eccentricity of the soma. Characteristic cathodal or anodal thresholds, depending on the particular cell parameters, are revealed for specific electrode trajectories. The range of threshold-distance relations obtained in previously published experiments match those given by the models, when the time-course of charging is taken into account.
Human subjects swung, through motions at the two wrists, hand-held pendulums of variable mass and length. Within a pair, the two pendulums could be of the same or different magnitude. The subjects were required to produce a coordinated state in which the two rhythmic units oscillated at a single common period. Fifty-four conditions of absolute coordination, that is, 54 different pairs of wrist-pendulum systems, were investigated for each of three subjects in the course of six sessions. Each condition of absolute coordination was conducted in the out of phase mode and at the single most comfortable period. The period variances of the right and left systems in the 162 instances of absolute coordination were analysed according to a method that assumes that a timekeeper function and a motor implementation function contribute independently to the variance in the periodic timing of a rhythmic movement. The major findings were that in absolute coordination: (a) a system's 'motor' variance, but not its 'clock' variance, depended on the deviation of the period of absolute coordination tau from the system's characteristic period; (b) right and left 'clock' variances were related and (c) neither the 'motor' variances nor the 'clock' variances were affected by deviations in the mean phase relation from 180 degrees. The results were discussed in terms of their implications for interpreting von Holst's notions of maintenance tendency and magnetic effect and, more generally, the neural and dynamical basis of absolute coordination.
The uptake and retention of radioactivity was measured in discrete areas of rat brain at different times after i.v. injection of [14C]2-deoxyglucose or [6(-14)C]glucose, in unrestrained rats. In most brain regions, the accumulation of radioactivity from the two compounds was similar when a 30-min survival period for [6(-14)C]glucose was compared to a 45-min survival period for [14C]2-deoxyglucose. However, at those times, autoradiographic images of the hippocampus and piriform cortex appeared distinctly different for [14C]2-deoxyglucose and [6(-14)C]glucose. Relatively more radioactivity accumulated from [14C]2-deoxyglucose, compared to [14C]glucose, in the stratum lacunosum-moleculare of the hippocampus and in layer 4 of the isocortex. In contrast, relatively more radioactivity accumulated from [6(-14)C]glucose, compared to [14C]2-deoxyglucose, in the molecular and granule cell layers of the dentate gyrus, the CA1 pyramidal cell layer of the hippocampus, and in layer 2 of the piriform cortex. When rats were killed 5 min after injection of [6(-14)C]glucose, the relative neuroanatomical distribution of radioactivity was similar to the 30-min survival period, except in layer 4 of the isocortex, where relatively more radioactivity was present at the early time. When rats were killed 5 min after injection of [14C]2-deoxyglucose, in 20 of 24 brain regions examined, the absolute and relative amounts of accumulated radioactivity were similar when compared to that of the 45-min survival period. In contrast, the absolute and relative amounts of radioactivity were significantly greater for the 5-min compared to the 45-min survival period, in the CA1 pyramidal cell field, dentate gyrus, and layer 2 of the piriform cortex. For those regions, the appearance of autoradiograms prepared from rats killed 5 min after administration of [14C]2-deoxyglucose is remarkably similar to the appearance of autoradiograms prepared from rats killed 5 or 30 min after injection of [6(-14)C]glucose. Possible mechanisms are discussed to explain the observed differences in the accumulation of radioactivity in discrete brain regions after injection of [6(-14)C]glucose and [14C]2-deoxyglucose at the different survival times examined.
Patterns of [3H]thymidine incorporation during neurogenesis of the embryonic chick retina have been compared in vitro and in ovo. Pieces of posterior, undifferentiated retinas were dissected from embryos on day 6 of incubation (E6) and cultured in the presence of [3H]thymidine. Label was added to the medium for 3 h on day 1, 2, 3 or 4 in culture. The retinas were fixed on the fifth day, embedded in epon, sectioned and processed for autoradiography. In parallel experiments, in ovo injections were made on embryonic day 6, 7, 8 or 9 (E6-E9). On E12 the embryos were fixed and a piece of the posterior retina from each eye was dissected and processed for autoradiography as above. Results show that the retinal explants develop well in culture and all of the layers of the neural retina differentiate. However, the cultured retinas are thinner than those grown in ovo. [3H]Thymidine labeling indicates that nearly all retinal neurons undergo their final mitotic divisions between E6 and E9. In addition the patterns of labeling in culture are similar to those in ovo. Most neurons, including the majority of cells in the ganglion cell layer and outer nuclear layer, are labeled on the first three days in culture and in E6-E7 embryos, while labeled cells are restricted to the inner nuclear layer in older specimens. Counts of labeled and unlabeled neurons in the ganglion cell layer suggest that the temporal pattern of neurogenesis in culture lags behind that in the embryo by about one day but that the spatial patterns of cell migration are the same.
We report detection of magnetic mu rhythm in four subjects using a large-area seven-channel first-order superconducting quantum interference device gradiometer. The polarity of this activity was opposite at the upper and lower ends of the rolandic fissure, and during the sharp transients the field patterns could be satisfactorily explained by a current dipole model. The equivalent dipoles were located close to the sources of the early somatosensory evoked field component N20m, which suggests that the mu rhythm is generated mainly at the primary somatosensory hand projection area. The frequency spectrum of the mu had major peaks around 10 and 21 Hz in all subjects. The high-frequency activity was blocked by clenching of the fist, but not by opening of the eyes, in agreement with characteristics of the electric mu rhythm.
The stereotypic head-down sniffing response to systemically administered apomorphine (0.65 mumol/kg) was assessed in rats 48 h after the bilateral injection of 0.2-0.5 microliters of the irreversible receptor antagonist N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline (60 micrograms/microliters) into the caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens. This response was significantly attenuated in animals that had received injections of N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline into the anterior/ventral part of the caudate-putamen but not in those that received injections into regions more dorsal/posterior. Animals were killed after apomorphine challenge and the region of dopamine D1 or D2 receptor reduction due to N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline mapped and quantified. This analysis revealed that the dopamine receptors involved in the apomorphine-induced stereotyped head-down sniffing response were located in a discrete region of the ventrolateral caudate-putamen and the dorsolateral nucleus accumbens. Animals that were pretreated with the selective dopamine D2 receptor antagonist raclopride (0 20 mumol/kg, i.p.) 20 min prior to central injection of N-ethoxycarbonyl-2-ethoxy-1,2-dihydroquinoline into this area showed a dose-dependent protection of the stereotyped sniffing response to systemic apomorphine 48 h later. This combination of techniques constitutes a novel way to investigate striatal function and the results obtained support the concept of a functional subdivision of both the caudate-putamen and the nucleus accumbens.
The pharmacological and electrophysiological characteristics of the alpha-bungarotoxin receptor present on the human neuroblastoma cell line IMR-32 indicate that this receptor is not associated with an acetylcholine-operated ionic channel. In this paper we report its biochemical purification and immunological characterization. This molecule has a standard sedimentation coefficient of 10S and sodium dodecyl-sulphate gel electrophoresis shows that it is made up of three polypeptide chains of molecular weights of 67,000, 60,000 and 52,000. Ligand binding to blots of purified receptor revealed that only the polypeptide of molecular weight 52,000 is bound by [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin. The purified alpha-bungarotoxin receptor was bound by polyclonal antibodies raised against purified fetal calf, Torpedo and chick optic lobe nicotinic receptors and by the sera of myasthenic patients. Furthermore, despite the fact that a number of different immunological techniques were used, it was impossible to label this alpha-bungarotoxin receptor with mAb 35, a monoclonal antibody which binds some neuronal nicotinic receptors. Rabbit antisera against the purified alpha-bungarotoxin receptor were used to compare this protein with other known nicotinic receptors and, once again, it was demonstrated that there is some immunological cross-reactivity between the alpha-bungarotoxin receptor present on neuroblastoma cells and Torpedo, fetal calf and chick optic lobe nicotinic receptors. All these immunological data, together with previously published pharmacological and molecular biology data, demonstrate that the alpha-bungarotoxin receptor present in nerve cells is neither a muscular nor a neuronal nicotinic receptor, although it has similarities with both.
The regenerating retinotectal projection of goldfish was mapped with punctate flashes of light produced by red light-emitting diodes. The characteristics of multiunit receptive fields were studied in fish kept at 25 degrees C at different times after unilateral optic nerve crush. From about 20 days, when the first visually-evoked responses to black-on-white stimuli appeared, until about 40 days, no consistent responses to light-emitting diodes could be obtained, although high-contrast, long-duration light-emitting diode stimuli elicited weak off-responding. At around 40 days, responses to light-emitting diodes reappeared as the amplitude of evoked multiunit activity increased sharply. At their emergence, light-emitting diode-sensitive multiunit receptive fields were irregular and only slightly enlarged, but quickly regained normal shape and size. Conformity to a linear and uniform visuotopography recovered more slowly and, in some individuals, incompletely. The results suggest that &quot;on&quot; and &quot;off&quot; optic fiber systems, probably with small terminal arbors, are functionally expressed at a later time in regeneration than the predominantly &quot;off&quot; system manifested earlier. The different time courses of recovery in these systems explain several aspects of the recovery of visual behavior during optic nerve regeneration.
Refinement and connectivity in the regenerating retinotectal system of goldfish were studied quantitatively by electrophysiological methods. One optic nerve was crushed intraorbitally in fish kept at 25 degrees C. At different postcrush times, visually-evoked multiunit activity was recorded from the superficial layers of tectum, and from the torus longitudinalis. Responses in torus longitudinalis were used as a test of retinotectal connectivity because torus longitudinalis derives a visuotopic map from a tectal projection. The stimulus, effective for both the early retinotectal projection and torus longitudinalis, was a 10 degrees wide vertical black stripe rotated horizontally at 25 degrees/s through both visual fields. Activity from repeated sweeps was averaged to yield receptive field profiles in the horizontal dimension. Normally, profiles from tectum were dual-peaked and 20 degrees wide at half maximum amplitude; torus longitudinalis profiles were bell-shaped and 41 degrees wide. Between 20 and 40 days postcrush, tectum gave broad low-amplitude (25% normal) profiles that were roughly visuotopic. Over the same period, torus longitudinalis gave profiles of relatively high amplitude (69% of normal) that were also broadened but normally visuotopic. The widths of both tectal and torus longitudinalis profiles declined with the same exponential timecourse, reaching normal values by 80-100 days. Torus longitudinalis profiles were on average 21.6 degrees wider than tectal profiles at all stages of regeneration. The results agree with previous anatomical observations showing that optic fibers initially form much enlarged arbors that shrink over time, and suggest that arbors engage in widespread synaptic connections, at least with tecto-torus longitudinalis cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Multiunit mapping techniques were used to investigate whether or not units with ON- and OFF-center receptive fields occur in an orderly arrangement in the cat lateral geniculate nucleus. In the A layers, ON- and OFF-center sites were partially segregated in the dimension parallel to the laminae, with ON-center sites predominant at the dorsal surface of each layer and OFF-center sites relatively more numerous at the ventral surface of the layer. Microelectrode tracks were placed to traverse the visual field map in the nucleus parallel to projection lines, parallel to isoelevation lines and parallel to isoazimuth lines. The tracks placed parallel to projection lines contained long sequences of units of the same center sign, providing evidence that ON and OFF zones are organized in vertical modules which span much or all of the thickness of a layer. The tracks placed parallel to isoelevation and isoazimuth lines contained alternating clusters of ON- and OFF-center sites. These clusters were larger in the dimension representing isoelevation than in the dimension representing isoazimuth. Taken together, these results indicate that the cat lateral geniculate nucleus contains ON and OFF modules oriented perpendicular to the layers.
A qualitative and quantitative immunohistochemical study of cholinergic systems in the human hippocampal formation was performed with an antibody against choline acetyltransferase. Four control subjects and six patients with Alzheimer's disease, matched for age and post-mortem delay, were examined. Immunoreactive nerve fibres and terminals were visualized, but no cholinergic cell bodies were seen. The distribution of the fibres and terminals suggests that a major afferent cholinergic pathway enters the hippocampus dorsally via the fimbria-fornix, a minor input entering from the temporal lobe along the alvear path. The cholinergic innervation suffers some degenerative change in normal aged subjects, but decreases considerably in density in patients with Alzheimer's disease. The extent of the decrease differs somewhat among the subregions of the hippocampus, but is homogeneously distributed within each subregion, and throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the structure. Compensatory sprouting in reaction to denervation was not detected.
In order to analyse the role of the anterior hypothalamus in the regulation of the sleep-waking cycle we made bilateral neuronal lesions at different levels of the anterior hypothalamus in cats, by means of microinjections of a cell-specific neurotoxin:ibotenic acid. These lesions resulted in severe insomnia in eight cats. This insomnia was characterized by a large decrease or even disappearance of paradoxical sleep and deep slow wave sleep and, to a lesser extent, by a decrease of light slow wave sleep, for 2-3 weeks. In the other five animals, we observed a large reduction of deep slow wave sleep (0-40% of control level), but a less intensive decrease of time spent in paradoxical sleep (50-75% of control level) and no marked effect on light slow wave sleep. During the first 3-6 postoperative days we also noticed hyperthermia in all cats; thereafter, the animals presented only a slight increase in brain temperature which did not appear to trigger the sleep impairment. Histological analysis of the different lesions revealed that the insomnia could be attributed to neuronal cell body destruction in the mediobasal part of the anterior hypothalamus covering; the medial preoptic area and a narrow portion of the lateral preoptic area as well as a restricted part of the anterior hypothalamic nucleus. In order to investigate the putative role of the posterior hypothalamic structures in the mechanism of insomnia after lesion of the mediobasal preoptic area neurons we injected an agonist of GABA into the ventrolateral part of the posterior hypothalamus to locally depress the neuronal activity. The bilateral intracerebral microinjection of muscimol (0.5-5 micrograms) induced a transient intensive hypersomnia (slow wave sleep and paradoxical sleep). These findings indicate that neuronal cell loss in the mediobasal preoptic area induced a long lasting insomnia. Thus, it may be hypothesized that the integrity of this structure is necessary for sleep appearance. Finally, our data are in keeping with an intrahypothalamic regulation of the sleep-waking cycle.
Adult female rats showing regular vaginal cycles were studied in order to determine the number of axosomatic synapses in thin sections of the arcuate nucleus. The number of synapses per length of perikaryal membrane was significantly decreased in estrus, compared to other days of the estrous cycle (P less than 0.05). The reduction in the number of synapses in estrus was accompanied by a decrease in the percentage of the average length of perikaryal membrane covered by presynaptic terminals and by an increase in the percentage of membrane in close apposition of glial processes. Since the average perikaryal perimeter was not significantly changed during the estrous cycle, these results indicate a net decrease in the number of arcuate nucleus axosomatic synapses between proestrus and estrus, with a reinnervation of arcuate neurons between estrus and metestrus. These results suggest that there is a physiological synaptic turnover in the arcuate nucleus of the rat during the estrous cycle.
In mice, only strange male pheromones block pregnancy; pheromones of the familiar male with which the female has mated have the capacity to block pregnancy but are ineffective with the consort female. Hence, some form of recognition/memory to the stud male is formed at mating. By infusing lignocaine locally into the accessory olfactory bulb and second order olfactory synapses in the medial nucleus of the amygdala, this study localizes changes that occur in the accessory olfactory bulb at mating to be subsequently important in preventing the stud male's pheromones from blocking pregnancy. Further attention is focused on the dendrodendritic synapses between mitral and granule cells in the accessory olfactory bulb. Blockade of the GABA receptors (granule to mitral cell synapse) in the accessory bulb without mating, but in the presence of male pheromones, prevents any male from blocking pregnancy. Conversely inhibition of protein kinase C, a second messenger system activated by excitatory amino acids (mitral to granule cell synapse), in the accessory bulb during a 4-h period after mating permits all male pheromones including the stud's to activate pregnancy block. While blockade of protein kinase C activity during the critical exposure time for memory formation prevents memory formation, infusions of a protein synthesis inhibitor (anisomycin) are without effect. However, protein synthesis inhibition in the accessory olfactory bulb in the late phase of the critical exposure time (3-6 h after mating) does prevent memory formation. These studies show that changes in synaptic plasticity in the accessory olfactory bulb following mating are critical to recognition of the stud male's pheromones, hence preventing these from subsequently blocking pregnancy.
The origin of cortical purine release was investigated by measuring [3H]purine release from electrically stimulated cortical slices of rats after neurotoxic lesions of cholinergic, noradrenergic and serotoninergic pathways innervating the cortex. Purines were labelled by incubating the cortical slices with [3H]adenine. The 3H efflux at rest and during stimulation, analysed by high performance liquid chromatography, consisted of adenosine, inosine, hypoxanthine and a small amount of nucleotides. Twenty days after unilateral or bilateral lesion of the nucleus basalis a marked decrease in choline acetyltransferase activity was associated with a decrease in [3H]purine release. A linear relationship was found between the decrease in choline acetyltransferase activity and [3H]purine release. A partial recovery in both choline acetyltransferase activity and [3H]purine release was observed eight months after the lesion. Twenty days after intra-cerebroventricular injection of 6-hydroxydopamine a 59% decrease in cortical noradrenaline content was associated with a 44% decrease in [3H]purine release. Conversely, no change in [3H]purine release was found in rats in which a 89% decrease in cortical serotonin content was induced by intra-cerebroventricular injection of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine. The decrease in [3H]purine release after the lesion of the cholinergic and noradrenergic pathways may depend on metabolic changes, a loss of a stimulating influence of acetylcholine and noradrenaline or may indicate a release of [3H]purine from cholinergic and noradrenergic fibres.
The application of an antiserum directed against rat serotonin demonstrated serotonin-immunoreactive cell bodies and varicose nerve fibres in the myenteric plexus of both goldfish and tilapia. In the circular muscle layer immunoreactive varicose nerve fibres and a few cell bodies could be detected. A fine network of varicose fibres was observed underlying the epithelial cells. Serotonin immunoreactivity was not observed along incoming mesenterial blood vessels, suggesting that the serotonergic neurons may be intrinsic to the intestine. Immunoreactive endocrine cells were shown in the intestinal epithelium of tilapia but not in goldfish. Serotonin caused a weak contraction of the intestinal wall of the goldfish which could be blocked by tetrodotoxin and by atropine, suggesting that serotonin has an indirect action on muscular contraction. In contrast, serotonin induced a relaxation of the intestinal wall of tilapia which could not be blocked by propranolol or by tetrodotoxin. This indicates that in this species serotonin may act directly on the muscle fibres. The ion-selectivity of the intestinal epithelium of both species was modulated by serotonin. Tetrodotoxin did not inhibit this effect, suggesting that serotonin acts directly on the epithelial cells. The presence of serotonergic fibres in the muscle layer and directly underneath the epithelium, along with the effect of serotonin on muscular tension and on the ion-selectivity of the epithelium, suggests that serotonin may play a role in the regulation of motility and the epithelial function of goldfish and tilapia intestine.
An antiserum to GABA was used on semithin resin-embedded sections of rat dorsal horn. Immunoreactive neurons were evenly distributed throughout laminae I-III and constituted between 24 and 33% of the total neuronal population within three laminae. Fifty Golgi-stained cells in lamina II were tested with the antiserum. Most of the islet cells examined were immunoreactive, although some small islet cells were not. None of the 14 stalked cells tested was immunoreactive. These results provide further evidence that the stalked and islet cells of lamina II form two distinct functional classes and suggest that the islet cells function as inhibitory interneurons.
The course of the ascending pathways originating from the anterior gustatory and posterior visceral sensory part of the solitary tract nucleus and the topographic organization of the projections to the hypothalamus in the rat were studied with anterogradely transported Phaseolus vulgaris lectin. In general, the posterior visceral sensory part of the solitary tract nucleus has ascending projections as far as the septum-diagonal band complex and gives rise to heavy input to the bed nucleus of the stria terminals, and to the dorsomedial and paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei. A more moderate projection is aimed at a variety of other hypothalamic nuclei, to the medial and central amygdaloid nuclei and to the paraventricular nucleus of the thalamus. The ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus is strikingly missing an afferent input from the nucleus of the solitary tract. Furthermore, it was shown that whereas the caudal solitary tract nucleus has predominant long ascending connections, the projections from the anterior taste related region of the nucleus of the solitary tract have only limited forebrain projections which do not reach beyond the level of the anterior dorsal hypothalamic nucleus.
Two calcium-binding proteins, calbindin and parvalbumin, have been reported to be abundant in Purkinje cells and other cell types in the cerebellum. Immunoreactivity for a related protein, calretinin, is now reported in cerebellum of chick and rat. In the chick, antibodies against calretinin stain mossy fibres throughout, and climbing fibres in a distinct group of folia. They also stain several cell types in the molecular layer. As there is no detectable calretinin mRNA in the cerebellar cortex, this cellular staining may be due to cross-reaction with an unknown antigen. In the rat, antibodies against calretinin stain the Lugaro cells, and some granule cells in lobe X; they also give weak staining of all the granule cells in the other lobes. Thus almost all the neuronal cell types in the cerebellum show immunoreactivity for at least one of the calcium-binding proteins in one or both species.
The first immunohistochemical results with a new neuronal calcium-binding protein, calretinin, are presented. Calretinin is related to the 28,000 mol. wt calcium-binding protein, calbindin, and a survey of the chick brain by in situ hybridization has identified the brain nuclei that expressed the genes for the two proteins [Rogers J.H., J. Cell Biol. 105, 1343 (1987)]. Now, antisera have been raised against calretinin fusion proteins in order to visualize individual neurons. The antisera have been used in an immunohistochemical survey of calretinin and calbindin in the chick sensory nuclei and ganglia, where these two proteins are found to be particularly prevalent. In the central nervous system, they are seen in many secondary sensory neurons and local circuit neurons, the two proteins being almost always in separate cells. However, in ganglion cells of the spinal nerves, inner ear, and retina, they are often expressed together. Their distribution in the brain is generally different from that of a third calcium-binding protein, parvalbumin. These proteins may modulate many important calcium-dependent processes in neurons, and probably have multiple functions.
The distribution of binding of the plant lectin soybean agglutinin to primary sensory neurons has been investigated in the rat and cat. Soybean agglutinin was found to bind to approximately 30% of neurons in the fourth, lumbar dorsal root ganglion of the rat and approximately 50% of neurons in the first, sacral dorsal root ganglion in the cat. Morphometric analysis of these dorsal root ganglia revealed that in both species those neurons which bind soybean agglutinin appear to be a subpopulation of the small-diameter cells. Electron microscopic analysis of the lumbar dorsal roots revealed that soybean agglutinin binds to the plasma membrane of a subpopulation of unmyelinated axons in both species. Myelinated axons did not bind the lectin. In the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, soybean agglutinin bound to components of Lissauer's tract and the superficial laminae (laminae I and II) of the dorsal horn in both species. In the dorsal horn lectin binding was limited to lamina I and the outer portion of lamina II (sublamina IIo) in the cat, while in the rat lamina I and the entire dorsoventral extent of lamina II (sublaminae IIo and IIi) were labelled. Thirty days following dorsal rhizotomy, soybean agglutinin binding in the superficial dorsal horn, ipsilateral to the rhizotomy, was abolished in both species. These results show the plant lectin soybean agglutinin to be a histochemical marker for the soma and central terminals of a subpopulation of small-diameter sensory neurons in both the rat and cat. It is suggested that soybean agglutinin binding may be used in conjunction with immunohistochemistry to allow identification of putative neurotransmitters within, or in synaptic profiles associated with, the central terminals of small-diameter primary sensory neurons.
Intracellular recordings from intact pituitary melanotrophs show that, in the same cell, inhibitory postsynaptic potentials resulting from either pituitary stalk stimulation or exogenous dopamine are abolished by D2 receptor antagonists, display identical conductance changes, are reversed in polarity at the same membrane potential and are sensitive to pertussis toxin pretreatment. The reversal potential of the inhibitory postsynaptic potential shows a 65 mV shift with a 10-fold change in external potassium concentration, which is close to that predicted by the Nernst equation. We conclude that activation of this synapse releases dopamine which acts on a D2 receptor to increase potassium conductance via a G-protein-mediated mechanism. This is the first characterization of an inhibitory dopaminergic synapse in the mammalian nervous system.
The effects of basic fibroblast growth factor and nerve growth factor on survival and transmitter expression of cultured rat embryonic (E18) septal neurons were studied. Two different culture media were used: (i) a horse serum-containing Leibowitz L-15 medium and (ii) a serum-free N1-supplemented Dulbecco's modified Eagle's medium. Addition of basic fibroblast growth factor to either culture medium enhanced neuronal survival in low density cultures after 4 days. The effects of basic fibroblast growth factor were dose-dependent and blocked by anti-basic fibroblast growth factor antibodies. In serum-containing L-15 medium nerve growth factor also promoted neuronal survival. Basic fibroblast growth factor and nerve growth factor supported neurons comprised both cholinergic and GABAergic subpopulations. The effects of basic fibroblast growth factor and nerve growth factor were not additive. In high density cultures using serum-containing L-15 medium survival of septal neurons was four times higher than in low density cultures after 4 days. Addition of basic fibroblast growth factor or nerve growth factor did not further augment neuronal survival in high density cultures. Maintenance of septal neurons at high density was not affected by antibodies to basic fibroblast growth factor and/or nerve growth factor. Addition of basic fibroblast growth factor or nerve growth factor to serum-containing L-15 medium at high cell density significantly enhanced choline acetyltransferase activity 3- and 7.5-fold, respectively, without affecting cell survival. In conclusion, next to nerve growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor, which has been located in the hippocampal target area of septal neurons, appears to be another potent trophic factor for septal neurons.
Eighty-two identified thalamocortical relay neurons were recorded extracellularly in the ventral posterior thalamic nucleus in 29 urethane-anaesthetized rats. Electrical stimulations were applied to the contralateral vibrissae or to the ipsilateral neocortex for ortho- or antidromic activation. The critical period following a known somatic action potential and during which no antidromic response could reach the soma was systematically determined for each cell using a collision test. Thus, the possible ectopic axonal origin of a given impulse could be determined. Thalamic neurons displayed either tonic or phasic firing modes, the latter characterized by episodes of rhythmic high-frequency burst discharges. The present results suggest that such bursts were generated at the soma and probably involved an intrinsic mechanism, since: (1) a modulation of the somatic excitability with an excitatory or inhibitory amino acid affected the intra-burst structure; (2) an antidromic test action potential collided with the second or any of the later impulses of such bursts; (3) an orthodromic activation could evoke a burst structurally similar to a natural one; and (4) the duration of the first interval of such an evoked burst was always inferior to the sum of the critical period plus the antidromic conduction time, ruling out the possibility that it might have been entirely ectopically generated on thalamic terminals. The results further show that a spontaneous ectopic axonal impulse could trigger a somatic burst, since: (1) an electrically-evoked antidromic action potential could trigger a burst structurally similar to a spontaneous one; (2) on 42% of the tested thalamic cells, a known antidromic action potential delivered during the critical period following a spontaneous single impulse could not collide with it: in many cases such non-collisions were seen with the first action potential of a burst; and (3) with increasing ionophoretic doses, GABA could: (i) convert bursts to single action potentials, while the ortho- but not the antidromic responses were abolished, (ii) block these single impulses at similar doses than those which abolished known antidromic ones, and (iii) multiply by a factor of 3 the probability of testing an ectopic action potential. On 70% of the cells tested, such GABA-isolated impulses could be proved to have been ectopically generated. Finally, ectopic impulses have never been observed during periods of tonic firing, indicating that such a feature was not an experimental artifact.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The understanding of the information processing performed by complex neuronal networks in the central nervous system will require techniques permitting the simultaneous monitoring of the electrical activity of neuronal ensembles. Voltage sensitive dyes offer the potential for non-invasive optical monitoring of the activity in large populations of neurons. In this report we describe the use of voltage sensitive dyes and image processing techniques to monitor in vivo the activation of parallel fibers and associated neuronal events produced by stimulation of the cerebellar cortex in the rat. Despite the temporal limitations of video processing a relatively brief set of neuronal events was successfully imaged. Using this methodology we demonstrate that the detected fluorescent light changes were highly correlated with the evoked extracellular field potentials. Graded surface stimulation produced graded spatial patterns consistent with known parallel fiber anatomy and physiology. The optical signals were dependent on the presence of the voltage sensitive dyes and were abolished by topical application of a local anesthetic agent. In essence, activation of a parallel fiber beam and associated activity were imaged at relatively high resolution.
Adrenergic neurons in the C1 region in the ventrolateral medulla oblongata send descending axons into spinal cord which terminate in thoracic and upper lumbar segments, overlapping the distribution of sympathetic preganglionic neurons. The present study was undertaken to determine whether adrenergic fibers synapse directly on preganglionic neurons which innervate the adrenal medulla and to examine the ultrastructure of these fibers during development. The ultrastructure and synaptology of adrenergic axons in the intermediolateral nucleus of mid-thoracic spinal cord were studied in 7-, 9-, 24-, 30-, 60-, and 90-day-old rats using immunocytochemical staining for phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase, the epinephrine-synthesizing enzyme. Phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase-immunoreactivity was observed in the cytoplasm of unmyelinated axonal varicosities and intervaricose segments in the neuropil of intermediolateral nucleus. Phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive synaptic boutons were filled with spherical electron-lucent vesicles and occasional larger dense-core vesicles. These boutons were observed to form symmetrical synaptic contacts with dendritic processes at all ages examined. Asymmetrical synapses on dendrites were also observed in adult rats. Axosomatic synaptic contacts were frequently observed in immature rats, but were never observed in adult rats. To determine whether adrenergic axons synapse on preganglionic neurons which project to the adrenal medulla, adrenal preganglionic neurons were retrogradely labeled with horseradish peroxidase and adrenergic axons were stained for phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase-immunoreactivity. In young rats, phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive boutons were observed to form symmetrical axosomatic and axodendritic synaptic contacts with adrenal preganglionic neurons in intermediolateral nucleus. These contacts had already formed by postnatal day 7, the youngest age studied. In contrast, it was not possible to verify that adrenal preganglionic neurons receive adrenergic innervation in adult rats, since phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase-immunoreactive boutons were only observed in contact with small diameter dendrites that were not retrogradely labeled by horseradish peroxidase. These studies demonstrate that adrenal preganglionic neurons receive adrenergic synapses prior to the first postnatal week. The initial synapses which form on preganglionic somata and proximal dendrites appear to reorganize late in development. It is suggested that these become more distally located as the dendritic tree matures. More generally, these observations suggest that adrenergic bulbospinal neurons are involved in central regulation of adrenal development and function.
The distribution of choline acetyltransferase was determined in normal and transplanted rat superior colliculus with choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry. This distribution was compared to the pattern of histochemically detected acetylcholinesterase activity. To determine cholinergic input to the superficial superior colliculus, double labelling experiments combining retrograde tracing methods and choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry were carried out. No choline acetyltransferase-containing neurons were observed in the rat superior colliculus. A dense network of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive fibres and terminals was seen in the intermediate layers of the normal superior colliculus. The distribution was patchy and very similar to the pattern of acetylcholinesterase activity. Occasional fibres and terminals were seen in the deep tectal laminae. The superficial layers contained a low number of choline acetyltransferase-stained fibres and terminals but a comparatively high level of acetylcholinesterase activity. Following a unilateral injection of a tracer into the superficial superior colliculus, retrogradely labelled choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive neurons were found in the dorsal and ventral subnuclei of the ipsilateral parabigeminal nucleus. As in the normal superior colliculus, choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons were not found in tectal transplants. However, choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive fibres and terminals were seen in grafts but only in those which had extensive connections with the host midbrain. The pattern of staining most closely resembled that seen in the intermediate layers of the normal superior colliculus. The similar arrangement of choline acetyltransferase and acetylcholinesterase activity in the intermediate layers of normal rat superior colliculus provides further evidence for cholinergic innervation to these layers, probably originating in the dorsal and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei. The data from the double labelling experiments indicate that the choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive terminals observed in the superficial layers represent the terminal field of an ipsilateral cholinergic projection from the parabigeminal nucleus. Tectal grafts receive cholinergic innervation from the host. The evidence suggests that much of this input derives from the cholinergic nuclei in the brainstem tegmentum which normally project to the intermediate tectal layers.
Exocytosis of neurosecretory granules from dendrites of magnocellular neurons can be visualized electron microscopically after incubation of hypothalamic brain slices in media containing 1.2 mM tannic acid, which stabilizes extracellular peptidergic granule cores, and permits their immunocytochemical identification. Morphometric analysis of stimulated slices demonstrates that exocytosis of neurosecretory granules from the dendrites of magnocellular neurons can account for the vasopressin and oxytocin known to be released into the hypothalamus. Exocytosis from cell bodies of magnocellular neurons was not observed in stimulated slices from normal rats but, when granules had been caused to accumulate in the neuronal somata by prior administration of colchicine, exocytosis of granules from the somata was unambiguously identified. These data demonstrate exocytosis from dendrites and cell bodies of a mammalian peptidergic neuron, and show that all parts of their plasmalemma are competent for exocytosis of granules.
7-8D2 is a mouse monoclonal IgGl antibody which recognizes a neuronal cell surface antigen in rat brain. Immunohistochemical techniques reveal the antigen to be present most abundantly in the cerebellum of the adult brain, where it is expressed by the cell bodies and fibres of the granule neurons. Lower levels of staining were found in the neuropil of the hippocampus, in some fibres of the corpus callosum and in the most superficial layer of the cerebral cortex. Immunoelectron microscopy confirmed that the antigen was present on the surface of the parallel fibres in the cerebellum and showed that it was absent from glial, Purkinje or stellate cell membranes. The antigen had a more widespread distribution early in development, and the restricted adult distribution was achieved by the end of the second postnatal week. Immunoblotting of samples of adult rat brain shows that the antigen appears as a close doublet of bands at 211,000 mol. wt. This result was confirmed by immunoprecipitating the antigen from metabolically labelled glycoproteins prepared from cultured cerebellar interneurons. Immunoblotting and immunohistochemical experiments were in agreement that the cerebellum contained high levels of the antigen, and that lower but significant amounts could be found in other brain regions, notably the hippocampus and the cerebral cortex. The localization data and the changes in the distribution of the antigen may suggest some role for this molecule during early brain development.
Spinal cord cells co-cultured with primary chick myotubes caused a 1.5-3-fold increase in the number of muscle surface acetylcholine receptors assayed with [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin. This increase did not result from the metabolic stabilization of the acetylcholine receptor protein and was at least partially due to a stimulation of acetylcholine receptor biosynthesis up to the level of the accumulation of alpha-subunit mature and partially spliced precursor mRNAs. A medium conditioned by spinal cord cells also caused a rise in acetylcholine receptor number. This increase did not coincide with an augmentation of the intracellular cyclic AMP level as reported for the neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide. In contrast, spinal cord cells and the medium conditioned by them potentiated the effect of calcitonin gene-related peptide on acetylcholine receptor number. Stimulation of acetylcholine receptor synthesis by the conditioned medium was blocked by the protein kinase C activator 12-O-tetradecanoyl phorbol-13-acetate and by the calcium ionophore A23187. These two compounds have already been reported to block the increase of acetylcholine receptor number produced by the voltage sensitive sodium channel antagonist tetrodotoxin which stimulates acetylcholine receptor biosynthesis by blocking spontaneous electrical activity of the cultured muscle cells. The possibility that different neural factors and second messenger systems are involved in the regulation of acetylcholine receptor biosynthesis during the development of the neuromuscular junction is discussed.
The neuropeptide calcitonin gene-related peptide calcitonin gene-related peptide, and muscle electrical activity regulate in opposite directions the content of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor alpha-subunit mRNA in primary cultures of chick embryonic myotubes. Indeed, treating the cells with calcitonin gene-related peptide or blocking the spontaneous activity of muscle cells by tetrodotoxin (an inhibitor of sodium channels) increases, although to different levels, the content of acetylcholine receptor alpha-subunit mRNA [Fontaine B., Klarsfeld A. and Changeux J. P. (1987) J. Cell Biol. 105, 1337-1342; Klarsfeld A. and Changeux J. P. (1985) Proc. natn. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 82, 4558-4562]. In this paper, we demonstrate that, under these in vitro culture conditions, calcitonin gene-related peptide (0.1 microM) and tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM) regulate to a smaller extent (no more than 2.5-fold above control) the levels of acetylcholine receptor gamma- and delta-subunit mRNAs. No effect of either compound on acetylcholine receptor biosynthesis was observed during the initial three days of culture. The response to calcitonin gene-related peptide was already maximal when the cells were treated between days three and four after plating (about 3-fold increase of the alpha-subunit mRNA level). The effect of tetrodotoxin resulted in a six-fold increase of the acetylcholine receptor alpha-subunit mRNA level in cells treated between days three and four, and still increased when the cells were exposed to tetrodotoxin through days six and eight (up to a maximum of 20-fold).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Postnatal development of mossy fiber afferents from the vestibular and the visual system to the vestibulocerebellum was studied electrophysiologically and morphologically. In kittens anesthetized with pentobarbital sodium and N2O plus halothane, extracellular simple and complex spikes of Purkinje cells were recorded in the flocculus, nodulus and uvula. In the flocculus, stimulation of the VIIIth, but not the optic nerve, evoked simple spike responses with a latency of 16 ms at the day of birth which decreased to 5 ms by day 15 (short latency group). On the other hand, another group of simple spike responses with much longer latencies (50-80 ms) began to be elicited on day 7 via both the optic and VIIIth nerves. The latency decreased to 24 ms by day 15 and 10 ms on day 30. These latencies further shortened with development to the adult latency value (3-5 ms). Simple spike responses of the short latency group were also evoked in the nodulus and uvula from the VIIIth nerve with a slightly longer latency than that in the flocculus (23 ms on day 3 and 12 ms on day 17). Because of the immaturity of granule cells in early postnatal days, short latency simple spike responses from the VIIIth nerve suggested the direct synaptic connection of vestibular mossy fibers with Purkinje cells. Horseradish peroxidase was injected into the white matter of the flocculus, nodulus and uvula in slice preparations. Mossy fibers labeled with horseradish peroxidase showed fine branches extending to reach Purkinje cell somata from mossy swellings in the internal granular layer during days 2-20. Electron microscopy showed that the labeled mossy fibers made intimate contacts with Purkinje cell somata and the terminals contained many round synaptic vesicles. Pre and postsynaptic densities were occasionally found. After day 20, direct mossy fiber connections with Purkinje cells could not be observed. During days 7-20, these direct connections, as well as mossy fiber-granule cell connections could be observed. It was demonstrated that during early postnatal development, vestibular mossy fibers temporarily make direct contact with Purkinje cells, through which impulses could be transmitted to elicit simple spikes in Purkinje cells.
Distribution of putative glutamatergic neurons in the lower brainstem and cerebellum of the rat was examined immunocytochemically by using a monoclonal antibody against phosphate-activated glutaminase, which has been proposed to be a major synthetic enzyme of transmitter glutamate and so may serve as a marker for glutamatergic neurons in the central nervous system. Intensely-immunolabeled neuronal cell bodies were densely distributed in the main precerebellar nuclei sending mossy fibers to the cerebellum; in the pontine nuclei, pontine tegmental reticular nucleus of Bechterew, external cuneate nucleus, and lateral reticular nucleus of the medulla oblongata. Phosphate-activated glutaminase-immunoreactive granular deposits were densely seen in the brachium pontis and restiform body, suggesting the immunolabeling of mossy fibers of passage. In the cerebellum, neuropil within the granule cell layer of the cerebellar cortex displayed intense phosphate-activated glutaminase-immunoreactivity, and that within the deep cerebellar nuclei showed moderate immunoreactivity. These results indicate that many mossy fiber terminals originate from phosphate-activated glutaminase-containing neurons and utilize phosphate-activated glutaminase for the synthesis of transmitter glutamate. Intensely-immunostained neuronal cell bodies were further observed in other regions which have been reported to contain neurons sending mossy fibers to the cerebellum; in the dorsal part of the principal sensory trigeminal nucleus, dorsomedial part of the oral subnucleus of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, interpolar subnucleus of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, paratrigeminal nucleus, supragenual nucleus, regions dorsal to the abducens nucleus and genu of the facial nerve, superior and medial vestibular nuclei, cell groups f, x and y, hypoglossal prepositus nucleus, intercalated nucleus, nucleus of Roller, reticular regions intercalated between the motor trigeminal and principal sensory trigeminal nuclei, linear nucleus, and gigantocellular and paramedian reticular formation. Neuronal cell bodies with intense phosphate-activated glutaminase-immunoreactivity were also found in other brainstem regions, such as the paracochlear glial substance, posterior ventral cochlear nucleus, and cell group e. Although it is still controversial whether all glutamatergic neurons use phosphate-activated glutaminase in a transmitter-related process and whether phosphate-activated glutaminase is involved in other metabolism-related processes, the neurons showing intense phosphate-activated glutaminase-immunoreactivity in the present study were suggested to be putative glutamatergic neurons.
The distribution of a cholinergic synaptic vesicle-specific transmembrane glycoprotein (Buckley and Kelly, 1985, J. Cell Biol. 100, 1284-1294) was investigated in the entire electromotor neuron of Torpedo marmorata using a monoclonal antibody and immunocytochemistry at the light- and electron-microscopical level (immunoperoxidase, colloidal gold). In the nerve, terminal binding of immunogold particles is restricted to synaptic vesicles. In the axon a number of additional membrane compartments like multivesicular bodies, vesiculotubular structures, lamellar bodies and electron-dense granules share the surface located synaptic vesicle-specific transmembrane glycoprotein-epitope. Membranous structures likely to represent the axoplasmic reticulum inside axons and nerve terminals are not labelled. Antibody-binding membrane compartments are accumulated at nodes of Ranvier. In the perikaryon the tubules of the trans-Golgi network as well as multivesicular bodies, lamellar bodies, electron-lucent vesicles, granules with electron-dense core and peroxisomes are labelled. Immunotransfer blots of isolated synaptic vesicles and tissue extracts of electric organ display a 100,000 mol. wt band of broad electrophoretic mobility typical of the synaptic vesicle-specific transmembrane glycoprotein. Extracts of electromotor nerve and electric lobe contain in addition a strong band at 85,000 mol. wt and a few lower molecular weight bands. We suggest that the synaptic vesicle originates directly from the trans-Golgi network. The endoplasmic reticulum is not involved in vesicle formation or retrieval. On retrograde transport the vesicle membrane compartment is likely to fuse with other intra-axonal (endosomal?) organelles.
The involvement of duodenal and gastric mechanoreceptors in the modulation of synaptic transmission was investigated in a rabbit sympathetic prevertebral ganglion. The present study was performed in vitro on the coeliac plexus connected to the stomach and the duodenum. The electrical activity of ganglionic neurons was recorded using intracellular recording techniques. The patterns of synaptic activation of these ganglionic neurons in response to the activation of mechanoreceptors by gastric or duodenal distension were investigated. Although gastric or duodenal distension was unable to elicit any fast synaptic activity in ganglionic neurons, it produced either an inhibition or a facilitation of the fast nicotinic excitatory postsynaptic potentials elicited by stimulation of the thoracic splanchnic nerves. In addition, this distension triggered long-lasting (3-11 min) modifications in the electrical properties of the ganglionic neurons, i.e. slow depolarizations (6-18 mV) or slow hyperpolarizations (3-6 mV), which were sometimes associated with a decrease in the input membrane resistance. After cooling of the nerves connecting the coeliac ganglia to the stomach, the activation of gastric or duodenal mechanoreceptors was no longer able to modify the fast synaptic activation or the electrical properties of the ganglionic neurons. The results demonstrate that gastric and duodenal mechanoreceptors project onto neurons of the coeliac ganglia and change their excitability as well as the central inputs they receive. The long duration of these modifications suggests that gastric and duodenal mechanoreceptors can modulate the activity of the neurons of the coeliac ganglia.
The 2-deoxyglucose metabolic mapping technique has been used to investigate the neural mechanisms which underlie the symptoms of Parkinsonism in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine primate model of Parkinson's disease. In six cynomolgus monkeys, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine was either (a) administered intravenously to induce generalized Parkinsonism, or (b) infused into one carotid artery to induce unilateral Parkinsonism. Post-mortem examination revealed profound cell loss from the substantia nigra, pars compacta either bilaterally or unilaterally in the two groups, respectively. In addition, there was pathological involvement of the ventral tegmental area and locus coeruleus in animals receiving intravenous 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. 2-Deoxyglucose autoradiography revealed widespread changes in 2-deoxyglucose uptake in the brains of parkinsonian animals when compared to controls. Most of these changes were in basal ganglia and related structures and were qualitatively similar in the two groups of experimental animals. Prominent increases in 2-deoxyglucose uptake were observed in the lateral segment of the globus pallidus (24-27%), the ventral anterior and ventral lateral nuclei of the thalamus (14-22%) and the nucleus tegmenti pedunculopontinus of the caudal midbrain (17-69%). A profound decrease (17-26%) in 2-deoxyglucose uptake was observed in the subthalamic nucleus. We propose these data to indicate that in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced Parkinsonism there is the following pattern of abnormal neuronal activity in basal ganglia circuitry: (i) increased activity in the projection from the putamen to the lateral segment of the globus pallidus; (ii) decreased activity in the projection from the putamen to the medial segment of the globus pallidus; (iii) decreased activity in the projection from the lateral segment of the globus pallidus to the subthalamic nucleus; (iv) increased activity in the projection from the subthalamic nucleus to the globus pallidus; and (v) increased activity in neurons of the medial segment of the globus pallidus projecting to the ventral anterior/ventral lateral thalamus and the pedunculopontine nucleus. These results are compared to the 2-deoxyglucose uptake findings in previous studies from this laboratory in hemiballism and hemichorea in the monkey. The central importance of the subthalamic nucleus in all three conditions is proposed, and supportive evidence for the excitatory nature of subthalamic efferent fibres is adduced.
Linear sweep voltammetry at chronically implanted carbon paste electrodes was used to study extracellular levels of homovanillic acid, a metabolite of dopamine, in the caudate nucleus of freely moving rats. Local infusion of homovanillic acid close to the electrode confirmed that peak 3, at about 550 mV, could be used for this purpose. Thirty minutes of lever pressing for food reward was followed by an increase in homovanillic acid, maximal about 30 min later (+42%). An earlier and larger (+51%) increase in peak 2 (350-400 mV) was seen, highly correlated (r = 0.98) with the rate of lever pressing across individuals. A smaller decrease (-23%) in peak 1 (200 mV; ascorbic acid) was seen 75 min after the behavioural session. Administration of allopurinol, an inhibitor of uric acid production, selectively abolished peak 2. Allopurinol prior to lever pressing reduced the increase in peak 2 very substantially (by 77%), confirming that this too was mainly due to uric acid. These results indicate that linear sweep voltammetry can be used to study the time course of changes in dopamine metabolism, and in other neurochemicals, in individual freely moving rats in relation to behaviour under experimental control. More specifically, they demonstrate directly that rewarded lever pressing increases dopamine metabolism in the caudate, which had previously only been inferred from indirect approaches. The level of uric acid is also increased, and it is suggested that this may serve as an index of metabolic activity.
The origin of calcitonin gene-related peptide in the thoracic spinal cord of the rat was investigated by radioimmunoassay and immunohistochemistry. In transverse sections from normal animals there was a dense staining of calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactivity in laminae I, II and V of the dorsal horn. In parasagittal sections this was found to consist of rostrocaudally orientated fibres in laminae I and II and longitudinal bundles of fibres interspersed with a plexus of immunoreactivity in lamina V. After sectioning the thoracic spinal nerves there was a significant reduction in immunoreactivity in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord which was seen as a marked reduction of staining in lamina II and in the bundles of fibres in lamina V. Section of the splanchnic nerve slightly reduced staining in lamina I and virtually abolished the plexuses of immunoreactivity in lamina V. However, measurement of calcitonin gene-related peptide in samples from coeliac-ganglionized rats revealed an increase in immunoreactivity in regions of the spinal cord containing lamina V. These results provide evidence of a visceral and somatic afferent origin of calcitonin gene-related peptide in the thoracic spinal cord of the rat.
Following injection of horseradish peroxidase into the thalamus of one side, the numbers of labelled neurons in the nuclei of the dorsal funiculi and in the trigeminal sensory complex were counted. A comparative study was made of the pattern of labelling after a range of survival times, and animals surviving for 72 h after injection were used to provide detailed quantitative information about the patterns of distribution of labelled cells. The principal sensory nucleus of the trigeminal nerve (8683 labelled neurons) and the nucleus of the spinal trigeminal tract, pars interpolaris (1920) label heavily after thalamic injection. Pars oralis of the spinal nucleus labels more sparsely (524 labelled neurons), while the pars caudalis (260 labelled neurons) shows a laminar labelling pattern which continues across the spinomedullary junction into the upper cervical segments. The gracile (2152 labelled neurons) and cuneate (2339) nuclei also show rostrocaudal variation in labelling density: the middle one-third of each nucleus contains 66% of labelled gracile and cuneate cells. The findings are correlated with known features of the arrangement of the ascending sensory projections from these nuclei in various species, and are compared with previous findings on the distribution of thalamically-projecting cells in the upper cervical segments of the spinal cord.
Serotonin is believed to modulate neuronal differentiation during early stages of brain development. In order to assess basic functional requirements for such a role, it was investigated how early serotoninergic neurons mature with respect to transmitter storage and stimulus-secretion coupling. Dissociated cell cultures were raised from embryonic rat rhombencephalon obtained at gestational day 14 and cultured for 3-8 days, which may roughly correspond to the prenatal period in vivo. Because of a possible involvement of serotonin in processes leading to sexual differentiation of the brain, gender-specific cultures were raised in addition and treated with sex steroids. Sensitivity of [3H]serotonin uptake to fluoxetine could already be observed at 3 days in vitro. Vesicular storage as probed with reserpine and nigericin, and the capability of releasing preaccumulated serotonin in a Ca2+-dependent manner were also present as early as 3 days in vitro. Seven per cent of the pre-accumulated transmitter could be released per minute upon stimulation with 54 mM K+. Immunocytochemical and autoradiographic preparations demonstrated that, after the same short culture period, the neurons had formed large fiber networks. No differences could be detected regarding any of the above parameters between female and male serotonin neurons and between cultures treated with and without estradiol, testosterone and dihydrotestosterone. It is concluded that, in contrast to other neuronal phenotypes, serotoninergic neurons are functionally mature when or shortly after they are taken into culture, i.e. around gestational day 14. The functional competence of prenatal serotonin systems should be a prerequisite for their suspected role in modulating neural development at pre and postsynaptic sites. The present results provide no evidence for the occurrence of a sexual dimorphism of serotonin neurons at this early developmental stage.
The development of the hypothalamic 5-hydroxytryptamine system has been evaluated in vitro according to [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine uptake and release in fetuses (16-20th fetal day), neonates (9th postnatal day) and adults (45th day of life). At the 16th fetal day the hypothalamic neural elements were characterized by specific uptake of 5-hydroxytryptamine and its spontaneous release; the next day K+-stimulated Ca2+-dependent release appeared. By the 18th fetal day, the 5-hydroxytryptamine uptake doubled and was retained at this level both in older fetuses and in postnatal rats. The K+-stimulated release of [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine increased considerably during the perinatal period, reaching an adult level by the 9th postnatal day. These data indicate the sprouting of 5-hydroxytryptamine fibers to the hypothalamus and the maturation of their membrane mechanisms for the bidirectional transport of 5-hydroxytryptamine early during ontogenesis-to a significant extent before the 18th fetal day.
The development of the axial musculature, its innervation and early locomotion in Xenopus laevis embryos are described. Between stages 17 and 40 some 45 myotomes are formed on each side of the body. During this period the animals develop from non-motile to free swimming embryos. Using fluorescein-conjugated bungarotoxin the acquisition of acetylcholine receptor-sites was studied. At stage 25 (early flexure stage) bound bungarotoxin was confined to the first seven intermyotomal clefts, in free swimming embryos (stage 33) to the first 20 clefts. Application of horseradish peroxidase to the intermyotomal clefts in embryos ranging from stages 25 to 37/38 revealed that primary motoneurons were usually situated 100-400 microns, i.e. 0.5-1.5 myotomes, rostral to the cleft they innervated. The motor axons left the spinal cord at the caudal side of each spinal segment where neural crest was present between the cord and the myotomes. At stage 25 ventral root activity could be recorded extracellularly from only the first three intermyotomal clefts, at stage 32/33 from the first 16 clefts. The first spontaneous rhythmic swimming-like activity could be recorded around stage 28. Between stages 27 and 32/33 the initial swimming frequency and the swimming episode duration increased at least three-fold. Comparable results were obtained with high-speed cinematography and measurements with a photoelectric transducer. Between stages 17 and 40 the number of myotomes increased by 0.9 myotome h, approximately 11.4 h later followed by the innervation of the myotomes at 0.7 cleft/h. About 3.6 h after this, ventral root activity appeared at the rate of 0.6 cleft h. This study shows that the early swimming pattern generating neuronal network, located within the rostral spinal cord, reaches a state of &quot;critical mass&quot; around stage 27, at which the first rhythmic swimming activity occurs. At least 6-10 functional spinal segments and adjacent myotomes are required for early swimming.
Intrahippocampal grafts of fetal basal forebrain tissue have been shown to restore several aspects of neural function, including some degree of behavioral recovery in spatial memory tasks, in rats with fimbria-fornix lesions. Place fields, the behavioral correlates of complex-spike unit activity recorded in the hippocampus of rats, are altered by fimbria-fornix lesions, and provide an important measure of the functioning circuitry of the hippocampus after grafts. To investigate the effects of grafts on hippocampal circuitry, complex-spike units were recorded while the rats traversed a radial maze. Quantitative analyses of spatial activity showed that units in normal rats had spatially clustered, reliable place fields that were stable despite alterations of the maze. In contrast, units in rats with fimbria-fornix lesions had more dispersed, less reliable place fields that were disrupted when the maze was covered or rotated. Compared to rats with fimbria-fornix lesions, rats with grafts and units with more tightly clustered, more reliable, and more stable place fields when the maze was altered. The results suggest that: (1) fimbria-fornix lesions disrupt some aspects of complex-spike place field activity; (2) the functioning of hippocampal circuitry is influenced by fetal basal forebrain grafts; and (3) the grafts may ameliorate the effects of lesions on spatial behaviors by influencing critical aspects of place field activity in the hippocampus.
Employing fluorescent retrograde double/triple labeling techniques, we found that a substantial population of substantia nigra pars reticulata cells send divergent axon collaterals to both the ipsilateral striatum and bilateral superior colliculi in the rat. These multi-collateralized neurons were localized predominantly in the ventrolateral portion of the substantia nigra pars reticulata at its rostral level. Furthermore, tyrosine hydroxylase immunofluorescence histochemistry combined with fluorescent retrograde tracing techniques showed that the vast majority (more than 85%) of such specifically branched cells are dopaminergic. This novel nigral cell population seems to be in a strategic position to evoke dopamine-mediated motor impairments (i.e. abnormal saccadic eye movements in Parkinsonism) and/or behavioral syndromes (i.e. compulsive turning behavior) through the GABA-containing nigrotectal pathway.
The effects of the excitatory amino acids on the nucleus reticularis thalami were examined by intracellular recordings from rat thalamic slices. Non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonists and glutamate induced a membrane depolarization and a reduction in input resistance, while N-methyl-D-aspartate and aspartate induced a prolonged discharge, which in some neurons took the form of a burst firing associated with an apparent increase in membrane input resistance. Both the N-methyl-D-aspartate and the aspartate effects were blocked by D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, while the effects of glutamate, kainate and quisqualate were not. The excitatory postsynaptic potential evoked by corticothalamic fiber stimulation shows two components: an early, short-lasting, 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate-insensitive portion, and a late, 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate-sensitive decay phase. It is suggested that glutamate acts in nucleus reticularis thalami cells preferentially on the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, while aspartate shows an N-methyl-D-aspartate-like effect. The two excitatory amino acids glutamate and aspartate play a determinant role in the modulation of thalamic activity driven by corticothalamic projection.
The effects of a high molecular weight toxin from Physalia physalis (P3) were investigated on glutamate evoked potentials in snail (Zachrysia guanesis) neurons and in crayfish (Cambarus clarkii) neuromuscular junction. The glutamate evoked potentials of snail neurons were reversibly blocked by P3 in a dose-dependent manner (2-200 microM). A reversible blocking action was also found for P3 on excitatory junctional potentials and on glutamate potentials of crayfish at a concentration range of 6 nM-60 microM. Experiments carried out with independent stimulation of the excitatory and inhibitory nerves showed that the effect of P3 (60 nM-10 microM) was exerted predominantly on excitatory junctional potentials. However, at higher doses (greater than 10 microM) a slight reduction of the inhibitory potentials was also observed. These results suggest that P3 reversibly blocks glutamate receptors. Thus, it could be a promising tool for further studies on glutamatergic transmission.
[31P]- and [1H]Nuclear magnetic resonance spectroscopy were used to study metabolism in cortical brain slices in the guinea-pig during acute exposure to pathophysiological concentrations of ammonia. Intracellular acidification, measured from the chemical shift of endogenous inorganic phosphate, was observed without any change in cellular energy status or concentrations of lactate, glutamate and glutamine. The initial acidification, which developed over a period of 9 min appeared to be heterogeneous, on the basis of a splitting of the inorganic phosphate resonance in a number of experiments, corresponding to pH changes of 0.07 and 0.27 pH units. Subsequently a homogeneous acidification, of 0.15 pH units, developed by 23 min following exposure to ammonia. Intracellular pH recovered within 6 min after discontinuation of the ammonia load. In the absence of external bicarbonate, intracellular pH was 0.12 units more acidic than in the bicarbonate buffer and ammonia caused a further acidification by 0.16 units. When glutamine synthase inhibitor, methionine sulphoximine, was added, there was a slow fall in intracellular pH. Under these conditions, subsequent addition of ammonia failed to cause acidification directly. Thus acute elevation of ammonia does not lead to a change in cerebral high-energy phosphate or lactate metabolism, but may be associated with a fall in cortical intracellular pH.
The distribution of glutamate immunoreactivity was mapped within the supraoptic nucleus of the rat hypothalamus utilizing a specific anti-glutamate antibody. Magnocellular neuroendocrine cells of the supraoptic nucleus showed intense immunoreactivity for glutamate which varied with the conditions of fixation. Within the perikarya, reaction product was found associated with the endoplasmic reticulum but not the mitochondria, Golgi, dense bodies or neurosecretory granules. A relatively high density of glutamate-immunoreactive terminals was found in the supraoptic nucleus. These terminals were less affected by fixation condition and were generally found contacting large, glutamate-immunoreactive processes within the ventral dendritic neuropil of the supraoptic nucleus. The pattern and characteristics of glutamate immunoreactivity in the supraoptic nucleus suggested the presence of two distinct glutamate pools. The magnocellular neuroendocrine cells may contain a large, labile metabolic pool of glutamate. These cells, in turn, appear to receive glutamate synaptic input from a more stable pool consistent with suggestions that glutamate may be used as a transmitter within this system.
Several reports have described apparently normal survival and development of hippocampal and spinal cord culture preparations grown in Ham's F-12 medium, which contains 100 microM each of L-glutamate and L-aspartate. As at this concentration these amino acids are neurotoxic, some adaptive mechanism must occur to allow neuronal survival. We have investigated the mechanism underlying such adaptation. Dissociated cultures of mouse hippocampal neurons were grown in either Eagle's minimum essential medium or Ham's F-12 medium, supplemented with 5% horse serum. Analysis of neuronal density in cultures stained for neuron-specific enolase showed that although large numbers of neurons were present in mature cultures grown in either medium, neuronal survival in cultures grown continuously in F-12 was reduced to 41% compared to controls grown in Eagle's minimum essential medium. Physiological studies showed that those neurons which survived in F-12 did not lose their sensitivity to excitatory amino acids. In addition, the acute application of fresh, serum-free F-12 to 10-14-day-old cultures grown in either minimum essential medium or F-12 was highly neurotoxic. Three lines of evidence suggest that glial uptake of amino acids, and reduction of the extracellular concentration of glutamate and aspartate below neurotoxic levels, rather than receptor desensitization underlies the adaptive mechanism allowing neuronal survival. First, application of fresh F-12 produced large depolarizations, and profound neuronal swelling in cultures grown in F-12; however, after several hours swelling reversed suggesting a slow onset of the adaptive process. Second, pressure application of conditioned F-12 obtained from sister cultures also elicited depolarizations in neurons grown in F-12, but the amplitude of the underlying inward current was 25-30% of that produced by fresh F-12, suggesting a loss of potency of F-12 exposed to prolonged contact with hippocampal cultures. Third, measurement by high performance liquid chromatography showed reduction of aspartate concentrations to around 10% of those present in fresh F-12, within 24 h after exposing glial cell cultures to fresh F-12. It is concluded that cellular uptake mechanisms for amino acids have a strong impact on excitotoxicity in vitro, and most likely play an important role in protecting neurons from the potentially damaging action of high concentrations of excitatory transmitters in vivo. In addition our experiments help to explain the mechanisms permitting neuronal survival in cultures grown in Ham's F-12 medium, which when applied acutely to mature cultures is strikingly neurotoxic.
An immunogold procedure has been used on ultrathin sections of the parvo- and magnocellular layers of the dorsal lateral geniculate of the rhesus monkey to estimate quantitatively at the electron microscopic level the intensity of immunoreactivity to an antibody against glutamate over profiles of retinal, cortical, GABAergic synaptic terminals and glial cells. GABAergic terminals were identified directly by immunogold reactivity to a GABA antibody or by ultrastructural features. The results showed that in both of the main subdivisions of the geniculate the densities of immunogold particles over cortical and retinal terminals were about two- to three-fold higher than those over GABAergic terminals or glial profiles. In addition, cortical and retinal terminals showed higher positive correlations of glutamate immunogold particle densities to synaptic vesicle densities than did GABAergic terminals. These differences suggest higher and lower concentrations of glutamate corresponding to transmitter and metabolic pools of this amino acid in axon terminals of retinal and cortical origins versus GABAergic terminals, respectively, in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus of the macaque.
The role of excitatory amino acid neurotransmitters in generating two distinct types of epileptiform discharge in the CA3 region of hippocampal slices was examined in the guinea-pig using a variety of different excitatory amino acid blockers. In magnesium-free medium the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, DL-aminophosphonovaleric acid, and the putative N-methyl-D-aspartate channel blockers phencyclidine and ketamine, reduced the amplitude and duration of spontaneous bursts and blocked their afterdischarges. In marked contrast none of these compounds significantly depressed spontaneous bursts recorded in the presence of 2 mM Mg2+ and penicillin. This was confirmed for individual slices where Mg2+-free bursts had previously been suppressed by the same concentration of blocker. Therefore, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor mechanism does not contribute significantly to the generation of this type of epileptiform discharge. The channel blockers lost their effect on Mg2+-free bursts in the presence of penicillin; however, the receptor blockers did not. This is probably due to the unique mechanisms of action of the channel blockers. This implies that different types of N-methyl-D-aspartate blockers might be effective anticonvulsants only in specific conditions. While the non-specific excitatory amino acid blocker, kynurenic acid, was effective against both burst types it appeared to suppress them by different mechanisms. Kynurenic acid depressed the amplitude and duration of Mg2+-free bursts but its only effect on penicillin bursts was to reduce their frequency. This suggests that neither N-methyl-D-aspartate nor non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors play a major role in the production of the paroxysmal depolarizing shift resulting from the block of GABA-mediated inhibition by penicillin. However, these receptors may be involved in generating the spontaneous activity which triggers the bursts.
The mouse Thy-1.1/Thy-1.2 allelic marking system is used to show that transplanted embryonic entorhinal cortex can reinnervate adult host hippocampi. The projection is limited to the appropriate terminal zones--viz. the outer two-thirds of the stratum moleculare of the dentate gyrus, and the stratum lacunosum-moleculare of the hippocampus--and extends for up to about 2 mm into the denervated host terminal field. The reconstruction of the entorhinal projections to the host requires direct contact between the embryonic donor tissue and the denervated adult host terminal field, and is dependent upon removal of the ipsilateral host entorhinal area. In the absence of an overall deafferenting host entorhinal lesion the transplanted entorhinal area forms only small local projections which are confined to areas which would have been locally deafferented as a result of direct damage to the host entorhinal afferents (i.e. during their intrahippocampal course) by the hippocampal lesion caused at the time when the transplant was inserted. The correct relative timing of deafferentation and transplantation is vital for the formation of the transplant-to-host projection. The host dendrites can be made receptive to entorhinal transplant projections by removal of the host entorhinal area at the time of transplantation. When deafferentation is performed first and transplantation is delayed, it is found that the deafferented host dendrites retain this receptivity even when deafferentation has been performed as much as two months before transplantation. Reversing the order of transplantation and deafferentation, however, shows that the transplants have only a transient ability to project to the deafferented host territory. Thus, transplants inserted and allowed to become established for one week before host deafferentation make very much reduced projections to the host, and from two weeks onwards are incapable of any detectable response to subsequent removal of the host entorhinal area. Coextensive with the formation of transplant-to-host entorhinodentate projections, the host entorhinal lesion also induces an intensification of the acetylcholinesterase staining of the host septodentate afferents in the denervated outer dentate stratum moleculare. The findings demonstrate the accurate reconstruction of a lost projection in adult brain by transplanting the appropriate type of embryonic tissue, but the results of altering the relative timing of deafferentation and transplantation raise currently unsolved questions about the nature of the competitive interactions between transplant and host axons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In vitro autoradiography was used to examine the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor in the brain of a baboon species, Papio anubis, and compared to that of Papio papio which exhibits a photosensitive epilepsy. The epilepsy originates in the frontal cortex and is accompanied by an enhanced sensitivity to N-methyl-D-aspartate. In both Papio anubis and Papio papio, the density of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors was greatest in the hippocampus, followed by associational areas including frontal cortex, and low in primary sensory areas such as the visual cortex. The receptors were concentrated in the outer cortical layers I-III, very low in layer IV except in primary visual cortex, and of intermediate density in layer V. The density of binding sites was approximately two-fold lower than previously observed in the rodent brain, whereas the affinity of the receptor for [3H]L-glutamate was greater in the primate versus the rodent brain. Glycine potentiated the binding of [3H]L-glutamate in both cortex and hippocampus. No significant differences in the properties of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors were observed between the two baboon species, suggesting that the photosensitivity of Papio papio is not due to alterations in the binding of L-glutamate to the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex.
L-Aspartate, L-glutamate and D-aspartate, alone or in combination, were applied by superfusion or by atomization to the isolated carp retina while recording from cone horizontal cells. Each of these agents when applied alone depolarized horizontal cells and reduced the size of their light responses, an action which mimics the effect of the endogenous photoreceptor transmitter. Application of D-aspartate in conjunction with either of the L-amino acids potentiated the effects the L-amino acids so that the threshold concentration was reduced by about five-fold, compared to when the L-amino acids were applied alone. The potentiating effect of D-aspartate occurred with all types of cone horizontal cells--both L- and C-types. Furthermore, the potentiating effect of D-aspartate occurred not only in the dark but also in the presence of bright light background or Co2+ ions, conditions during which the release of photoreceptor transmitter is reduced or blocked. D-Aspartate also potentiated the depolarizing effects of the acidic amino acid cysteine sulfinate. The potentiating effect of D-aspartate can be attributed to its action as an amino acid uptake blocker in the outer retina. Thus, these findings, in themselves, cannot eliminate L-aspartate, L-glutamate or cysteine sulfinate as candidates for the carp cone transmitter. However, other evidence, previously reported, strongly suggests that L-glutamate and not L-aspartate is the cone transmitter.
Recent studies have indicated that peptidergic inputs to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis are more developed in man than in rodents. To facilitate interspecies comparisons, the definition of the chemoanatomical subdivisions of the human bed nucleus of the stria terminalis was attempted. The immunocytochemistry of synenkephalin, [Met]enkephalin, somatostatin, and tyrosine hydroxylase was analysed on four verticofrontal levels in five control subjects. Four principal sectors were identified in the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis: (1) lateral, displaying an irregular patchy terminal innervation overlapping for the four markers studied; (2) central, characterized by a high density of somatostatin neurons, by pericellular basket-like formations for all markers, and by a shell of dense somatostatin innervation; (3) medial, characterized by a less dense aminergic and peptidergic innervation; and (4) lateroventral, where peptidergic (somatostatin and enkephalin) peridendritic plexuses were prominent. Double-labeling analyses showed that the somatostatin, enkephalin and tyrosine hydroxylase-like immunoreactive terminals rarely converged on the same soma or dendrite even in areas where they appeared closely interdigitated. The differences and similarities of these sectors with those defined in the rat are discussed; a marked development of the lateral and ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis is emphasized in man. Islands with dense peptidergic innervation, similar to the ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, extended into the sublenticular substantia innominata (intercalated between the ventral pallidum and the basal magnocellular nucleus). This supports the existence of an extended amygdaloid complex from the amygdala to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis in the human brain, as has been proposed in the rat. In relation to the literature, the present findings suggest the increasing importance of the central and lateral amygdaloid-bed nucleus of the stria terminals components and of their cortical connections in man while the medial amygdala-bed nucleus of the stria terminalis nuclei, which are preferentially connected to the olfactory system, appear less developed.
Peripherin is the main intermediate filament protein in sympathetic neurons. Immunoreactivity to peripherin was studied in mouse adrenal chromaffin cells after 6 days in culture, and compared to immunoreactivity to tyrosine hydroxylase used as a general marker of chromaffin cells in culture. Most of the cells immunoreactive to tyrosine hydroxylase were rounded, with a glandular phenotype and a few of them had processes. The cells reactive to peripherin only constituted a small proportion of the chromaffin cells (2%), and most of them sent out processes. However, not all the cells with processes were reactive for peripherin. These results did not change in the presence of nerve growth factor. The discussion focuses on the significance of the sub-population of cells reactive to peripherin. We suggest that these cells resemble the small granule chromaffin cells, regarded as an intermediate cell type between glandular cells and neurons. The cells that expressed peripherin here are compared to those selected to form the PC12 clone. The presence of peripherin in only a few of the cells sending out neurite-like processes is discussed in relation to the expression of other neurofilament proteins in developing cells and to the influence of non-chromaffin cells.
The response of dynorphinergic neurons in the lumbosacral spinal cord of the rat to chronic arthritic inflammation was studied by the combined use of biochemical and immunohistochemical procedures. In polyarthritic rats, in which all four limbs showed a swelling, inflammation and hyperalgesia, a pronounced elevation was seen in the level of messenger ribonucleic acid encoding prodynorphin (pro-enkephalin B) in the lumbosacral spinal cord. In addition, the levels of immunoreactive dynorphin A1-17, a primary gene product of this precursor, were greatly increased. This activation was reflected in a striking intensification of the immunohistochemical staining of both dynorphin and alpha/beta-neo-endorphin, a further major product of pro-dynorphin. In control animals perikarya were stained exceedingly rarely and encountered only in laminae I and II. Stained fibres and varicosities were seen throughout the dorsal and ventral gray matter, being most concentrated in laminae I, II, IV and V of the dorsal horn and dorsolateral to the central canal. In polyarthritic rats, fibres and varicosities were much more intensely stained throughout the cord, particularly in laminae I/II, IV and V and dorsolateral to the central canal. Many strongly-stained perikarya could be seen: these comprised many small diameter cells in laminae I and II, and some large diameter marginal neurons and large diameter cells, heterogenous in appearance, in the deeper laminae IV and V. Monolaterally inflamed rats injected in the right hind-paw showed pathological changes only in this limb. Correspondingly, in unilateral inflammation, an elevation in immunoreactive dynorphin was seen exclusively in the right dorsal horn and the above-described intensification of staining for dynorphin and neo-endorphin was seen only in this quadrant. This reveals the neuroanatomical specificity of the response. Thus, in the lumbosacral cord of the rat, pro-dynorphin neurons are most preponderant in laminae I, II, IV and V. A pronounced intensification of the immunohistochemical staining of these neurons is seen in chronic arthritis. Furthermore, there is a parallel elevation in the levels of messenger ribonucleic acid encoding pro-dynorphin and of its primary products dynorphin and neo-endorphin. These findings demonstrate an enhancement in the functional activity of spinal cord localized dynorphin neurons in the response to chronic arthritic inflammation.
Recent studies have shown that inhibitory feedback mechanisms regulate the release of the endogenous opioid peptides beta-endorphin (acting predominantly at mu opioid receptors in the brain), dynorphin (a kappa opioid receptor ligand) and [Met]enkephalin (a delta opioid receptor ligand) from the rat hypothalamus. By using specific antagonists of the various opioid receptor types, it is shown that the release of these peptides from hypothalamic slices in vitro is not only controlled by homologous (auto)-receptors, but that cross-regulation between the three neuronal opioid receptor types also occurs; thus, the delta receptor antagonist N,N-diallyl-Tyr-Aib-Aib-Phe-Leu increases the release of all three peptides, the mu receptor antagonist D-tetrahydroisoquinoline-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 increases that of beta-endorphin and dynorphin, and the kappa receptor antagonist nor-binaltorphimine increases that of dynorphin; all these effects occur in the presence of tetrodotoxin, indicating a presynaptic site of action. We propose the term &quot;allelo-receptors&quot; to describe this particular form of neuronal regulation in which an endogenous ligand, acting via its own specific receptor, also regulates the release of related peptides which activate different classes of opioid receptors.
Intracellular recordings were made from neurons in the submucous plexus of the guinea-pig caecum. Muscarinic agonists (acetylcholine, bethanechol and muscarine) depolarized about 70%, and hyperpolarized about 30% of the submucous plexus neurons. Low concentrations of pirenzepine reversibly antagonized both responses. The measured dissociation constants (KD) of 10-30 nM for the depolarizations and 1-3 nM for the hyperpolarizations suggest that each response was mediated by muscarinic M1 cholinoceptors. The muscarinic depolarization and hyperpolarization were associated with a decreased and an increased conductance, respectively, and the reversal potential for the muscarinic responses varied as the potassium concentration varied, always being around the potassium equilibrium potential. In cells depolarized by muscarinic agonists these agents appeared to decrease a potassium conductance that could also be inactivated by substance P. In approximately 30% of the submucous neurons, the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential, elicited in response to single or repetitive focal stimuli (1-10 pulses at 20-40 Hz), appeared to consist of a large component which was sensitive to the blocking action of idazoxan (100-300 nM) and a small component which was idazoxan-insensitive. The latter (muscarinic slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential) was completely abolished by pirenzepine. The concentrations of pirenzepine which caused a 50% depression ranged from 5 to 20 nM. The muscarinic slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential was increased in amplitude and duration by physostigmine (100-300 nM). The muscarinic slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential was accompanied by a decrease in membrane input resistance, and was reversed in polarity near the potassium equilibrium potential. When muscarine induced a hyperpolarization and/or focal stimulation elicited a muscarinic slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential in the presence of idazoxan (100-300 nM), the intracellular injection of guanosine 5'-O-(3-thiotriphosphate) produced a progressive membrane hyperpolarization during which the muscarinic hyperpolarizing responses were attenuated. It is concluded that the muscarine-induced reduction in potassium conductance is mediated through a muscarinic M1 receptor which has a relatively low affinity for pirenzepine. The muscarine-induced increase in potassium conductance is probably produced by the association of a guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory protein with another muscarinic M1 receptor that has a relatively high affinity for pirenzepine.
The hydroxylation of tyrosine to dopa is the rate-limiting reaction in catecholamine biosynthesis. It has been previously reported that secretin, vasoactive intestinal peptide and peptide histidine isoleucine amide, all members of the secretin-glucagon family of peptides, increase dopa synthesis in superior cervical ganglia in vitro. We report here that two other members of this peptide family, rat growth hormone-releasing factor and helodermin H38, a component of Gila monster venom, also increase the rate of dopa synthesis, while glucagon-like peptides I and II and a number of other peptides tested produce no effect. Since analogs of cAMP also increase dopa synthesis, it is of particular interest that all of the peptides that increase catechol synthesis also raise the levels of this cyclic nucleotide in the superior cervical ganglion. Helodermin H38 stimulated the rate of dopa synthesis and the level of cAMP with similar potencies (EC50S of approximately 10 nM) and with maximal effects of two- and two-fold, respectively. By either measure, rat growth hormone-releasing factor produced a two-fold increase at 10 microM and a three- to four-fold increase at 30 microM. Analogs of peptides of the secretin-glucagon family with a deletion or modification of the N-terminal histidine were much less effective in these assays at the concentrations tested than were their parent compounds, demonstrating an important role for this amino acid in conferring activity on these peptides. In addition to increasing dopa synthesis in intact tissue, incubation of ganglia with rat growth hormone-releasing factor, secretin, vasoactive intestinal peptide or peptide histidine isoleucine amide also increased the activity of tyrosine hydroxylase measured subsequently in ganglion homogenates. Thus, the peptidergic stimulation of dopa synthesis observed in the intact superior cervical ganglion appears to be due, at least in part, to the activation of tyrosine hydroxylase. Together with previous studies, these findings support the hypothesis that certain members of the secretin-glucagon family increase catecholamine synthesis in sympathetic neurons by a cAMP-dependent activation of tyrosine hydroxylase.
The physical properties of brain and pituitary somatostatin receptors were characterized using photocrosslinking techniques. Somatostatin receptors in rat corpus striatum and anterior pituitary membranes were covalently bound to the non-reducible somatostatin analog, [125I]CGP 23996, using the crosslinking agent n-hydroxysuccinimidyl-4-azidobenzoate and ultraviolet light. In striatal membranes, a protein of 60,000 mol. wt was labeled by [125I]CGP 23996. The binding was potently inhibited by somatostatin analogs but not by other biologically active peptides. The labeling of the 60,000 mol. wt protein by [125I]CGP 23996 was diminished by guanine triphosphate gamma thiol, which is consistent with the labeling of a somatostatin receptor coupled to guanine triphosphate binding proteins. The migration of the [125I]CGP 23996 labeled 60,000 mol. wt protein in native sodium dodecyl sulfate-gels was not affected by the reducing agent dithiothreitol, indicating that there is a general lack of disulfide bridges in the striatal somatostatin receptor. The striatal somatostatin receptor was solubilized with the detergent 3-[(3-cholamidopropyl)-dimethylaminoio]-1-propanesulfonate and specifically bound to the lectin wheat germ agglutinin, suggesting that the striatal somatostatin receptor is a glycoprotein. [125I]CGP 23996 also labeled a 60,000 mol. wt protein in anterior pituitary membranes. The characteristics of [125I]CGP 23996 binding to anterior pituitary membranes were consistent with the labeling of a somatostatin receptor. Interestingly, a comparison of the [125I]CGP 23996 labeled material from striatal and anterior pituitary membranes by two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis revealed the presence of several striatal somatostatin receptors of varying charge (pI values between 6 and 6.5) but only a single pituitary receptor. These findings indicate that physical differences may exist between subtypes of somatostatin receptors.
Effects of senna on the myenteric plexus of the colon were investigated in view of earlier reports that this anthraquinone cathartic depletes the plexus of its intrinsic neurons. Rats and mice were given purgative doses of sennosides in their drinking water for 4 and 5 months, respectively. Body growth was reduced, and the weight of the colon with its contents was increased relative to the weight of the whole body in the treated animals. The latter change was attributed to depressed propulsive motility of the large intestine. Total numbers of myenteric neurons were determined from whole-mount preparations stained with Cuprolinic Blue-magnesium chloride, which selectively coloured the neuronal somata. The number of neurons in the rat's colon was unaffected by treatment with senna, but the colons of the treated mice contained significantly more neurons than those of their controls. Staining with antisera to 10 putative neurotransmitters or their associated enzymes revealed immunoreactive somata and axons in the myenteric plexus. Treatment with senna was not associated with absence of neuronal somata or fibres stainable with any of the antisera in either species. Thus, there was no evidence of toxic destruction of any identifiable population of neurons that might have been too small to affect the total counts. We conclude that senna does not kill myenteric neurons in the colon of the rat or mouse.
In order to study the role of protein kinase C in the regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase phosphorylation in PC12 cells, the effects of various agonists on diacylglycerol accumulation in PC12 cells were measured and the ability of these agonists to increase the phosphorylation tyrosine hydroxylase in protein kinase C-deficient cells was evaluated. Bradykinin (10 microM) and elevated extracellular K+ (55 mM) increased the accumulation of [3H]diacylglycerol in PC12 cells that had been prelabeled with [3H]arachidonic acid, and so might be expected to activate protein kinase C in these cells; in contrast, nerve growth factor did not increase diacylglycerol accumulation in PC12 cells. Protein kinase C-deficient PC12 cells were prepared by incubating the cells for 24 h with 1 microM phorbol dibutyrate. This treatment resulted in the loss of approximately 90% of the protein kinase C activity in the cells. Control and protein kinase C-deficient cells were incubated with 32Pi for 90 min and then stimulated with various agonists. 32P-labeled tyrosine hydroxylase was isolated from the cells by polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and subjected to tryptic hydrolysis. 32P-containing phosphopeptides were separated by two-dimensional thin-layer electrophoresis and chromatography, visualized by autoradiography, and quantitated by scintillation counting Treatment of control cells with phorbol dibutyrate increased the incorporation of 32P into one tryptic phosphopeptide (referred to as T3) in tyrosine hydroxylase. Phorbol dibutyrate did not increase the phosphorylation of this peptide in protein kinase C-deficient cells. Bradykinin or 55 mM K+ increased the incorporation of 32P into four tyrosine hydroxylase phosphopeptides, including peptide T3.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The dentate gyrus of anaesthetized rats was perfused with artificial cerebrospinal fluid while field responses evoked by stimulation of the perforant path were monitored. Perfusates were collected for analysis of endogenous glutamate, aspartate and arachidonate. In animals in which long-term potentiation was induced by tetanic stimulation, there was a sustained increase in the concentration of glutamate in the perfusate, and, less reliably, in aspartate, as previously reported by Bliss et al. (J. Physiol., Lond. 377, 391-408, 1986) and Errington et al. (Neuroscience 20, 279-284, 1987). The lipoxygenase and phospholipase A2 inhibitor nordihydroguaiaretic acid, when added to the perfusate 30 min before the tetanus, abolished both long-term potentiation of the population excitatory postsynaptic potential and the tetanus-induced increase in glutamate release. Long-term potentiation of the population spike was reduced but not abolished. There was also a sustained increase in the release of arachidonic acid following the induction of long-term potentiation which did not occur when induction was blocked by nordihydroguaiaretic acid. These results are discussed in the light of the possibility that arachidonic acid or one of its lipoxygenase metabolites may be the retrograde messenger which we have postulated is released from postsynaptic sites following tetanic stimulation to trigger increased transmitter release from presynaptic terminals.
Intracellular recording techniques were used to study a fast hyperpolarizing potential following the fast excitatory postsynaptic potential evoked by an orthodromic nerve stimulation in cat bladder parasympathetic ganglion cells. In the 61 ganglion cells examined, two types of responses were recorded on stimulating the preganglionic nerve; one had only a fast excitatory postsynaptic potential (type SI, n = 20) and the other had a fast excitatory postsynaptic potential followed by a fast hyperpolarizing potential (type SII, n = 41). In type SII neurons, the half-maximum duration of the afterhyperpolarizing potential following an orthodromic spike was longer than that of a direct spike produced by injecting a depolarizing current pulse through the recording electrode; the half-maximum durations for afterhyperpolarizing potentials following orthodromic and direct action potentials were comparable in type SI cells. Blocking the initiation of an orthodromic spike by hyperpolarizing the membrane in type SII cells revealed a fast excitatory postsynaptic potential followed by a fast hyperpolarizing potential which was similar to that observed at the resting potential. The fast hyperpolarizing potential had a duration comparable to that of an afterhyperpolarizing potential following an orthodromic action potential. The fast excitatory postsynaptic potential-fast hyperpolarizing potential sequence was blocked completely and reversibly by nicotinic receptor antagonists (hexamethonium and D-tubocurarine). Atropine, alpha-2 noradrenergic (yohimbine and phentolamine), and purinergic (caffeine) antagonists had no effect on the fast hyperpolarizing potential. In cells which show type SII responses, spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic potentials were not followed by a hyperpolarization. Depolarizing the membrane (by passing a cathodal current through the recording electrode) to an amplitude comparable to that of a fast excitatory postsynaptic potential also did not elicit a membrane hyperpolarization in type SII cells. In some cells, stimulating one preganglionic nerve trunk elicited a fast hyperpolarizing potential, but activating another nerve trunk innervating the same ganglion cell did not. There was no correlation between the variations in the amplitudes of the fast excitatory postsynaptic potential and the fast hyperpolarizing potential in type SII cells, but increasing the stimulus intensity applied to the presynaptic nerve fiber potentiated the amplitude of the fast excitatory postsynaptic potential and the fast hyperpolarizing potential. The fast hyperpolarizing potential was not associated with appreciable changes in input resistance.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Slices (300 microns) of rat caudatoputamen were incubated in Krebs-Henseleit medium and loaded with [3H]glutamine, part of which was converted to [3H]GABA. This conversion takes place only in GABA-neurons most of which probably contribute to the striatonigral pathway. After a 24 min equilibration period, release of radioactivity was stimulated with veratridine (3.1-4 mumol/l) or K+ (15-25 mmol/l) in the absence or presence of somatostatin-14. From the radioactivity released [3H]GABA was separated by cationic exchange chromatography and measured. Somatostatin-14 affected the release of [3H]GABA in a manner which depended on its concentration as well as on the extent of stimulus-evoked release. Somatostatin-14 (1 nmol/l) enhanced the moderate release (2-4% of tissue content) elicited by veratridine (3.1 mumol/l) or K+ (20 mmol/l), but had no effect on the more pronounced release (5-8% of tissue content) elicited by veratridine (4 mumol/l) or K+ (25 mmol/l). Somatostatin-14 (10 nmol/l) had no effect on the moderate release of [3H]GABA, but diminished the pronounced one. Further experiments provided evidence that the somatostatin-14-induced enhancement was not brought about by a direct action on GABA-neurons but was probably indirect, i.e. mediated by other striatal neurons. In contrast, the diminution of the release of [3H]GABA caused by somatostatin-14 may be due to its direct action on releasing neurons. Two antisera against somatostatin lowered the pronounced release indicating that endogenous somatostatin may also enhance the release of [3H]GABA. In addition, endogenous somatostatin seems also to be able to diminish the release under certain experimental conditions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The sites in the mouse brain where 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine can be oxidized to the toxic metabolite 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridine were determined using a histochemical technique. The method involved the demonstration of monoamine oxidase activity using 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine as the substrate by means of a sensitive coupled peroxidase technique. The distribution of neurons displaying the ability to oxidize 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine via a monoamine oxidase catalysed reaction was compared to that of various amine systems identified with immunohistochemistry. Dopamine neurons, and in particular the nigrostriatal dopamine cells, did not display the capacity to oxidize 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Noradrenergic neurons showed intense monoamine oxidase activity when 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine was used as substrate, and this activity was blocked by the monoamine oxidase-A inhibitor clorgyline. Serotonin neurons and histamine neurons were also able to oxidize 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. The reaction in these neurons was blocked by deprenyl, an inhibitor of monoamine oxidase-B. Pretreatment with inhibitors of monoamine oxidase-B has been previously shown to prevent the neurotoxic action of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine on dopaminergic neurons. Therefore, since serotonin and histamine neurons are able to oxidize 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine by means of monoamine oxidase-B, these neurons may be involved in the production of the toxic metabolites of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine in vivo.
The purpose of this study was to determine the role of the globus pallidus in the expression of dopamine D1- and D2-receptor mediated motor events. Rats were first injected stereotaxically with 6-hydroxydopamine in one medial forebrain bundle to denervate the ascending dopamine pathways in that hemisphere. Apomorphine and selective D1 and D2 agonists were then administered, at two dose levels, to establish characteristic response patterns. Subsequently the animals were given a secondary lesion by injecting kainic acid (0.2-1 microgram) into the ipsilateral globus pallidus and retested with the dopamine agonists over a period of two months. The kainate treatment itself caused spontaneous motor asymmetries, followed by aphagia, adipsia and hypersensitivity to touch. Contraversive circling, contralateral posture and grooming induced by systemic apomorphine were all abolished by the kainate treatment, whilst sniffing and head movements were facilitated. All activities induced by D1 stimulation were abolished or severely reduced under these conditions. By contrast, the contralateral posture and grooming elicited by D2 stimulation were spared, and only D2-dependent contraversive rotation, sniffing and head movements were reduced. All behavioural deficits were temporary and recovered partially or completely during the course of the experiment, but could not be overcome by increasing the dose of dopamine agonist. Post mortem histology revealed a consistent loss of pallidal neurons, together with more variable damage to extrapyramidal structures and the thalamus. The results show that all the D1-mediated, and certain of the D2-mediated motor responses depend on the integrity of the pallidum for their expression in the unilaterally 6-hydroxydopamine-treated rat.
By means of a monoclonal antibody against the rat liver L-triiodothyronine nuclear receptor and a polyclonal anti-tyrosine hydroxylase serum, it has been possible to demonstrate thyroid hormone nuclear receptors in immunoreactive tyrosine hydroxylase cell nuclei in fetal rat hypothalamic cultures. After 8 days in vitro, the ratio of tyrosine hydroxylase cells that were immunoreactive for the thyroid hormone receptor to those not stained for this receptor (64% to 36% respectively) remains unchanged despite an increase in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells with time (from day 8 to day 21) in culture. The presence of thyroid hormone nuclear receptor in dopaminergic neurons is correlated with a morphological effect of L-triiodothyronine in this neuronal population. Our results demonstrate, for the first time, the presence of triiodothyronine nuclear receptors in fetal rat dopaminergic neurons and the existence of a cellular heterogeneity in the distribution of the thyroid hormone receptor. The presence of these receptors in fetal hypothalamic dopaminergic neurons suggests that some effects of L-triiodothyronine on the maturation of DA neurons may result from a direct effect of this hormone through an interaction with its specific nuclear receptors.
Tubulin and glutamate were immunohistochemically localized in the hippocampus and amygdala of rats using monoclonal antibodies to gamma-Glu-Glu (Glu-1) and glutaraldehyde-fixed glutamate (Glu-2), respectively. Glu-2 was shown to be selectively immunoreactive for glutaraldehyde-fixed Glu using enzyme-linked immunoassays and inhibition enzyme-linked immunoassays. Glu-1 was immunoreactive with tubulin on immunoblots of brain homogenates. However, only tubulin with a glutamate carboxy-terminal appeared to be immunoreactive with Glu-1 since tubulin from Chinese hamster ovary cells was not immunoreactive on immunoblots unless the tubulin was first treated with carboxypeptidase. Intense immunocytochemical staining by Glu-1 of hippocampus and amygdala was co-localized in the same neurons as the immunocytochemical staining for glutaraldehyde-fixed Glu produced by Glu-2. The distribution of immunostaining in the brain by Glu-1 was very similar to the distribution of immunostaining produced by Glu-2. The major difference was that glutamate-like immunoreactivity, visualized by Glu-2 staining, was intense in the nuclei of neurons, while nuclei were unstained by Glu-1. The distribution of immunostaining by these monoclonal antibodies was very similar to that reported in previous studies using other antibodies to Glu. All granule cells in the area dentata of the hippocampus exhibited intense immunoreactivity with both antibodies. Immunoreactivity was also observed in the stratum lucidum of CA3, the zone of termination of mossy fiber axons of granule cells. The majority of pyramidal cells in CA1, and many pyramidal cells in CA3 of the hippocampus were immunoreactive. In addition, it appeared that all of the pyramidal cells in the subiculum exhibited immunoreactivity. Light, diffuse immunoreactivity was observed in the neuropil of the hippocampus and subiculum. Most perikarya in the amygdala were characterized by light to moderate Glu-1 immunoreactivity and moderate to intense Glu-2 immunoreactivity. Fairly intense Glu-1 and Glu-2 immunoreactivity was seen in some neurons of the lateral nucleus, basolateral nucleus, lateral subdivision of the central nucleus, and the periamygdaloid cortex. The morphology of immunostained neurons in the lateral and basolateral nuclei indicates that the majority of these cells correspond to the pyramidal class 1 neurons described in previous Golgi studies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of the subchronic administration of (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]-cyclohepten-5,10-imine (MK-801) (0.5 mg/kg twice daily, 7 days) on N-methyl-D-aspartate, phencyclidine and sigma binding sites, behaviour and catecholamine turnover were investigated in the rat. Overt behaviours induced by MK-801 on day 7 were significantly altered relative to day 1 with subchronically treated rats not showing head weaving, goss ataxia or loss of hindlimb control: locomotion and sniffing were largely unaffected. The mean intensities of behaviour were 1.8 and 5.4 for days 7 and 1, respectively. Behavioural tolerance was accompanied by a significant reduction in the density of cortical N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors as measured by [3H]D-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid binding, while affinity was unchanged: the density of binding sites was 3.52 and 1.88 pmol/mg protein for saline- and MK-801-treated rats, respectively. The N-methyl-D-aspartate ion channel as measured by the binding of [3H]N-(1-[2-thienyl]cyclohexyl)piperidine was not affected by the schedule of MK-801. Additionally, changes were not observed to N-methyl-D-aspartate- or glycine-stimulated [3H]N-(1-[2-thienyl]cyclohexyl)piperidine binding or to sigma binding. Catecholamine turnover was unaltered in the nucleus accumbens septi after the schedule of MK-801. Our results demonstrate that the subchronic administration of MK-801 produces behavioural tolerance and down-regulation of N-methyl-D-aspartate binding sites and suggest differential regulation of the domains of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-ionophore complex.
The effects of high K+, glutamate and its analogue, kainate, on K+ release were studied in primary astrocyte cultures prepared from newborn rat brains using 86Rb+ as a tracer for K+. An increase in 86Rb+ release was observed when the extracellular K+ concentration was elevated (10-40 mM). Glutamate and kainate stimulated the release in a dose-dependent manner, 100 microM concentrations being about as equally effective as high K+ (40 mM). Both compounds also caused an increase in the absorbance of the cyanine dye, 3,3'-diethylthiadicarbocyanine, indicating depolarization of the membrane. No significant Na+-dependent uptake of [3H]kainate occurred in the cells, thus excluding the possibility that depolarization was due to electrogenic uptake of amino acid into the cells. GABA and taurine significantly depressed the high K+- and glutamate-induced 86Rb+ release. Taurine itself caused a small increase in 86Rb+ release and the membrane was depolarized, judging from the increase in the absorbance of the cyanine dye, 3,3'-diethylthiadicarbocyanine. No effect of taurine was observed when the Cl- concentration was reduced in the experimental medium. The results suggest that cultured astrocytes respond by membrane depolarization to high external K+ and to glutamate and kainate. The degree of this depolarization can be modified by the inhibitory amino acids GABA, taurine and glycine, the effect of taurine probably being mediated by an increase in Cl- conductance across the cell membrane. The role of functional receptors for amino acid transmitters and the effects observed are discussed.
This study examined the consequences of alcohol (ethanol) exposure during fetal life on lesion-induced dopaminergic synapse responsiveness (plasticity) in the olfactory tubercle of the adult rat. Normally, in the olfactory tubercle, olfactory bulbectomy elicits alterations in pre- and postsynaptic dopaminergic markers, including, respectively, (1) increased tyrosine hydroxylase activity and immunoreactivity, which is associated with dopaminergic axon sprouting, and (2) increased dopaminergic receptor density and potentiated dopamine activation of adenylate cyclase. We have utilized biochemical and quantitative immunocytochemical methodology to examine these synaptic markers in olfactory bulbectomized or sham-operated adult rats. These animals were offspring of dams which were administered one of the following diets during pregnancy: (1) liquid diet containing 35% ethanol-derived calories ad libitum; (2) liquid diet containing an isocaloric amount of maltose-dextrin instead of ethanol, pair-fed; or (3) unaltered liquid diet ad libitum. The results show that prenatal alcohol exposure leads to suppression of the lesion-elicited dopaminergic synapse responsiveness in the olfactory tubercle. There were no significant differences between offspring born to control and pair-fed animals, indicating that the observed abnormalities were not due to alterations in their nutritional status. In conclusion, the present data are a biochemical and quantitative immunocytochemical demonstration of impaired lesion-induced synaptic responsiveness. This renders a new dimension in support of previous evidence indicating that prenatal alcohol exposure leads to altered neuroanatomical, neuroendocrinological and behavioral responsiveness to various challenges. Such impaired synaptic responsiveness may underlie brain functional abnormalities characteristic of fetal alcohol syndrome.
The distribution of somatostatin-immunoreactive structures in the infant brainstem was investigated using the peroxidase-antiperoxidase technique. A wide distribution of somatostatin-immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers was observed throughout the brainstem. Numerous somatostatin-immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers were present in several areas of the brainstem including the substantia grisea centralis and the reticular formation. Some immunoreactive cell bodies were seen in cranial nerve nuclei such as the nucleus praepositus, the nucleus nervi hypoglossi and the vestibular nuclei. Immunoreactive fibers were seen in the nucleus cuneatus, the locus coeruleus, the nucleus tractus solitarius, the nucleus ambiguus, the nucleus tractus spinalis nervi trigemini and the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. These data were in agreement with previous works on the human adult. However, a high density of somatostatin-immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers in the interpeduncular nucleus and in the nucleus centralis superior, and a dense network of somatostatin-immunoreactive fibers in the dorsal part of the nucleus inferior olivarius, were also observed. The role of somatostatin in some brainstem nuclei and its probable implication in some specific neuropathological diseases of the infant brainstem is discussed.
In digitonin-permeabilized bovine adrenal medullary cells, arachidonic acid and oleic acid, the cis-unsaturated fatty acids, enhanced Ca2+-induced secretion of catecholamines, whereas elaidic acid, a trans-unsaturated fatty acid and stearic acid, a saturated fatty acid, had no effect. Indomethacin, an inhibitor of cyclooxygenase and nordihydroguaiaretic acid, an inhibitor of lipoxygenase, failed to inhibit the stimulatory effect of arachidonic acid. Stimulation of catecholamine secretion by arachidonic acid was abolished by the removal of adenosine 5'-triphosphate and Mg2+ from the incubation medium. Pretreatment of the cells with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, an activator of protein kinase C, enhanced Ca2+-induced catecholamine secretion. In cells pretreated with phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate, the stimulatory effect of arachidonic acid on Ca2+-induced catecholamine secretion was greatly reduced. In digitonin-permeabilized cells, arachidonic acid and oleic acid enhanced Ca2+-induced activation of tyrosine hydroxylase in the presence of adenosine 5'-triphosphate and Mg2+, whereas elaidic acid and stearic acid did not activate the enzyme. In a soluble fraction of adrenal medullary cells, 32P incorporation to histone by protein kinase C was increased by arachidonic acid and oleic acid, but not by elaidic acid and stearic acid. These results suggest that cis-unsaturated fatty acids modulate Ca2+-induced catecholamine secretion and tyrosine hydroxylase activity by activation of protein kinase C in adrenal medullary cells.
The properties of the release of preloaded [3H]taurine and endogenous taurine were studied with cultured cerebellar granule cells (7-8 days in vitro) and astrocytes (14-15 days in vitro) from the rat. The spontaneous release of taurine from both cell types was slow. The release from both neurons and astrocytes was significantly enhanced by 0.1 mM veratridine, the stimulatory effect being more pronounced in granule cells than in astrocytes. No homo or heteroexchange with extracellularly added taurine or its structural analogues could be detected, suggesting that the efflux is probably not mediated via the membrane transport sites. Kainate stimulated the release more from granule cells than from astrocytes, the effect apparently being mediated by kainate-sensitive receptors. Depolarization of cell membranes by 50 mM K+ induced co-release of endogenous taurine and glutamate from both cell types. Preloaded [3H]taurine was readily released from astrocytes by potassium stimulation. Stimulated release occurred from granule cells if they had been cultured for 4 days with the label but not from the cells preloaded for only 15 min.
The participation of excitatory amino acid receptors in mossy fibre-granule cell synapses in lobule VIa of adult and immature rat cerebellar slices was investigated using an extracellular grease-gap technique. For the immature slices, the age selected (14 days after birth) was one at which the sensitivity of granule cells to exogenous N-methyl-D-aspartate is much higher than in the adult. The principal synaptic potentials observed after low-frequency electrical stimulation of the white matter resembled closely those found to be centred in the granule cell layer in field potential studies in the cat in vivo. They comprised a short latency negative potential, a slow negative wave and, in the adult, a further late negative wave. In the adult, with 1.2 mM Mg2+ in the perfusing solution, none of these potentials was significantly affected by the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, but they were all markedly inhibited by the broad spectrum antagonist, kynurenate, and, more potently, by the selective non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blocker, 6-cyano-2,3-dihydroxy-7-nitro-quinoxaline. After removal of Mg2+, which has a blocking action on the ion channels associated with N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, the size of all the potentials increased. The increase in the short latency potential was insensitive to 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate but a component of the slow negative wave (and of the late negative wave) was reduced back to control levels by the antagonist. Application of 6-cyano-2,3-dihydroxy-7-nitro-quinoxaline (10 microM) in Mg2+-free solution revealed, in near isolation, a slow wave (latency to peak, 28 ms) which could be abolished by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate. In the immature slices, bathed in normal (Mg2+-containing) medium, 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate caused a small reduction in the short latency potential and inhibited a component of the slow negative wave which could, again, be observed in relative isolation after perfusion of 6-cyano-2,3-dihydroxy-7-nitro-quinoxaline. Removal of Mg2+ increased the amplitudes of the short latency potential and the slow negative wave in a manner which was sensitive to 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and increased the size of the slow, 6-cyano-2,3-dihydroxy-7-nitro-quinoxaline-resistant wave. It is concluded that glutamate is likely to be the transmitter released by mossy fibres, at least those innervating lobule VIa.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The colocalization of cholecystokinin and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNAs was studied with a cellular resolution in the mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons of the rat brain by in situ hybridization using synthetic oligonucleotides. An extensive colocalization of cholecystokinin-expressing cells, greater than that seen previously by immunohistochemistry, was found in the ventral tegmental area and in the substantia nigra pars compacta. We observed in these regions that cholecystokinin and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNAs coexisted in the same neurons but not all dopamine cells expressed cholecystokinin mRNA. 6-Hydroxydopamine-induced destruction of mesostriatal dopaminergic neurons resulted in a complete loss of cholecystokinin and tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA expression throughout the substantia nigra pars compacta, indicating that all cholecystokinin expressing cells are 6-hydroxydopamine-sensitive. While increased enkephalin mRNA expression in the striatum ipsilateral to the lesion was detected, no change of cholecystokinin mRNA expression was observed in any forebrain on the lesioned side, suggesting that cholecystokinin expression in the forebrain is not under dopaminergic control. These results show the usefulness of the in situ hybridization approach for the precise localization of cells in rat brain which express mRNAs for cholecystokinin and tyrosine hydroxylase and for the study of the effects of neurotoxic lesions on these cells.
Aluminum-induced neurofibrillary degeneration in rabbits is known to affect particular populations of neurons. The neurotransmitter alterations which accompany aluminum neurofibrillary degeneration were examined in order to assess how closely they mimic those of Alzheimer's disease. There was a significant reduction in choline acetyltransferase activity in entorhinal cortex and hippocampus as well as significant reductions in cortical concentrations of serotonin and norepinephrine in the aluminum-treated rabbits. Significant reductions in glutamate, aspartate and taurine were found in frontoparietal and posterior parietal cortex. Concentrations of GABA were unchanged in cerebral cortex. Both substance P and cholecystokinin immunoreactivity were significantly reduced in entorhinal cortex but there were no significant changes in somatostatin, neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. The five neuropeptides were unaffected in striatum, thalamus, cerebellum and brainstem. Neurochemical changes were found in the regions with the most neurofibrillary degeneration while regions with little or no neurofibrillary degeneration were unaffected. The reductions in choline acetyltransferase activity, serotinin and noradrenaline suggest that some neuronal populations preferentially affected in Alzheimer's disease are also affected by aluminum-induced neurofibrillary degeneration; however, the cortical somatostatin deficit which is a feature of Alzheimer's disease is not replicated in the aluminum model.
The innervation of the hypothalamus and septal region by catecholaminergic fibers was studied in rats from the 12th fetal day until the 9th postnatal day. Catecholaminergic fibers were visualized with preembedding immunocytochemistry using antibodies to tyrosine hydroxylase. An intensification of diaminobenzidine product with silver and gold was additionally applied to increase the sensitivity and resolution power of the routine immunocytochemical technique. It has been demonstrated that, from the 13th fetal day, the hypothalamus and the septal region receive catecholaminergic fibers either belonging to the hypothalamic neurons or coming with the medial forebrain bundle from the outside of the hypothalamus. As the development of the hypothalamus proceeds, these fibers form the extensive networks within some neurosecretory centers either containing (the zona incerta, periventricular nucleus, etc.) or almost lacking (suprachiasmatic and paraventricular nuclei) the catecholaminergic neurons. In the former case, they terminate on the processes or perikarya of catecholaminergic neurons, while in the latter case their varicosities surround the immunonegative presumptive neurons in a basket-like manner. Moreover, from the 18th fetal day catecholaminergic fibers penetrate between the ependymal cells towards the 3rd ventricle and the primary capillary plexus of the hypophysial portal circulation, apparently providing the release of catecholamines to the cerebrospinal fluid and portal blood, respectively. The data obtained in this study are considered as the morphological basis for the involvement of the hypothalamic catecholamines in neuroendocrine regulations during ontogenesis.
The development of the catecholaminergic system in the hypothalamus and in the septal region was studied in rats from the 12th fetal day until the 9th postnatal day. Catecholaminergic structures were visualized with pre-embedding immunocytochemistry using antiserum to tyrosine hydroxylase. An intensification of diaminobenzidine product with silver and gold was additionally applied to make the immunocytochemical technique more sensitive. In this paper only the data on the appearance and distribution of the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons (cell bodies) are presented, whereas the catecholaminergic innervation of the hypothalamus with the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive fibers is the topic of an accompanying paper. Sparse tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons were first observed in the anlage of the hypothalamus and septal region on the 13th fetal day. Their number increased progressively with age and by the 15th fetal day they already gave rise to a large dorsal accumulation. From the 18th fetal day on, tyrosine hydroxylase immunopositive neurons began to occupy their definitive positions, mainly concentrating within the hypothalamus: in the zona incerta, periventricular and arcuate nuclei. To a lesser extent, they were concentrated in the medial preoptic area, suprachiasmatic, supraoptic, paraventricular, dorsomedial, and anterior hypothalamic nuclei. The data on the distribution of the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons both in the hypothalamus and in the septal region during ontogenesis are summarized in the precise atlas. Primarily small bi- and unipolar catecholaminergic neurons first observed in the youngest fetuses undergo cytodifferentiation during ontogenesis, giving rise to at least two different populations localized ventrally, mainly in the arcuate nucleus, and dorsally, in the zona incerta. The neurons of the former population remain similar to those of the youngest fetuses, whereas the neurons of the latter increase significantly in size, forming several long, highly ramified processes.
In order to characterize excitatory amino acid receptors in cultured chick cerebellar neurons, the effects of amino acid agonists on the input resistance and the antagonist specificity of the depolarization induced by each agonist were intracellularly studied. In Mg-containing medium, glutamate (especially at low doses), aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate not only decreased the input resistance at depolarized membrane potentials but also increased it at around the resting potential. In Mg-free medium, glutamate (high and low doses) and all other agonists simply decreased the input resistance. The effects of antagonists on amino acid-induced depolarizations in Mg-free medium were as follows: Mg and alpha-aminoadipate blocked N-methyl-D-aspartate and aspartate most strongly, glutamate and kainate moderately, and quisqualate only slightly; 2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate antagonized N-methyl-D-aspartate most strongly, aspartate moderately and others mildly; 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate blocked aspartate most strongly and others mildly; gamma-D-glutamylglycine blocked kainate most strongly and others moderately; and kynurenate was rather nonselective but most strongly antagonized N-methyl-D-aspartate and aspartate. These results suggest that all receptor subtypes (N-methyl-D-aspartate-, quisqualate- and kainate-types) are present in cultured chick cerebellar neurons, but their antagonist specificities are different from those in other central neurons, and also that glutamate at a low dose activates N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, while it acts on quisqualate receptors at a high dose.
The functional modification of the D1 dopamine receptor subtype following acute or repeated administration of the D1 receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.5 mg/kg s.c.) was studied in the rat hippocampal slice preparation. The activity of the D1 receptor system was evaluated by measuring the effect of the D1 receptor agonist SKF 38393 on the spontaneous firing of CA1 hippocampal neurons. The testing was performed 1, 2 and 7 days after discontinuation of the treatment. Repeated (21 days, once daily), but not acute, administration of SCH 23390 significantly potentiated the inhibitory reaction to SKF 38393. The inhibition evoked by SKF 38393 was blocked by application of SCH 23390 (10(-8) M). The results show that repeated treatment with SCH 23390 enhances the inhibitory effect of SKF 38393 in the rat hippocampus, probably due to an increase in the number of D1 dopamine receptors.
The relationship between long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission and the release of endogenous glutamate and aspartate has been investigated in the CA1 region of the hippocampus and in the fascia dentata of the anaesthetized rat. A high-frequency train of electrical stimulation of afferent pathways produced a long lasting (greater than 2 h) enhancement of the field excitatory postsynaptic potential in CA1 and of the population spike in the fascia dentata. In both regions, this was not associated with a significant long lasting increase in the release of glutamate and aspartate. It is concluded that the maintenance of long-term potentiation is not associated with a sustained increase in the release of excitatory amino acids.
Field potentials were recorded in the dentate gyrus of freely-moving rats in a classical conditioning paradigm in which high-frequency stimulation of the perforant path served as a conditioned stimulus. Paired or unpaired perforant path stimulus-footshock presentations were given to animals engaged in a previously acquired food-motivated lever-pressing task. Conditioned suppression of lever-pressing was the behavioural measure of conditioning. Perforant path stimulus trains at an intensity above spike threshold induced long-term potentiation of synaptic transmission in the dentate gyrus. In this condition, animals learned the perforant path stimulus-shock association. Three strategies were employed to block the induction or reduce the magnitude of long-term potentiation induced by the conditioned stimulus: (1) reduction of the intensity of the stimulus below the spike threshold resulted in no long-term potentiation and a failure by the animals to learn the perforant path stimulus-shock association; (2) inhibitory modulation of long-term potentiation by high-frequency activation of commissural input to the dentate gyrus resulted in learning deficits; (3) chronic infusion of DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, a selective antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor, blocked the induction of long-term potentiation and prevented associative learning. A highly significant linear relation emerged from a correlational analysis between the magnitude of the change in synaptic efficacy at the activated synapses and the amount the animals learned about the perforant path stimulus-shock association. The results presented in this paper are consistent with the hypothesis that associative learning depends on the development of lasting changes in synaptic function. We propose that the activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the dentate gyrus is involved in this process and that the more change in synaptic efficacy is produced in the activated network, the more the animals learn.
The unilateral application of GABA (10(-5) M; 30 min) into thalamic motor nuclei of the cat increases the release of dopamine in both caudate nuclei. This effect has been suggested to be related to an activation of the bilateral corticostriatal glutamatergic projection, glutamate exerting a presynaptic facilitatory influence on dopamine release. To explore this hypothesis further, halothane-anesthetized cats implanted with push-pull cannulae were used in order to examine the effects of such a GABA application on the release of glutamate in both caudate nuclei. Aspartate, alanine, glutamine, serine and tyrosine were also measured in the superfusates. The unilateral application of GABA (10(-5) M; 30 min) into thalamic motor nuclei increased the release of glutamate bilaterally. Although less pronounced, ipsi- or bilateral increases in the efflux of alanine, glutamine and tyrosine were also observed. Contralateral changes in the efflux of glutamate, alanine and tyrosine were prevented following acute section of the corpus callosum. In addition, when applied continuously into one caudate nucleus, 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid, a blocker of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, prevented the GABA-induced increase in alanine or tyrosine efflux but did not affect the enhanced release of glutamate. These results confirm that the unilateral application of GABA in thalamic motor nuclei activates a thalamo-cortico-striatal neuronal loop leading to the stimulation of glutamate release in both caudate nuclei. Changes in the efflux of other amino acids could be linked to increased metabolic activity of striatal target cells resulting from the increased release of glutamate and from its effect on N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors.
Cell-attached and whole-cell recordings were made from adult rat melanotrophs maintained in vitro by standard cell culture techniques. In cell-attached recordings the cells showed small biphasic currents which reflected spontaneous cell firing. Single channel currents often had distinct relaxations and depolarizing currents through single channels could trigger the discharge of an action potential in the cell; both observations are consistent with the high input resistance (1-10 G omega) measured in the whole-cell configuration. The discharge of action potentials occurring either spontaneously or by current injection was eliminated by tetrodotoxin or by removing Na from the external medium. A Na-dependent plateau depolarization which activated near the spike threshold was also seen. In cells exposed to tetrodotoxin and K-channel blocking agents it was possible to evoke a long-lasting (up to 20 s) action potential which was enhanced and reduced, respectively, by Ba and Cd and thus appeared to reflect currents through voltage-activated Ca channels. Small amplitude Ca-dependent depolarizations could also be evoked at membrane potentials as low as -40 mV. In cell-attached and whole-cell recordings 10 mM Ba caused the discharge of tetrodotoxin-insensitive action potentials prior to a maintained depolarization of the membrane. The low threshold for Ca-dependent depolarizations suggest that Ca influx might occur in these cells even at the resting potential. Additionally, both a Ca current and the current underlying the Na-dependent plateau depolarization may influence the rate of cell firing and in doing so further increase Ca influx through voltage-activated channels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The findings in this feline study indicate that the enkephalin-positive subcommissural part of the globus pallidus, which is known to contain GABA and cholinergic cells projecting to the cortex, is innervated by the anterodorsal region of the caudate nucleus, but not by the core. Like stimulation of a particular subclass of dopamine receptors in the anterodorsal region of the caudate nucleus, inhibition of the GABA receptors in the noted part of the globus pallidus resulted in orofacial dyskinesia, viz. tic-like contractions of the facial, eye and ear muscles, and tongue protrusions. This phenomenon was elicited by intrapallidal injections of the GABA antagonist picrotoxin in a dose-dependent manner and could be attenuated by the GABA agonist muscimol. Previous studies have already shown that neither stimulation of the dopamine receptors in the core of the caudate nucleus nor any manipulation with the first- and second-order output-stations of the latter brain region, viz. (a) those regions of the substantia nigra, pars reticulata which receive afferents from the caudate nucleus, and (b) those regions of the intermediate layers of the superior colliculus which receive afferents from the latter nigral region, ever resulted in orofacial dyskinesia. These findings support the hypothesis that the anatomically distinct input-output channels of the caudate nucleus are differentially involved in orofacial dyskinesia. The clinical impact of these findings is discussed in view of the L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine-induced tardive dyskinesia in man. In addition, the relevance of the anatomical data is discussed in view of the co-occurrence of Parkinson's Disease and Dementia of Alzheimer-type in certain patients.
Female mice form a long-term olfactory memory to the pheromones of the male that mates with them. This memory is dependent on neural mechanisms within the accessory olfactory bulb. In this study we show that localized infusions of the excitatory amino acid receptor blocker, gamma-D-glutamylglycine, into the accessory olfactory bulb prevents memory formation. This is in marked contrast to the effects of infusions of the specific N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists, D-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid and MK 801, which are without effect on memory formation. Excitatory amino acid receptor blockade by localized infusion of these drugs into the accessory olfactory bulb induced seizures. This paradoxical effect could only be due to disinhibition of granule cell GABAergic inhibitory feedback to the mitral cell. This was confirmed by the pregnancy blocking effect of these drugs, an event which also occurs with bicuculline infusions into the accessory olfactory bulb. These findings strongly implicate excitatory amino acid receptors in memory formation to the pheromones of the mating male and localize the mechanism to the reciprocal dendro-dendritic synapse between mitral and granule cells.
Histochemical and immunohistochemical techniques were used to determine relationships between the parvalbumin or calbindin D28k content and the cytochrome oxidase or carbonic anhydrase activity of neurons in lumbar dorsal root ganglia in rat. Subpopulations of dorsal root ganglion neurons that displayed parvalbumin- or calbindin D28k-immunoreactivity were classified as containing either light, moderate or dense histochemical reaction product for cytochrome oxidase and either a positive or negative reaction for carbonic anhydrase. It was found that approximately 90% of all parvalbumin and calbindin D28k-immunoreactive cells exhibited dense staining for cytochrome oxidase and that 87% of parvalbumin- and 76% of calbindin D28k-immunoreactive cells were positive for carbonic anhydrase. Conversely, 85% of all cells with a dense cytochrome oxidase reaction contained parvalbumin and calbindin D28k. Although not quantified, it appeared that many, but not all, carbonic anhydrase-positive cells contained parvalbumin or calbindin D28k. These results indicate the existence of a subpopulation of primary sensory neurons that contains parvalbumin and calbindin D28k and that expresses high levels of cytochrome oxidase and carbonic anhydrase activity. It is suggested that primary afferent neurons with this cytochemical profile transmit a sensory modality that requires them to discharge rapidly and/or frequently. The existence of a subpopulation of carbonic anhydrase-positive cells that lack immunoreactivity for parvalbumin or calbindin D28k suggests that the role of carbonic anhydrase in some sensory neurons is unrelated to functions requiring these calcium binding proteins.
A quantitative histochemical method was developed and standardized and then used to characterize the heterogeneity of cytochrome oxidase activity among primary afferent neuronal cell bodies in dorsal root ganglia of rat. In addition, the relationship between cytochrome oxidase and carbonic anhydrase activities in these neurons was determine. In tests of the procedure, the density of cytochrome oxidase reaction product evaluated repeatedly in individual neurons within sections of ganglia was found to increase linearly over incubation periods of up to 6 h. The heterogeneity in cytochrome oxidase activity in ganglia was not simply a reflection of the heterogeneity in ganglion cell sizes. On the whole, each class of ganglion cell exhibited the full range of staining densities encountered but intense staining was observed in many more large type A cells than small type B cells. The latter, together with their termination fields within the substantia gelatinosa of the spinal cord, were lightly stained. A significant positive correlation was found between neuronal size and staining density (r = 0.43). However, the large scatter in the plot of these two variables suggests that the expression of cytochrome oxidase in sensory neurons is governed to a considerable extent by properties of these neurons that are unrelated to their size. Analysis of cytochrome oxidase and carbonic anhydrase activities in the same ganglion cells revealed that all neurons with dense staining for the oxidase were anhydrase positive. Conversely, however, some intensely anhydrase-positive cells exhibited only light staining for cytochrome oxidase. The heterogeneity of cytochrome oxidase activity among neurons in dorsal root ganglia may be related to the steady state electrophysiological activity of distinct populations of sensory neurons which in turn may be related to the specific sensory modalities these populations transmit. The observation that some neurons with the greatest abundance of carbonic anhydrase do not contain high or even moderate levels of cytochrome oxidase suggests some degree of dissociation between the functional requirement for carbonic anhydrase in sensory neurons and the rate of energy expenditure in these cells.
Excitatory amino acid receptors are thought to mediate sensory input to the ventrobasal thalamus. There is evidence for a brainstem serotonergic projection to the ventrobasal thalamus which may have a modulatory role. The possibility that serotonin may selectively modulate responses to excitatory amino acid receptor agonists, and its effects on sensory synaptic transmission has been examined in the rat ventrobasal thalamus in vivo. Iontophoretic ejection of serotonin at low currents produced a marked facilitation of responses to excitatory amino acids. In contrast, excitatory responses to cholinomimetic agonists were attenuated. Synaptic transmission was concomitantly enhanced or unchanged in these circumstances. Higher serotonin ejection currents reversed the facilitation, or inhibited excitatory amino acid responses and synaptic transmission. It is concluded that serotonin can modulate responses to excitatory amino acids relatively selectively and that synaptic transmission of somatosensory information through the ventrobasal thalamus may be susceptible to brainstem serotonergic modulation.
The dentate gyrus of adult rats was examined histochemically for cytochrome oxidase and lactate dehydrogenase activity after unilateral lesions of the entorhinal cortex. In normal animals, synaptic terminal fields of the perforant pathway from the entorhinal cortex show high levels of cytochrome oxidase activity (the other two-thirds dentate molecular layer), whereas terminal zones of the commissural and associational fibers show high levels of lactate dehydrogenase activity (the inner one-third dentate molecular layer). Lesions of the entorhinal cortex result in a significant reduction in staining for cytochrome oxidase in the deafferented outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. The changes become prominent at 16-24 h after the lesion and persist until 90 days, the longest post-lesion survival time studied. In the non-deafferented inner zones ipsilateral to the lesion, there is an increase in staining for cytochrome oxidase and lactate dehydrogenase at 24 h post-lesion that disappears by days 2-4. From 8 to 90 days post-lesion, the band of high reactivity for lactate dehydrogenase in the inner molecular layer spreads approximately 40 microns into the overlying deafferented zone. This expansion parallels the expansion of the commissural and associational terminal fields into the adjacent deafferented molecular layer. Thus, lesion-induced synaptogenesis in the dentate gyrus is accompanied by a corresponding change in enzyme activity. The results indicate that the pattern of activity of enzymes involved in energy metabolism in the dentate gyrus depends on the distribution of pathway-specific synaptic input.
Microinjection of morphine sulfate into dorsal raphe, ventrolateral central gray and dorsolateral central gray inhibits spinal nociceptive reflexes. The effects of the blockade of spinal opioid, adrenergic, and serotonergic receptors by intrathecal injection of naloxone, yohimbine and methysergide, respectively, on inhibition of the tail-flick response induced by morphine microinjected into dorsal raphe, ventrolateral central gray and dorsolateral central gray were studied. Naloxone (20 micrograms) given intrathecally effectively antagonized inhibition of the tail-flick response induced by morphine (4 micrograms) given into dorsal raphe and ventrolateral central gray, but not dorsolateral central gray. On the other hand, intrathecal injection of yohimbine (30 micrograms) antagonized inhibition of the tail-flick response induced by morphine given into ventrolateral central gray and dorsolateral central gray, but not dorsal raphe. Intrathecal injection of prazosin (30 micrograms) did not antagonize inhibition of the tail-flick response induced by morphine given into dorsal raphe or lateral central gray. Intrathecal injection of methysergide (30 micrograms) only partially antagonized inhibition of the tail-flick response induced by morphine given into dorsal raphe, but not ventrolateral central gray and dorsolateral central gray. It is concluded that the analgesia induced by morphine injected into dorsal raphe is mediated by spinal opioid receptors but not by spinal alpha 2-adrenergic receptors while the analgesia produced by morphine given into dorsolateral central gray is mediated by spinal alpha 2-adrenergic receptors. The analgesia induced by morphine given into ventrolateral central gray is mediated in part by both spinal alpha 2-adrenergic and opioid receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Reorganization of synaptic circuitry has been studied in the upper dorsal horn (Lamina II, substantia gelatinosa Rolandi) of the lumbar spinal cord in the adult rat, by means of electron histochemical visualization of thiamine monophosphatase after transganglionic degenerative atrophy. Thiamine monophosphatase, a highly specific and selective marker of Type C (small) dorsal root neurons, was demonstrated at light and electron microscopic levels by means of a Gmri-type cytochemical reaction, using thiamine monophosphate chloride (Sigma) as substrate and Pb2+ as a capturing agent. Transganglionic degenerative atrophy, induced by a crush injury of the sciatic nerve, results in partial depletion of thiamine monophosphatase from ipsilateral segments L2-S1. The extent of depletion was determined in a complete series of frozen cross-sections, by means of measuring the projections of active and depleted areas and their distances from the midline. Values were fed into a personal computer and maps demonstrating the distribution of intact and impaired areas were generated. The V-shaped area of depletion starts to shrink due to incipient regeneration on the 23rd postoperative day, in caudorostral and mediolateral gradients. Replenishment of thiamine monophosphatase is completed on the 60th postoperative day. Electron microscopic cytochemistry revealed the presence of the thiamine monophosphatase reaction end product in axonal growth cones, filopodia, young axons and their varicous swellings that are transformed into scallopped en passant terminals in the later course of regeneration. Axonal growth cones and regenerating sprouts undergo Wallerian degeneration and simultaneous redepletion of the marker enzyme after transection of dorsal roots L3, L4 and L5. Thiamine monophosphatase, located initially within the axoplasms of regenerating fibers, is successively translocated to the external axolemmal surfaces. Functional maturity of the terminals is achieved only later. The resulting redundant and transient wiring is thinned out in a following maturation period, in a manner resembling the sequence of events in embryonic development. The regenerative potency of central terminals of primary sensory neurons is not restricted to a single regeneration. By repeatedly crushing the sciatic nerve, four successive degenerative-regenerative cycles have been evoked, resulting in replenishment of the marker enzyme thiamine monophosphatase.
Intracellular recordings were performed from projection cells of the cat dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus in vitro to investigate the properties and origin of optic tract evoked inhibitory postsynaptic potentials mediated by GABAB receptors and their relationship to the physiologically different cell classes present in this nucleus. In all three main laminae of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, stimulation of the optic tract evoked an excitatory postsynaptic potential followed by two inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. The first is a GABAA receptor mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potential since it was blocked by bicuculline, reversed in polarity following intracellular Cl- injection and had a reversal potential similar to the bicuculline sensitive hyperpolarizing effect of GABA. The second is a GABAB receptor mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potential. Its amplitude was not linearly related to membrane potential (maximal amplitude at -60 mV), it decreased when using frequencies of stimulation higher than 0.05 Hz and it was reversibly increased by addition of bicuculline to the perfusion medium. The reversal potential of GABAB inhibitory postsynaptic potentials was dependent on the extracellular K+ concentration but did not change in the presence of bicuculline or when recording with Cl- filled microelectrodes. While GABAA inhibitory postsynaptic potentials always abolished repetitive firing of projection cells, GABAB inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were able to block weak firing but unable to decrease strong activation of projection cells evoked by direct current injection. Optic tract evoked GABAB (as well as GABAA) inhibitory postsynaptic potentials could be recorded in slices which did not include the perigeniculate nucleus, thus indicating that they are generated by the interneurons of the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus. Using intracellular injection of horseradish peroxidase, we have found that the GABAB inhibitory postsynaptic potentials are present in projection cells showing many different types of neuronal morphologies. In conclusion, GABA released from interneurons in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus is capable of evoking an early, short-lasting GABAA and a late, long-lasting GABAB inhibitory postsynaptic potential in projection cells with diverse morphology, indicating that the late inhibition in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus can no longer be associated exclusively with the recurrent inhibitory pathway through the perigeniculate nucleus.
The in vitro quantitative autoradiographic technique was used to characterize the distributions of alpha 1, alpha 2, beta 1 and beta 2 adrenergic, D1 and D2 dopaminergic, 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 serotonergic, M1 and M2 cholinergic, GABAA and benzodiazepine receptors in the motor (Brodmann's area 4) and somatosensory (Brodmann's areas 3, 1 and 2) cortex of the adult rhesus monkey. All receptor subtypes studied were present throughout all layers of both areas. In the somatosensory cortex, each receptor had its own laminar distribution. Some subtypes of the same receptor (5-HT1 and 5-HT2; alpha 1 and alpha 2) had complementary distributions while others (beta 1 and beta 2; D1 and D2; M1 and M2) had largely overlapping distributions. In contrast, different receptors had remarkably coincidental distributions in the motor cortex. In this area, they all tended to concentrate in layers I, II and the upper part of layer III. However, such coextensive distribution of many types of neurotransmitter receptors is not observed in motor cortex of rats and humans and therefore may be a distinctive feature of motor cortex in the rhesus monkey. The findings described in this paper indicate that somatosensory and motor areas are distinct in their receptor architecture and that receptor autoradiography provides a useful complement to classical histological techniques in elucidating areal differences in the cortex.
The excitatory amino acids are probably the major neurotransmitters in the cerebral cortex, and they act through at least three receptors: the N-methyl-D-aspartate, the quisqualate and the kainic acid receptors. Under the appropriate conditions, [3H]1-(1-(2-thienyl)-cyclohexyl)piperidine [( 3H]TCP), [3H]glycine and L-[3H]glutamate label different sites on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, [3H]-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid [( 3H]AMPA) labels the quisqualate receptor and [3H]kainic acid the kainic acid receptor. The anatomical localizations of these binding sites were studied in sections of blocks removed from the cerebral cortices of eight post-mortem human brains. The results showed that, in the human cerebral cortex, [3H]TCP, [3H]glycine and L-[3H]glutamate binding sites had congruent distributions, with [3H]AMPA binding sites showing a similar distribution. In the hippocampus, these four ligands had high binding site densities in the CA1 region and the dentate gyrus molecular layer. With the exception of the striate cortex, in the neocortex, a tri-laminar pattern was seen consisting of a high density across laminae I-III, a layer of low density corresponding to the region of lamina IV, and a band of moderate density across laminae V and VI, except for [3H]AMPA where the middle zone of low density was usually wider. [3H]Kainic acid showed a binding pattern which was generally complementary to that of the other four ligands. There were low levels of [3H]kainic acid binding sites in the CA1 region of the hippocampus with higher levels in the CA3 region, the hilus, and the inner third of the dentate gyrus molecular layer. In the neocortex there was a band of high density corresponding to laminae V and VI, with a thin band of moderate binding corresponding to lamina I and the outer region of lamina II. An exception was the motor cortex where the highest level of [3H]kainic acid binding was in laminae I and II. The high degree of congruence between the binding patterns of [3H]TCP, [3H]glycine and L-[3H]glutamate (using conditions appropriate for the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor) supports data indicating that these ligands bind to different regions of the same receptor complex. The similar distribution of [3H]AMPA binding sites, with the exception of the striate cortex, supports observations made in rodents that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and quisqualate receptors have similar distributions and perform different but related functions in excitatory transmission.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Cyclooxygenase (prostaglandin E2 and prostaglandin I2) and lipoxygenase [8(R), 15(S)-dihydroxyicosa-(5E-9,11,13Z)-tetraenoic acid] products of arachidonic acid metabolism are thought to produce peripheral hyperalgesia by a direct action on the primary afferent nociceptor. In this study we investigated the possibility that these eicosanoids generate hyperalgesia through a common second messenger in the rat. We report that 8-bromo cAMP, a membrane permeable analogue of cAMP, produces a dose-dependent hyperalgesia that is not affected by treatments that interrupt indirect routes of hyperalgesia production including sympathectomy with 6-hydroxydopamine, depletion of polymorphonuclear leukocytes (a source of hyperalgesic eicosanoids) with hydroxyurea, or blockade of the cyclooxygenase pathway of arachidonic acid metabolism with indomethacin. The phosphodiesterase inhibitor isobutyl-methylxanthine markedly prolongs the hyperalgesic effect of 8-bromo cAMP as well as those of the directly acting hyperalgesic agents prostaglandin E2, prostaglandin I2 and 8(R),15(S)-dihydroxyicosa-(5E-9,11,13Z)-tetraenoic acid. We conclude that the effect of all known hyperalgesic eicosanoids is mediated by the cAMP second messenger system and suggest, therefore, that cAMP mediates peripheral hyperalgesia in primary afferent nociceptors.
The intradermal injection of mu (morphine, Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-NMe-Phe-Gly-ol and morphiceptin), kappa (trans-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl) cyclohexyl]benzeneactemide) and delta ([D-Pen2.5]-enkephalin and [D-Ser2]-[Leu]enkephalin-Thr) selective opioid-agonists, by themselves, did not significantly affect the mechanical nociceptive threshold in the hindpaw of the rat. Intradermal injection of mu, but not delta or kappa opioid-agonists, however, produced dose-dependent inhibition of prostaglandin E2-induced hyperalgesia. The analgesic effect of the mu-agonist morphine was dose-dependently antagonized by naloxone and prevented by co-injection of pertussis toxin. Morphine did not, however, alter the hyperalgesia induced by 8-bromo cyclic adenosine monophosphate. We conclude that the analgesic action of opioids on the peripheral terminals of primary afferents is via a binding site with characteristics of the mu-opioid receptor and that this action is mediated by inhibition of the cyclic adenosine monophosphate second messenger system.
Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) is a putative neurotransmitter in both the brain and peripheral tissues. To define possible target tissues of VIP we have used quantitative receptor autoradiography to localize and quantify the distribution of [125I]VIP receptor binding sites in histologically normal human surgical specimens. While the distribution of VIP binding sites was different for each gastrointestinal segment examined, specific vasoactive intestinal polypeptide binding sites were localized to the mucosa, the muscularis mucosa, the smooth muscle of submucosal arterioles, the circular and longitudinal smooth muscle of the muscularis externa, the myenteric plexus, and lymph nodules. In most segments, the mucosal layer expressed the highest concentration of VIP binding sites, with the duodenal and jejunal mucosa showing the highest density of receptors. These results identify putative VIP target tissues in the human gastrointestinal tract. In correlation with physiological data, VIP binding sites appear to be involved in the regulation of a variety of gastrointestinal functions including mucosal ion transport, gastric secretion, hemodynamic regulation, gastric and intestinal motility, neuronal excitability, and modulation of the immune system.
Calcitonin gene-related peptide-alpha (CGRP alpha) is a putative neurotransmitter in the brain and in peripheral tissues. Quantitative receptor autoradiography was used to localize and quantify the distribution of specific binding sites for radiolabeled human CGRP alpha in the canine gastrointestinal tract. The canine gastrointestinal tract was chosen as a model since it is similar in both size and structure to the human gastrointestinal tract. In the stomach CGRP alpha binding sites were localized to smooth muscle cells in the muscularis mucosa and muscularis externa, the smooth muscle and endothelium of medium and small arteries, neurons in the myenteric plexus, mucosal epithelial cells and the germinal centers of lymph nodules. In the intestines, the prominent cells types expressing CGRP alpha receptors were myenteric neurons and the germinal centers of lymph nodules. Since previous studies have demonstrated that CGRP-containing sensory neurons innervate the muscularis externa in the stomach and since CGRP alpha receptors are expressed by smooth muscle cells in the muscularis externa, these results suggest that sensory neurons may directly regulate gastric motility by releasing CGRP. In correlation with previous physiological data, the present study suggests that CGRP is involved in the regulation of a variety of gastrointestinal functions including gastric motility, mucosal ion transport, hemodynamics, digestive enzyme secretion, neuronal excitability, and the inflammatory and immune response.
In the dog cerebral cortex and spinal cord, [3H]bremazocine and [3H]U69593 both bound with high affinity to an apparent single population of binding sites under kappa-selective conditions. In the cortex similar Bmax values for both radioligands in the saturation studies and the high affinity of the kappa-selective agents PD117302 and U69593 for both [3H]bremazocine and [3H]U69593 labelled sites in the competition studies suggested a predominance of U69593-sensitive sites previously described as kappa 1 in the guinea-pig and rat brain. The lower slope values for the inhibition curves of PD117302 and U69593 against [3H]bremazocine but not against [3H]U69593 suggested that [3H]bremazocine could also be binding to a relatively minor proportion of additional, possibly kappa 2, sites while [3H]U69593 would appear to be selective for the kappa 1 site. In contrast, in the dog spinal cord, [3H]U69593 appeared to recognize only a proportion (approximately 35%) of the [3H]bremazocine labelled binding site. The significantly lower affinities and slope values of U69593 and PD117302 against [3H]bremazocine were consistent with the additional sites representing the k2 (benzomorphan) sites previously described in guinea-pig and rat spinal cord. Alternatively, the low (micromolar) affinity of the mu-selective ligand, [D-Ala2, MePhe4, Gly-ol5]enkephalin, implied that these additional sites might not be kappa 2 but possibly a low affinity mu site normally expressed under more physiological conditions.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channel-complex is widely distributed in the hippocampus, particularly in the CA1 region, in the terminal field of CA3 pyramidal axons and in the fascia dentata, in the terminal field of the perforant pathway. In the present study, we have examined, in the rat, the effect of specific lesions of various neuronal populations of the hippocampus on the distribution of several markers of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-channel complex. Anoxic-ischemic treatment produced a destruction of CA1 pyramidal cells (postsynaptic element): this was associated with a 50% loss of N-methyl-D-aspartate, glycine and N-(1-phenylcyclohexyl)piperidine binding sites. In contrast, the destruction of CA3 pyramidal cells and their axons (presynaptic element) by kainate treatment did not induce significant changes in the density of binding sites. The present results therefore strongly support an exclusively postsynaptic localization of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-channel complex in CA1; the possibility of a localization of the remaining binding sites on glial cells or interneurons is discussed. In the molecular layer of the fascia dentata, the anoxic-ischemic treatment produced a partial destruction of the median perforant pathway (presynaptic element) associated with a decrease in the density of N-methyl-D-aspartate, N-(1-[2-thienyl]cyclohexyl)piperidine and glycine binding sites; this suggests that, in contrast to CA1, in the molecular layer of the fascia dentata, N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-binding sites are located both pre- and postsynaptically.
Studies with the longitudinal muscle-myenteric plexus preparation of the guinea-pig ileum were undertaken to investigate the relationship between guanine nucleotide-binding proteins (G-proteins) and chronic opioid receptor activation in vivo. Treatment with the narcotic agonist fentanyl, at doses which render the preparation tolerant and dependent, led to an increase of pertussis toxin-catalysed incorporation of ADP-ribose in a protein of approximately 40,000 mol. wt. Quantitative immunoblotting, using site-directed antisera, demonstrated an upregulation of G alpha i/G alpha o and, to an even greater degree, of G beta. However, the level of G alpha s was decreased by the same treatment. All alterations observed were abolished by the concomitant presence of the antagonist naloxone. The implications of this differential regulation of G-protein subunits for opiate-induced tolerance and dependence are discussed.
The fluorescent dye Fast Blue was injected in anaesthetized rats into either skin, muscle or knee joint of the hindlimb. Following retrograde transport of the dye to lumbar dorsal root ganglia, the cell bodies of primary afferent neurons innervating these different target tissues were identified in ganglion sections by fluorescence microscopy. The sections were processed to demonstrate activity of the enzyme thiamine monophosphatase, or immunoreactivity to calcitonin gene-related peptide, substance P, or somatostatin, in Fast Blue labelled neurons. In all cases immunoreactivity to the antineurofilament antibody RT97 was used to classify dorsal root ganglion cells as being either small dark (RT97 negative, unmyelinated axons) or large light (RT97 positive, myelinated axons). The proportion of small dark cells labelled from each target decreased in the order: skin, muscle, joint. Thiamine monophosphatase and somatostatin were present only in small dark cells, while calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P were found in both small dark and large light cells. In large light cells of all three targets, more contained calcitonin gene-related peptide than substance P. Among small dark cells, thiamine monophosphatase and somatostatin were found predominantly in skin afferents, while calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P were more common in muscle and joint afferents. The chemical expression of primary afferents is therefore characteristic of the peripheral target they innervate. This could reflect either a maintained influence of the target on the afferents, or the factors which operate only during development.
The dorsal vagal complex of the medulla oblongata, comprising the nucleus tractus solitarii, the area postrema and the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve, is an important brainstem regulatory center for the autonomic nervous system. The major afferent input from abdominal and thoracic viscera to this region is via vagal sensory neurons which have their cell bodies in the nodose ganglion. Autoradiography has been used to study the effects of unilateral nodose ganglionectomy on receptor binding sites in this region of the brain for the neurotransmitters acetylcholine, norepinephrine, and opioids. Nodose ganglionectomy had no discernible effect on alpha 2 noradrenergic ([3H]p-aminoclonidine) or mu opioid [( 3H]Tyr-D-Ala-Gly-(NMePhe)-Gly-ol) binding sites. However, ganglionectomy did produce a 25% decrease in [3H]quinuclidinyl benzilate (muscarinic cholinergic) binding in the subnucleus gelatinosus of the solitary nucleus, and a marked decrease in [3H][D-Pen5]enkephalin (delta opioid) binding in the dorsomedial subnucleus of the nucleus tractus solitarii, ipsilateral to the lesion. These data suggest that muscarinic cholinergic and delta opioid receptors may be present on terminals of vagal afferent neurons that project to these specific brainstem regions. Since these vagal afferent neurons are known to arise, at least in part, from the gastrointestinal tract, it is possible that cholinergic and/or opioid receptors modulate specific autonomic functions associated with gastric sensory information such as satiety or nausea and emesis.
The distribution of [125I]omega-conotoxin GVIA binding sites, the putative voltage-sensitive calcium channels, was studied by an autoradiographic method in the rat brain. The toxin binding sites were distributed throughout the brain in a highly heterogeneous manner. The highest density of the binding sites was observed in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, amygdaloid complex, substantia nigra, caudate putamen, superior colliculus, nucleus of the solitary tract, and the dorsal horn of the cervical spine. The glomerular layer of the olfactory bulb, molecular layer of the cerebellar cortex, and posterior lobe of the hypophysis showed intermediate density but the density was higher than in the surrounding areas. The globus pallidus, thalamic areas, inferior olive, and pontine nuclei showed low density, while no binding sites were observed in the white matter tract regions such as the internal and external capsule, corpus callosum, fimbria of the hippocampus, fornix, stria medullaris of the thalamus, and fasciculus retroflexus. This distribution of omega-conotoxin binding sites indicates that the toxin binding sites are localized in those areas of the brain enriched in synaptic connections. This distribution pattern resembles that reported for voltage-sensitive sodium channels but it differs from that of the binding sites of dihydropyridines and verapamil. These results suggest that omega-conotoxin recognizes different molecules from organic calcium channel antagonist binding sites and that omega-conotoxin-sensitive voltage-sensitive calcium channels are concentrated in the synaptic zones and play a key role in the excitation-secretion coupling of neurotransmitters.
Tissue slice autoradiography was employed to reveal the brain distribution of the receptor for alpha latrotoxin, the presynaptic neurotoxin of the black widow spider venom. The receptor distribution pattern was compared with that of a marker protein for nerve endings, synapsin I, a phosphoprotein known to be present within nerve terminals. The alpha latrotoxin receptor and synapsin I were detected in gray matter-containing regions but their relative amounts were not constant. In the cerebral cortex and in the caudatum their distribution was similar, while in the hippocampus they were both abundant, but their distribution varied: synapsin I labeling was heavier in CA4 and CA3, alpha latrotoxin receptor labeling in CA1 and dentate gyrus. A dissociation was also observed in the globus pallidus and in the lateral thalamic nuclear complex, where alpha latrotoxin receptor labeling was very weak. The most striking dissociation occurred in the cerebellum, where the molecular layer was strongly labeled for synapsin I, but almost unlabeled for the alpha latrotoxin receptor, which was more concentrated in the granular layer. Taken as a whole, the data appear compatible with a widespread localization of the alpha latrotoxin receptor at synapses. However, they also suggest that either some nerve terminals are insensitive to alpha latrotoxin, or the receptor for the toxin is not present at a similar concentration in all presynaptic plasma membranes.
Muscimol stimulation of 36Cl- flux through GABAA receptor-associated ion channels was compared in combined cerebral cortical and cerebellar homogenates from two lines of rats produced by selective outbreeding for high and low alcohol sensitivities. There was no difference in the muscimol effects between ethanol-naive alcohol-sensitive and alcohol-insensitive rats. Acute administration of ethanol (2 g/kg, i.p.) and lorazepam (3 mg/kg, i.p.) significantly reduced the percentage stimulation by muscimol in the alcohol-sensitive animals. The results suggest that genetic selection towards differences in the sensitivity to motor-impairing effects of moderate ethanol doses does not produce alterations in the direct agonist-induced GABAA receptor function. This receptor function was, however, down-regulated in the alcohol-sensitive rats by acute ethanol and benzodiazepine treatments, indicating the involvement of GABAergic activity in the mechanisms of, or in the neural adaptations to, acute intoxication in genetically sensitive animals.
Intrahippocampal colchicine injection produces a rapid death of granule cells and pyramidal neurons in the hippocampus in the rat. Under the appropriate assay conditions, [3H]glutamate labels the N-methyl-D-aspartate type of glutamate receptors while [3H]alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate labels the quisqualate type. Unilateral injection of colchicine (15 micrograms) in the dorsal hippocampus did not produce any change in [3H]glutamate and [3H]alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate binding in membrane fractions from the dentate gyrus or CA1 field contralateral to the injection side, at least up to 12 days after the injection. However, it produced a progressive decrease in the binding of both ligands in dentate gyrus and CA1 of the injected hippocampus. In the dentate gyrus the changes in binding as a function of time after the injection were biphasic with a rapid exponential decrease (t1/2 about 8 days for both [3H]glutamate and [3H]alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate) until 12 days after the injection followed by a much slower decrease afterwards. A similar pattern was observed in CA1 although the changes in binding were smaller and delayed by about three days as compared to the dentate gyrus. Kinetic analyses of the binding at equilibrium were performed seven days after the injection and indicated that the changes in [3H]glutamate binding were due to a change in the maximum number of sites but not in affinity for the ligand.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The Mauthner axon contacts two principal neurons within the brainstem: the cranial relay neuron and the follower neuron. The cranial relay neuron is excited through axoaxonic contacts by both Mauthner axons, while the follower neuron is excited by the Mauthner axon ipsilateral to its soma and inhibited (through an interposed neuron) by the contralateral Mauthner axon. We have investigated the properties of these two Mauthner axon target synapses with simultaneous pre and postsynaptic recordings in order to determine if transmission can be described in terms of the quantal hypothesis and to determine what quantal parameters change with alterations in the frequency of Mauthner cell activation. Small depolarizing postsynaptic potentials, recorded in the cranial relay neurons, increase their frequency of occurrence when depolarizing currents are applied to the Mauthner axon, without changing their mean amplitude, indicating that they arise from the Mauthner axon terminal and represent quantal units of the evoked cranial relay neuron excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Similar small, spontaneous potentials can also be recorded from the follower neurons. Amplitude histograms of evoked postsynaptic potentials (in both cranial relay neurons and follower neurons) can be fit by binomial models based on the amplitude and variance of the spontaneous potentials, suggesting that the quantal hypothesis is a valid descriptor of synaptic transmission at these contacts. Quantal content (&quot;m&quot;), the number of releasable quanta (&quot;n&quot;), and the probability of release (&quot;p&quot;) are relatively high for both the cranial relay neurons and follower neurons. Increasing the frequency of Mauthner axon stimulation results in a decrement in the postsynaptic potential amplitude in both target cells. There is no change in the amplitude of the small, spontaneous potentials (measured during the stimulation period) with stimulus frequency, indicating a decrease in quantal content, but not quantal size. The change in quantal content is explained in binomial terms by a decrease in the number of releasable quanta, but not the probability of release in both the cranial relay neurons and the follower neurons. These findings suggest that the supply of transmitter available to be released decreases with increasing stimulus frequency without affecting the nerve terminal's ability to release transmitter (at these stimulus frequencies). Synaptic vesicles, observed in clusters in the terminals at the ultrastructural level, may be a physical correlate of the binomial parameter (&quot;n&quot;). It is predicted that the decrease in the binomial parameter (&quot;n&quot;) with increasing frequency of stimulation is accompanied by a decrease in the number of active zones occupied by vesicles.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Iontophoretic effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate, quisqualate and kainate and a variety of excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists, on retinal ganglion cells, were studied in optically intact eyes of barbiturate anesthetized cats. All three agonists raised the spontaneous firing of both ON- and OFF-sustained retinal ganglion cells, with the potency order of kainate much greater than quisqualate greater than N-methyl-D-aspartate. However, the excitatory amino acid analogues readily saturated the receptors and reduced the visually driven firing of cells with high spontaneous firing, but mimicked an increase in endogenous excitatory amino acid release and raised the visually induced response in cells with low spontaneous firing. The quinoxaline compound, 6-cyano-2,3 dihydroxy-7-nitroquinoxaline and 6-7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, blocked the visually driven firing and kainate- and quisqualate-induced excitation, whilst 3[+)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonate, antagonized the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced excitation, but failed to block visually driven firing of the retinal ganglion cells. The broadband excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists, such as kynurenate, were also effective in antagonizing the visually driven response and also blocked the N-methyl-D-aspartate- as well as kainate- and quisqualate-induced responses. These results suggest that the receptors at the bipolar/ganglion cell synapse are of the non-N-methyl-D-aspartate type, but that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors are also present on ganglion cells although their physiological role is unclear.
A monoclonal anti-idiotypic opioid receptor antibody was used for the light-microscopic visualization of opioid receptors in several brain structures and monolayer cultures of a neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cell-line (NG108-15). The antibody proved to be specific, displaying affinity for mu greater than delta much greater than kappa opioid receptors. Receptor distribution in the brain areas studied was in agreement with previous autoradiographic analyses; of particular interest, high densities of immunoreactive opioid receptors were found in the perikarya and in the initial parts of the axons and dendrites; light microscopy did not allow an exact determination of the subcellular localization of opioid receptors, but the immunoreactivity seemed to be associated with the plasma membrane and to be present within the cytoplasm as well. Similar observations were made for the cell bodies and neurites of NG108-15 cells. The methodology described potentially permits the study of opioid receptor distribution in discrete brain areas under different physiological and pharmacological conditions and of the ontogeny of these receptors; in addition, it may help to find a morphological basis for events such as receptor internalization and recycling.
The release of previously incorporated [3H]serotonin and its presynaptic modulation were studied in slices of rabbit superior colliculus. Electrical stimulation at frequencies of 0.017-3 Hz greatly increased the outflow of tritiated compounds; this response was almost abolished by tetrodotoxin and in a low calcium medium. Unlabelled serotonin, when added in the presence of nitroquipazine, an inhibitor of high-affinity neuronal serotonin uptake, reduced the electrically evoked overflow of tritium, an effect antagonized by metitepin. Given alone, metitepin caused an increase. The evoked overflow was also decreased by clonidine, and the effect of clonidine was counteracted by phentolamine. Phentolamine itself increased the overflow response. However, this was probably not due to antagonism against an inhibitory effect of endogenous noradrenaline because, first, the selective alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan did not share with phentolamine the overflow-enhancing effect, second, phentolamine continued to increase the overflow after noradrenergic axons had been destroyed by 6-hydroxydopamine, and third, the facilitatory effects of metitepin and phentolamine were not additive. Phentolamine, like metitepin, antagonized the presynaptic inhibitory effect of serotonin, indicating that it may increase the evoked overflow of tritium by blocking serotonin receptors rather than alpha-adrenoceptors. Ethylketocyclazocine decrease the electrically evoked overflow, and its effect was prevented by naloxone: peptides selective for opioid mu- or delta-receptors caused no change. Nicotine increased the basal outflow of tritium (in the absence of electrical stimulation); the increase was attenuated by hexamethonium and low calcium medium. No or minimal changes in tritium outflow were obtained with beta-adrenoceptor, dopamine receptor, muscarine receptor and GABA receptor ligands or with substance P and glutamate. In conjunction with our previous studies, these results indicate that serotonin is a neurotransmitter in the superior colliculus. Its release is modulated through presynaptic autoreceptors (probably 5-HT1), alpha 2-adrenoceptors, opioid kappa-receptors and nicotine receptors, of which only the autoreceptors receive an endogenous input, at least under the experimental conditions chosen. Each of the three groups of collicular monoamine axons that we have studied recently (cholinergic, noradrenergic, serotoninergic) possesses a specific pattern of presynaptic, release-modulating receptors. A physiological role seems likely only for the alpha 2-autoreceptors at the noradrenergic and the 5-HT1-autoreceptors at the serotoninergic axons.
The involvement of the GABA-benzodiazepine receptor complex in the regulation of melanotropin secretion has been investigated using perfused frog neurointermediate lobes. The GABAA agonist 3-amino-1 propane sulfonic acid mimicked the biphasic effect of GABA on alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone secretion: a brief stimulation followed by an inhibition of melanotropin secretion. The GABAA antagonist SR 95531 (10(-4) M) inhibited both stimulation and inhibition of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone release induced by GABA (10(-4) M). Since the inhibitory effect of baclofen (10(-4) M) was partially antagonized by SR 95531 (10(-4) M), it appears that the GABAergic control of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone release is mainly achieved through activation of GABAA receptors. GABA-induced stimulation of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone release was inhibited by tetrodotoxin (10(-5) M), an Na+ -channel blocker, or nifedipine (10(-5) M), a voltage-dependent Ca2+ -channel blocker, suggesting that Na+ and Ca2+ ions are involved in the stimulatory phase of GABA action. Only central-type benzodiazepine binding site agonists such as clonazepam (10(-4) M) modified alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone release. In fact, clonazepam (10(-7) to 10(-5) M) led to a dose-dependent potentiation of both GABA-induced stimulation and inhibition of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone release. This potentiating effect was antagonized by the GABAA antagonist SR 95531 (10(-4) M) or by the central-type benzodiazepine binding site antagonist flumazenil (10(-4) M), whereas picrotoxin (10(-4) M) abolished only the stimulatory phase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The cellular localization of binding sites for [125I] vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and [3H]angiotensin II was studied in explant cultures of rat spinal cord, brain stem, cerebellum and cortex by means of autoradiography. In spinal cord cultures, interneurons of the dorsal horn and motoneurons of the ventral horn were labelled by [125I]vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and [3H]angiotensin II. In many brain stem cultures, groups of large neurons revealed intense binding of both peptides. In contrast, only few medium-sized cerebellar neurons, probably interneurons, showed binding sites for [125I]vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and [3H]angiotensin II. Furthermore, the intensity of labelling of cerebellar neurons was usually weaker than that of neurons of the brain stem and spinal cord. Many neurons in cultures of neocortex were also labelled by [125I]vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, whereas little binding was found with [3H]angiotensin II. In addition to neurons, binding sites for both peptides were also observed on astrocytes. Labelling of these cells was more intense in spinal cord and brain stem cultures than in cultures of cerebellum and cortex, suggesting that only a certain type or a certain population of astrocytes possesses receptors for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and angiotensin II, or that glial cells in different parts of the CNS have different physiological and pharmacological properties.
The membrane properties of pars compacta neurons in the in vitro guinea-pig substantia nigra have been studied in the presence of sodium, calcium and potassium channel blockers. The following properties, which have already been described for dopamine-containing substantia nigra zona compacta neurons were observed: high and low threshold calcium spikes; a calcium-activated potassium-mediated transient; inward rectification. Inward rectification was sensitive to caesium ions. An additional property was seen reminiscent of an &quot;A&quot; current, although resistant to 4-aminopyridine. It is suggested that this outward transient is in fact a calcium activated potassium conductance. Under certain conditions calcium-mediated rhythmic depolarizations were observed. It is suggested that at least two of the properties seen (outward rectification and low threshold calcium spike) could interact to provide the basis for a pacemaker mechanism in pars compacta neurons.
The effects of opiate agonists on acetylcholine release from hippocampal, striatal and cerebral cortical slices were tested; tissue from rat was compared to that from guinea-pig. The results show that opiate receptors in each of these areas can alter the evoked release of acetylcholine from nerve terminals; however, there are species and tissue differences with respect to the apparent subtype of opiate receptor effective. In the hippocampus and striatum of the two species studied, opiates caused a dose-dependent decrease in evoked acetylcholine release from tissue slices but in the guinea-pig kappa-selective agonists were effective, and mu or delta agonists were not, whereas in the rat, mu-, but not delta- or kappa-selective drugs were effective. Opiates also altered acetylcholine release from the frontal, parietal and occipital cortex of both of these species. In all three regions of the guinea-pig cortex, kappa and delta agonists were active and in the parietal cortex mu agonists were also active; rat cortical slices showed similar results except that delta agonists were not effective. The inhibitory effects of the opiate agonists were effectively antagonized by the non-selective opiate antagonist naloxone and by the calcium channel agonists, BAY K 8644 or YC-170. In addition, the effects of the opiate drugs tested in this study on acetylcholine release were confined to evoked release, that is, spontaneous acetylcholine release was not affected. The results suggest that in guinea-pig and rat brain, opiate receptors regulate acetylcholine release, and that, although the subtypes of opiate receptors involved in this effect are different in the two species and in different tissues from the same species, the effect results from a common mechanism that involves alterations of calcium influx into the nerve terminals during depolarization.
In order to extend the characterization of muscarinic receptors at presynaptic sites their inhibitory effect on the stimulation-evoked release of [3H]noradrenaline and [3H]acetylcholine from different axon terminals was studied and the dissociation constants and potencies of different antagonists were estimated, in guinea-pig and rat. While oxotremorine reduced the release of [3H]acetylcholine and [3H]-noradrenaline in a concentration-dependent manner from different release sites (Auerbach plexus, noradrenergic neurons in the right atrium, cerebral cortex), McN-A 343, an M1 receptor agonist, enhanced their release evoked by field stimulation. When the inhibitory effect of oxotremorine on transmitter release was studied, pancuronium, pirenzepine and atropine were competitive antagonists of presynaptic muscarinic receptors located on the noradrenergic axon terminals of the atrium. While atropine and pirenzepine inhibited the muscarinic receptors of cholinergic axon terminals in the Auerbach plexus, pancuronium and gallamine had a very low affinity. Significant differences were found in the affinity constants of antagonists for muscarinic receptors located in the cholinergic axon terminals of Auerbach plexus and cerebral cortex, and noradrenergic axon terminals of the atrium. While atropine and pirenzepine exerted similar effects on these presynaptic sites, pancuronium, gallamine and (11-(2-[diethylamino)-methyl)-1-piperidinyl)acetyl)-5, 11-dihydro-6(1-pyrido(2,3-b)(1,4)-benzodiazepin-6-on) were much more effective on muscarinic receptors controlling acetylcholine release from the cerebral cortex and noradrenaline release from the heart. There was more than 100-fold (2.0 pA2 units) difference in affinities of these antagonists.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The parasagittal distribution patterns in the mouse cerebellar cortex for 5'-nucleotidase and the antigen for the Purkinje cell specific antibody mabQ113 are identical and thus suggestive of a common organizational schema for cerebellar cortical compartments.
The enantiomers of homocysteic acid have been applied by microiontophoresis to neurons of the cat caudate nucleus in situ. The (L)-enantiomer elicited a bursty firing pattern similar to the one caused by N-methyl-D-aspartate, but differing from the N-methyl-D-aspartate pattern inasmuch as (L)-homocysteate induced depolarization shifts were shorter and had a smaller amplitude. (L)-Homocysteate induced excitations could be strongly inhibited by the selective N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid but they were less sensitive to this antagonist than N-methyl-D-aspartate itself. (D)-Homocysteate elicited a more regular firing pattern similar to the one caused by non-N-methyl-D-aspartate excitatory amino acids such as quisqualate. These excitations were only rarely inhibited by 2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid. Our results suggest that (L)-homocysteate, a transmitter candidate at central mammalian synapses, is a mixed excitatory amino acid agonist with a strong preference for N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in the cat caudate nucleus, while (D)-homocysteate has a predominant action at non-N-methyl-D-aspartate excitatory amino acid receptors.
Miniature endplate potentials and currents were recorded from frog sartorius muscle fibres. As expected from previous work, La3+ caused a very large increase in miniature endplate potential frequency, followed by a progressive decrease, ending in the virtually complete disappearance of miniature endplate potentials. Soon after its application, La3+ caused an increase in the amplitude of miniature endplate potentials due to a lengthening of the underlying miniature endplate currents. Analysis of membrane current fluctuations produced by acetylcholine showed that La3+ caused an increase in the lifetime of the channels opened by acetylcholine. After miniature endplate potentials had vanished following La3+ treatment, the muscles were placed in organ culture conditions to see if miniature endplate potentials would reappear. After several hours miniature endplate potential activity was resumed in about 25% of the endplates, and disappeared again a few hours later, presumably because of accelerated nerve terminal degeneration. Preliminary electron microscopic observations suggest that the recovery of miniature endplate potential activity was accompanied by re-formation of synaptic vesicles in the motor endings.
The effects of nerve growth factor and antiserum against nerve growth factor on cortical cholinergic projection areas in the central nervous system and cerebellum were evaluated using intraocular grafts of cortex cerebri, hippocampus and cerebellum in rat hosts receiving injections into the anterior chamber of the eye of nerve growth factor (at transplantation, 5 and 10 days after transplantation) or antiserum to nerve growth factor (every 5 days). The controls received cytochrome c or preimmune serum. Growth of grafts was followed by repeated observations directly through the cornea of the host using a stereomicroscope. Nerve growth factor-treated grafts of cortex cerebri and hippocampus grew significantly smaller as compared to the corresponding control grafts. In one experiment, growth of cytochrome c and saline-treated cortex cerebri was compared and no difference in growth was found. Growth of nerve growth factor-treated cerebellar grafts did not differ significantly from growth of cytochrome c-treated grafts. Morphological analysis using Nissl-staining, antibodies to glial acidic fibrillary protein to evaluate the degree of gliosis and antiserum to neurofilament as a neuronal marker did not reveal any marked differences between nerve growth factor- and cytochrome c-treated grafts. Cortical grafts receiving anti-nerve growth factor antiserum by injection or by immunizing host rats against nerve growth factor showed similar growth to the controls. Similarly, grafts of fetal hippocampus to rats immunized with nerve growth factor were not significantly different from grafts to host rats immunized with cytochrome c. We conclude that exogenous nerve growth factor affects the development of grafted cortex cerebri and hippocampus. The fact that these cortical areas stop growing earlier in the presence of nerve growth factor without the grafts showing evidence of disturbed glial or neuronal populations compared to control grafts indicates that nerve growth factor acts to induce overall/premature differentiation and maturation. The mechanism for this whether or not it is receptor-mediated and which cells are primarily affected by nerve growth factor is not yet known.
Simultaneous recordings were made of spontaneous excitatory junction potentials and the underlying spontaneous excitatory junction currents in guinea-pig and mouse vas deferens using adjacent intracellular and focal extracellular electrodes. Concurrent spontaneous excitatory junction potentials and spontaneous excitatory junction currents were observed in a small proportion of smooth muscle cells penetrated intracellularly within 50-200 microns of the extracellular electrode. These simultaneous events had identical variations in time course, indicating that they were caused by the same transmitter release event. Their amplitudes were not related. Concurrent spontaneous excitatory junction potentials and currents had identical durations, rise times and time constants of decay, showing that the spontaneous excitatory junction potential reflects the time course of quantal transmitter action. In contrast, spontaneous &quot;discrete events&quot; obtained by differentiating the rising phases of spontaneous excitatory junction potentials with respect to time were brief compared with the underlying currents. Excitatory junction potentials evoked by electrical stimulation of the hypogastric nerve were prolonged compared to the underlying excitatory junction currents. The peaks in the first time differential of individual excitatory junction potentials (evoked discrete events) were brief compared to corresponding excitatory junction currents. It is concluded that at the neuroeffector junction of the rodent vas deferens the membrane potential response to a quantum of spontaneously released transmitter is a good estimate of the duration of transmitter action, in accordance with some of the predictions for three-dimensional syncytial tissues. The first time differential of the membrane potential, the &quot;discrete event&quot;, does not reflect the time course of spontaneous or evoked quantal transmitter action in these syncytial tissues.
A major ascending nociceptive pathway from spinal lamina I to the mesencephalon has previously been reported in the cat, rat and monkey. In the present paper, we have used single and double retrograde labeling techniques to describe this projection system and its collateralization to the thalamus in the rat. Injections of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase into the pontomesencephalic parabrachial area labeled cell bodies bilaterally in lamina I and deeper laminae of the spinal cord. Bilateral lesions of the dorsolateral funiculi at thoracic levels reduced labeling of lamina I neurons caudal to the lesions. Combined injections of fluorescent retrograde tracers into the lateral thalamus and parabrachial area resulted in double labeling of projection neurons in lamina I, lamina IV VIII and the lateral spinal nucleus of the cervical and lumbar enlargements. Double-labeled neurons were especially abundant in lamina I. Thus, we have demonstrated a major lamina I projection through the dorsolateral funiculi to the parabrachial area with significant collateralization to the thalamus. Moreover, since more than 80% of retrogradely labeled lamina I spinothalamic tract cells had collaterals to the parabrachial area we have indirectly demonstrated the presence of a dorsolateral funicular pathway for lamina I spinothalamic neurons in the rat. More lamina I neurons were retrogradely labeled from midbrain injections as compared to thalamic injections. The significance of these findings rest on previous work in this and other laboratories and concerns the understanding of spinal nociceptive mechanisms. Lamina I projection neurons are primarily nociceptive-specific in their response properties and have been shown to project to both the midbrain and thalamus via the dorsolateral funiculus in a number of species. The role of this projection system in nociceptive transmission may lie in its ability to distribute precise information to multiple brain stem sites which in turn activate autonomic or affective responses or descending pain modulatory mechanisms.
Frog endplates were studied with the scanning electron microscope following the removal of the presynaptic terminal by collagenase and acid treatments. Endplates had 2-14 branches of primary cleft. The longest branches were parallel to the muscle fiber. Short branches oblique or perpendicular to the muscle fiber were also present near the central region of the endplates. The openings of postjunctional folds in the primary cleft were clearly visible at the bottom of the primary cleft and could be counted and measured. The longest primary cleft branches of each endplate were divided into segments of 20 microns (length corrected for shrinkage). The number of postjunctional folds per micrometer of primary cleft, the average postjunctional fold length (i.e. across the primary cleft) and the total postjunctional fold's length per micrometer of primary cleft were evaluated for each 20-microns segment of primary cleft. Negative proximodistal gradients were observed for these three parameters for the long branches of primary cleft, i.e. values were higher in the proximal region (near the motor axon) than in the distal region. These postsynaptic gradients probably reflect similar or smaller proximodistal presynaptic gradients for the active zones along the nerve.
Three types of voltage-sensitive Ca2+-channels, denominated T, N and L, have recently been identified in the nervous system. This classification is based on both the electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of each type of channel. The increase in free intracellular Ca2+ concentration that results from the opening of voltage-sensitive Ca2+-channels triggers various cellular processes. One such process is the depolarization-induced release of neurotransmitters. Owing to the rather selective sensitivity of each type of voltage-sensitive Ca2+-channel to certain antagonists, attempts have recently been carried out to determine which of the T, N or L channels mediates neurotransmitter release. In the present study we have applied such a strategy to the study of the release of vasoactive intestinal peptide from mouse cerebral cortical slices. The release of vasoactive intestinal peptide evoked by K+ 20 mM is inhibited in a concentration-dependent manner by Co2+, Ni2+ and Mn2+ while it remains unaffected by diltiazem 20 microM, nifedipine 10 microM, omega-conotoxin 1 microM and Cd2+ up to 100 microM. Such a pharmacological profile indicates that voltage-sensitive Ca2+-channels of the N and L types are not involved in the release of vasoactive intestinal peptide. These observations are in contrast to what has been described for amine release in the central nervous system, which appears to be mediated by voltage-sensitive Ca2+-channels of the N type.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Sequential immunohistochemical demonstration of nerve growth factor receptor and cholinergic acetyltransferase on the same tissue section in the rat revealed that approximately 92% of all cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain possessed that receptor. Only 0.9% of the neurons demonstrating nerve growth factor receptor in the basal nuclear complex lacked the cholinergic synthetic enzyme, and a similarly small percentage of cholinergic cells, 7.1%, were choline acetyltransferase-positive but nerve growth factor receptor-negative. Affiliation of nerve growth factor receptor with structural entities morphologically indistinguishable from those demonstrating choline acetyltransferase on separate but corresponding tissue sections was also observed in the telencephalic fiber tracts and terminal fields of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons, including cholinergic puncta in the reticular nucleus of the thalamus. Nerve growth factor receptor was not found in association with choline acetyltransferase-positive somata of the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei, however, nor were fibers immunoreactive for nerve growth factor receptor observed originating from those cell bodies. These results suggest that nerve growth factor receptor, which is probably synthesized in cholinergic basal forebrain somata and transported throughout their dendritic and axonal arbors, has a physiologic role in those cells in the adult nervous system. This does not appear to be the case for phenotypically similar neurons of the pontomesencephalotegmental cholinergic complex.
Cyclic AMP's regulatory role as an intracellular second messenger is well established. In brain and other tissues, specific proteins that bind cyclic AMP have been shown to be the regulatory subunits of cystolic and particulate cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases. This study of the autoradiographic localization of specific [3H]cyclic AMP binding revealed the heterogeneous distribution of particulate cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase in the mammalian central nervous system. Specific [3H]cyclic AMP binding to tissue sections was of high affinity (KD = 60 nM) and saturable (Bmax = 5 pmol/mg protein). Purine and pyrimidine nucleotide analogues demonstrated inhibition constants against [3H]cyclic AMP binding consistent with the specific labelling of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (e.g. 8'-bromo-cyclic AMP: IC50 = 130 nM; inosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate: IC50 = 1 microM; uridine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate: IC50 = 60 microM). Variations in the levels of [3H]cyclic AMP binding presumably reflect the presence of differing amounts of particulate cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase in different neuronal populations. Highest densities were associated with neuronal cell layers such as the pyramidal cells of the piriform cortex and hippocampus, and granule cells of the dentate gyrus and cerebellum. High levels of binding were also found in other cortical and limbic structures, while moderate levels were found in hypothalamic, thalamic and midbrain areas. Excitotoxic lesions confirmed the localization of the enzyme in hippocampal pyramidal cells and cerebellar granule cells. Localizations reported in this study are largely consistent with results obtained using immunohistochemical methods to label cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinases. Recently, [3H]forskolin, a potent and selective activator of adenylate cyclase, the enzyme responsible for the formation of cyclic AMP from adenosine 5'-triphosphate, has been used to localize the activated catalytic component of this enzyme in rat brain. Regions described as being intensely labelled with [3H]forskolin (e.g. basal ganglia, hilus of the dentate gyrus and molecular layer of the cerebellum) were found to be associated with relatively low [3H]cyclic AMP binding levels. These findings suggest a marked difference between the localization of the two related enzyme entities. However, the distribution of the enzymes is indirectly correlated as high levels of particulate cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase are present in the soma of neurons with high concentrations of adenylate cyclase in their terminals. Alternatively, it is possible that [3H]forskolin localizes only a subpopulation of adenylate cyclase.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The ontogeny of somatostatin receptors in the rat brain has been studied by both membrane binding assays and in vitro receptor autoradiographic techniques. High levels of somatostatin binding sites were detected in brain of 15-day-old fetuses (E15). The pharmacological characterization of somatostatin binding sites and the regulatory effect of GTP on somatostatin binding at E15 suggest that somatostatin recognition sites correspond to authentic receptors. The values of maximal binding showed important variations throughout pre- and postnatal development. Globally, a marked increase in the total binding capacity was observed between E15 and postnatal day 8 (P8), with a transient fall at birth and P1. After P8, the concentration of somatostatin receptors progressively decreased and the weaning imposed at P21 accentuated the decline of receptor concentration. Although the density of somatostatin binding sites varied considerably, KD values did not change during brain development. Autoradiographic studies showed marked differences in the distribution of somatostatin receptors during ontogenesis. In the cortex, the cortical plate and the subplate zone appeared to contain high densities of binding sites from E15 to P1. However, the cortical layer which exhibited the higher labelling was the intermediate zone, located just beneath the subplate zone. On the contrary, the germinal epithelium bordering the lateral ventricle appeared virtually devoid of somatostatin binding sites. This laminar distribution of binding sites in the cortex disappeared from P4 to P8, in coincidence with the evolution of the underlying histological organization. At these stages, a homogeneous distribution was observed in almost all cortical layers, contrasting with the distribution of somatostatin receptors in the adult, which was restricted to layers IV-VI. In the cerebellar cortex, autoradiographic labelling was first seen at E15. After birth, the density of somatostatin receptors increased dramatically between P4 and P13, while, at P23, the labelling vanished in most lobes of the cerebellum. Taken together, these results show the early appearance of somatostatin receptors in the rat brain. The high density of somatostatin receptors observed in proliferative or pre-migratory areas suggests that somatostatin may be an important factor involved in the organization of the central nervous system.
The anatomical localization of neurotensin receptors in the human spinal cord was examined in 12 cases aged 4-68 years using quantitative autoradiographic methods following the incubation of fresh, unfixed cryostat sections with 4 nM [3H]neurotensin. Characterization of the pharmacological specificity of the [3H]neurotensin binding sites in the human spinal cord from displacement studies with neurotensin and various neurotensin fragments indicated that, whereas 1.0 microM neurotensin and the carboxy-terminal fragment neurotensin almost completely displaced [3H]neurotensin binding (4 nM), the amino-terminal fragments neurotensin and neurotensin1-11 were weak inhibitors. This requirement for the carboxy-terminal fragment neurotensin is consistent with [3H]neurotensin binding to specific neurotensin receptors in the human spinal cord. In all cases the autoradiograms demonstrated that neurotensin receptors were distributed in a similar fashion in the gray matter of the cervical, thoracic, lumbar, sacral and coccygeal regions of the human spinal cord. At all 21 spinal levels examined, the highest density of neurotensin receptors was localized in lamina II of the dorsal horn. Within lamina II the receptors were especially concentrated in the deeper inner segment (IIi) where they formed a dense band lying immediately dorsal to lamina III. The density of receptors in this inner region of lamina II (23.5 fmol/mg) was almost double that in the outer segment of lamina II (12.2 fmol/mg), which showed the next highest density of receptors, and more than three times that in the adjacent lamina I (6.9 fmol/mg) and lamina III (7.1 fmol/mg). A moderate density of receptors was present in the intermediomedial (8.0 fmol/mg) and intermediolateral (8.0 fmol/mg) nuclei of lamina VII, and in lamina IX (4.4 fmol/mg). The density of labelling in the remaining laminae of the spinal cord was very low. These results indicate that neurotensin receptors are mainly localized in somatic and visceral sensory and motor regions of the human spinal cord and suggest that neurotensin may play a role in modulating sensory-motor functions in the human spinal cord.
While it is well established that opiate receptors up-regulate following chronic antagonist treatment in vivo, possible down-regulation following chronic agonist treatment remains controversial. In this study, rats received a continuous seven-day infusion of bremazocine, an opioid drug suggested to be a potent agonist at kappa receptors and an antagonist at mu and delta receptors. Opiate receptor binding was assessed in both cryostat sections and homogenates of rat brain, under conditions selective for mu, delta and kappa sites. Data from both sections and homogenates showed an increase in the capacity of mu binding sites following chronic bremazocine treatment, suggesting that up-regulation of mu receptors had occurred, and that residual ligand from the in vivo treatment had largely been removed. A significant decrease in kappa binding was observed in sections, and experiments using homogenates demonstrated a dramatic loss of high-affinity kappa binding, with an increase in low-affinity binding. There was no apparent alteration in binding to delta receptors. No significant changes were observed following acute injection of bremazocine. Quantitative light-microscopic autoradiography confirmed the results of the binding experiments, and showed that the magnitude of these effects varied between different brain regions. No decrease in kappa binding was seen following chronic administration of the partial kappa agonist nalorphine, indicating that high agonist intrinsic activity is necessary for down-regulation to occur. In addition, chronic co-administration of bremazocine with the partial agonist/antagonist diprenorphine did not cause a significant decrease in kappa binding, implying that diprenorphine can antagonize the down-regulatory effect. These results provide evidence that bremazocine possesses different degrees of intrinsic activity at mu, delta and kappa receptors. They demonstrate that, at least in the case of kappa sites, opiate receptors do show down-regulation following chronic agonist treatment in vivo.
We have investigated the effects of osmotic stress on the activity of inositol phospholipid turnover in the central nervous system of rats. Intracerebroventricular injection of [3H]myo-inositol was used for metabolic labelling of brain phosphoinositides in vivo. The levels of radiolabelled inositol lipids increased in a time-dependent manner in several areas of the brain, reaching a maximum 24 h after the injection. Treatment with LiCl 20 h after the administration of tritiated myo-inositol did not modify the levels of inositol lipids, but resulted in a dose-dependent accumulation of inositol phosphates. In rats treated with 10 mEq/kg LiCl, intraperitoneal injections of hypertonic saline (1.50 M NaCl) resulted in the stimulation of phosphoinositide turnover in the brainstem, but not in any of the other regions of the brain studied. This response was not prevented by unilateral cervical vagotomy, but was significantly lower in vasopressin-deficient Brattleboro rats. Brain phosphoinositide metabolism was not stimulated by acute blood volume depletion. We conclude that osmotic stress, but not acute hypovolemia, results in vasopressin-dependent activation of brainstem neurons by stimulating inositol phospholipid metabolism. In addition, metabolic labelling in vivo followed by treatment with LiCl provides a useful approach for assessing the physiological significance of the activation of polyphosphoinositide metabolism in the central nervous system in vivo. Our study provides evidence for a functional role of this second messenger system in the brainstem.
Characteristics of atrial natriuretic peptide receptors were determined in cultured mouse spinal cord cells. Saturation and competition experiments demonstrated the presence of a single class of atrial natriuretic peptide binding sites with high affinity (KD = 0.054 nM) and a density of 1.92 fmoles/10(6) cells. A similar affinity (KD = 0.070 nM) was observed in rat spinal cord membrane preparations. These atrial natriuretic peptide binding sites were functional receptors since the treatment of cells with atrial natriuretic peptide increased cyclic guanosine monophosphate levels within these cells in a classical time-dependent manner. When atrial natriuretic peptide was applied onto the cell body of intracellularly recorded spinal cord neurons, this peptide did not evoke a change of the input resistance or of the resting membrane potential value. Light-microscopic autoradiography studies showed that no atrial natriuretic peptide binding could be detected on typical birefringent neurons but it could be located on astroglial and epithelial cells as identified by immunocytochemical markers. These results show that functional atrial natriuretic peptide receptors with high affinity exist in cultured mouse spinal cord cells and are not located on neurons. The presence of atrial natriuretic peptide receptors on astrocytes suggests that this neuropeptide might be a good candidate for neuron-glial communication. As the atrial natriuretic peptide binding sites previously shown in epithelia responsible for maintaining fluid and electrolyte gradients, the atrial natriuretic peptide receptors on epithelial cells in these spinal cord cultures may be involved in vivo in the control of water balance in the central nervous system.
We have recently shown that isolated neuronal growth cones from developing rat forebrain possess an appreciable activity of adenylate cyclase, producing cyclic adenosine monophosphate, which can be stimulated by various neurotransmitter receptor agonists and by forskolin [Lockerbie R. O., Herv D., Blanc G., Tassin J. P. and Glowinski J. (1988) Devl Brain Res. 38, 19-25]. In the present study, we have investigated the effect of cyclic adenosine monophosphate in an in vitro adhesion assay established between [3H]GABA-labelled isolated growth cones and a Simian virus-40 transformed astrocytic cell line from embryonic mouse striatum. Adhesion of the isolated growth cones onto the astrocytic clone increased steadily up to about 45 min before it began to level off at ca 16-18% of total [3H]GABA-labelled isolated growth cones added. Adhesion of the isolated growth cones onto the astrocytic clone was much superior to that seen on polyornithine and, in particular, on non-treated tissue culture wells. Adhesion &quot;at plateau&quot; was independent of both temperature and extracellular Ca2+ and was markedly reduced (ca 50%) by trypsin pre-treatment of the isolated growth cones. Pre-treatment of the isolated growth cones with either forskolin or lipophilic analogues of cyclic adenosine monophosphate attenuated adhesion in a time- and concentration-dependent manner. Approximately 30% reduction in adhesion to the astrocytic clone &quot;at plateau&quot; was observed after a 15 min pre-treatment of the isolated growth cones with forskolin at 10(-4) M or cyclic adenosine monophosphate analogues at 10(-3) M. A cyclic guanosine monophosphate analogue was without effect on adhesion of isolated growth cones. Scanning electron microscope analysis showed that isolated growth cones pre-treated with either cyclic adenosine monophosphate analogues or forskolin had a simpler morphology when attached to the astrocytic clone than isolated growth cones under control conditions. Pre-treatment of the isolated growth cones with low concentrations of cyclic adenosine monophosphate analogues increased protein kinase activity, measured using an exogenous histone phosphate acceptor, to a level which could not be further stimulated by cyclic adenosine monophosphate. Pre-treatment with a cyclic guanosine monophosphate analogue produced the same effect but only at much higher concentrations than those required for cyclic adenosine monophosphate analogues.
The effects of anoxia and recovery on the neuronal transmission and the levels of high-energy phosphates such as ATP and phosphocreatine were studied using thin hippocampal slices from the guinea-pig. For the index of neuronal activity, postsynaptic field potentials were recorded in the CA3 and CA4 regions after electrical stimulation to the dentate gyrus during deprivation of oxygen and glucose from the perfusion medium at 36.5 degrees C. With deprivation of both oxygen and glucose from the medium, neuronal activity was abolished in 6-8 min. When the deprivation period was extended longer than 15 min, no recovery in the postsynaptic field potentials was observed. The concentrations of ATP and phosphocreatine in the slices decreased to 30-40% of original levels after 10 min deprivation of oxygen and glucose. ATP and phosphocreatine recovered to the original levels with the readmission of oxygen and glucose after 10 min anoxia, but the recovery of the ATP was worsened by the longer period of deprivation. Deprivation of oxygen only slowly decreased the amplitude of postsynaptic field potentials and blocked the neuronal activity after 70 min deprivation. The postsynaptic field potentials did not reappear after 180 min deprivation of oxygen. Even 120 min after deprivation of oxygen, the ATP and phosphocreatine levels were maintained at 60-70% of originals, whereas they both decreased to 30% after 150 min anoxia. The recovery of ATP even after 150 min anoxia was 64% and the recovery of phosphocreatine was over 100% even after 180 min anoxia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In area 17 of Macaca mulatta large Meynert cells have their cell bodies located in the vicinity of the border between layers V and VI. When the distribution of these cell bodies is plotted in the tangential plane they are found not to be randomly distributed, but arranged in a sheet such that they outline holes or gaps. In sections of area 17 reacted for cytochrome oxidase, which indicates the relative level of metabolic activity in neurons and neuropil. Meynert cell bodies are clearly visible as large highly reactive neurons against a background of much lower reactivity. In reconstructions it is apparent that the holes or gaps in their distribution pattern lie beneath the high cytochrome oxidase reactive patches or blobs in layer II/III. In other words, the Meynert cell bodies lie predominantly beneath the low cytochrome oxidase reactive interpatch regions of layer II/III. On the basis of what is known about the functional connections of neurons in area 17 it is suggested that this arrangement of Meynert cells indicates that they are involved in the detection of movement in the visual field, a suggestion that is supported by the known projections of the Meynert cells to the superior colliculus and cortical area V5.
Successful introduction of techniques for separation of different ionic currents and recording of single channel activity has demonstrated the diversity of membrane structures responsible for generation of calcium signal during various forms of cellular activity. In excitable cells the electrically-operated calcium channels have been separated into two types functioning in different membrane potential ranges (low- and high-threshold ones). The low-threshold channels are ontogenetically primary and may play a role in regulation of cell development and differentiation. A similar function may also be characteristic of chemically-operated channels in some highly specialized cells (lymphocytes). The high-threshold channels in excitable cells generate an intracellular signal coupling membrane excitation and intracellular metabolic processes responsible for specific cellular reactions (among them retention of traces of previous activity in neurons--&quot;learning&quot;--being especially important). Chemically-operated N-methyl-D-aspartate-channels also participate in this function. The calcium signal can be potentiated by activation of calcium-operated channels in the membranes of intracellular structures, resulting in the liberation of calcium ions from the intracellular stores. Although different types of calcium channels have some common features in their structure which may indicate their genetic similarity, their specific properties make them well suited for participation in a wide range of cellular mechanisms.
The possible irreversible blockade of 5-hydroxytryptamine1 receptor subtypes 5-hydroxytryptamine1A, 5-hydroxytryptamine1B/5-hydroxytryptamine1D and 5-hydroxytryptamine1C by the chloramine 8-methoxy-2-(N-2'-chloropropyl,N-propyl)aminotetralin (8-MeO-2'-chloro-PAT) was investigated in rat brain sections by quantitative autoradiography using [3H]8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin [( 3H]8-OH-DPAT), [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine, [125I]BH-8-MeO-N-PAT and [125I]cyanopindolol as radio-ligands. A marked reduction (-50% to -75%) of [3H]8-OH-DPAT and [125I]BH-8-MeO-N-PAT specific binding to 5-hydroxytryptamine1A sites in the hippocampus (CA1 area) and the dorsal raphe nucleus, and of [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine specific binding to 5-hydroxytryptamine1C sites in the choroid plexus was found in sections exposed to 1 microM 8-MeO-2'-chloro-PAT and then washed extensively. In contrast the specific binding of [3H]5-hydroxytryptamine to 5-hydroxytryptamine1B/5-hydroxytryptamine1D sites and of [125I]cyanopindolol to 5-hydroxytryptamine1B sites in the substantia nigra and dorsal subiculum remained unaltered by this treatment. Similarly [125I]cyanopindolol binding to beta-adrenergic receptors was not affected by 8-MeO-2'-chloro-PAT. Prior occupancy of 5-hydroxytryptamine1A sites by 10 microM 5-hydroxytryptamine or 8-OH-DPAT, and of 5-hydroxytryptamine1C sites by 10 microM 5-hydroxytryptamine prevented any subsequent blockade by 8-MeO-2'-chloro-PAT. These data indicate that 8-MeO-2'-chloro-PAT should be a useful alkylating agent for achieving selective irreversible blockade of central 5-hydroxytryptamine1A and 5-hydroxytryptamine1C receptors in vivo in the rat.
Serotonin-1 receptors were examined in post-mortem human brains, using quantitative in vitro autoradiography. [3H]Serotonin was used as a ligand. Serotonin-1 receptor subtypes were defined with 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin and mesulergine. In the control human basal ganglia, the highest density of serotonin-1 binding sites was observed in both lateral and medial globus pallidus and substantia nigra reticulata. Lower densities were seen in the substantia nigra pars compacta, the nucleus accumbens, caudate and putamen. The majority of these serotonin-1 sites belonged to the serotonin-1D class. No significant alteration of the density and distribution of these sites was observed in Parkinson's disease brains. In contrast, a marked decrease in the density of the receptor binding was seen in the basal ganglia and the substantia nigra from patients dying with Huntington's disease. These results suggest that serotonin-1D receptors are expressed by cells intrinsic to the striatum which degenerate in Huntington's disease and project to the substantia nigra reticulata where these receptors are probably presynaptically localized. These observations in pathological human brains agree with the results of lesion studies in animal models and further support a role for serotoninergic mechanisms in movement control.
The morphochemical disposition of the adenylate cyclase-linked dopamine receptor (D1 type) in the rat striatum has been assessed at various time points after a neurotoxic lesion of the dopaminergic afferent pathway to the caudate nucleus. D1 receptor binding sites in the caudate nucleus were determined by in vitro autoradiography of the substituted benzazepine D1 antagonists, [3H]SCH 23390 or [125I]SCH 23982, and contrasted to the pattern of striatal immunohistochemical reactivity of the second messenger compound, cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate. The results demonstrate that the specific association of this dopamine receptor type with cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate-stained neurons is abolished at 7 days following chemical interruption of the nigrostriatal pathway, and the receptor disruption is persistent for durations as long as 20 weeks. This investigation suggests that once the postsynaptic receptor pathology is produced by deafferentation, it does not recover the selective morphochemical relationship normally established with the target cell containing the second messenger. This is in contrast to modest biochemical recuperation in D1 dopamine receptor binding seen using this experimental paradigm. This change in D1 dopamine receptor morphochemistry is discussed in relation to the neurochemical deficits produced by dopaminergic denervation and in Parkinson's disease.
The neurogenesis and early histochemical differentiation of the basal forebrain in trisomy 16 fetal mice and their euploid littermates were examined by combining [3H]thymidine autoradiography with acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. Neurons of the basal forebrain were being born between embryonic day 11 and 15 in both chromosomally normal (euploid) and aneuploid mice. In euploid littermate controls, neurogenesis proceeded along a caudal to rostral gradient with the peak on embryonic day 11 for caudal portions and embryonic day 13 for rostral portions of the basal forebrain. In contrast, in trisomy 16 mice, rostral sections exhibited a peak of neurogenesis on embryonic day 11, 2 days earlier than in their euploid littermate controls. Hypocellularity of the basal forebrain region was noted in trisomy 16 mice; particularly dramatic was the reduction of the population of cells that expressed acetylcholinesterase. This reduction in cell number in the trisomics was not accompanied by a reduction in cell size or by a dramatic change in the distribution of residual neurons when compared to that of euploid littermate controls. Since trisomy 16 mice do not survive the perinatal period, we examined the pattern of acetylcholinesterase expression in normal C57B1/6J mice from embryonic day 16 to postnatal day 5 to determine the postnatal disposition of these neurons. Already at embryonic day 16, fibers staining for acetylcholinesterase penetrated the striatal anlage, in their course towards targets in the cerebral cortices. By postnatal day 5, the previously expansive distribution of basal forebrain neurons had become consolidated in a more ventral and rostral position by the extensive outgrowth of the striatal neurons, a pattern resembling that seen in adult animals.
The neurotoxic effects of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine on dopamine neurons in monkeys were found to be reduced when the catecholamine uptake inhibitor nomifensine was administered during several weeks after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. The obtained protection was partial, leading to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine-induced changes in dopamine levels to 8, 16, 52 and 59% of control values in the caudate nucleus and to 10, 16, 101 and 99% in the putamen of four animals, respectively. At the same doses, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine alone is known to deplete striatal dopamine levels to 0.5-7% of control values. Extra-nigrostriatal monoamine neurons were generally well protected by nomifensine. Neurological examinations revealed modest hypokinesia for a maximum of 10 days after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine in the two more severely affected animals. Reaction times of arm and eye movements were measured in a formal task in two of the monkeys having a moderate and a more important depletion of striatal dopamine, respectively. Only moderate impairments were seen during the initial 2 weeks after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine in both animals. All parameters recovered to control levels thereafter. At 3.5 and 5.5 months after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, task performance was significantly better than control. The speed of arm movement remained largely unaffected during all periods of experimentation. Spontaneous eye movements were reduced in frequency and amplitude during the initial 1-2 weeks after 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine, and recovered completely thereafter. These data suggest a substantial reduction of neurotoxicity of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine by inhibition of catecholamine uptake. Particularly striking was the absence of major and permanent impairments in behavioral tests in which monkeys treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine alone were severely impaired. These results may warrant the development of new catecholamine uptake inhibitors for protecting nigrostriatal dopamine neurons against potential environmental toxins.
The anatomical distributions and affinity states of dopamine D1 and D2 receptors were compared in the rat central nervous system using quantitative autoradiography. [3H]SCH23390 and [3H]spiperone (in the presence of 100 nM mianserin) were used to label the D1 and D2 receptors, respectively. The densities of D1 and D2 receptors displayed a positive correlation among 21 brain regions (Pearson correlation coefficient, r = 0.80, P less than 0.001). The affinity states for the D1 and D2 receptors were found to be quite different from each other, and different from the results obtained by others using homogenate preparations. Both the D1 and D2 receptors were best modeled using a two-state model. In the absence of exogenous guanine nucleotides and using the nonselective agonist dopamine as the competitor, the D1 receptor was primarily in a low affinity agonist state (RH = 21 +/- 6%), whereas the D2 receptor was primarily in the high affinity agonist state (RH = 77 +/- 3%). In the presence of 10 microM guanylyl-imidodiphosphate or guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiophosphate) both the D1 and the D2 receptor were completely in a low affinity agonist state (RL = 100%). These affinity states were found both in the nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle using dopamine as the competitor and in the striatum using selective D1 or D2 agonists as competitors. Receptor occupancy of the D2 receptor with either an agonist or antagonist did not alter the affinity states of the D1 receptor, and conversely, receptor occupancy of the D1 receptor did not alter the affinity states of the D2 receptor. The correlation between densities of D1 and D2 receptors provides an anatomical framework for evaluating behavioral and electrophysiological evidence of an interaction between the two dopamine receptor subtypes. This interaction does not appear to be due to a sharing or coupling of G-proteins in such a way that binding to one dopamine receptor subtype alters the affinity state of the other receptor subtype. The differences between dopamine receptor distributions described by labeled agonists and antagonists may be due in part to differences in their affinity states. The low proportion of high affinity state D1 receptors may explain some of the difficulties in assigning specific behavioral roles to the D1 receptor.
Para-chlorophenylalanine, a blocker of serotonin biosynthesis by inhibiting tryptophan hydroxylase, induced total insomnia which was accompanied in cat by a permanent discharge of ponto-geniculo-occipital activity. L-5-Hydroxytryptophan microinjection (1-4 micrograms/0.5 microliters) in the anterior hypothalamus 72 h after para-chlorophenylalanine administration, restored both slow wave sleep and paradoxical sleep with variable latencies for each state of sleep. On the contrary, ponto-geniculo-occipital activity was never suppressed. The hypnogenic effects of L-5-hydroxytryptophan were always followed by a return of the para-chlorophenylalanine-induced insomnia. On the other hand, the temperature recording did not show any alteration of the cerebral temperature after para-chlorophenylalanine treatment but the subsequent L-5-hydroxytryptophan microinjection was followed by hyperthermia. Using immunohistochemistry for serotonin after intrahypothalamic L-5-hydroxytryptophan microinjection in parachlorophenylalanine-pretreated cat, we defined a restricted region of the anterior hypothalamus possibly responsible for the hypnogenic effect. This region included the lateral hypothalamus and the anterior hypothalamic area. It is suggested that the reversible hypersomnia after L-5-hydroxytryptophan microinjection in the anterior hypothalamus in para-chlorophenylalanine-pretreated cat is due to a neurohormonal action of serotonin: serotonin could act upon the anterior hypothalamus which secondarily inhibits a waking system located in the ventrolateral hypothalamus leading to the appearance of paradoxical sleep.
In the weaver mouse there is a major abnormality in the dopamine-containing innervation of the striatum. Dopamine islands from during development, along with some innervation of the non-islandic matrix; but during the first postnatal month much of the islandic innervation degenerates and there is a failure of the normal postnatal development of the diffuse nigrostriatal innervation. In the experiments reported here we analysed the distribution of D1 dopamine receptor-related binding sites in the weaver striatum in an effort to test the relationship between the dopamine-containing innervation of the striatum and the synthesis and distribution of dopamine receptors there. Dopamine D1 receptor binding sites labeled by the D1 specific antagonist [3H]SCH 23390 were studied in the striatum of 7-day and adult homozygous weaver (wv/wv) and homozygous control (+/+) mice. Saturation analysis of [3H]SCH 23390 binding in adult animals suggested that the dissociation constants of the binding sites are similar in mutants and controls. The Bmax values in the striatum of weavers were 16% higher than in the controls when the data were expressed as fmoles/mg protein. The protein content of the adult weaver's striatum was decreased by 15 to 30%, however, so that when values were expressed as fmoles/section, no significant difference between values in weavers and homozygous controls were found. Quantitative autoradiography supported the results of saturation analysis. We conclude that the apparent increase of [3H]SCH23390 binding sites in the mutants occurred as the result of shrinkage of the weaver's caudoputamen and that dopamine D1 receptor binding sites in the caudoputamen, as assessed with [3H]SCH 23390, are normal. The studies of regional distribution of [3H]SCH 23390 binding sites in 7-day and adult mice indicated that the characteristic postnatal transition of the [3H]SCH 23390 binding pattern from islandic to a diffuse distribution occurred normally in the weaver's caudoputamen. Thus, in spite of the degeneration and failure of development of the nigrostriatal innervation in weaver mice, D1 binding in the weaver's striatum undergoes the elaborate change in distribution of these sites that is a hallmark of normal striatal development.
Experiments have been conducted to determine whether dopamine fulfills the criteria to be considered as a neurotransmitter in cat primary visual cortex. N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine, a neurotoxin with high selectivity for noradrenergic terminals, was administered into kitten cerebral ventricles. Two weeks later, the concentration of norepinephrine in visual cortex was reduced to 15% of control while dopamine and serotonin were not depleted. Receptor binding assays with [3H]SCH 23390 showed that membranes prepared from cat primary visual cortex contain a binding site that has the properties of a D1 receptor. This site was localized by autoradiography to two bands, one in layer VI and the second in upper layers of visual cortex. A dopamine-stimulated adenylate cyclase activity was demonstrated that was inhibited by SCH 23390 but not by alprenolol. Norepinephrine was shown to stimulate adenylate cyclase activity through both a beta-noradrenergic receptor and a D1 receptor. Binding assays with [3H]spiperone indicated that D2 dopamine receptors are absent from cat visual cortex or present in very low amounts. Taken together these results strongly suggest the existence of a dopamine innervation of cat primary visual cortex. The neurotoxin experiments show that some of the dopamine in cat visual cortex is not in noradrenergic terminals while the receptor assays demonstrate the presence of D1 receptors functionally linked to the synthesis of cyclic 3',5'-adenosine monophosphate. The demonstration of a dopaminergic innervation in cat primary visual cortex is also relevant to the interpretation of data on the involvement of catecholamines in developmental plastic phenomena.
The effect of a dietary supplement of an aldose reductase inhibitor (ponalrestat) or of myo-inositol on sodium transport into the rat brain and on concentrations of saccharide and polyols in cortical brain tissue and sciatic nerve was investigated in control rats and in streptozotocin-diabetic rats after a diabetes duration of 2 weeks. In untreated diabetes, the neocortical blood-brain barrier permeability for sodium decreased by 28% (3.4 +/- 0.4 vs 4.7 +/- 1.6 x 10(-5) ml/s g, mean +/- SD) as compared to controls. Levels of glucose, sorbitol and fructose increased in brain as well as in nerve tissues, whereas myo-inositol depletion was not demonstrable. Ponalrestat treatment of diabetic animals had no effect upon the decreased neocortical blood-brain barrier permeability to sodium (3.5 +/- 0.9 vs 4.7 +/- 1.1 x 10(-5) ml/s g) despite normalization of brain and nerve content of sorbitol and fructose. Myo-inositol supplementation of diabetic rats normalized sodium passage into the brain (4.2 +/- 1.1 vs 4.4 +/- 0.5 x 10(-5) ml/s g). Brain concentrations of monosaccharides and polyols were normalized as compared to the myo-inositol treated control group and nerve concentrations of glucose, sorbitol, and fructose were significantly increased. Myo-inositol treatment leads to a normalization of blood-brain barrier permeability; it is suggested that myo-inositol exerts a restituting effect upon Na+/K+-ATPase activity of the cerebral endothelial cells.
[125I]Iodosulpride, a highly selective and sensitive probe for dopamine D-2 receptors, was used to study the expression of these receptors in binding studies performed on membranes and serial autoradiographic sections, throughout pre- and postnatal developmental periods. D-2 receptors were first detected autoradiographically in sensory and sympathetic ganglia at the embryonic age of 12 days, i.e. much earlier than in previous studies. In membrane binding studies, D-2 receptors were found to be modulated by guanylnucleotides as early as at embryonic day 15, suggesting that they were already functionally coupled to a regulatory G protein. The overall development of D-2 receptors in the central nervous system occurred according to a caudorostral gradient and was accompanied by a slightly but significantly increased affinity for dopamine, possibly related to the late expression of a D-2 receptor subclass. The ontogeny of D-2 receptors was compared to that of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity as reported by others and taken as an index of dopaminergic innervation. Despite some variations due to experimental conditions, this comparison resulted in the definition of various situations. In some major projection areas (e.g. caudate putamen at embryonic day 14) there was a simultaneous appearance of both dopaminergic markers whereas in most others (e.g. n. accumbens or olfactory tubercles at embryonic day 20) the appearance of D-2 receptors was preceded by 1-4 days by that of tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. However, in a few projection areas (e.g. the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis at embryonic day 21), D-2 receptors appeared 3-4 days earlier than tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. In areas of dopaminergic perikarya, e.g. substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area, where they largely correspond to somatodendritic autoreceptors, D-2 receptors appeared at embryonic days 17 and 21 respectively, i.e. 3-8 days after tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity, suggesting that dopamine synthesis and release is not feedback regulated by autoreceptors at initial developmental stages. In areas where D-2 receptors are present in the absence of any established dopaminergic innervation (e.g. discrete layers of the hippocampus, cerebellum, parietal cortex or in cranial nerve nuclei), they generally appeared at a late stage, i.e. during the second or even the third postnatal week. Finally, there was transient and roughly concomitant expression of both D-2 receptors and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity in some areas such as spinal ganglia or the lateral ventricle floor, consistent with a possible development function of dopamine mediated by D-2 receptors.
In chloralose-anaesthetized cats, the impulse activity of single afferent fibres supplying receptors in the deep tissues of the hindlimb (fasciae, muscles, ligaments, joint capsules) was recorded using micropipettes filled with a solution of horseradish peroxidase. Only myelinated fibres with conduction velocities up to 40 m/s (Group III and Group II units) were studied, i.e. fast conducting afferent fibres from muscle spindles and tendon organs were excluded. The fibres were functionally characterized with the use of mechanical stimuli such as local pressure and joint movements. The results show that a relationship exists between the functional properties of a given afferent unit and the location of its terminals in the spinal cord. Since the conduction velocity and hence the diameter of the fibres was similar in all the units studied, these factors appear not to be of importance for determining the pattern of spinal termination. Out of 84 units, 42 were classified as high-threshold mechanosensitive, 26 as low-threshold mechanosensitive, and 16 as secondary endings from muscle spindles. Following physiological identification the fibres were ionophoretically injected with horseradish peroxidase and their trajectory in the white and gray matter of the spinal cord visualized histologically with diaminobenzidine. High-threshold mechanosensitive units took a lateral course in the posterior funiculus and usually did not bifurcate. They exhibited two different patterns of spinal termination, one being characterized by terminal arborizations in both lamina I and deeper laminae (mostly IV/V), the other one by an exclusive projection to lamina I. Low-threshold mechanosensitive units often showed a bifurcation in the posterior funiculus and did not have a uniform termination pattern. The main areas of termination were lamina II and laminae IV-VI. The slowly conducting secondary endings from muscle spindles projected mainly to laminae VI and VII with additional collaterals entering the ventral horn. They thus had a termination pattern similar to that reported for fast conducting afferent fibres (above 50 m/s) from muscle spindle secondary endings. With the exception of one high-threshold mechanosensitive unit none of the stained fibres possessed terminal arborization and boutons in lamina III. It is concluded that different types of Group II and III primary afferent fibres from deep tissues exhibit different patterns of spinal termination.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have studied the detailed anatomical distribution of D2 receptors in human post mortem brain tissue using quantitative autoradiographic techniques. D2 receptors were labeled using the specific D2 agonist [3H]CV 205-502 and the antagonist [3H]spiroperidol. The pattern of D2 receptor distribution observed with the two ligands was very similar. The highest densities were found in the nucleus caudatus, putamen, nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle followed by the substantia nigra, where D2 receptors were mainly concentrated in the pars compacta. Lower but still significant densities were associated with the lateral part of the globus pallidus and CA1 and CA3 fields of the hippocampus. The medial part of the globus pallidus, the dentate gyrus and the amygdala showed low to very low densities of D2 receptors. Almost negligible amounts of binding were observed in the olfactory bulb, diencephalon, brainstem, cerebellum and most parts of the neocortex. Our results are comparable with previously reported localizations of D2 receptors in the human and rat brain. We also report the lack of the so-called spirodecanone binding sites in the human brain. The localization of D2 receptors is compared with the distribution of D1 receptors.
The distribution of dopamine D1 receptors has been determined in post mortem human brain tissues using in vitro receptor autoradiography, with ([3H]N-methyl) SCH 23390 as ligand. The highest densities of dopamine D1 sites were seen in the nucleus caudatus, putamen, globus pallidus pars medialis and substantia nigra. Intermediate densities were associated with the amygdala, mammillary bodies, cerebral cortex and CA1. The remaining part of the hippocampus as well as the diencephalon, brainstem and cerebellum contained low levels of [3H]SCH 23390 binding sites. The distribution of D1 receptors in the human brain closely resembles that reported for the rat brain. In addition, there was a good correlation between the anatomical localization of D1 sites and the distribution of dopaminergic nerve terminals in the central nervous system. The densities of D1 receptors in the human brain were observed to markedly decrease with age during the first decades of life. However, no further modifications were found beyond the age of 40 years. We did not observe any significant influence of other parameters such as gender and post mortem delay in our samples.
The presence of single nerve cell bodies and small ganglia in the retractor penis muscle and the penile artery of the bull was demonstrated by using antisera to neurofilament protein and neuron specific enolase. In the retractor penis muscle the findings were confirmed by staining for acetylcholinesterase. It was also shown that relaxation of strips of the retractor penis muscle induced by 70 microM acetylcholine was totally blocked by a 2.0 microM concentration of the ganglionic blocking drug chlorisondamine. The hypothesis is presented that the relaxation of the bovine retractor penis muscle and the bovine penile artery induced by nicotinic ganglionic stimulating drugs is at least in part mediated via receptors located on the nerve cell bodies described in this study.
The localization of thyrotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive structures was investigated in the hypothalamo-hypophyseal complex of the frog, Rana ridibunda, by light and electron microscopy using the conventional indirect immunoperoxidase technique and the immuno-gold technique, respectively. The localization of mesotocin-, vasotocin- and neurophysin-immunoreactive elements was compared to that of thyrotropin-releasing hormone either by comparing homologous fields on serial sections or by staining the same section with two different antibodies. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive perikarya occurred mainly in the anterobasal periventricular area and dorsal extension of the preoptic nucleus, and in the lateral zone of the infundibular nucleus. In the anterobasal preoptic nucleus, the distribution of thyrotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive perikarya partially overlapped that of vasotocin- and mesotocin-containing neurons; however, co-localization of thyrotropin-releasing hormone with either nonapeptide could not be detected there. In contrast, in the caudal extension of the preoptic nucleus, thyrotropin-releasing hormone- and mesotocin-like immunoreactivities were frequently co-localized in the same neurons. In the external zone of the median eminence, abundant networks of thyrotropin-releasing hormone- and vasotocin-immunoreactive nerve fibers were found in the vicinity of portal capillaries, while mesotocin-immunoreactive axons were only found in the internal zone. Using the immuno-gold technique at the electron microscopic level, three distinct thyrotropin-releasing hormone-immunoreactive systems were identified in the median eminence-neurointermediate lobe complex. (1) In the external zone of the median eminence, a conspicuous population of pericapillary endings contained 100-nm dense core vesicles immunoreactive solely for thyrotropin-releasing hormone. (2) In the neural lobe of the pituitary, thyrotropin-releasing hormone immunoreactivity occurred on secretory vesicles in a subpopulation of the mesotocinergic axons containing 160-nm secretory granules; co-localization with vasotocin was never seen. (3) In the intermediate lobe, thyrotropin-releasing hormone- and mesotocin (or neurophysin I)-immunoreactivities were systematically found in the same 120-nm dense core vesicles; these thyrotropin-releasing hormone-/mesotocin-immunoreactive axon terminals frequently made synaptic contacts with melanotropic cells. The possible modulatory effect of mesotocin on thyrotropin-releasing hormone-induced alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone secretion was investigated using perifused frog neurointermediate lobes. Administration of graded doses of mesotocin (from 10(-10) to 10(-5) M) did not affect the spontaneous release of alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone. In addition, mesotocin (10(-7) and 10(-6) M) did not modify thyrotropin-releasing hormone-evoked alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone release.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Primary cultures of human embryo brain cells (9-12 weeks of pregnancy) were obtained. The use of selective substrates (poly-L-lysine, poly-L-ornithine, reconstructed collagen) made it possible to obtain neuron-rich (up to 80%) cultures viable for no less than 30 days. The highest selectivity with respect to neurons was observed when reconstructed collagen was used. Cell types present in the cultures were identified immunohistochemically using antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein, galactocerebroside, fibronectin and neurofilaments. The dynamics of cell growth under different cultivation conditions was studied. Cells in culture have been found to preserve the ability to release neurotransmitters (dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin). Such primary cultures can serve as a suitable model for studying human brain biochemistry in vitro.
A culture system of dispersed submucosal neurons from canine ileum has been developed. The neuronal nature of over 80% of the cells in culture was confirmed by positive staining with a neurofilament antibody. In this culture system, neurotensin-immunoreactive neurons constituted greater than 50% of the total cell population. Neurotensin immunoreactivity in these cells was chromatographically characterized as a single molecular form coeluting with synthetic neurotensin (1-13). We have assessed the release of immunoreactive neurotensin by stimulatory and inhibitory transmitters, and by post-receptor activators of cell function. Forskolin (10 microM), the calcium ionophore A23187 (100 nM), and the active phorbol ester beta-12 myristrate 13-acetate (10 nM), each significantly increased neurotensin release compared with basal peptide secretion. The concomitant application of ionophore and phorbol ester resulted in a marked increase in neurotensin release and this stimulatory response was inhibited over 70% by somatostatin (100 nM). Substance P (0.1-100 nM) caused a dose-dependent increase in neurotensin release. Somatostatin (100 nM) reduced maximal stimulation with 100 nM substance P by 79%. Our results suggest that this submucosal culture system represents an entirely new model for characterizing transmitter release from enteric neurons.
Stimulation of carotid body chemoreceptors activates putative vasopressin neurons in the supraoptic nucleus, an effect which has been abolished by lesions in the caudal ventrolateral medulla. Stimulation within the A1 catecholamine cell group in the ventrolateral medulla also activates supraoptic neurons and releases vasopressin. Therefore the A1 catecholamine neurons may be the means by which carotid body chemoreceptors influence the supraoptic nucleus and other parts of the forebrain. To test this possibility the influence of carotid body chemoreceptors on the discharge of rostrally-projecting neurons in the A1 region of the caudal ventrolateral medulla has been assessed in rats anaesthetized with a mixture of urethane and sodium pentobarbitone. Tests were performed on 131 neurons, 23 of which were antidromically invaded following electrical stimulation within the supraoptic nucleus, the medial forebrain bundle or the ventral noradrenergic bundle. The positions of all antidromically invaded neurons were marked with dye and in six animals subsequent fluorescence histochemistry showed that the blue spots were in the proximity of one or more catecholamine-containing cell bodies in the ventrolateral medulla. The recorded neurons were therefore presumed to be part of the A1 group of catecholamine-containing neurons. All neurons located were tested for their responses to specific stimulation of ipsilateral carotid body chemoreceptors and also to general baroreflex activation. Not one of the antidromically invaded neurons was affected by chemoreceptor stimulation and only one was activated by baroreflex activation. Of the non-antidromically invaded neurons, seven were activated and 13 were depressed following chemoreceptor stimulation but in many cases the latency to onset was very long.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Anatomical and electrophysiological methods were used to investigate the existence and role of inputs from the magnocellular tuberomammillary nucleus to the supraoptic nucleus. After injecting either Fluoro-Gold or rhodamine-labeled latex microspheres into the supraoptic nucleus, consistent patterns of retrogradely labeled neurons within the tuberomammillary nucleus were observed. The results indicate that both subdivisions of the supraoptic nucleus, the tuberal and the anterior, receive input from the tuberomammillary nucleus. Injections into the tuberal supraoptic nucleus tended to label more cells in the contralateral tuberomammillary nucleus, while injections into the anterior supraoptic nucleus may label more cells on the ipsilateral side. The in vitro intracellular electrophysiological results support the anatomical findings and extend them in several ways. Some tuberomammillary neurons were found to project to the supraoptic nuclei on both sides of the brain. Intracellular Lucifer Yellow injections into tuberomammillary cells after electrophysiological recording revealed labeled axons that were traceable into the supraoptic nucleus, where apparent varicosities (possible en passant terminals) were seen. Magnocellular tuberomammillary nucleus neurons had characteristic passive and active membrane properties and morphology, similar to histaminergic neurons in this area studied by other workers. Finally, in two of the 21 cases, Lucifer Yellow injection into one neuron revealed dye-coupled pairs of tuberomammillary neurons. Previous work by others has shown that histamine excited cells in the tuberal subdivision of the supraoptic nucleus, stimulating vasopressin release, and that the tuberomammillary nucleus provides histaminergic input to the anterior portion of the supraoptic. The present findings show that the tuberomammillary nucleus supplies input to both subdivisions of the supraoptic nucleus and that this input is provided bilaterally. Taken together with previous work, these data suggest that the tuberomammillary nucleus provides histaminergic input to the supraoptic nucleus and may be involved specifically with vasopressin release.
Three-day-old rats were bilaterally dopamine-depleted with 6-hydroxydopamine and 3 days later cell suspensions derived from the dopamine-rich ventral mesencephalic area were injected into the right rostral striatum. The transplants rapidly developed a substantial innervation of one striatum, so that by 15 days after transplantation (21 days of age) animals rotated away from the reinnervated side in response to amphetamine. The amount of turning correlated with the extent of innervation of the striatum as determined by tyrosine hydroxylase immunocytochemistry. By 25 days post-transplantation (31 days of age), animals turned in response to stress as well as amphetamine, although this later-developing phenomenon was not associated with any significant change in the extent of dopamine innervation. A second group of animals was bilaterally dopamine-depleted at 3 days of age, but transplantation with nigral cell suspensions was delayed until maturity. Partial reinnervation of the rostral striatum occurred with this delayed transplant paradigm, and turning to both amphetamine and stress commenced at 15 days post-transplantation. In contrast to animals receiving transplants shortly after lesioning, these animals began to turn spontaneously at about 20 days post-transplantation. The serotonin hyperinnervation that occurs following dopamine depletion in infancy was not altered by dopamine transplants made at either time. Results from both groups of transplant animals suggest that dopamine-rich transplants can provide substantial innervation that exerts some functional control over the striatum. This occurs despite the fact that neonatally dopamine-depleted rats, unlike adult-lesioned animals, survive quite well in the absence of striatal dopamine. However, the degree of incorporation into existing circuitry, and the types of regulation that result, may vary considerably depending on the age at which the tissue is transplanted.
Phospholipids and cholesterol were found to be the main lipids in mature and immature neuroblastoma cells. The ratios for the total cholesterol/phospholipids in these undifferentiated and differentiated cells were 0.33 and 0.52, respectively. The ratios of 0.45 and 0.62 were obtained with corresponding plasma membrane fractions. Individual fatty acid contents in the loosely bound lipid fraction were higher than in tightly bound lipids. The total levels of saturated fatty acids increased in both of these fractions. While arachidonic acid content significantly decreased, it increased simultaneously (600%) in the free fatty acid fraction during differentiation. The amount of cholesterol esters increased three-fold as a result of maturation. For the first time it was possible to detect, in neuroblastoma cells, several lipids, namely N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine, N-acylethanolamine and semilysobisphosphatidic acid. They all changed during maturation. Total N-acylphosphatidylethanolamine content decreased by 50%, disappearing completely from membrane fractions. N-Acylethanolamine disappeared from the cell as well as from membrane fractions. On the other hand the total cellular content of semilysobisphosphatidic acid increased without any alterations in its membrane content. Functional implications of our investigations are discussed.
Immunocytochemistry was used to show that neurofilaments advance into regenerating facial nerve axons at 2.5 mm/day, which is less than the rate of axonal elongation (4.3 mm/day), measured from the transport of radiolabeled protein into the axons. Thus, the distal region of the newly-regenerated axons is deficient in neurofilaments, and this was confirmed by electron microscopy. These neurofilament-free regenerating axons could also be detected by immunocytochemistry using antibody to protein B50 (GAP43), a component of growth-cones. Immunoblots of nerve segments, incubated with monoclonal antibodies against the three neurofilament proteins, showed that all three proteins were present in the neurofilaments elongating into the regenerating axons, and confirmed the more distal extensions of B50 immunoreactivity. These results show that neurofilament immunocytochemistry underestimates the extent of axonal regeneration, and it is suggested that this technique should be employed with caution in regeneration studies. When the facial nerve received a conditioning lesion 7 days prior to a test lesion, axonal regeneration rate increased to 6.0 mm/day, and there was a proportional increase in neurofilament elongation rate to 4.4 mm/day. This occurred in spite of the reduction in cell body neurofilament protein synthesis induced by the lesions. It is concluded that the rate of neurofilament extension into regenerating axons is not governed by cell body synthesis but by local interactions with other cytoskeletal materials which support the increased regeneration rate of conditioned axons.
The behaviours evoked by the intrathecal injection of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone and a variety of analogues (RX77368, CG3509 and CG3703) were examined in conscious rats and the spread of injectate at the peak of the behavioural response was determined using 14C-labelled RX77368. The number of wet-dog shakes observed following intrathecal injection of thyrotrophin-releasing hormone, RX77368, CG3509 and CG3703 was linearly related to log10 dose (0.01-200 micrograms) in the first 6 min with the relative potencies being 1:7:10:60 respectively. The thyrotrophin-releasing hormone analogues also produced a marked forepaw-licking behaviour, but this did not increase with dose. Intrathecal or intraperitoneal pretreatment with prazosin (0.5 microgram and 1 or 2 mg/kg, respectively) attenuated both the wet-dog shake and forepaw-licking behaviours normally produced by the thyrotrophin-releasing hormone peptides. Following intrathecal [14C]RX77368 the radioactivity was principally restricted to the spinal cord with only limited amounts rostral to the rhombencephalon. These results imply that a tonically active bulbospinal noradrenergic pathway facilitates both thyrotrophin-releasing hormone-induced behaviours via alpha 1-adrenoceptors.
Rats were trained in a specially designed apparatus to detect brief, unpredictable visual stimuli presented to either side of the head. In one condition, rats reported the detection of the visual stimulus by removing their heads from a central location and responding in one of two adjacent side-holes where the visual stimulus had occurred. In the other condition, rats were trained to respond in the hole on the opposite side to where the visual stimulus had occurred. Following training all rats received striatal infusions of 6-hydroxydopamine leading to profound striatal dopamine depletion. One group received unilateral intra-nucleus accumbens 6-hydroxydopamine infusions. Two groups received 6-hydroxydopamine unilaterally into the caudate nucleus. Two other groups received two infusions of 6-hydroxydopamine, intra-accumbens and intra-caudate, on either the same side or on opposite sides. The results showed that all groups, except that receiving only intra-accumbens 6-hydroxydopamine, exhibited a significant bias in responding towards the side of the lesion which correlated with dopamine depletion in the head of the caudate nucleus, regardless of the type of discrimination or pre-operative strategy. These biased groups were also slower to initiate, but not to complete, contralateral responses. Detailed analysis of the behavioural evidence suggested that unilateral striatal dopamine depletion does not produce sensory loss or sensory inattention but rather an output type neglect, perhaps related to hemiakinesia or &quot;intentional neglect&quot;. The bias recovered to preoperative levels by 7 weeks after surgery, but could be reinstated by pretreatment with alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine, thus suggesting the involvement of presynaptic mechanisms in recovery. Although unilateral dopamine depletion from the nucleus accumbens alone had no effects on visual neglect, it produced a lateralized bias in premature responding away from the side of the lesion, contrasting with the bias towards the side of the lesion seen in all of the other groups. These effects appeared to summate in this and in another condition in which a more eccentric response was required for stimulus detection, to suggest an interaction in function between the dorsal and ventral striatum.
Dopamine, acting through dopamine D1 receptors and cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase, has been found to increase the state of phosphorylation of the synaptic vesicle-associated phosphoproteins synapsin I and protein III in slices of rat neostriatum and substantia nigra. In the neostriatum, the effect of dopamine was mimicked by SKF 38393, a D2 receptor agonist, and was abolished by preincubation of the slices with fluphenazine or SCH 23390, antipsychotic drugs which are potent D1 receptor antagonists, but not by the D2 receptor antagonists l-sulpiride or spiroperidol. The maximal effect of dopamine in the neostriatum represented approximately 30-35% of the maximal effect induced by 8-bromo cyclic AMP, suggesting that a similar fraction of nerve terminals in the neostriatum may express the dopamine D1 receptor. Evidence for a small population of beta-adrenergic receptors regulating nerve terminal protein phosphorylation in the neostriatum, distinct from the D1 dopamine receptors, was also obtained. In the substantia nigra, the effect of dopamine also appeared to be mediated through a D1 dopamine receptor, since it was abolished by fluphenazine and SCH 23390. The maximal effect of dopamine in the substantia nigra represented approximately two-thirds of the effect induced by 8-bromo cyclic AMP, suggesting that a similar fraction of nerve terminals in the substantia nigra may express the dopamine D1 receptor. The ability of dopamine D1 receptor activation to stimulate both synapsin I and protein III phosphorylation and GABA release in both the neostriatum and substantia nigra may be causally linked.
The borders of the ventral striatum and ventral pallidum of the rat brain have been studied with immunocytochemistry for two protein markers that are present in these regions. One of these, DARPP-32 (dopamine and cyclic AMP-regulated phosphoprotein, Mr 32,000), is specifically enriched in medium-sized spiny neurons of the neostriatum and in the projection of these neurons upon pallidal regions. The second protein, synaptophysin, a marker for nerve terminals, effectively labels pallidal synapses. In the ventral striatum, neurons strongly immunoreactive for DARPP-32 were densely packed throughout its three components, i.e., the fundus striati and the nucleus accumbens septi, the olfactory tubercle, and the cell bridges that connect the tubercle with the overlying caudatoputamen and the nucleus accumbens. In the ventral pallidum, axons and axon terminals immunoreactive for DARPP-32 and axon terminals immunoreactive for synaptophysin were clearly delineated. As defined by these markers, the ventral pallidum was traced rostroventrally from the globus pallidus to the superficial layers of the olfactory tubercle, medially to the insula Calleja magna and the lateral septum, laterally to the pyriform cortex, and caudally to the anterior amygdaloid area. The ventral striatum and pallidum were densely intermingled in parts of the olfactory tubercle and medial forebrain bundle regions, and clearly separated in more caudal regions. The insulae Callejae did not contain typical striatal or pallidal staining patterns. Our results indicate that the ventral striatopallidal complex in the rat extends both rostrocaudally and dorsoventrally, in a highly complex, intermingled fashion, throughout most of the basal forebrain.
The temporal course of changes in peptide expression in the dorsal root ganglia L4 and L5 and in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord has been studied in rats subjected to a sciatic nerve transection at a mid-thigh level following different survival times. Galanin-, substance P-, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-, peptide histidine-isoleucine- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivities have been studied both by immunohistochemistry and radioimmunoassay. Galanin messenger ribonucleic acid has also been studied by in situ hybridization in the dorsal root ganglia of normal and lesioned animals. In addition, a group of animals with a sciatic nerve crush was studied to compare possible differences in peptide expression after both types of lesions. The results show that the transection induces an increase in the number of cell bodies expressing galanin-like immunoreactivity in the ganglia, and that the galanin levels rise about 120-fold after three and 14 days of survival. This increase reflected increased synthesis of the peptide, since there was a rise in the galanin messenger ribonucleic acid already at 24 h post-lesion, which was maintained for at least 60 days. In the spinal cord there was an increase of staining in the midportion of the outer layers of the dorsal horn that corresponded to fibers thought to arise from cells of the dorsal root ganglia affected by the transection. Also a depletion of substance P-like and an increase in vasoactive intestinal polypeptide- and peptide histidine-isoleucine-like immunoreactivities in the dorsal root ganglia were confirmed. These changes were shown to be rapidly detectable and were paralleled by similar changes in the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. For calcitonin gene-related peptide the immunohistochemistry was inconclusive, and the radioimmunoassay showed no detectable changes. After nerve crush a transient increase in the number of galanin immunoreactive neurons was observed, as well as a decrease in the number of neurons showing substance P-like immunoreactivity. These changes were most noticeable between six and 14 days of survival. After this, peptide expression seemed to return slowly to normal, that is by day 45 post-crush only a few cells showed galanin-like, and many sensory neurons expressed substance P-like immunoreactivity. The results demonstrate that when primary sensory neurons are peripherally lesioned they respond in a complex manner, altering their normal production of peptides by increasing or decreasing their synthesis.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The spiny stellate neurons have been studied by the Golgi method in the auditory koniocortex and parakoniocortex of man. Spiny stellate cells are a consistent though not very common component of layer IV. They are not confined to specific sublayers but occur at all depths of layer IV, and also in layer IIIc. Spiny stellate cells in the auditory areas show a great variety of their dendritic arborization pattern. The presence of all intermediate forms between small pyramidal cells--which constitute the dominant cell type in layer IV and which display an extraordinary heteromorphism--and spiny stellate cells shows the close kinship between both neuronal types. The morphology and distribution of spines along the dendrites of spiny stellate neurons are similar to those of the small pyramidal cells of the same layer. The axons, which were impregnated only in their proximal portions, mostly descend, giving rise to recurrent ascending collaterals, but initially ascending axons do also occur. Spiny stellate neurons are present in the different cytoarchitectonic areas examined, and thus they are not confined to the auditory koniocortex.
To account for the transport in nerve fibers of tubulin and neurofilament proteins in slow component a, the Structural Hypothesis holds that these proteins are assembled into microtubules and neurofilaments in the cell bodies and the cytoskeletal organelles then moved down in the fibers as part of an interconnected matrix at a uniform rate of about 1 mm/day. The Unitary Hypothesis, on the other hand, considers these proteins to be carried down within the fibers as soluble components or as freely movable small polymers or subunits turning over locally in the stationary cytoskeleton. To differentiate between the two hypotheses, cat L7 dorsal roots were taken at times from 7 to 25 days after their L7 dorsal root ganglia were injected with [3H]leucine to assess the labeling of the cytoskeleton by the use of beading and autoradiography. Beading was induced by a mild stretch and after fast-freezing and freeze-substitution of the roots for histological preparation, the beads were seen in the fibers as a series of expanded regions alternating with constrictions. In the constrictions the cytoskeleton was compacted into an area as small as 5% that of the normal axon, with the axoplasmic fluid and displaceable (freely movable) components squeezed from the constrictions into the adjoining expansions. Roots taken after 7 and 14 days, times consistent with slow component a downflow, were assessed with sodium dodecyl sulfate-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis and their content of tubulin and neurofilament proteins shown to constitute 40-50% of all the labeled proteins present. In autoradiographs of dorsal roots taken at those times, numerous grains due to radioactivity were located over the non-constricted regions of the fibers. Few or no grains were present over the constrictions after 7 days. The findings are in accord with the labeled tubulins and neurofilament proteins being present in soluble form in the fibers and expressed from the constrictions into the expansions of the beaded fibers. In contrast, a number of fibers in roots taken at 14-20 days after injection showed somewhat higher grain densities over the constrictions, and more so after 25 days, indicating uptake of labeled subunits into the cytoskeletal organelles at later times. The results are consistent with the downflow of tubulin and neurofilament proteins as soluble components which drop off in the axon to turn over locally in their respective cytoskeletal organelles.
Immunohistochemistry was used to localize brain natriuretic peptide in the porcine spinal cord and to compare it with that of atrial natriuretic peptide, substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide and [Met]enkephalin. Brain natriuretic peptide-immunoreactive varicose fibers were observed in lamina I and the inner portion of lamina II of the dorsal horn. Semiquantitative analysis showed that the highest density of brain natriuretic peptide-immunoreactive varicosities was in the lumbosacral and coccygeal segments. The distributional pattern of brain natriuretic peptide-immunoreactive nerve fibers in the spinal cord was unique and quite distinct from that of the other neuropeptides studied. These neuroanatomical findings suggest that brain natriuretic peptide may play a role in the regulation of nociceptive processing in the spinal cord, either alone or with bioactive substances.
We have studied quantitatively the levels of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in nerves innervating skin and muscle of rats, and examined the effects of cross-anastomosing these nerves so that they regenerate to an inappropriate target. We have also compared the ability of nerves to induce neurogenic extravasation with their peptide content. Peptide was measured by radioimmunoassay in the proximal section of ligated peripheral nerves, and neurogenic oedema was measured by determination of Evans Blue extravasation induced by either systemic capsaicin treatment or topical mustard oil application. The levels of these peptides are higher in cutaneous nerves than muscle nerves. This cannot be explained by differences in the number of fibres in the nerves studied. The levels of peptides fall when cutaneous afferents reinnervate muscle, and rise when muscle afferents reinnervate skin. We suggest that these changes occur because of some tissue-specific trophic influence arising from the tissue innervated. The ability to produce extravasation in skin is highly correlated with the substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide levels of its innervation, even when this occurs in inappropriate nerves which do not normally produce extravasation.
In contrast to developing sensory neurons, the survival of adult rat dorsal root ganglion neurons in pure neuronal culture is not dependent on specific neurotrophic factors such as nerve growth factor or brain-derived neurotrophic factor [Lindsay R. M. (1988) J. Neurosci. 8, 2394-2405]. In the present study we have examined possible modulatory effects of nerve growth factor on the neuropeptide content of sub-populations of adult rat dorsal root ganglion neurons in vitro. During the first 1-2 days in culture the neuropeptides substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide could be detected by immunofluorescence staining in cultures grown in the presence or absence of nerve growth factor, but at longer times in nerve growth factor-deprived cultures there was loss of immunoreactive staining for both peptides. In the presence of nerve growth factor, however, the percentage of substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-immunoreactive neurons remained relatively constant, for at least 14 days, at levels that were similar to the percentage of such peptide-containing neurons found in sections of adult rat dorsal root ganglia. Quantitation by radioimmunoassay of the levels of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in cultures grown in the presence or absence of nerve growth factor agreed with the qualitative observations obtained by immunofluorescence: 10-15-fold higher levels of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide were found in cultures grown with nerve growth factor for 18 days, as compared to nerve growth factor-deprived cultures. In nerve growth factor-treated cultures increased levels of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide were observed within 3-6 days in vitro, and further steady increases in the levels of both peptides were found up to 18 days. A low basal level of both peptides could always be detected, even in the presence of an excess of antibodies to nerve growth factor. Up-regulation of the synthesis of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide did not depend on nerve growth factor being present at the initiation of the cultures, as elevated levels of both peptides could be induced in cultures even after up to 10 days' prior deprivation of nerve growth factor. Removal of nerve growth factor from the cultures resulted in reduced levels of peptide within 3 days.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Rat trigeminal neurons innervating tooth pulps were retrogradely labelled with fluorogold and analysed enzyme- and immunohistochemically for their content of substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase, GM 1 ganglioside, carbonic anhydrase and neurofilament protein. The data showed that both small, medium-sized and large trigeminal neurons were labelled after fluorogold deposition in maxillary molar pulps, with a majority of the cells being medium-sized and large. Less than 2% of the pulpal neurons showed substance P-like immunoreactivity. Fifty-six per cent of the pulpal nerve cells were calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive. These cells were small, medium-sized and large. Only 1% of the fluorogold-labelled cells contained fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase enzyme activity. This paralleled the finding that the pulpal neurons were unstained by Griffonia simplicifolia isolectin I-B4, a plant lectin which preferentially binds to fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase-positive cells. Choleragenoid-like immunoreactivity, which identifies cells with the GM 1 ganglioside receptor, was found in 70% of the fluorogold-labelled pulpal neurons. Approximately 80% of the fluorogold-labelled cells showed RT 97-immunoreactivity. RT 97 labels neurofilament protein and is present in large light primary sensory neurons. No pulpal neurons appeared to contain carbonic anhydrase, as judged from both enzyme- and immunocytochemical observations. The findings suggest that, in the rat, trigeminal tooth pulp neurons, which according to the classical view are nociceptive, form a heterogeneous group of neurons with a minority of small cells which may contain calcitonin gene-related peptide but rarely either substance P or fluoride-resistant acid phosphatase. However, the vast majority of pulpal nerve cells appear to have sizes and cytochemical characteristics which are not generally associated with nociceptive primary sensory neurons.
The intracerebral microdialysis technique has been used to monitor extracellular levels of noradrenaline, 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid in the rat hippocampus in vivo in response to focal and generalized seizures induced by hippocampal kindling stimulation. In fully kindled animals a stimulus-induced generalized seizure gave rise to a three-fold increase of noradrenaline levels in the stimulated hippocampus as compared to baseline levels (15-min samples). The maximal increase of noradrenaline levels occurred within the first minutes after onset of seizure activity, as assessed in 2-min sample fractions with the noradrenaline uptake blocker desipramine added to the perfusion medium. After the peak increase, the noradrenaline levels tapered off, reaching baseline after 8-10 min. In 6-hydroxydopamine-treated animals, baseline noradrenaline levels were markedly reduced and there was no significant increase in noradrenaline release in response to a generalized seizure. These data support the hypothesis that the high extracellular levels of noradrenaline measured in seizures are of neuronal origin. There were no significant changes in extracellular 5-hydroxytryptamine or 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid levels after a generalized seizure. In non-kindled animals the steady state noradrenaline levels during uptake blockade were two-three times higher than in the kindled rats. However, the peak noradrenaline levels measured in both hippocampi after the first two electrical kindling stimulations giving rise to focal epileptiform activity (afterdischarge) were similar to those observed in the kindled animals in response to generalized seizures. The increase of noradrenaline release in the non-kindled animals was significantly correlated to the duration of afterdischarge. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates the usefulness of the intracerebral dialysis technique for monitoring noradrenaline, 5-hydroxytryptamine and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid release during seizures. The results indicate that both focal and generalized hippocampal seizures evoked by electrical kindling stimulation lead to a marked increase of transmitter release from noradrenergic but not from serotonergic neurons in the hippocampus. The ability of the noradrenergic system to respond by increased transmitter release to epileptic seizures is thus retained also in the kindled state.
The transcerebral dialysis method has been utilized for measuring extracellular brain concentrations of serotonin and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid. Dialysis fibres were implanted transversally in the rat frontal cortex and perfused by Ringer. Serotonin and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid were quantified by reverse phase high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection. Experiments were performed in freely-moving rats 20-24 h after the implant of the fibre. Basal output of serotonin and 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid was 0.12 and 22.8 pmol in 20 min, respectively. The output of serotonin was calcium-dependent and tetrodotoxin-sensitive (1 micron in the Ringer) while was stimulated by veratridine (50 microns) and by high concentrations of K+ (60 and 100 mM). Serotonin output was increased in a concentration-dependent manner by chlorimipramine (1-10 microM) in the Ringer; this drug stimulated serotonin release also when administered s.c. (20 mg/kg) in a tetrodotoxin-sensitive manner. The irreversible monoamine-oxidase inhibitor pargyline (75 mg/kg, i.p.) strongly stimulated serotonin output while reduced 5-hydroxyindolacetic acid output. A proposed serotonin releaser, fenfluramine (25 mg/kg, s.c.), stimulated serotonin release and this effect was strongly potentiated by local application of tetrodotoxin (1 microM). Agonists of serotonin receptors such as lisuride (0.03 mg/kg, s.c.), 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propilamino)tetraline (0.25 mg/kg, s.c.) and 5-methoxy 3(1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-4-pyridinil)-1H indole succinate (1 mg/kg, s.c.) reduced serotonin release. It appears that brain dialysis is a suitable method for the study of serotonin release in the cortex of freely-moving rats.
Immunohistochemistry combined with retrograde tracing has been used to show that of the afferent neurons supplying the dorsomedial surface of the hind paw, approximately 30% contain substance P and 50% calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity. Stimulation of the saphenous nerve causes plasma extravasation and antidromic vasodilatation in this area of skin. The roles of calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P released from peripheral afferent endings in mediating these effects were examined using immunoneutralization. In pilot experiments, the binding of radiolabelled peptide to the immunoglobulin fraction of calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P antisera was characterized in quasi-physiological conditions. Systemic administration of either substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide antibodies caused a significant decrease (P less than 0.05) in plasma extravasation measured by the Evans Blue method in response to topical application of mustard oil (0.5%) to the skin, or of capsaicin (5 microM) to the saphenous nerve. Topical application of mustard oil also produced a 52.9 +/- 5.1% increase in skin red cell flux. This increase was significantly decreased by both substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide antibodies. The results suggest that both peptides are involved in mediating neurogenic inflammatory responses.
In anaesthetized cats, antibody microprobes were used to investigate the release of immunoreactive calcitonin gene-related peptide and galanin in the lower lumbar spinal cord. In the absence of applied stimulation, a basal release of both peptides was detected at the level of the substantia gelatinosa. This release of calcitonin gene-related peptide was not altered by innocuous thermal cutaneous stimulation nor by electrical stimulation of low-threshold myelinated primary afferent fibres, but was increased by noxious thermal or noxious mechanical cutaneous stimuli and by electrical stimulation of unmyelinated primary afferents. A simultaneous release of both calcitonin gene-related peptide and substance P was detected in the substantia gelatinosa region by the use of pairs of microprobes. In contrast, none of the peripheral stimulation procedures increased intraspinal galanin release. The results suggest that the spinal transmission of nociceptive information may involve the simultaneous release and action of several neuropeptides within the superficial layers of the dorsal horn.
The aim of this study was to determine the acute and delayed effect of topical application of high concentrations of capsaicin on the rat urinary bladder on micturition reflex and compare the effects of &quot;topical&quot; bladder desensitization with those produced by systemic (subcutaneous administration) capsaicin desensitization. On acute application, capsaicin (1-3%) produced a transient bladder contraction, not observed in capsaicin-pretreated rats. After a transient increase in excitability of the micturition reflex, topical capsaicin suppressed micturition and overflow incontinence ensued which was reverted by intravenous injection of 4-aminopyridine. Topical capsaicin also abolished reflex micturition in rats which had been systemically treated with capsaicin as adults (50 mg/kg, 7 days before) and reduced significantly the neurogenic bladder contractions produced by intravenous dimethylphenylpiperazinium or neurokinin A, while the direct (myogenic) response to neurokinin A was unaffected. In rats whose bladder was pre-exposed to 1-3% topical capsaicin (7 days before) the micturition reflex was affected in a manner which is qualitatively and quantitatively similar to that observed in rats treated with capsaicin as adults, e.g. increase in bladder capacity with no change in voiding efficiency. Topical capsaicin desensitization of the rat urinary bladder was shown to produce a selective impairment of bladder sensory nerves without any sign of desensitization in other areas of the body using both functional (hot plate, wiping, plasma extravasation) and neurochemical (determination of substance P-like immunoreactivity) assays. Systemically administered capsaicin (7 days before) had little effect on reflex micturition at 12.5 mg/kg but the change in bladder capacity produced at a dose of 25 mg/kg was comparable with that produced at 350 mg/kg. These findings provide evidence that selective desensitization of peripheral terminals of capsaicin-sensitive nerves of the rat urinary bladder inactivates their sensory and &quot;efferent&quot; function in a manner similar to that observed after systemic capsaicin desensitization in adult rats. The functional deficit of reflex micturition produced in this way can be overcome by increasing the stimulus to void. By contrast, neonatal capsaicin desensitization produced a long lasting abolition of reflex micturition. These data are in keeping with the hypothesis that adult versus neonatal capsaicin desensitization may be used as a tool to distinguish between two sets of sensory nerves in the rat urinary bladder.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In recent years the present authors and others have sought to determine the neurochemical composition of the dilated neuronal processes found within neuritic plaques of patients with Alzheimer's disease. To date a number of neurotransmitter and neuropeptide systems have been observed within different plaques, yet at present it is unclear whether individual human plaques contain more than one transmitter substance. In the present study a highly sensitive dual-immunolabeling procedure was employed and it was demonstrated that substance P and somatostatin-immunoreactive profiles coexist within single senile plaques of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Coexistence of somatostatin and substance P immunoreactivity within plaques was observed in the hippocampus and amygdala but not in the neocortex, although the latter region contained plaques within which somatostatin and substance P existed alone. The frequency with which we observed one or more neuropeptide within plaques was relatively low and in fact most plaques contained neither substance P nor somatostatin immunoreactivity. In addition, a large number of swollen peptidergic processes were observed outside of plaques. The significance of these observations with respect to the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease is discussed.
Substance-specific selective axonal transport was examined in a single axon by injecting [3H]leucine and [14C]acetylcholine simultaneously into the cell body of a giant cholinergic neuron (R2) in the abdominal ganglion of Aplysia kurodai. The ganglion and attached nerves were cultured for several hours after the injection and the migration of radioactive substances along the axons of the injected neuron was examined. The substances examined were 3H labeled membrane proteins and soluble proteins synthesized in the cell body, 14C labeled bound acetylcholine formed in the cell, injected [3H]leucine and soluble [14C]acetylcholine. Membrane proteins and bound acetylcholine (plus a part of soluble acetylcholine) moved along the axon somatofugally at maximum velocities of 2.4 and 1.7 mm/h, respectively, at 25 degrees C. Soluble proteins, free leucine and most of the soluble acetylcholine did not move by fast axonal transport but diffused inside the axon of the neuron R2 at rates predicted from their expected diffusion constants in the axoplasm [Koike H. and Nagata Y. (1979) J. Physiol. 295, 397-417]. The diffusion kinetics of these substances were analysed and used for determination of true axon length, and to separate axonal transport components from diffusing components. An antimitotic drug, colchicine, selectively suppressed the axonal transport of membrane proteins but not of acetylcholine at 1-5 mM concentration, though it finally blocked the axonal transport of acetylcholine at 20 mM. When 1-5 mM colchicine was separately perfused only to the distal axon of the neuron R2, the migration of membrane proteins was stopped just proximal to the colchicine perfusion zone but acetylcholine migration was not disturbed by the drug. The moving component of acetylcholine was recovered by sucrose density centrifugation from a compartment previously reported as that of vesicular acetylcholine. As a possible mechanism of this selective axonal transport, it is proposed that there are two groups of microtubules: a colchicine-sensitive group of microtubules which may transport membrane proteins, and a colchicine-resistant group which may preferentially transport the transmitter substance acetylcholine at a slower rate.
Recent electrophysiological evidence shows that rostral levels of the trigeminal spinal complex are concerned with pain processing from receptive fields in the face and oral cavity. The ventrolateral quadrant of the subnucleus interpolaris contains concentrations of enkephalin, dynorphin, serotonin, substance P and GABA [Matthews M. A., Hernandez T. V. and Liles S. L. (1987) Synapse 1, 512-529; Matthews M. A., McDonald G. K. and Hernandez T. V. (1988) Somatosensory Res. 5, 205-217]. These transmitters have also been localized to the fusiform and stalked cells in Laminae I and II of the subnucleus caudalis [Basbaum A. I. and Fields H. L. (1984) A. Rev. Neurosci. 7, 309-338]. The present study compares Golgi impregnations of the subnucleus interpolaris with sections at the same levels immunoreacted against enkephalin to determine if comparable cells exist in the subnucleus interpolaris and if they occur predominantly in the ventrolateral quadrant of the subnucleus. Twelve, young adult cats were killed by perfusion, the brainstems removed and either processed for rapid Golgi impregnation or sectioned and immunoreacted for enkephalin using the avidin-biotin Vectastain method. Golgi impregnated tissue was sectioned in the coronal, transverse or sagittal plane to insure the most advantageous visualization of cells with a directional bias in their dendritic arbors. The subnucleus interpolaris contained several distinctive cell types. The predominant neuron throughout the subnucleus was the smooth pyramidal cell or multipolar cell, characterized by a large round soma (15-25 microns diameter) and a spherical dendritic arborization which allowed its identification in all planes of section. The second cell type was the fusiform cell which had a smaller ovoid soma (10-15 microns) with narrow, less ramified, dendritic arbors oriented dorsoventrally, thus giving a bipolar appearance. Fusiform cells were most concentrated along the lateral margin of the subnucleus interpolaris. Examination of sections at the same level reacted for enkephalin revealed cells with a bipolar appearance in these same locations. An additional cell population which tended to predominate in the lateral zone was the stalked cell. These displayed a rounded soma (12-20 microns) and were evident only in the transverse or sagittal plane. Two to four primary dendrites arose from the soma and extensively ramified into a dense spiny arbor directed into the body of the subnucleus interpolaris. Many examples contained enkephalin. Islet cells, characterized by a very small oval soma (6-12 microns) and dense, rostrocaudally oriented dendrites, were less common than stalked cells and were located deeper in the nucleus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In our previous studies substance P-immunoreactive nerve fibers have been demonstrated in the pars distalis of the anterior pituitary in macaque monkeys, and they have been found to contact somatotropes. The present study investigated the relationship of the substance P-immunoreactive fibers to thyrotropes and corticotropes. Macaca mulatta monkeys were used. Sections of the anterior pituitaries were double immunostained with antisera against either substance P and human thyrotropin or substance P and human adrenocorticotropic hormone. Substance P-immunoreactive varicosities were found to be in close proximity to thyrotropes and corticotropes. It is therefore suggested that a direct neural factor may take part in the regulation of thyrotropin and adrenocorticotropic hormone secretion.
Wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase and Fast Blue were used as retrograde tracers to examine the distribution of coeruleohippocampal and coeruleospinal somata within the locus coeruleus of normal and tottering mutant mice. The distributions of these projection neuron populations in normal mice are similar to what has been found in other species, and the distributions of these projection neurons in tottering mice are indistinguishable from those in normal mice, in spite of the norepinephrine hyperinnervation of certain locus coeruleus targets, including the hippocampus, in the tottering mutant. These observations lend support to the notion that the defect in tottering acts fairly directly on mechanisms involved in the development of locus coeruleus axonal arbors within certain target regions.
Neurons containing transcripts encoding neurokinin B, a member of the tachykinin family, were studied in the rat caudate-putamen using hybridization histochemistry. Neurons containing neurokinin B mRNA were distributed throughout the caudate-putamen, with a slightly higher density in the middle portions as compared with the more rostral and caudal portions. These neurons were either isolated, often located close to neurons devoid of neurokinin B mRNA, or in small clusters of three to 10 cells. A larger group of neurons with neurokinin B mRNA was seen in the ventrolateral caudate-putamen, near the tip of the external capsule. Neurokinin B mRNA was colocalized in neurons with substance P (59% of neurokinin B neurons had substance P mRNA) and with enkephalin mRNA (25% of neurokinin B neurons had enkephalin mRNA). After injections of the fluorescent dye Fluorogold into the globus pallidus and substantia nigra, retrograde axonal transport studies demonstrated neurokinin B mRNA in striatopallidal but not striatonigral projections. The influence of dopaminergic input on the level of neurokinin B mRNA in the caudate-putamen was studied after 6-hydroxydopamine lesions of the substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area. Both the number of cells detected containing neurokinin B mRNA as well as the level of transcripts per cell increased on the side ipsilateral to the lesion, whereas the opposite was seen on the contralateral side. These results describe a novel neurochemical system within the rat basal ganglia that is regulated by dopaminergic innervation from the mesencephalon.
Injections of the retrograde tracer, wheat germ agglutinated-horseradish peroxidase were placed in the substantia nigra, in adjoining dopamine-containing cell groups A8 and A10, and in the internal and external parts of the pallidal complex of 20 cats in order to identify the compartmental origins of striatal efferent projections to the pallidum and midbrain. Patterns of retrograde cell-labeling in the caudate nucleus were analysed with respect to its striosomal architecture as detected in sections stained for acetylcholinesterase. Where possible, a similar compartmental analysis of cell-labeling in the putamen was also carried out. In 15 cats anterograde labeling in the striatum was studied in the sections stained with wheat germ agglutinated-horseradish peroxidase or in autoradiographically treated sections from cases in which [35S]methionine was mixed with the wheat germ agglutinated-horseradish peroxidase in the injection solution. Predominant labeling of projection neurons lying in striosomes (usually with some labeling of dorsomedial matrix neurons) occurred in a subset of the cases of nigral injection, including all cases (n = 9) in which the injection sites were centered in the densocellular zone of the substantia nigra pars compacta [Jimnez-Castellanos J. and Graybiel A. M. (1987) Neuroscience 23, 223-242.] Dense labeling of neurons in the extrastriosomal matrix, with at most sparse labeling of striosomal neurons, occurred in all cases of pallidal injection (n = 8) and in two cases of nigral injection in which the injection sites were lateral and anterior to the densocellular zone. Mixed labeling of striosomal and matrical neurons occurred in a third group of cases in which the injection sites were lateral to the densocellular zone but close to it. In a single case with an injection site situated in the pars lateralis of the substantia nigra, there was preferential labeling of striosomal neurons in the caudal caudate nucleus but widespread labeling of neurons in both striosomes and matrix in the putamen. A second type of compartmental ordering of projection neurons was found in the extrastriosomal matrix of the striatum. In cases of pallidal and nigral injection, there were gaps in cell labeling that did not match striosomes precisely, and often clusters of labeled cells appeared that did not correspond to acetylcholinesterase-poor striosomes but, instead, to patches of matrix. Especially prominent were clusters beside striosomes. There was a topographic ordering of striatal projection neurons both in the striosomes and in the extrastriosomal matrix according to their dorsoventral and latitudinal positions.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The dual effect of capsaicin on primary afferent neurons, excitation and stimulation of transmitter release, its dependence on extracellular calcium and its modulation by Ruthenium Red have been investigated in the rabbit ear. Injection of capsaicin into the central artery of the isolated perfused ear with intact neuronal connection induced a reflex fall in systemic arterial blood pressure of the anaesthetized rabbit. Addition of Ruthenium Red (0.6-20 microM) to the perfusate of the ear reversibly attenuated this response in a dose-dependent manner. Perfusion of the ear with a Ca2+-free, 3 mM EGTA-containing physiological salt solution enhanced the capsaicin-evoked depressor reflex but did not prevent the inhibitory action of Ruthenium Red. Perfusion of the isolated rabbit ear with capsaicin (10 microM)-containing physiological salt solution induced the release of substance P-like immunoreactivity which was inhibited by Ruthenium Red (0.6-20 microM) and by omission of extracellular Ca2+. The results demonstrate that capsaicin-evoked transmitter release is dependent on extracellular calcium while capsaicin-evoked excitation is not reduced in a Ca2+-free perfusate. Both effects of capsaicin are potently inhibited by Ruthenium Red. The fact that capsaicin-induced excitation of primary afferents is antagonized by Ruthenium Red also in the absence of extracellular Ca2+ suggests this inhibitory action of Ruthenium Red is not only mediated by inhibition of transmembrane Ca2+ fluxes.
Substance P-like immunoreactivity was assayed in superfusates of guinea-pig ureters following stimulation of afferent fibres with capsaicin, potassium chloride and the calcium channel agonist Bay K 8644. Capsaicin-evoked release of substance P-like immunoreactivity was calcium-dependent but unaffected by cobalt. Under appropriate conditions release was dose-related (ED50 = 610 nM) and reproducible. Selective desensitization to capsaicin could be demonstrated following prolonged exposure to different doses of capsaicin. No desensitization to capsaicin was observed following afferent fibre stimulation with a combination of Bay K 8644 and K+, which released a similar amount of substance P-like immunoreactivity as a desensitizing capsaicin stimulus. These data suggest that depletion of releasable substance P-like reactivity is unlikely to account for selective desensitization of ureteric primary afferent fibres to capsaicin.
Origins and pathways of cerebrovascular substance P- and calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive nerves in rat were studied by immunohistochemistry combined with denervation experiments and retrograde axonal tracer technique. The two peptides have been found to coexist in one and the same neuron. After sectioning of the nasociliary nerve bilaterally the substance P/calcitonin gene-related peptide fibers in the rostral half of the circle of Willis and its branches were eliminated, whereas the number decreased in the caudal half of the circle of Willis and rostral two thirds of the basilar artery. Substance P/calcitonin gene-related peptide fibers in the internal carotid arteries, the caudal third of the basilar artery and the vertebral arteries were not affected by the nerve section. After application of the retrograde axonal tracer True Blue onto the proximal segment of the middle cerebral artery the dye accumulated in several Substance P/calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing cells in the ophthalmic division of the ipsilateral trigeminal ganglion and in a few cells in the maxillary trigeminal division and in the internal carotid miniganglion. No other cranial ganglia accumulating the dye contained any substance P/calcitonin gene-related peptide-positive cells. It is concluded that the rostral portion and part of the caudal portion of the cerebral vessels are innervated by substance P/calcitonin gene-related peptide-containing fibers from the trigeminal ganglion and the internal carotid miniganglion. The great majority of trigeminal fibers reach the vessels via the nasociliary nerve of the ophthalmic division, which enters the cranial cavity through the ethmoidal foramen, whereas fibers from the miniganglion project directly to the bypassing internal carotid artery. A probable pathway for the fibers from the maxillary division is suggested. The caudal portion receives, in addition, a supply from other sensory ganglia (lower cranial and/or upper cervical dorsal root ganglia).
The morphological features of a putative connection between the main olfactory bulb and the supraoptic nucleus of the rat was studied using a combination of anatomical techniques. Immunocytochemistry of neurophysin-containing processes were employed to delineate morphological features of supraoptic dendrites. Main olfactory bulb efferents to the supraoptic nucleus were studied by injection of the anterogradely transported substances, wheatgerm agglutinin conjugated horseradish peroxidase or Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, into the main olfactory bulb. To confirm the results of these studies, the distribution of retrogradely labeled cells within the main olfactory bulb was determined after injection of rhodamine-labeled latex microspheres or Fluoro-Gold into the supraoptic nucleus. Neurophysin immunocytochemistry revealed the supraoptic nucleus dendritic plexus which coursed anteroposteriorly beneath supraoptic somata. Additionally, a portion of this plexus also projected ventrolaterally into periamygdaloid areas, a feature of supraoptic architecture which is not generally appreciated. The anterograde tracers labeled main olfactory bulb efferents including a dense plexus of terminals and fibers ventrolateral to the ipsilateral supraoptic nucleus. The pattern of anterogradely labeled fibers and terminals appeared to overlap with the distribution of ventrolaterally projecting neurophysin-containing processes. Since the latter consists of dendritic processes of supraoptic origin, this suggests that the main olfactory bulb projects to the supraoptic nucleus. Injections of rhodamine-labeled latex microspheres or Fluoro-Gold resulted in retrogradely labeled mitral cells throughout the ipsilateral main olfactory bulb. Taken together, these anatomical studies demonstrate a direct projection from the main olfactory bulb to the supraoptic nucleus of the rat. A comparison electrophysiological study confirmed these results.
The afferent input to the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons from the pontomesencephalic tegmentum was examined by retrograde transport of wheatgerm agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase in combination with immunohistochemistry. Multiple tyrosine hydroxylase-, dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-, serotonin- and choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive fibres were observed in the vicinity of the choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive cell bodies within the globus pallidus, substantia innominata and magnocellular preoptic nucleus. Micro-injections of horseradish peroxidase-conjugated wheatgerm agglutinin into this area of cholinergic perikarya led to retrograde labelling of a large population of neurons within the pontomesencephalic tegmentum, which included cells in the ventral tegmental area, substantia nigra, retrorubral field, raphe nuclei, reticular formation, pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, parabrachial nuclei and locus coeruleus nucleus. Of the total population of retrogradely labelled neurons, a significant (approximately 25%) proportion were tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive and found in the ventral tegmental area (A10), the substantia nigra (A9), the retrorubral field (A8), the raphe nuclei (dorsalis, linearis and interfascicularis) and the locus coeruleus nucleus (A6), Another important contingent (approximately 10%) was represented by serotonin neurons of the dorsal raphe nucleus (B7), the central superior nucleus (B8) and ventral tegmentum (B9). A small proportion (less than 1%) was represented by cholinergic neurons of the pedunculopontine (Ch5) and laterodorsal (Ch6) tegmental nuclei. These results demonstrate that pontomesencephalic monoamine neurons project in large numbers up to the basal forebrain cholinergic neurons and may represent a major component of the ventral tegmental pathway that forms the extra-thalamic relay from the brainstem through the basal forebrain to the cerebral cortex.
The purpose of this investigation was to examine the organization of the olivocerebellar projection in the homozygous staggerer mouse. The adult stagger cerebellum is devoid of most Purkinje cells which are the primary target neurons for olivocerebellar fibers. Many of the remaining Purkinje cells are ectopic. In the first experiments, a small injection of a tritiated amino acid was placed into the staggerer inferior olivary complex. In coronal sections, longitudinal strips of labeled axons and olivocerebellar fiber terminals were separated by similarly oriented regions that contained little or no olivocerebellar fiber label. Within a given orthogonal band, olivocerebellar fiber terminal label was visualized around Purkinje cell soma and primary dendrites. The labeled olivocerebellar fiber axons were usually located just ventral to these labeled olivocerebellar fiber terminals. Analysis of the distribution of olivocerebellar fiber terminals in the staggerer cases indicated the presence of 10-11 distinct zones, which is slightly less than that reported in normal mice. In the next set of experiments, a small injection of horseradish peroxidase conjugated with wheat germ agglutinin was made into different mediolateral cerebellar regions. These results demonstrated that staggerer olivocerebellar fibers are entirely contralateral and are also organized topographically in a manner similar to the pattern seen in the normal animal. Thus, severe depletion and ectopia of staggerer Purkinje cells does not greatly alter olivocerebellar fiber organization.
In immunohistochemical studies on rat two types of nerve fibres, both showing substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity, have been localized in the sphenopalatine ganglion, the principal cells of which contain both vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and choline acetyltransferase. One fine-calibre fibre type forms basket-like arrangements around approximately 3-5% of the principal neurons, whereas another, more coarse type traverses the ganglion without making contacts with the ganglion cells. By transection of nerves connecting with the ganglion, in combination with retrograde tracing experiments, it was concluded that the fine-calibre fibres exclusively come from the trigeminal ganglion, whereas the second type in addition, and mainly, originate in the internal carotid ganglion which is situated along the greater superficial petrosal nerve and the pterygoid nerve at their junction with the internal carotid nerve. The brain vasculature was shown to be one target structure for the innervated principal cells in the sphenopalatine ganglion. The arrangement provides the functional possibility for a modulatory interaction between the autonomic and sensory systems, thus resembling an axon reflex mechanism in the peripheral nervous system.
A chloride current activated by an increase in intracellular calcium concentration is not present in all neurons of the trigeminal ganglion. It is not known whether the trigeminal neurons expressing calcium-activated chloride current belong to a defined class of neurons or whether they could belong to any class of sensory neurons. An answer to this question would be of importance because the physiological role of calcium-activated chloride current in neurons has not yet been completely established, nonetheless it is clear that this current, when activated, would act to modulate neuronal excitability. The goal of this study was to determine whether there was a difference in the expression of calcium-activated chloride current between neurons with and without substance P. The rationale was that the use of this morphological marker, which is present in a substantial fraction of embryonic trigeminal neurons, may give a first estimate of a possible inhomogeneity in the expression of calcium-activated chloride current among different classes of sensory neurons. The study was done on freshly dissociated neurons in order to minimize the influence of the culture conditions on the expression of the current or of substance P. By recording from large samples of neurons in cultures either enriched or depleted in substance P-containing neurons, we found that neurons with substance P expressed calcium-activated chloride current three times less frequently than neurons without substance P. This observation was confirmed by performing the immunocytochemical labelling for substance P immediately after the electrophysiological assessment of the presence or absence of calcium-activated chloride current. This result indicates that calcium-activated chloride current may not be randomly distributed in neurons of a sensory ganglion. It raises the possibility that neurons belonging to certain sensory modalities may need calcium-activated chloride current for their physiological functioning.
A combination of choline acetyltransferase immunohistochemistry and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry was used to characterize the ultrastructural distribution of acetylcholinesterase in identified cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons in the ferret brain. Previous studies have shown that most of the cholinergic input to the brain arises from choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons found in the neostriatum, basal forebrain and dorsolateral pontine tegmentum. In all these cells intense staining for acetylcholinesterase was localized within the cisternae of the rough endoplasmic reticulum, in the nuclear envelope and Golgi apparatus, and along the plasma membranes of the soma and dendrites. In contrast, the distribution of acetylcholinesterase in non-cholinergic neurons was restricted mainly to the cisternae of the endoplasmic reticulum and the nuclear envelope. Since previous studies have associated high levels of acetylcholinesterase staining with non-cholinergic neurons in the locus coeruleus and substantia nigra zona compacta, these areas were examined as well. The ultrastructural localization of acetylcholinesterase in the principal locus coeruleus neurons was as observed in typical non-cholinergic neurons. On the other hand, the distribution of acetylcholinesterase in the principal cells of the zona compacta of the substantia nigra was more like that found in cholinergic neurons. In conclusion, the subcellular distribution of acetylcholinesterase in the principal cholinergic neurons of the brain follows a characteristic pattern which, with one exception, is different from that of acetylcholinesterase-positive non-cholinergic neurons.
It has previously been found that, in the presence of naloxone, the ganglionic blocking drug hexamethonium fails to completely block peristaltic motility in the isolated ileum of the guinea-pig. This hexamethonium-resistant peristaltic activity is coordinated by enteric nerves since it is abolished by tetrodotoxin. In the present study the neurotransmitter circuitry of this type of peristalsis was studied by means of specific antagonists. Atropine totally suppressed hexamethonium-resistant peristalsis. This type of peristalsis was also strongly inhibited by the tachykinin antagonist, spantide, if a concentration sufficient to antagonize neuronally located substance P receptors was employed. In contrast, the cholecystokinin antagonist, lorglumide, caused only a slight inhibition of hexamethonium-resistant peristalsis. Both substance P and the cholecystokinin-related peptide, ceruletide, potently stimulated the hexamethonium-resistant type of peristaltic activity. These data indicate that, after blockade of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, tachykinins mediate neuroneuronal coordination of peristalsis whereas acetylcholine acting via muscarinic receptors may be primarily responsible for neuromuscular transmission. Cholecystokinin-like peptides appear to play a modulator rather than a mediator role in hexamethonium-resistant peristalsis.
Intracellular recordings were made from fetal mouse spinal cord neurons in primary culture. One type of neuron, with large somata (40-50 microns diameter) and thick neurites exhibited endogenous bursting or beating pacemaker electrical activity. Noradrenaline depolarized this type of neuron by decreasing an M-like conductance. Micropressure application of serotonin (10(-5) M in the delivery pipette) onto the surface of pacemaker neurons evoked a depolarization of the membrane potential in a dose-dependent manner with an increased input resistance. No such response was observed with other types of spinal cord neurons in culture. The response to serotonin was partially voltage-dependent. The serotonin-induced depolarization reversed at holding potential close to -100 mV. However, the input resistance variation evoked by serotonin increased exponentially when membrane potential was depolarized. The reversal potential was modified by increasing extracellular K+ concentration and it was unaltered by increasing the intracellular Cl- concentration. The decrease in K+ conductance induced by serotonin was not suppressed by the application of tetraethylammonium (50 mM) or 4-aminopyridine (10 mM). Furthermore, application of Ba2+ (6 mM) or Cd2+ (0.1 mM) had no effect on this response, suggesting that the depolarization evoked by serotonin application was not calcium-dependent. The serotonin evoked increase in input resistance was mediated by activation of a 5-HT1A-like receptor site. Spiperone, a 5-HT1A antagonist reversibly blocked the response. Methiothepin, a 5-HT1-5-HT2 antagonist (10(-3) M); cocaine, a 5-HT3 antagonist (10(-3) M); ketanserin, a 5-HT2 antagonist (10(-3) M); and prazosin, an alpha 1 antagonist (10(-3) M) had no effect.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Oligodendrocytes, the cells responsible for myelin sheath formation in the central nervous system, were isolated from primary dissociated mixed glial cultures prepared from newborn mouse forebrain, and further cultured in a serum-free defined culture medium. Single and double indirect immunofluorescence using antibodies against the myelin glycolipids, galactocerebroside and sulfatide, and the myelin proteins, myelin basic protein and 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphohydrolase, was used to investigate the composition of the flat membrane extensions produced by some oligodendrocytes in culture. Galactocerebroside and sulfatide were both expressed on the external surface of the plasma membrane of oligodendrocyte cell bodies and processes and also the membrane expansions. Neither myelin basic protein nor 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphohydrolase were expressed on the external surface of oligodendrocytes. Myelin basic protein could be localized to the cell body and the membrane expansions but not the major and fine processes. The localization of these myelin components suggests that the expansions have characteristics of the mature myelin membrane. 2',3'-Cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphohydrolase was found to be localized in the cell body, and in total contrast to myelin basic protein, in the major processes and the fine interconnecting processes, but not the membrane expansions. In some of the cells 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphohydrolase was present at the outer extremities of the flat membrane sheets, giving the appearance of an extending growth region. Our results thus clearly show that 2',3'-cyclic nucleotide 3'-phosphohydrolase is localized within oligodendrocytes in discrete regions of plasma membranes and suggest that this protein has a possible role in the early stages of myelin formation.
The presence and intra-axonal transport of calcitonin gene-related peptide and chromogranin A were investigated in motor neurons belonging to the rat sciatic nerve. Their co-localization with markers of cholinergic organelles (SV2, p38, and synapsin I) was also investigated, using immunofluorescence techniques, including double labelling experiments. It was found that motor perikarya in the lumbar spinal cord contained calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity and chromogranin A-like immunoreactivity, and probably also caligulin-like immunoreactivity, located in the Nissl substance of the cytoplasm. Also, some SV2 (detected by the monoclonal antibody 10H) was present in some motor neuron perikarya, but most often these were devoid of SV2 and p38, as well as of synapsin I-like immunoreactivity. These three antigens were, on the other hand, concentrated in nerve terminals in the entire gray substance of the spinal cord. In the ventral root, after crushing, calcitonin gene-related peptide, chromogranin A, synapsin I, SV2, p38 and caligulin-like immunoreactivity accumulated in thick and medium-sized axons proximal to the crush, while only antisera against SV2 and p38 labelled accumulated material distal to the crush. In the sciatic nerve, the same essential picture was observed as in the ventral root, but here two other nervous components were also present in the normal sciatic nerve, i.e. peripheral branches of the sensory system and axons of the sympathetic system. By various denervation procedures, it was demonstrated that most calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity and almost all chromogranin A-like immunoreactivity, accumulating in thick axons proximally, emanated from the ventral root. Thin and medium-sized axons originated from the sensory and sympathetic systems and contributed to accumulations both proximally and distally to the crush. Synapsin I-like immunoreactive material accumulated only proximal to the crush, while SV2 and p38-like material accumulated bidirectionally in axons of all sizes. In motor endplates of the rat diaphragm and gastrocnemic muscle, no calcitonin gene-related peptide-like material was observed. However, some chromogranin A-like immunoreactivity was present, in addition to large amounts of synapsin I-like, p38-like and SV2-like material, which had a finely granular appearance and was concentrated near the presynaptic membrane of the nerve terminal endfeet, where synaptic vesicles are known to be located.
We have examined the distribution pattern and the density of various neuropeptide, neurotransmitter and enzyme containing neurons in the rat medial septum and the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca to assess their possible involvement in the septohippocampal, septocortical and septobulbar pathways. Immunohistochemical methods were combined with the retrograde transport of a protein-gold complex injected in the hippocampus, the cingulate cortex or the olfactory bulb. Cholinergic neurons were the most numerous. Galanin-positive neurons were about two or three times less numerous than cholinergic cells. Both these cell types had a similar location though the choline acetyl transferase-like immunoreactive cells extended more caudally in the horizontal limb of the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca. Immunoreactive cells for other neuroactive substances were few (calcitonin gene-related peptide, luteinizing hormone releasing hormone. [Met]enkephalin-arg-gly-leu) or occasional (dynorphin B, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, somatostatin, neurotensin, cholecystokinin, neuropeptide Y and substance P). No immunoreactive cells for bombesin, alpha atrial natriuretic factor, corticotropin releasing factor, 5-hydroxytryptamine, melanocyte stimulating hormone, oxytocin, prolactin, tyrosine hydroxylase or arg-vasopressin were present. Choline acetyltransferase- and galanin-like immunoreactive cells densely participate to septal efferents. Cholinergic neurons constituted the bulk of septal efferent neurons. Galanin-positive cells were 22% of septohippocampal, 8% of septocortical, and 9% of septobulbar neurons. Galanin containing septohippocampal neurons were found in the medial septum and the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca; galanin-positive septobulbar and septocortical cells were limited to the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca. Occasional double-labellings were noticed with some peptides other than galanin. Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, calcitonin gene-related peptide and enkephalin were the most often observed; some other projecting cells stained for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide or dynorphin B. Luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone, calcitonin gene-related peptide and enkephalin were observed in septohippocampal neurons; luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and vasoactive intestinal peptide were observed in septocortical neurons and calcitonin gene-related peptide, luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone and dynorphin B were observed in septo-bulbar cells. These results show that, in addition to acetylcholine, galanin is a major cellular neuroactive substance in septal projections to the hippocampus, the cingulate cortex and the olfactory bulb. The presence of septal projecting neurons immunoreactive for other peptides shows that a variety of distinct peptides may also participate, but in a smaller number, to septal efferent pathways.
Coexistence of corticotropin releasing factor and neurotensin and also of substance P and somatostatin was demonstrated in the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the central amygdaloid nucleus of the rat, by means of a light microscopic mirror method or immunofluorescent double staining. Using the former technique, a major proportion of corticotropin releasing factor-like immunoreactive cells were found to display neurotensin-like immunoreactivity in the dorsal subdivision of the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the lateral subdivision of the central amygdaloid nucleus. On the other hand, the immunofluorescent method showed that a significant number of neurons with both substance P- and somatostatin-like immunoreactivity were located in the ventral subdivision of the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the medial subdivision of the central amygdaloid nucleus. Distribution patterns of such co-localized peptides may indicate that there are morphological and biochemical similarities between the dorsal subdivision of the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the lateral subdivision of the central amygdaloid nucleus, as well as between the ventral subdivision of the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and the medial subdivision of the central amygdaloid nucleus. Previous studies have demonstrated that peptide-containing neurons in the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and central amygdaloid nucleus, such as corticotropin releasing factor-, neurotensin-, substance P- and somatostatin-like immunoreactive cells, project to the lower brainstem. The results of the present study suggest that corticotropin releasing factor/neurotensin and substance P/somatostatin neurons may be part of the lateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis/central amygdaloid nucleus-lower brainstem pathways.
The metallopeptidase enkephalinase known to participate in the inactivation of endogenous enkephalins and, possibly, other neuropeptides such as tachykinins, was visualized by autoradiography using a [125I]iodinated monoclonal antibody. A detailed mapping of the enzyme in rat brain and spinal cord was established on 10-micron serial sections prepared in a frontal plane as well as a few sections in a sagittal plane. On adjacent sections, and for the purpose of comparison, substance P-like and enkephalin-like immunoreactivities were also visualized by autoradiography using a 125I-monoclonal antibody and a polyclonal antibody detected by a secondary 125I-anti-rabbit antibody respectively. Histological structures were identified on adjacent Nissl-stained sections. Using the highly sensitive 125I-probe, enkephalinase immunoreactivity was found to be distributed in a markedly heterogeneous manner in all areas of the central nervous system. Immunoreactivity was undetectable in white matter areas, for example the corpus callosum or fornix, and had a laminar pattern in, for example, the cerebral cortex or hippocampal formation. Hence, although immunodetection was not performed at the cellular level, a major neuronal localization of the peptidase is suggested. The latter is consistent with the detection of a strong immunoreactivity in a pathway linking the striatum to the globus pallidum, the entopeduncular nucleus and the substantia nigra, as well as with a series of biochemical and lesion data. The strong immunoreactivity also present in choroid plexuses and ependymal cells as well as in the intermediate lobe and in scattered cells of the anterior lobe of the pituitary suggests that populations of glial and endocrine cells also express the peptidase. The highest density of enkephalinase immunoreactivity was observed in basal ganglia and limbic areas (caudate putamen, globus pallidus, nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercles) as well as in areas involved in pain control mechanisms (superficial layers of the spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve or of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord) which also display the highest immunoreactivities for both enkephalins and substance P (except in globus pallidus for the latter). These localizations account for the opioid-like analgesic and motor effects of enkephalinase inhibitors inasmuch as a selective or predominant participation of the peptidase in enkephalin inactivation is assumed. A number of other areas appear richly endowed in both enkephalinase and enkephalins whereas substance P is hardly detectable. This is particularly the case for the olfactory bulb, bed nucleus of the accessory olfactory tract, the cerebellum (where enkephalinase mainly occurs in the molecular layer) and the hippocampal formation (namely in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Striatal dopamine was depleted in adult rats by unilateral infusion of 6-hydroxydopamine near the dopamine neurons of the pars compacta of the substantia nigra. Following survival periods of 1, 3, 4, 6 or 12 weeks, changes in levels of the tachykinin neuropeptide, substance P, in striatonigral axon terminals were assessed by quantitative radioimmunocytochemistry. Substance P levels in the ipsilateral substantia nigra were consistently lower than levels on the control (non-lesion) side at every time point examined, reaching a maximum decline of about 30% at 3 weeks after the lesion. These data show that there is no recovery of nigral substance P content to basal levels up to 3 months post-lesion, and suggest strongly that intact striatal dopamine innervation is required for the maintenance of basal substance P levels in the terminals of striatonigral substance P neurons.
This paper describes the results of experiments designed to address whether neuron populations giving rise to different ventral pallidal efferent projections are segregated in a manner concordant with the recently described immunohistochemical compartmentation of ventral pallidum. The retrograde transport of horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheatgerm agglutinin following injections in the ventral tegmental area of Tsai, medial substantia nigra and subthalamic nucleus was charted in relationship to the patterns of immunohistochemical staining in the forebrain following incubation of sections in antisera against substance P, neurotensin or leucine-enkephalin. In some cases the retrograde labeling and immunohistochemical protocols were combined in the same experiment. As a supplement, the electron microscope was utilized to investigate the ultrastructure and synaptic input of projecting cells making up populations of ventral pallidum neurons that project to different efferent targets. The results indicated that the immunocytochemical compartmentation of ventral pallidum observed in our earlier study is reflected in the organization of neurons from which ventral pallidal efferents originate. Thus, axons destined to terminate in the medial parts of substantia nigra and subthalamic nucleus project from neurons located in the lateral, neurotensin immunoreactivity-deficient part of ventral pallidum and the globus pallidus. Fibers en route to the ventral tegmental area originate in neurotensin immunoreactivity-rich medial parts of the ventral pallidum as part of a large cluster of retrogradely labeled neurons that invades several forebrain structures, including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, preoptic regions, and the nuclei of the diagonal band. The electron microscopic results provided additional evidence distinguishing the medial and lateral compartments of ventral pallidum. Whereas projection neurons located in both compartments display similar cytologic features, the density of synaptic input to retrogradely labeled perikarya and proximal dendrites following injections in the subthalamic nucleus is significantly greater than that seen following injections in the ventral tegmental area. Although no attempt was made to examine more distal parts of labeled dendrites in the present study, the observation that most dendritic profiles in the medial part of ventral pallidum were less contacted by boutons than their counterparts in the lateral district suggests that the level of innervation of projection neurons is generally lesser in medial ventral pallidum. This hypothesis is further supported by the presence in the medial ventral pallidum of significant numbers of &quot;glial blockades,&quot; a cytologic configuration that is clearly capable of preventing functional interactions and is rarely observed in the lateral ventral pallidum...
In order to begin to investigate the developmental factors influencing co-localized neurotransmitters in the central nervous system, we have studied the ontogenesis of coexisting transmitters, substance P and serotonin, in cells of the medullary raphe of the fetal mouse using double-label immunocytochemistry. The results indicate that initial detection of these neurotransmitters occurs at embryonic day 12 in non-overlapping cell populations. Substance P-like immunoreactivity is first co-localized with serotonin in cells of the caudal medullary raphe (raphe pallidus and raphe obscurus) at embryonic day 13. The percentage of serotonin cells containing substance P was estimated at embryonic day 13 and subsequent gestational ages both by double-label immunofluorescence using fluorescein- and rhodamine-conjugated secondary antibodies and also by the elution technique. Double-label immunofluorescence routinely and reliably yielded the highest proportion of co-localized cells. At embryonic day 13, 89% of serotonin cells contained substance P-like immunoreactivity. A consistently high degree of co-localization occurred throughout embryonic development (87% at postnatal day 3) and into adulthood (87%). Colchicine treatment was required at older ages to elicit these data. Unexpectedly, we found that neurons containing substance P-like immunoreactivity in the piriform cortex and in the hypothalamus transiently expressed serotonin immunoreactivity during normal ontogenesis.
