Static torque-angle relationships (invariant characteristics) as measured by Feldman [Feldman A. G. (1980) Neuroscience 5, 81-90] at the human elbow joint for constant descending excitatory drive have a monotonic convex shape determining joint angle-dependent stiffness. In contrast, for constant activation of elbow flexors, the torque increases, peaks and decreases again with increasing angle because of related moment arm alterations [Hasan Z. and Enoka R. M. (1985) Expl Brain Res. 59, 441-450]. Conversion of such constant-excitation torque-angle shapes into an invariant characteristic might result from action of the stretch reflex which adds excitation with increasing joint angle. To test whether a simple linear model of the stretch reflex could convert constant excitation torque-angle relationships into invariant characteristics, the following assumptions were made. (1) Muscle fibre length increases linearly with joint angle. (2) Reflex muscle excitation (electromyogram) is linearly related to muscle (fibre) length. With these assumptions, invariant characteristic shape cannot be derived from constant excitation torque-angle relationships because it would be sigmoid at low and nearly straight at large joint angles, whilst real flexor invariant characteristics are more convex at large than small angles. It is suggested that recurrent inhibition via Renshaw cells contributes to bend the invariant characteristics into their right shape. Renshaw cells show a nonlinear saturating dependence on motor axon input rate and amount of excitation, i.e. number of active axon collateral synapses. These relationships can contribute to shape motoneuron output so as to yield convex invariant characteristics. Whilst it is not quite clear whether the gain of recurrent inhibition from and to skeleto-motoneurons is high enough to co-determine the invariant characteristic shape significantly, recurrent inhibition of Ia inhibitory interneurons mediating reciprocal inhibition between antagonists is supposed to be quite strong and may influence joint stiffness by interacting with reciprocal inhibition. The arguments presented here extend those of Feldman and co-workers concerning the role of recurrent inhibition and in addition provide a possible explanation for the functional role of mutual inhibition between Renshaw cells. Together with reflex feedback, recurrent inhibition thus contributes to fine-regulate force output and joint stiffness. To account for this cooperation and to make another step towards a general theory of spinal cord circuits, major traits of a new concept are briefly outlined.
Double-pulse methods are used here to measure the refractory periods and conduction velocities of the pyramidal tract axons which cause forelimb flexion in pentobarbital anesthetized rats. In the refractory period experiments, conditioning and test pulses were delivered to the motor cortex, the ipsilateral internal capsule, or the ipsilateral pyramid, and the maximum force exerted by the contralateral forelimb was measured at various conditioning-test intervals. The movements increased as conditioning-test interval increased from 0.5 to 1.0 ms in pyramid sites, from 0.6 to 1.5 in internal capsule sites, and from 0.6 to 2.0 ms in surface cortical sites, suggesting longer refractory periods for the substrates at more rostral sites. In cortical sites, as the conditioning-test interval increased from 4.0 to 20.0 ms, the movements decreased gradually to the single-pulse level, suggesting decreasing temporal summation at longer conditioning-test intervals. In the collision experiments, when conditioning pulses were delivered to one site and test pulses to a second site, the movements increased at conditioning-test intervals that were longer by 0.5-1.3 ms than the refractory periods in either site. This suggests that collisions occurred between orthodromic and antidromic action potentials in the pyramidal tract axons responsible for the limb movement. The collision-like increase was greater between internal capsule and pyramid than between cortex and pyramid, or between cortex and internal capsule. The estimated conduction times were 0.9-1.5 ms between cortex and pyramid, 0.4-0.8 ms between cortex and internal capsule, and 0.5-0.8 ms between internal capsule and pyramid. The range of conduction velocities, therefore, was quite narrow between all pairs (8.8-16.8 m/s). The largest pyramidal tract axons appear to be responsible for most of the force of forelimb flexion in pentobarbital anesthetized rats.
Whole-cell patch clamp recordings were performed in embryonic chick brain slices to characterize responses to nicotinic receptor activation in the mesencephalic lateral spiriform nucleus. Using intracellular recording, we previously reported the presence of functional high-affinity nicotinic sites in this nucleus that are insensitive to blockade with kappa- and alpha-bungarotoxin. We now report that nicotinic agonists not only produce an inward current in these cells, but also elicit a massive increase in the frequency of spontaneous postsynaptic currents without changing the amplitude distribution or risetime and decay kinetics of these events. The nicotinic receptor antagonist, dihydro-beta-erythroidine, blocks both the postsynaptic inward current and the enhancement of spontaneous postsynaptic currents. The spontaneous currents reverse at or near the chloride ion equilibrium potential and are completely blocked by 10 microM bicuculline, indicating that these events are likely to be GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents. The nicotinic agonist-induced enhancement in inhibitory postsynaptic current frequency is blocked by 1.0 microM tetrodotoxin, demonstrating that the effect is mediated through the activation of voltage-dependent sodium channels. Nicotinic receptors are widely distributed in the central nervous system and in some cases are thought to modulate the release of various neurotransmitters. Our results show that activation of nicotinic receptors facilitates inhibitory neurotransmission in the avian lateral spiriform nucleus by increasing the frequency of spontaneous GABAergic postsynaptic currents. These data support a role for nicotinic receptors in the regulation of GABA release from nerve terminals in this nucleus.
During development, recognition mechanisms between neurons and their targets are necessary for the formation of the neuronal network. Neural connections are synaptic or non-junctional. Both types of communication can be found between neurons and glial elements in the periventricular walls. Serotonergic fibers form synaptic contacts on the specialized ependymocytes of the subcommissural organ, a structure which forms the roof of the third ventricle at its junction with the aqueduct. A network of non-junctional fibers containing both GABA and serotonin spread between the cilia of the classical ependymocytes in the ventricles. These anatomical, morphological and biochemical features suggest a tropism and specific recognition mechanisms between glial elements and serotonergic neurons. This hypothesis can be tested by the study of the innervation of the subcommissural organ and the classical ependyma by grafted embryonic neurons after a chemical destruction of the serotonergic endogenous innervation. Solid implants or cell suspensions prepared from embryonic metencephalon were transplanted to either the third ventricle or the periventricular gray matter in 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine denervated rats. Grafted serotonergic neurons were able to reinnervate the classical ependyma and the subcommissural organ. The fibers forming the supraependymal plexus were non-junctional and contained both serotonin and GABA while those innervating the subcommissural organ formed synaptic contacts and contained only serotonin. The signals capable of inducing the ependymal innervation were specific for serotonergic neurons since catecholaminergic neurons present in the grafts were unable to innervate either classical or specialized ependymocytes. These results demonstrate that glial cells are targets for serotonergic neurons and that the morphological and biochemical characteristics of the serotonergic innervation are closely related to the target cell phenotype.
It has been proposed that Insulin-like growth factor I is involved in the development, growth and maintenance of the central nervous system possibly interacting with other trophic factors. High levels of insulin-like growth factor I have been detected in the cerebellum during development and adulthood suggesting a specific role for insulin-like growth factor I in this brain area. While there is ever increasing data regarding the cell types containing endogenous insulin-like growth factor I in the rat brain, no information on the human brain is yet available. In the present study we sought to analyse the precise location of insulin-like growth factor I peptide in the adult human cerebellum using a specific antiserum against recombinant human insulin-like growth factor I. After immunocytochemistry, numerous Purkinje cells exhibited intense positive staining occupying the cell soma, dendrites and dendritic spines as well as axons. Occasionally, immunoreactive Purkinje cell axons were arciform and exhibited bulbous dilatations along their proximal length. Putative recurrent collaterals of Purkinje cell axons were also insulin-like growth factor I reactive. Double-staining immunocytochemistry in the same sections consistently showed, as expected, co-expression of insulin-like growth factor I and calbindin, although a few calbindin containing Purkinje cells lacked insulin-like growth factor I immunostaining suggesting there are insulin-like growth factor I positive Purkinje cell subsets in the human cerebellum. In addition, co-expression of insulin-like growth factor I and low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor-immunoreactive protein was found in a subpopulation of insulin-like growth factor I positive Purkinje cells. The results of this study prove the presence of insulin-like growth factor I immunoreactivity in a Purkinje cell subpopulation of the adult human cerebellum suggesting that insulin-like growth factor I may participate in paracrine or autocrine regulatory systems in the adult human brain.
Both [3H]clonidine and [3H]idazoxan bind to alpha 2 adrenoceptors. The former also labels imidazoline receptors, and the latter non-adrenergic idazoxan binding sites. In order to investigate whether the imidazoline receptors and non-adrenergic idazoxan binding sites are identical, we compared the binding characteristics of [3H]clonidine and [3H]idazoxan to these sites by radioligand binding experiments on ultra-thin slices and homogenates of human striatum. A good correlation was found between the effect of different ions on the binding characteristics of [3H]clonidine and [3H]idazoxan, and the affinities of most competing drugs. However, clonidine and rilmenidine displayed a 100- and 10-fold lower affinity, respectively, for the idazoxan binding sites than for the imidazoline receptors. Autoradiography with [3H]clonidine showed that high densities of imidazoline receptors were present in the striatum, pallidum, gyrus dentatus of the hippocampus, amygdala, and substantia nigra. Moderate densities were found throughout the cerebral cortex, thalamus and several brainstem nuclei including the nucleus olivarius inferior. Low densities were seen in the cerebellum, spinal cord and pituitary gland. As for the non-adrenergic sites labelled by [3H]idazoxan, the imidazoline receptors can be found in all major brain areas examined. However, there are some striking differences between the concentrations of imidazoline receptors and non-adrenergic idazoxan binding sites in certain brain regions. To reconcile distribution and pharmacologic data, we propose that imidazoline receptors and non-adrenergic idazoxan binding sites represent different proteins or protein complexes and that at least in the nucleus reticularis lateralis and the striatum, imidazoline receptors and non-adrenergic idazoxan binding sites may be physically associated. The regional distribution of alpha 2 adrenoceptors within the human CNS was determined by quantitative autoradiography with [3H]RX821002. The highest densities of alpha 2 adrenoceptors were found in the cerebral and cerebellar cortex, and certain regions in the medulla oblongata (floor of the IV ventricle, reticular formation, hypoglossal nucleus and nucleus olivarius inferior). No alpha 2 adrenoceptors were detected in the pituitary gland. There exists no relationship between the distribution pattern of imidazoline receptors and alpha 2 adrenoceptors, indicating that these binding sites are independent from each other.
Antihistamines, more formally termed H1 receptor antagonists, are well known to exert sedative effects in humans, yet their locus and mechanism of action in the human brain remains unknown. To better understand this phenomenon, the effects of histamine upon human cortical neurons were studied using intracellular recordings in brain slices maintained in vitro. Bath application of 50 microM histamine induced a depolarization which could be attributed to reduction of a background voltage-independent &quot;leakage&quot; potassium current: the depolarization was associated with an increase in apparent input resistance, under voltage clamp its reversal potential approximated the potassium reversal potential, and the histamine-induced current exhibited little voltage dependence. The pharmacology of the histamine-induced depolarization of human cortical neurons was studied by use of both agonists and antagonists. Depolarizing responses were blocked by the H1 antagonist mepyramine, but not by the H2 antagonist cimetidine nor the H3 antagonist thioperamide. The H3 receptor agonist R-alpha-methyl-histamine did not mimic the effects of histamine. Thus, histamine depolarizes human cortical neurons via action at an H1 receptor. These effects of neuronal histamine upon cortical neurons are likely to affect synaptic transmission in several ways. The depolarization per se should increase the likelihood that excitatory synaptic potentials will evoke an action potential. The increase in whole-cell input resistance evoked by H1 receptor activation should make the cell more electrotonically compact, thereby altering its integrative properties. We hypothesize that these mechanisms would allow histamine, acting at cortical H1 receptors, to enhance behavioral arousal. During waking when histamine release is highest, blockade of H1 receptors by systemically administered H1 receptor antagonists would be sedating.
Postnatal development of ingrowing cholinergic and serotonergic fiber patterns were studied in the rat hippocampus and parietal cortex employing a histochemical procedure for acetylcholinesterase as a cholinergic fiber marker, and immunocytochemistry of serotonin for serotonergic fiber staining. The rat pups were killed at postnatal days 1, 3, 5, 7, 10, and 20. The development of cholinergic and serotonergic innervation was described and the fiber density quantified under normal conditions and after long-term prenatal anemic hypoxia induced by chronic exposure to sodium nitrite. Furthermore, a third group was studied in which the nitrite hypoxia was combined with a simultaneous treatment with the Ca(2+)-entry blocker nimodipine to test the neuroprotective potential of this drug. Quantitative measurement of fiber density from postnatal day 1 to day 20 yielded the following results: (i) both neurotransmitter systems revealed an age-dependent and an anatomically-organized developmental pattern; (ii) the serotonergic innervation of the dorsal hippocampus preceded that of cholinergic afferentation in postnatal days 1-3; (iii) prenatal hypoxia induced a transient delay in the innervation of parietal neocortex and dentate gyrus for both neurotransmitter systems, but left the innervation of the cornu ammonis unaffected; and (iv) the hypoxia-induced retardation of cholinergic and serotonergic fiber development was prevented by concomitant application of the Ca(2+)-antagonist nimodipine during the hypoxia. The results indicate that prenatal hypoxia evokes a temporary delay in the cholinergic and serotonergic fiber outgrowth in cortical target areas in a region-specific manner. The hypoxia-induced growth inhibition is prevented by the calcium antagonist nimodipine, which supports the importance of the intracellular Ca2+ homeostasis of cells and growth cones in regulating axonal proliferation.
Cholinergic drugs were shown to affect spike and wave discharges in a selected strain of Wistar rats with generalized non-convulsive absence epilepsy, named GAERS (Genetic Absence Epilepsy Rats from Strasbourg). The involvement of cholinergic transmission from the nucleus basalis in the control of absence seizures in GAERS was investigated in the present study, by examining the effects of unilateral excitotoxic lesions of this nucleus on the occurrence of spike-wave discharges. Ibotenate (0.01 M) and quisqualate (0.03 and 0.06 M)-induced lesions of the nucleus basalis suppressed spike-wave discharges in the cortex ipsilateral to the lesion. The suppression was associated with a disappearance of both acetylcholinesterase-fibres in the cerebral cortex and choline acetyltransferase immunopositive neurons within the nucleus basalis. Concomitantly, the background electroencephalographic activity was slowed. These results suggest that cholinergic innervation of the cerebral cortex by the nucleus basalis is involved in the occurrence of generalized non-convulsive seizures, in relation to the control of cortical activation.
Cataplexy in the narcoleptic canine has been shown to increase after local administration of carbachol into the pontine reticular formation. Rapid eye movement sleep has also been shown to increase after local administration of carbachol in the pontine reticular formation, and furthermore, acetylcholine release in the pontine tegmentum was found to increase during rapid eye movement sleep in rats. Therefore, in the present study we have investigated acetylcholine release in the pontine reticular formation during cataplexy in narcoleptic canines. Extracellular acetylcholine levels were measured in the pontine reticular formation of freely moving narcoleptic and control Doberman pinschers using in vivo microdialysis probes. Cataplexy was induced by the Food-Elicited Cataplexy Test and monitored using recordings of electroencephalogram, electrooculogram and electromyogram. Basal levels of acetylcholine in the microdialysis perfusates were approximately 0.5 pmol/10 min in both control and narcoleptic canines. Local perfusion with tetrodotoxin (10(-5) M) or artificial cerebrospinal fluid without Ca2+ produced a decrease, while intravenous injections of physostigmine (0.05 mg/kg) produced an increase in acetylcholine levels, indicating that the levels of acetylcholine levels measured are derived from neuronal release. During cataplexy induced by the Food-Elicited Cataplexy Test, acetylcholine levels increased by approximately 50% after four consecutive tests in narcoleptic canines, but did not change after four consecutive tests in control canines. Motor activity and feeding behavior, similar to that occurring during a Food-Elicited Cataplexy Test, had no effect on acetylcholine levels in the narcoleptic canines.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cataplexy in the narcoleptic canine has been shown to increase after systemic administration of cholinergic agonists. Furthermore, the number of cholinergic receptors in the pontine reticular formation of narcoleptic canines is significantly elevated. In the present study we have investigated the effects of cholinergic drugs administered directly into the pontine reticular formation on cataplexy, as defined by brief episodes of hypotonia induced by emotions, in narcoleptic canines. Carbachol and atropine were perfused through microdialysis probes implanted bilaterally in the pontine reticular formation of freely moving, narcoleptic and control Doberman pinschers. Cataplexy was quantified using the Food-Elicited Cataplexy Test, and analysed using recordings of electroencephalogram, electrooculogram and electromyogram. Cataplexy was characterized by a desynchronized electroencephalogram and a drop in electromyogram and electrooculogram activity. In narcoleptic canines, both unilateral and bilateral carbachol (10(-5) to 10(-3) M) produced a dose-dependent increase in cataplexy, which resulted in complete muscle tone suppression at the highest concentration. In control canines, neither bilateral nor unilateral carbachol (10(-5) to 10(-3) M) produced cataplexy, although bilateral carbachol, did produce muscle atonia at the highest dose (10(-3)). The increase in cataplexy after bilateral carbachol (10(-4) M) was rapidly reversed when the perfusion medium was switched to one containing atropine (10(-4) M). Bilateral atropine (10(-3) to 10(-2) M) alone did not produce any significant effects on cataplexy in narcoleptic canines; however, bilateral atropine (10(-2) M) did reduce the increase in cataplexy produced by systemic administration of physostigmine (0.05 mg/kg, i.v.). These findings demonstrate that cataplexy in narcoleptic canines can be stimulated by applying cholinergic agonists directly into the pontine reticular formation. The ability of atropine to inhibit locally and systemically stimulated cataplexy indicates that the pontine reticular formation is a critical component in cholinergic stimulation of cataplexy. Therefore, it is suggested that the pontine reticular formation plays a significant role in the cholinergic regulation of narcolepsy.
Major learning events are typically followed by a period during which the number and/or duration of rapid-eye movement sleep episodes is increased. Processes critical to memory formation are thought to take place during this interval of 'enhanced' rapid-eye movement sleep. We therefore compared the capacity for long-term potentiation during rapid-eye movement sleep and alert wakefulness after learning. Rats were chronically implanted with electrodes for stimulation of the perforant path and recording of evoked potentials and EEG in the dentate gyrus. After obtaining baseline recordings, rats were trained on a 40-trial two-way active avoidance task. Conditioned rats exhibited a two-fold increase in the mean duration of rapid-eye movement sleep episodes, as reflected by a prolongation of the hippocampal theta rhythm. There was no change in the sleep pattern of pseudoconditioned controls, which received explicitly unpaired tones and foot shocks in a yoked design. High-frequency stimulation was applied during the second, third, and fourth major rapid-eye movement sleep episodes after active avoidance training. Another group was tetanized at matching time points during alert wakefulness. After pseudoconditioning, tetanus applied during wakefulness or rapid-eye movement sleep readily induced long-term potentiation, and there was no difference between groups in the magnitude of increase for the population excitatory postsynaptic potential slope or the population spike height as measured 1 h, 24 h, and 5 days post-tetanus.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Vagal afferents originating in abdominal viscera initiate numerous centrally-mediated responses, including behavioural, cardiovascular and hormonal changes associated with satiety, and nausea and vomiting. The present work was undertaken to map the pontomedullary distribution of neurons expressing Fos immunoreactivity following unilateral electrical stimulation of abdominal vagal afferents in conscious unanaesthetized rabbits. After 2 h of stimulation of the anterior trunk of the abdominal vagus nerve (20 Hz, 0.5 mA, 0.5 ms duration, 4.5 min on, 0.5 min off), Fos-positive neurons were found in the area postrema, the nucleus tractus solitarius, the spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, the caudal and the rostral ventrolateral medulla, the locus coeruleus, the subcoeruleus and the lateral parabrachial nucleus. In all these regions, more than 70% of Fos-containing neurons occurred on the ipsilateral side. In control animals only occasional Fos-immunoreactive neurons were observed, usually very faintly labelled. Simultaneous staining for both Fos and tyrosine hydroxylase revealed Fos immunoreactivity in catecholamine neurons, including A1, A2, C1, A5, subcoeruleus and locus coeruleus (A6) groups. Our findings complement functional studies in the rabbit, identifying A1 neurons as part of the central pathway by which afferent abdominal vagal stimulation increases plasma vasopressin, and C1 neurons as part of the central pathway, whereby afferent abdominal vagal stimulation increase arterial pressure.
A small surgical lesion of the parietal cortex induces an increase in the expression of several messenger RNAs varying from 172 to 980% in the entire homolateral cerebral cortex, as detected by quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. The messenger RNAs encoding the immediate early genes of the leucine zipper family (c-fos, c-jun, jun-B), the Zinc finger family (zif268), the glucocorticoid receptor family (NGFI-B) and the interferon family (PC4) are increased within 2 h after the lesion and return to normal levels at 6 h. The messenger RNAs encoding cholecystokinin, neuropeptide Y, somatostatin and the synthetizing enzyme of the neurotransmitter GABA, glutamate decarboxylase, are elevated within one day and return to normal levels after six days. An intraperitoneal injection of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist dizocilpine maleate, 30 min before surgery, prevented either the induction of immediate early gene expression or the increase of neuropeptide and glutamate decarboxylase messenger RNA expression. This study demonstrates that a minimal cortical lesion induces extensive changes in gene expression and that the mechanism(s) leading to these changes involves the action of glutamate at the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor. These modifications may be of importance in explaining diffuse changes not related to neuronal circuitry in several conditions.
The antipsychotic effects of dopaminergic antagonists suggest dopaminergic hyperactivity plays a role in schizophrenia. However, an elevated number of D2 dopamine receptors in the left putamen of non-treated schizophrenics has been reported which is consistent with a diminution of dopaminergic transmission in the ventral striatum. Morphological and functional studies have shown marked alterations in the left medial temporal lobe (entorhinal cortex, hippocampus, parahippocampus gyrus) of schizophrenics. As the entorhinal cortex and the ventral hippocampus project to the ventral striatum, the functional relationship between left temporal structures and the left ventral striatum may be impaired in schizophrenics. To assess the validity of this hypothesis, we investigated the existence of a preferentially left hemispheric interdependency between dopaminergic pathways in male rats. We found that dopaminergic projections in the entorhinal cortex and the ventral hippocampus regulate dopaminergic transmission in the nucleus accumbens, particularly in the left hemisphere. Temporal D2 dopamine receptors seem to be primarily involved in this effect. This lateralized interdependent functioning appears structurally based. These results may provide new insights into the pathophysiology of schizophrenic psychoses.
The anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin was used to examine the organization of the projections to the striatum from medial prefrontal and frontal cortical areas in the rat with reference to their relation to cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity in the striatum. Medial prefrontal cortical areas projected bilaterally, with an ipsilateral predominance, to the striatum. Most of the positive fibres were found in medial and ventral areas of the caudate-putamen and in the nucleus accumbens. Labelled fibres formed distinct patch-like arrangements throughout the dorsomedial striatum, whereas more ventrally the fibres were densely packed and spread to lateral areas. Almost no fibres were found in the dorsolateral aspects of the caudate-putamen. Cholecystokinin-like immunoreactivity in the striatum was diffusely distributed in the medial aspects, in fine punctate elements as well as in patches of fibres. Overlapping of corticostriatal clusters of fibres, from medial prefrontal cortex, with cholecystokinin-immunoreactive patches was found at all rostrocaudal levels studied, but predominantly in rostral areas. The overlap was present both in the ipsilateral and the contralateral side. Often the cluster of corticostriatal fibres was completely and precisely overlaid by a cholecystokinin-immunoreactive patch. At more caudal planes the overlap was only partial and in some instances cholecystokinin-positive patches &quot;avoided&quot; zones of dense corticostriatal fibre terminations. Frontal cortex injections of tracer gave rise to a network of fibres in the lateral aspects of the striatum, sparing the medial areas. No overlap with cholecystokinin-immunoreactive patches was found in these cases. These results suggest that a large number of cholecystokinin-containing striatal fibres originate in medial prefrontal cortical areas.
In the present work we have tested the neuroprotective effect of 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline (NBQX) on the excitotoxic damage induced by the injection of several glutamate receptor agonists into the rat striatum. NBQX was co-injected with each of the agonists studied (1 microliter) in the striatum and damage was assessed by the determination of both glutamate decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase activities in striatal homogenates, five days after the lesion. Additionally, animals were transcardially perfused with 0.9% saline/4% paraformaldehyde and brain coronal sections were stained with Cresyl Violet for histological analysis. Our results show that NBQX (25 nmol) did not protect against the damage induced by the intrastriatal injection of 200 nmol quinolinic acid monitored by either choline acetyltransferase or glutamate decarboxylase activity. In contrast, the same concentration of NBQX partially protected against 200 nmol N-methyl-D-aspartate induced damage; this protection was more notable as detected by changes in choline acetyltransferase activity. When non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonists were used as excitotoxins, coinjection of NBQX (25 nmol) resulted in a notable protection against both alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA, 40 nmol) and kainate (10 nmol) induced neurodegeneration. At this concentration, protection was slightly better in AMPA-injected animals (71% protection averaged from choline acetyltransferase and glutamate decarboxylase enzyme activities) as compared to kainate-injected animals (47.5% protection). When a higher concentration of NBQX was tested (40 nmol) the protection against kainate improved to 65% while that against AMPA remained constant (64% protection).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In paraformaldehyde-fixed sections of healthy brain, glial cells at the light-microscope level do not contain measurable levels of NADPH-diaphorase. However, after a variety of lesions in the mouse brain, some reactive astrocytes express varying amounts of this enzyme. Following stab wounds, activated astrocytes or related glial cells surrounding the lesion, contained moderate to high levels of NADPH-diaphorase in the cerebellum, midbrain, thalamus, striatum, hippocampal formation and neocortex. Double-labelling experiments confirmed that this corresponds to an inducible form of nitric oxide synthase, similar to that found in activated macrophages. Within the lesion there were large numbers of macrophages which also contained NADPH-diaphorase. After 10 min of global hypoxic ischaemia, some reactive astrocytes also contained NADPH-diaphorase. These cells were confined to the dorsal part of the hippocampal formation (the dentate fascia and CA1 areas) and to the anterolateral striatum. More focal ischaemic damage, produced by dividing an arterial branch, also produced a rim of reactive astrocytes containing NADPH-diaphorase, that surrounded the area of necrosis. Low levels of NADPH-diaphorase were induced within one day of a stab wound and the enzyme activity reached near maximal levels by two days postlesion. Moderate NADPH-diaphorase activity was still present at 63 days postlesion, but only a small number of astrocytes were stained in the immediate vicinity of the lesion. These experiments confirm that NADPH-diaphorase activity represents inducible nitric oxide synthase in activated astrocytes and probably in inflammatory macrophages. We conclude that a high proportion of activated astrocytes and a small proportion of invading macrophages are induced to express moderate to high levels of nitric oxide synthase following neuronal damage. Our results indicate that following a variety of lesions reactive astrocytes are synthesizing significant levels of nitric oxide within 24 h. This nitric oxide may be involved in modulating the likelihood of epileptic seizures.
The developmental expression and cellular distribution of nitric oxide synthase was investigated in the murine cerebellum and in cerebellar neurons developing under controlled in vitro conditions. Cerebellar granule cells expressed nitric oxide synthase only after migration to the internal granule cell layer. Initially, the nascent internal granule cell layer throughout the cerebellum stained uniformly for nitric oxide synthase, but during the second postnatal week, a pattern emerged consisting of clusters of heavily stained granule cells separated by areas of unstained granule cells. This pattern persisted into adulthood. There was a close temporal correlation between innervation of the granule cell layer by mossy fibers and the emergence of granule cell compartments as defined by levels of nitric oxide synthase expression. Granule cells in dissociated cultures derived from cerebellar anlagen prior to mossy fiber innervation also express nitric oxide synthase. The time-course of nitric oxide expression was independent of electrical activity of the neuronal network forming in vitro. However, suppression of spontaneous electrical activity resulted in enhanced nitric oxide synthase expression. These findings indicate that granule cell precursors are endowed with an intrinsic program which regulates nitric oxide synthase induction and which is executed independently of correct positional cues. The data also suggest that electrical activity of ingrowing mossy fibers down regulates nitric oxide synthase expression and plays an important role in the generation of granule cell compartments. These compartments may contribute to the functional organization of the cerebellar cortex.
Male rats were treated i.p. with either 5 mg/kg amphetamine, 3 and 30 mg/kg cocaine or 100 mg/kg caffeine and killed after 30 min. Brains were sectioned and processed for radioactive in situ hybridization histochemistry for the labelling of either c-fos, enkephalin, substance P, neurokinin B, choline acetyltransferase, somatostatin or adenosine A2A receptor messenger RNA. The distribution of c-fos messenger RNA was investigated both at the regional level using film autoradiography, and at the cellular level using emulsion autoradiography. All drug treatments except 3 mg/kg cocaine induced an increased level of c-fos messenger RNA in cells that had a neuron-like morphology. The cells that contained the c-fos messenger RNA were identified by making pairs of 5-microns sections in which one section was processed for c-fos messenger RNA and the other was processed for one of the other messenger RNA species. After amphetamine treatment, only some 10% of the cells in the striatum were labelled, and to a variable extent. Instead there was prominent labelling of a band in the cortex that runs parallel to the cortical surface. There was also a moderate degree of labelling in the nucleus accumbens. c-fos-positive cells were substance P-positive and negative for enkephalin or A2A receptor messenger RNA. Cocaine (30 mg/kg) induced a modest labelling in the caudate-putamen, as well as in the accumbens. With cocaine treatment (30 mg/kg), about 30% of striatal neuron-like cells were c-fos labelled. Most c-fos-positive cells were substance P-positive, but none of the c-fos-positive cells were enkephalin-positive or A2A-receptor-positive. Cocaine (3 mg/kg) had no significant effect on c-fos. Caffeine gave rise to a strong hybridization signal in the caudate-putamen, particularly the dorsolateral part. No other region examined differed significantly from control. With caffeine treatment, about 73% of neuron-like cells were c-fos labelled in the lateral striatum, but labelling was much less pronounced in the medial part or in the accumbens. c-fos-labelled cells were found in enkephalin-positive and enkephalin-negative, substance P-positive and substance P-negative, neurokinin B-positive and neurokinin B-negative groups. No choline acetyltransferase-positive or somatostatin-positive cells were found that were also c-fos-positive with any of the treatments. We conclude that each of the different CNS stimulant drugs induces a highly specific pattern of c-fos messenger RNA.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Intracellular recordings were made from 73 guinea-pig submucosal neurons using neurobiotin-filled microelectrodes; subsequently, neuropeptide immunoreactivity, morphology and nerve fibre projections were determined. Five distinct groups of cells could be distinguished: S cells with inhibitory input (61%), S cells without inhibitory input (19%), AH cells (8%), S-AH cells (5%), and glial networks. S cells with inhibitory input were immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and showed Dogiel Type III morphology with the axon branching and coursing through two to 12 ganglia; varicosities and tufts of varicosities were observed surrounding other cell bodies as well as over blood vessels. S cells without inhibitory input primarily were immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y; they also showed Dogiel Type III morphology and similar, though shorter, axonal projections and varicose features surrounding other neurons. AH cells, which most likely contained substance P, lacked synaptic input and exhibited Dogiel Type II morphology; they branched more extensively than S cells and also formed varicose tufts within other ganglia. S-AH cells combined electrophysiological properties of S cells with inhibitory input and AH cells and did not show consistent morphological or histochemical characteristics. Typical glial networks were observed; in addition, on two occasions unusual networks of dye and electrical coupling between S cells without inhibitory input and a glial complex were observed. These results suggest that vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-containing S cells may act as interneurons which mediate a slow excitatory synaptic potential; that neuropeptide Y-containing S cells, which are known to be cholinergic, may play a role as cholinergic interneurons mediating the nicotinic fast excitatory synaptic potential; and that AH neurons also may provide cholinergic innervation to other submucosal neurons in addition to their previously described dual projections into mucosa and myenteric plexus.
The aim of the described experiments was to use immunohistochemistry to visualize the release of GABA from specific retinal amacrine cells following ischaemia and to establish the involvement of defined glutamatergic receptors. In initial experiments, rabbit retinas were exposed in vitro to excitatory amino acid agonists alone or in combination with a putative antagonist, or in physiological solution lacking oxygen and glucose, or in solution containing potassium cyanide for 45 min at 37 degrees C. The nature of the GABA immunoreactivity was then examined by immunohistochemistry. In other in vitro experiments, retinas were first allowed to accumulate exogenous serotonin before exposing the tissues to the combinations as described. These tissues were then processed immunohistochemically for the localization of serotonin. In yet other experiments, the intraocular pressure of a rabbit's eye was raised to about 110 mmHg for 60 min and a reperfusion time of 45 min allowed before dissecting the retina and processing for the localization of GABA immunoreactivity. The other eye served as a control. Of the excitatory amino acid agonists tested, only N-methyl-D-aspartate, kainate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid caused a change in the GABA immunoreactivity. The N-methyl-D-aspartate effect was specifically antagonized by dizocilpine maleate, dextromethorphan and memantine, and was characterized by a reduction in the number of GABA-immunoreactive perikarya. The GABA &quot;staining&quot; in the inner plexiform layer also appeared as four clear bands. The alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid- and kainate-induced effects were both antagonized by 6-cyano-2,3-dihydroxy-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and partially by kynurenic acid at the concentrations used. Here, the amount of GABA-positive perikarya was greatly reduced and three immunoreactive bands appeared in the inner plexiform layer. However, for low concentrations of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid four GABA-immunoreactive bands could be identified in the inner plexiform layer. The normal GABA immunoreactivity of the inner plexiform layer also appeared to be in defined bands in retinas which received an ischaemic insult either by reducing the availability of glucose and oxygen, exposing the tissue to potassium cyanide or raising the intraocular pressure of an eye. In these cases the number of GABA-positive perikarya was also reduced. Only alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid and kainate of the excitatory amino acid agonists tested caused a release of serotonin and this process was antagonized by 6-cyano-2,3-dihydroxy-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione and partially by kynurenic acid.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
It was recently shown that addition of L-glutamate in millimolar amounts to a culture of C6 glioma cells induced cell death within 24 h. The mechanism for glutamate toxicity in the C6 glioma cells is linked to the inhibition of cystine uptake, leading to glutathione depletion through the cystine/glutamate antiporter (Xc) system. In the present study, neurotransmitters, whose receptors were localized on the glioma (glial) cells, were evaluated for their ability to protect C6 cells from glutamate toxicity through this amino acid antiporter. Among them, only 100 microM serotonin suppressed cell death by glutamate in a constant co-existence culture. The suppressive dose of serotonin was relatively low and the half-effective dose was about 35 microM. 8-Hydroxy-2-(DL-n-propylamino)tetralin, a specific serotonin1A agonist, showed a comparable suppression to glutamate damage, while 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane, a specific serotonin2 agonist, and quipazine, a non-selective serotonin1B agonist, did not suppress it. Furthermore, propranolol and pindolol significantly blocked the serotonin effect, but spiperone, mianserin and ketanserin did not block it. These results strongly indicate that this protective action of serotonin to glutamate toxicity was receptor (serotonin1A) mediated. Serotonin did not protect the C6 cells from glutathione depletion by glutamate. The cellular level of glutathione was depleted even under the co-existence of serotonin and glutamate. Serotonin induced a significant inhibition of lipid peroxide accumulation in the C6 glioma cells to glutamate exposure and the low rate of lipid peroxide accumulation was controlled.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The distribution of neuropeptide- (neuropeptide Y, substance P, vasoactive intestinal peptide) and catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme-immunoreactive axons in guinea-pig trigeminal, nodose, and cervical dorsal root ganglia was studied by double-labelling immunofluorescence in controls and after extirpation of either the cervical sympathetic trunk or the stellate ganglion; tyrosine hydroxylase- and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-immunoreactive terminals in dorsal root ganglia were ultrastructurally investigated. Six neurochemically identifiable axons innervated the trigeminal ganglion, five kinds were found in the nodose and dorsal root ganglia. Two of them (catecholaminergic with and without neuropeptide Y) were of sympathetic origin and, besides their termination at arteries, provided a direct innervation of capsule cells of the trigeminal and cervical dorsal root ganglia facing the subarachnoid space. Varicosities which were interpreted as being of sensory origin were equally numerous in all ganglia, whereas those being likely of parasympathetic origin decreased in numbers from the trigeminal to the dorsal root and nodose ganglia. It is concluded that the sensory ganglia are the target of postganglionic sympathetic, parasympathetic and primary afferent neurons, each of which are specifically organized with respect to the neurochemical phenotype and inter- and intraganglionic distribution. Among other targets, these &quot;nervi gangliorum&quot; appear to be intimately linked to the ganglionic capsular cells and meningeal sheaths facing the liquor spaces.
Adult rat dorsal root ganglion sensory neurons in culture require nerve growth factor for synthesis of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide but express vasoactive intestinal peptide independently of nerve growth factor. In contrast, the same neurons from newborn rats do not express detectable vasoactive intestinal polypeptide when cultured with nerve growth factor. To further explore the mechanisms regulating neuropeptide expression in these cells, I compared the effects of nerve growth factor, brain-derived neurotrophic factor, neurotrophin-3, ciliary neurotrophic factor and leukaemia inhibitory factor on substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and somatostatin expression in rat dorsal root ganglion cultures. As with neurons from adult animals, newborn rat sensory neurons required nerve growth factor for synthesis of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide. This effect was independent of neuronal survival since most neurons capable of expressing these peptides appeared to survive without added neurotrophic factors. Neurons surviving in the absence of nerve growth factor also expressed vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, suggesting that nerve growth factor suppresses vasoactive intestinal polypeptide expression in immature neurons. However, nerve growth factor withdrawal after eight days' culture failed to cause vasoactive intestinal polypeptide induction which therefore appears to depend on other factors also. Neither ciliary neurotrophic factor nor leukaemia inhibitory factor affected peptide levels when used alone, but both inhibited nerve growth factor-stimulated expression of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in adult rat neurons. They also stimulated vasoactive intestinal polypeptide expression in newborn rat neurons in the presence of nerve growth factor but not to such high levels as those seen under conditions of nerve growth factor deprivation. Neither brain-derived neurotrophic factor nor neurotrophin-3 affected peptide expression significantly. Somatostatin was defected in adult rat neurons, but was unaffected by neurotrophic factors. No somatostatin was detected in newborn rat neurons. These results suggest that in immature animals at least, the increased expression of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide seen in sensory neurons following peripheral nerve injury in vivo, could result from deprivation of target-derived nerve growth factor in combination with increased availability of ciliary neurotrophic factor or leukaemia inhibitory factor from the injured nerve.
The development of basic fibroblast growth factor-like immunoreactivity was investigated in the nuclei, cell bodies and processes of Purkinje cells with attention to basic fibroblast growth factor-containing neuronal input to the deep cerebellar nuclei. Immunoblot analysis with the use of the antisera against basic fibroblast growth factor revealed that crude homogenate of the developing rat cerebellum exhibits a main band with the same molecular weight (18,000 mol. wt) as basic fibroblast growth factor in all the postnasal stages examined. Cerebellar cells were not labeled with the antisera during embryonic life. Under light microscopy, basic fibroblast growth factor-like immunoreactivity was detected initially in cortical cells located close to deep cerebellar fissures of the newborn rat but not in superficial cortical regions. It was difficult to determine whether or not they are Purkinje cells at the fusiform stage. On postnatal day 7, immunoreactive Purkinje cells were identified throughout the cerebellar cortex, and they expressed basic fibroblast growth factor-like immunoreactivity mainly in the apical cytoplasm and proximal dendrites. From postnatal day 14 to postnatal day 28, basic fibroblast growth factor-like immunoreactivity was noted not only throughout the cytoplasm of Purkinje cells but also in the nuclei of the immunopositive cells. Our statistical analysis showed that Purkinje cells with nuclear immunoreaction peaked on postnatal day 21. At these stages, nerve fibers immunoreactive for basic fibroblast growth factor were numerous in the cerebellar medulla and deep cerebellar nuclei. After postnatal day 42, Purkinje cells with intense immunoreactivity in the nuclei showed a marked decrease in number, and immunoreactive structures were distributed in the cerebellum in a fashion similar to that in adult rats. Electron microscopy demonstrated that immunoreactivity was located mainly in the apical cytoplasm of Purkinje cells on postnatal day 7 and throughout the cytoplasm and in the nuclear euchromatin from postnatal day 14 to postnatal day 28, as was expected from light-microscopic observations. Immunoreactivity, even though distributed diffusely in the cytoplasm, was absent from the lumen of endoplasmic reticulum and mitochondria. A small population of Purkinje cell axon terminals forming synapses with the soma and dendrites of deep cerebellar nucleus neurons began to express basic fibroblast growth factor on postnatal day 21. This is much later than the starting age for synaptogenesis between Purkinje cells and deep cerebellar nucleus neurons. The age-dependent changes in the localization of basic fibroblast growth factor within Purkinje cell nucleus, soma and processes suggest a complex transport system of this factor within Purkinje cells during postnatal development.
In order to examine the organization of nigrostriatal projections in the primate, the retrograde tracers Lucifer Yellow conjugated to dextran amines and horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheatgerm agglutinin were injected into different regions of the dorsolateral and ventral striatum. Based on the topography of cortical inputs to the striatum, the dorsolateral striatum is associated with the motor system, and the ventral striatum is related to the limbic system. Our results indicate that although midbrain neurons projecting to the ventral and dorsolateral striatum are mostly separate, there are neurons projecting to these different striatal territories that overlap in the medial substantia nigra. The dopaminergic neurons of the ventral mesencephalon can be subdivided into dorsal and ventral tiers that include the cells of the ventral tegmental area, the substantia nigra pars compacta, and the retrorubral area. Neurons projecting to the ventral striatum are found in both the dorsal and ventral tiers. A large number of neurons occupying the medial densocellular zone of the ventral tier are labeled following injections into different regions of the ventral striatum. Neurons projecting to the sensorimotor-related striatum are derived almost exclusively from the ventral tier. Many of these neurons are located very ventrally in the substantia nigra, where clusters of neurons invade the pars reticulata. In addition, labeled neurons are found throughout the mediolateral extent of the densocellular zone of the pars compacta. Notably, neurons are labeled in the medial densocellular zone following injections into the dorsolateral and ventral striatum. Mesencephalic neurons projecting to different striatal territories are distinct in that dorsal tier neurons mainly innervate the ventral striatum, whereas the ventral columns of neurons in the ventral tier innervate the sensorimotor-related striatum. Thus, the dopaminergic regulation of the sensorimotor-related striatum and the ventral striatum may be different. However, a subgroup of dopaminergic neurons in the medial densocellular zone projects to both striatal territories. Such divergent projections may allow the substantia nigra to serve as a link, connecting different striatal territories, via their connections with the substantia nigra.
Because the dopaminergic neurons of the midbrain form a continuum, boundaries between the ventral tegmental area, substantia nigra pars compacta, and retrorubral area are difficult to distinguish in the primate. Therefore, dopaminergic neurons have been subdivided into more readily discernible dorsal and ventral tiers. The projections from these dorsal and ventral tier neurons of the ventral mesencephalon to the ventral striatum were labeled by injections of horseradish peroxidase conjugated to wheatgerm agglutinin and Lucifer Yellow conjugated to dextran amines into different regions of the nucleus accumbens, the ventral caudate nucleus, and the rostral, ventral putamen in the primate. Neurons projecting to the ventral striatum are not topographically organized in the ventral mesencephalon. Retrogradely labeled neurons are found in the medial densocellular zone of the ventral tier following injections into all regions of the ventral striatum except the ventromedial shell region of the nucleus accumbens. These medial nigral neurons have diverging projections throughout the mediolateral extent of the ventral striatum. In addition, neurons of the dorsal tier project to all ventral striatal regions examined. Notably, neurons projecting to the shell region of the nucleus accumbens are limited to the dorsal tier, throughout the rostrocaudal extent of the substantia nigra. Both dorsal and ventral tier neurons innervate the ventral striatum. Not only do neurons of the ventral tegmental area project to the ventral striatum, but also many of the pars compacta. The projections to the shell region of the nucleus accumbens are more restricted, suggesting that the dopaminergic regulation of this accumbens subterritory is distinct from the rest of the ventral striatum.
The regional distribution of [125I]galanin specific binding sites was determined in young (three- to four-month-old), 14-15-month-old and aged (26-27-month-old) male Sprague-Dawley rats, previously tested for their performances in the Morris water-maze task, using the radioautographic method on brain sections. A significant increase in specific binding was observed in piriform and entorhinal cortex, ventral subiculum, and dorsal dentate gyrus in the aged rats, whereas no significant changes were observed in dorsal subiculum, amygdala, septal area and various subcortical structures. The area-specific regional increase in specific binding density in aged rats was significantly correlated with the impairment of the behavioral performance in the Morris water-maze task. The change in [125I]galanin specific binding was a result of an increase in the number of galanin binding sites, but not of an increase in affinity.
Nitric oxide is a free radical which is produced in the brain and is thought to be the first of a new class of neural messenger molecules. It is postulated to act by inducing an increase in cyclic guanosine monophosphate levels in target cells. The neuronal isoform of nitric oxide synthase, the enzyme responsible for the calcium-dependent synthesis of nitric oxide from L-arginine, has been purified from brain homogenate. Using a specific polyclonal antibody, we have localized brain nitric oxide synthase to the cytosol of discrete neuronal subpopulations and glial elements. These include non-pyramidal cells in the cerebral cortex, pyramidal and non-pyramidal cells of the hippocampus, aspiny neurons of the corpus striatum, basket, Purkinje and granule cells in the cerebellum and neurons of various brain stem nuclei. The localization of nitric oxide-producing neurons in morphologically different and neurochemically diverse cell types suggests a widespread neuromodulatory role for nitric oxide in the central nervous system of man.
Immunocytochemical techniques applied to sections and whole-mount preparations of cercariae from two species of trematodes, Trichobilharzia ocellata and Schistosoma mansoni, revealed the occurrence of immunoreactivity (IR) to several neurosubstances in the nervous system (NS). Immunostaining was localized in cerebral ganglia, in the main commissure, in anterior and posterior nerve trunks, as well as in a pair of nerve fibres running along the tail. In T. ocellata, immunoreactivity (IR) was observed with antisera raised against: glutamate, FMRFamide, catch-relaxing peptide (CARP), small cardiac peptide B (SCPB), arg-vasotocin (AVT), arg-vasopressin (AVP), and substance P. In S. mansoni antisera raised against glutamate, FMRFamide, CARP, SCPB, alpha-caudodorsal cell peptides (alpha-CDCP), and cholecystokinin (CCK) showed neuronal IR. With the other 51 antisera tested no IR was observed. With anti-APGWamide, IR was observed outside the NS in cells of the wall of the daughter sporocyst and in flame cells of cercariae of T. ocellata. IR to FMRFamide was present in the escape glands of the intrasporocystic cercariae of T. ocellata and S. mansoni. IR to somatostatin was observed in subtegumental parenchymal cells of cercariae of S. mansoni. IR to met-enkephalin was present in cells of the cercarial embryos and in undifferentiated cells in developing cercariae. Trematodes are, together with cestodes, phylogenetically the oldest classes in which glutamate-like material and immunopositivity to a number of neuropeptides isolated from invertebrates has been demonstrated. The results are discussed in relation to immunocytochemical data obtained for other platyhelminths, to endogenous functions of the immunopositive materials, and to their possible role in parasite-host interactions.

In his classic article, Stellar (1954) proposed that diverse motivated behaviors reflected the activity of excitatory and inhibitory centers in the hypothalamus. His specific and testable ideas provided the theoretical focus for a great deal of fruitful research on the biological bases of behavior for 2 decades. Subsequently, new findings and technical developments again changed the perspective and experimental approaches in behavioral neuroscience. The authors suggest that the modern emphasis on the anatomy and chemical function of neuronal systems has come at the expense of understanding the subcomponents of behavior and the hierarchical levels of integration involved in transforming reflexes into operant acts. Increased attention in the future to the infrastructure of the behaviors being elucidated, when combined with reductionistic studies of neurons, will fulfill the potential contribution to behavioral neuroscience that is implicit in Stellar's article.
The influence of the methods and theories of behaviorism on theory and research in the neurosciences is examined, partly in light of Watson's (1913) original call-to-arms. Behaviorist approaches to animal behavior, particularly in the study of processes of learning and memory, have had a profound and continual influence in the area of neuroscience concerned with animal studies of brain substrates of behavior. Similarly, contemporary behaviorists have not been opposed to the study of neurobiological substrates of behavior. On the other hand, classical behaviorist views of thinking, that is, as reflex chains, have been largely discounted by developments in neuroscience. Classical behaviorism is viewed by many as being most at odds with the modern fields of cognitive psychology and cognitive neuroscience, particularly regarding &quot;mind&quot; and &quot;consciousness.&quot; A modest attempt at reconciliation is offered.
James-Lange theory influenced a century of emotion research. This article traces the theory's origins in philosophical psychology, considers differences in the thinking of James and Lange, and assesses Cannon's early critique and the resulting debate. Research is reviewed evaluating physiological patterns in emotion, the discordance of reported feelings and visceral reactivity, and the role of generalized arousal. NeoJamesian theories of attribution and appraisal--and alternative views based on dynamic psychology--are critically examined. A conception of emotion is presented, on the basis of developments unknown to James in conditioning theory, information processing, and neuroscience. Computational models of mentation are discussed, and implications are drawn for the classical debate on cognition and emotion. In concluding, new paths for emotion research are outlined and homage paid to the inspiration of William James.

Immediate early genes are rapidly and transiently induced by many stimuli and produce their transcription factors. Of the immediate early genes, the proto-oncogene c-fos and its product Fos play a role in cell proliferation, differentiation and general signal transmission as the 'third messenger' regulating the transcription of other genes. Even minute stimuli such as the attachment of electrodes, needle injection and saline administration increase the level of c-fos mRNA expression in animal brains. It is, therefore, necessary to investigate the effects of using anesthetics and solvents for drug administration on c-fos expression in order to accurately assess net c-fos induction after stimulation. Furthermore, experimental procedures might themselves affect c-fos mRNA expression in the brain after in vivo stimulation. In this review, we discuss technical pitfalls in assessing in vivo c-fos expression. Rough handling with repeated saline administration enhanced cortical c-fos mRNA expression in the rat brain after a single saline injection by increasing baseline c-fos mRNA levels. In contrast, gentle handling with repeated saline administration diminished c-fos mRNA expression after a single injection by decreasing baseline c-fos mRNA levels. These two types of handling with the repeated injection led to diametrically opposite results on c-fos mRNA expression after a single stimulation. Our results suggest that c-fos mRNA induction after a single stimulation might be affected by the types or intensities of animal handling and that effects of animal handling must be considered when estimating c-fos mRNA induction.
Neurotensin (NT), a peptide which colocalizes with dopamine in some midbrain and hypothalamic neurons, has been speculated to play a role in schizophrenic illness and in the action of antipsychotic drugs. Previous work suggested a bimodal distribution of NT in patients with schizophrenia, with a subgroup having low drug-free NT concentrations which normalize with neuroleptic treatment. We studied 15 schizophrenic patients with CSF samples collected both off and on neuroleptic medication, 12 with only drug-free (DF) samples, and 10 controls. There was no significant difference in CSF NT concentrations between patients and controls, or between patients off and on medication. However, 7 patients with DFNT CSF concentrations below the patient mean showed an increase with neuroleptic treatment. Moreover, NT was significantly lower for women. Significant correlations with NT concentrations in CSF were found with deficit symptoms in patients, and with the age of the CSF sample for all subjects. There was no correlation between CSF NT concentrations and patient age, duration of illness, or levels of amine metabolites (MHPG, 5HIAA, HVA).
The discovery of GPI-anchored membrane proteins presented a conundrum for membrane biologists. What could the special purpose be for this type of membrane anchor and why couldn't a transmembrane anchor do the same job? Recent information from several different sources is beginning to provide answers to these questions. In this review, evidence is presented that GPI-anchored membrane proteins are uniquely adapted for delivering to the cell both nutrient and signaling molecules or ions using two distinct endocytic pathways. So far, they are the only surface molecules known to have this capability.


Suicide risk after attempted suicide, as predicted by cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) monoamine metabolite concentrations, was studied in a sample of 92 psychiatric mood disorder inpatients admitted shortly after attempting suicide. The potential of the serotonin metabolite 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) in the CSF to predict suicide risk within the first year after attempted suicide was studied by means of survival analysis after after median split subgrouping. Eleven patients (12%) committed suicide within 1 year after attempted suicide. Eight of these belonged to the below-the-median (&lt; 87 nM) CSF 5-HIAA subgroup, that is, the suicide risk was 17% as compared with 7% among those with above-the-median CSF 5-HIAA. The cumulative number of survived patient-months during the first year after attempted suicide was significantly lower in the low CSF 5-HIAA subgroup. It was concluded that low CSF 5-HIAA predicts short-range suicide risk after attempted suicide in mood disorder psychiatric inpatients. These findings lend further support to the serotonin hypothesis of suicide risk.
Sodium-activated K+ channels (IK(Na)) are a class of large-conductance ion channels expressed in several populations of vertebrate neurons, mammalian cardiac myocytes and Xenopus oocytes. These channels are activated by the binding of Na+ to sites located on the cytoplasmic face of the channel. The physiological functions of IK(Na) channels have been difficult to ascertain, in part because their activation typically requires Na+ concentrations considerably higher than those that are normally present in the cytosol. However, there is now evidence suggesting that IK(Na) can play a role in the regulation of neuronal excitability, the modulation of the action-potential waveform, and the responses of excitable cells to hypoxia and ischemia.
Neurotoxins have highly specific actions on molecular targets, and thus offer an effective means of characterizing the growing number of identified ion channels and receptors in the nervous system. This article and the Neurotoxins Supplement accompanying this issue of TINS provide a convenient reference source to facilitate the use of toxins as selective, diagnostic ligands in research. However, while many toxins exert potent actions on target receptors, it must be emphasized that their effects can be complex, and certain general pitfalls often become apparent. Some examples will be given illustrating these complexities and their impact on experimental interpretation. In addition, the potential for the purposeful creation of new 'designer' toxins using molecular cloning will also be addressed.

Reactive gliosis is a powerful response to brain injury and subsequent neuronal damage in vivo. Neuronal cell cultures are now well established as assays to study this process in vitro. However, equivalent studies of purified glial cell populations have only recently been achieved, following the realization that glial cells produce many of the neuropeptides, transmitters and growth factors that are produced also by neurons. There is now scope for studies in vitro that use mixed, identified populations of glial and neuronal cells to dissect the interactions between the two. Such cultures also lend themselves to assays for potential therapeutic strategies for brain injury that take account of all the different cell types found in the brain.


The Morris water maze is widely used to evaluate to evaluate the spatial learning ability of rodents under laboratory settings. The present study demonstrates that reproductive male meadow voles, Microtus pennsylvanicus, are able to acquire and retain a spatial water maze task using celestial cues. Voles were able to acquire a modified outdoor Morris water maze task over 4 trials per day, whereby they had to learn and remember the location of a submerged hidden platform, using the position of the sun and associated celestial cues. Their proficiency on this task was related to the availability of the celestial cues, with voles displaying significantly poorer spatial navigation on overcast than clear days and when the testing time (and position of the sun and associated celestial cues) was shifted from morning to afternoon. These findings with meadow voles support the ecological relevance of the water maze task.
We report the full-length cDNA sequence for the flavoprotein subunit of human heart succinate dehydrogenase (succinate: (acceptor) oxidoreductase EC 1.3.99.1). Identical sequence was obtained for part of the cDNA of the human placental flavoprotein, in contrast to a previously published sequence. The human sequence, like the bovine one, contains a cysteine triplet and at the active site there is an additional cysteine when compared with yeast or prokaryotes.
The quantitative autoradiographic distribution of the kainate subtype of non-NMDA receptor in the normal human motor cortex, brainstem and spinal cord has been investigated using [3H]kainate. In the motor cortex specific [3H]kainate binding was present in all cortical laminae with the highest density in laminae and II and the upper part of III and lower densities in the middle and deep laminae. In the premotor cortex a band of high density was found in laminae V and VI as well as in the superficial laminae. In the normal brainstem kainate receptors had a heterogeneous distribution. Brainstem motor nuclei which tend to be affected in motor neuron disease (MND) had very low densities of binding sites, whereas the oculomotor nucleus had a higher density. Specific [3H]kainate binding was found throughout the spinal grey matter, the greatest density being found in the substantia gelatinosa and much lower densities in the rest of the grey matter including the ventral horns. Excitotoxicity at non-NMDA receptors has been implicated in the pathogenesis of MND. This study shows that the motor neuron groups vulnerable in MND express a low density of [3H]kainate binding sites and suggests that the density of kainate receptors does not account for selective vulnerability in this disorder.
In rat, calf, pig and rabbit retinas the two forms of pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide with 38- and 27-amino acids (PACAP-38 and PACAP-27) produce a robust stimulation of adenylyl cyclase activity. PACAP-38 acts at picomolar concentrations and is generally more potent than PACAP-27. Both PACAPs are systematically more effective than the structurally homologous vasoactive intestinal peptide. Moreover, rat, calf and pig retinas contain significant amounts of PACAP-38 immunoreactivity. This study provides the first evidence for the action and occurrence of PACAP in mammalian retinas.
With the hypothesis that the NaCl cotransporter in mammalian choroid plexus (CP) has a role in CSF formation, we postulated that loop diuretic agents would curtail transport of Cl from blood to CSF. Microdialysis in the cisterna magna of Sprague-Dawley rats was used to assess the ability of furosemide and ethacrynic acid (i.e. loop agents that interfere directly with cotransport) to inhibit 36Cl transport from blood to CSF over a 3-h period. Cl uptake by CSF was quantified as % volume of distribution (Vd) of 36Cl, i.e. 100 x cpm/g CSF divided by cpm/ml plasma. Uptake curves of Vd vs. time were constructed for the various treatments; then, to compare drug effects, the curves were analyzed for: (i) the early slope of uptake (Kin), (ii) the steady-state value for Vd, and (iii) the area-under-curve (AUC). Assessment of the curve parameters collectively revealed that at 5 mg/kg, both furosemide (FUR) and ethacrynic acid (EA) reduced Cl penetration into CSF by one quarter; at 50 mg/kg, these loop agents decreased Cl uptake by about a third. On the other hand, 50 mg/kg of the carbonic anhydrase inhibitor, acetazolamide, reduced Cl uptake into CSF by 55-60%. Thus, NaCl cotransport inhibitors maximally reduced Cl transport in the rat by about 35%; this inhibition was less extensive than that brought about by acetazolamide, which interferes with CSF secretion by a different mechanism.
Sodium nitroprusside (SNP), a generator of nitric oxide (NO), decreased [3H]dopamine uptake into rat striatal synaptosomal preparations in a dose-, time- and temperature-dependent fashion. Reduced hemoglobin, a substance that binds NO, prevented the SNP-induced decrease in uptake. Potassium ferri- and ferrocyanide, compounds similar to SNP that do not produce NO, were without effect on uptake. SNP inhibited [3H]dopamine uptake in synaptosomes from nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle as well but with a lower potency. SNP inhibited [3H]serotonin and [3H]glutamate uptake but had no effect on [3H]norepinephrine uptake. S-Nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (SNAP), another generator of NO, had effects similar to those of SNP. The SNP-induced decrease in [3H]dopamine uptake was due to a Vmax decrease at 100 microM SNP and to both a Vmax and Km change at 300 microM SNP. Depletion of calcium by omission of calcium from buffers and addition of EGTA increased the potency of SNP in inhibiting uptake. There was no change in [3H]WIN 35428 binding to the dopamine transporter with doses of SNP that inhibited uptake. These data indicate that NO can decrease [3H]dopamine transporter function.
Activities of monoamine oxidases, MAOA and MAOB, were measured using radiometric assays in different brain regions of the sparse-fur (spf/Y) mouse, a model of congenital hyperammonemia resulting from an X-chromosomal defect of ornithine transcarbamylase. MAOA activities were decreased in cerebellum (by 23%, P &lt; 0.05) and brainstem (by 16%, P &lt; 0.05) of spf mice; activities of MAOB were concomitantly increased in cerebellum (by 22%, P &lt; 0.05), brainstem (by 20%, P &lt; 0.05) and cerebral cortex (by 22%, P &lt; 0.05). These findings offer a rational explanation for previous findings of increased acidic metabolites of monoamines in the brain of spf mice. Altered monoaminergic function could be a key factor in the pathogenesis of neurological dysfunction in congenital hyperammonemias.
Using solution and in situ hybridization techniques we have studied the effects of adrenalectomy with or without restitution therapy with corticosterone on galanin mRNA levels in discrete regions of the male rat brain. Galanin peptide levels were also measured using a radioimmunoassay. The solution hybridization showed a two-fold increase in galanin mRNA 7 days, but not 14 days, after adrenalectomy in the preoptic area including the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN). No changes were observed in the mediobasal hypothalamus including the arcuate nucleus. In situ hybridization showed that the increase in galanin mRNA was localized to the PVN and that the arcuate nucleus was not affected. The changes observed could be fully counteracted by corticosterone treatment. Radioimmunoassay showed decreased galanin levels in the median eminence 14 days, but not 7 days, after adrenalectomy and increased levels in the anterior pituitary and neurointermediate lobe. The results give evidence for a regional regulation of galanin gene expression and galanin peptide synthesis by adrenocortical steroids.
The homogeneous nature of the rat intermediate pituitary makes it a powerful model system in which to study peptide hormone secretion. Adult male rats were treated with bromocriptine, a dopamine agonist, or haloperidol, a dopamine antagonist, for 3 weeks. In cDNA libraries prepared from the neurointermediate pituitaries of these rats, pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) expression exhibited the expected decrease in response to bromocriptine, and increase in response to haloperidol. We report the identification of six transcripts that are coregulated with POMC in the intermediate pituitary by these dopaminergic agents. In addition to demonstrating parallel dopamine-regulated expression of carboxy-peptidase E, chromogranin B, binding protein/glucose-regulated protein, and tenascin, two novel regulated transcripts are described. The expression of one of these novel transcripts, RESP18, is limited to neural and endocrine tissue. The RESP18 transcript is approximately 800 nucleotides in length; its cognate translation product is 20 +/- 1 kDa, contains a putative signal sequence, and has many characteristics of a secreted protein. Cell-free translation experiments in the presence of microsomal membranes demonstrate that the 20 +/- 1-kDa RESP18 protein is cleaved to an 18 +/- 1-kDa protein and sequestered within the lumen of the rough endoplasmic reticulum. Tissue in situ hybridization analysis shows that RESP18 mRNA is highly expressed in both the intermediate and anterior pituitary, as well as in the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of the hypothalamus.
Phosphorylation of purified Na+,K(+)-ATPase by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (protein kinase A) decreases the activity of this enzyme. We have now shown, using several experimental approaches, that a highly conserved seryl residue on the catalytic (alpha) subunit of Na+,K(+)-ATPase, corresponding to Ser943 of the rat alpha 1 isoform, is the phosphorylation site for protein kinase A. cDNAs corresponding to wild-type Na+,K(+)-ATPase and Na+,K(+)-ATPase in which Ser943 was mutated to Ala were transfected into COS cells. Treatment of the transfected cells with forskolin plus 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine resulted in a decrease in the activity of the wild-type enzyme but not in that of the mutated enzyme. The results suggest that, in intact cells, the activity of the Na+,K(+)-ATPase is regulated in part by signal transduction pathways that use protein kinase A-dependent phosphorylation of the Na+,K(+)-ATPase alpha subunit.
The molecular mechanisms underlying the voltage dependence of intercellular channels formed by the family of vertebrate gap junction proteins (connexins) are unknown. All vertebrate gap junctions are sensitive to the voltage difference between the cells, defined as the transjunctional voltage, Vj (refs 1, 2), and most appear to gate by the separate actions of their component hemichannels. The heterotypic Cx32/Cx26 junction displays an unpredicted rectification that was reported to represent a novel Vj dependence created by hemichannel interactions, mediated in part by the first extracellular loop E1 (ref. 9). Here we show that aspects of the rectification of Cx32/Cx26 junctions are explained by opposite gating polarities of the component hemichannels, and that the opposite gating polarity of Cx32 and Cx26 results from a charge difference in a single amino-acid residue located at the second position in the N terminus. We also show that charge substitutions at the border of the first transmembrane (M1) and E1 domains can reverse gating polarity and suppress the effects of a charge substitution at the N terminus. We conclude that the combined actions of residues at the N terminus and M1/E1 border form a charge complex that is probably an integral part of the connexin voltage sensor. A consistent correlation between charge substitution and gating polarity indicates that Cx26 and Cx32 voltage sensors are oppositely charged and that both move towards the cytoplasm upon hemichannel closure.


The present study determined the temporal and spatial patterns of genesis for neurons of different sizes in the retinal ganglion cell layer of the ferret. Fetal ferrets were exposed to tritiated thymidine on embryonic days E-22 through E-36. One to 3 months after birth, they were perfused and their retinae dissected, and autoradiographs were prepared from resin-embedded sections throughout the entire flattened retinal ganglion cell layer. Soma size differences in conjunction with separate retrograde labeling and calbindin immunocytochemical studies were used as criteria for identifying different retinal ganglion cell subtypes in juvenile and adult ferrets. Neurons of different sizes in the ganglion cell layer were generated at different stages during development. Medium sized cells were generated primarily between E-22 and E-26; the largest cells were generated between E-24 and E-29; small cells were generated between E-26 and E-32; and very small cells were generated between E-29 and E-36. The former three groups were interpreted to be three subtypes of retinal ganglion cells, while the latter group was interpreted to be displaced amacrine cells. This temporal order of the genesis of ganglion cell classes is consistent with the spatial ordering of their fibers in the mature optic chiasm and tract, and it is consistent with the developmental change in decussation pattern recently shown in the optic pathway of embryonic ferrets. The spatial pattern of genesis suggests that ganglion cells of a particular class are added to the ganglion cell layer in a centroperipheral fashion initiated in the dorsocentral retina nasal to the area centralis. No evidence was found for a wave of ganglion cell addition that proceeded in a spiralling pattern around the area centralis, as has been reported in the cat.
Antibodies to the lysosomal hydrolases, cathepsins B and D and beta-hexosaminidase A, revealed alterations of the endosomal-lysosomal system in neurons of the Alzheimer disease brain, which preceded evident degenerative changes and became marked as atrophy, neurofibrillary pathology, or chromatolysis developed. At the earliest stages of cell atrophy, hydrolase-positive lysosomes accumulated at the basal pole and then massively throughout the perikarya and proximal and proximal dendrites of affected pyramidal neurons in Alzheimer prefrontal cortex and hippocampus, far exceeding the changes of normal aging. Secondary lysosomes as well as tertiary residual bodies (lysosomes/lipofuscin) increased implying stimulated, autophagocytosis and lysosomal system activation. Less affected brain regions, such as the thalamus, displayed similar though less extensive alterations. Certain thalamic neurons exhibited a distinctive lysosome-related abnormality characterized by the presence of cell surface blebs of varying size and number filled with intense hydrolase immunoreactivity. At more advanced stages of degeneration in still intact neurons, hydrolase-positive lipofuscin, particularly in the form of abnormally large aggregates, nearly filled the cytoplasm. Similar lipofuscin aggregates were observed in abundance in the extracellular space following cell lysis and were usually associated with deposits of the beta-amyloid protein. Degenerating neurons and their processes were the major source of these aggregates within senile plaques which contained high concentrations of acid hydrolases. We have shown in previous studies that these lysosomal hydrolases in plaques are enzymatically-active. The persistence of lysosomal structures in the brain parenchyma after neurons have degenerated is a striking and potentially diagnostic feature of Alzheimer disease which has not been observed, to our knowledge, in other degenerative diseases. The lysosomal response in degenerating Alzheimer neurons represents a probable link between an early activation of the lysosomal system in at-risk, normal-appearing neurons and the end-stage contribution of lysosomes to senile plaque formation and emphasizes a slowly progressive disturbance of the lysosomal system throughout the development of Alzheimer disease.
Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we report differential expression of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) mRNA in the central nucleus of the amygdala (CEA) and the parvocellular region of the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN) following systemic treatment with corticosterone (CORT) in adrenally-intact rats. Both injection of low (1 mg/kg/day) and high (5 mg/day) CORT reduced CRH mRNA expression in the PVN in a dose-dependent manner, although it returned to normal at the low dose by 14 days. By contrast, the high dose of CORT increased CRH mRNA transiently in the CEA at 4 days, although the low dose of CORT decreased it at 14 days. In a second experiment, we implanted a slowly-releasing CORT pellet for 2 weeks (200 mg, 60 day release) subcutaneously. This treatment produced an elevation of CRH mRNA in the CEA both at 1 and 2 weeks, whereas CRH mRNA in the PVN was decreased to a large extent as seen in the high CORT group of the first experiment. These results suggest that glucocorticoids can facilitate CRH mRNA expression in the CEA, a site implicated in anxiety and fear, while restraining the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis as indicated by the reduction in CRH mRNA in the PVN.
Using an immunocytochemical technique we have analyzed changes in substance P, somatostatin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and galanin immunoreactivity pattern in the rat dorsal root ganglia. After 7 days of adrenalectomy, sham operated rats were compared with adrenalectomized animals either receiving a daily intraperitoneal injection of 10 mg/kg b.wt. corticosterone or vehicle. Three lumbar ganglia from each animal were blocked, serially cut, and immunostained for each neuropeptide by means of the biotin-avidin-peroxidase technique. A systematic sampling of immunoreactive ganglion cells was performed and the sample number of immunoreactive ganglion cells was calculated. After adrenalectomy, the number of substance P and somatostatin immunoreactive ganglion cells markedly increased ((means +/- S.E.M.): 245 +/- 68 versus 123 +/- 12 for sham operated animals, P &lt; 0.01 (substance P) and 42 +/- 8 as compared to 22 +/- 9 for sham operated animals, P &lt; 0.01 (somatostatin)). No significant changes were found in the number of calcitonin gene-related peptide and galanin immunoreactive cells after adrenalectomy. These results suggest that adrenal steroid hormones may reduce the synthesis of both substance P and somatostatin in the dorsal root ganglion cells. Daily treatment with a high dose of corticosterone, mimicking its serum levels after stress, failed to prevent the increase of peptide contents after adrenalectomy. These observations also indicate that a tonic action of corticosterone on mineralocorticoid receptors may be crucial for peptide regulation in the spinal ganglia. These results may be of relevance to adrenalectomy induced changes in sensory mechanisms, neurogenic inflammation and pain transmission and to a role of substance P and somatostatin in these processes.
The effects of YM-14673 (N alpha-[[(S)-4-oxo-2-azetidinyl]carbonyl]- L-histidyl-L-prolinamide dihydrate), a potent analog of thyrotropin releasing hormone (TRH), on the behavior of ataxic mutant mice (staggerer, realer, Purkinje cell degeneration and weaver mice) were investigated in comparison with those of TRH in an open-field apparatus. The fall index, the ratio of the number of falls to the distance moved, was defined as an index for ataxia. YM-14673 reduced the fall index in all types of ataxic mice examined and was more potent than TRH in reeler, staggerer and Purkinje cell degereration mice. YM-14673 may have a beneficial effect on patients with spinocerebellar degeneration.
In this study we examined the effects of galanin on membrane currents recorded from neonatal rat cultured dorsal root ganglion neurones using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. When neurones were voltage-clamped at -60 mV, galanin (1-300 nM) evoked an inward current associated with an increase in input conductance. These effects were observed in 21 of the 33 dorsal root ganglion neurones studied and were not attenuated by the galanin receptor antagonist galantide. Galanin fragments, galanin-(1-16) and galanin-(21-29) (300 nM) also elicited an inward current at -60 mV. The inward current induced by galanin was not linearly related to membrane potential indicating that the membrane current response was the result of more than one ionic event.
We studied the expression of whole protein substrates of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) in the forebrain of neonate and adult rats. Protein substrates were determined by phosphorylation of the soluble and particulate fractions by CaM kinase II with [gamma-33P]ATP. Phosphorylated proteins were analyzed by SDS-PAGE and two-dimensional gel electrophoresis. More than 50 endogenous proteins were found to be phosphorylated by CaM kinase II in both soluble and particulate fractions. The expression of about 15 protein substrates increased in the particulate fraction from neonate to adult rats, and that of several proteins also changed in the soluble fraction. These findings suggest that the expression of protein substrates was regulated during development as well as that of CaM kinase II itself.
Efferent activity was recorded in knee joint afferents in response to mechanical stimulation of the hindlimb following induction of acute arthritis. The activity was abolished by application of lidocaine or crushing the nerve proximally and by dorsal rhizotomy but not by sympathectomy. It was concluded that this activity represents dorsal root reflexes in response to natural stimulation of the hindlimb. We propose that increased activity of articular afferents and of dorsal horn neurons during arthritis results in the pathological activation of the central terminals of primary afferents by enhancing primary afferent depolarization. Dorsal root reflexes could then release substances in the knee joint and thus contribute to the acute inflammatory response.

In zebra finches, only males sing and brain regions controlling song exhibit sex differences in neuron number that stem from actions of estrogen during a critical developmental period. In certain song nuclei, these dimorphisms emerge long after neurogenesis and migration are complete, and estrogen promotes masculinization by preventing the death of well-differentiated neurons. But in another region, the higher vocal center (HVC), cellular mechanisms underlying sex differences in neuron number are not so well understood. In the HVC, neurogenesis continues throughout the post-hatch period of sexual differentiation, and sex differences arise during this time because neuron number increases in males but not females. We used [3H]thymidine autoradiography to establish when sex differences in neuron number first develop among a small group of HVC neuronal cohorts. We report that HVC neurons labeled by [3H]thymidine on days 15 and 16 after hatching are sexually dimorphic in number within 10 days of their birth, even before all cells in this cohort complete their migration and/or differentiation. This suggests that the cellular mechanisms contributing to sex differences in neuron number in the HVC may differ from those in other sexually dimorphic neural regions of the vertebrate nervous system. In addition, we found that although many thymidine-labeled HVC neurons ultimately project to the robust nucleus of the archistriatum (RA), a sexually dimorphic target, sex differences in their number develop before this efferent projection is established. These results have important implications regarding the site(s) of hormone action, since they suggest that sexual differentiation acts on certain HVC neurons before they establish their efferent projections, and perhaps even before they arrive within the HVC.
Binding of fluorochrome-conjugated lectins, Bandeiraea simplicifolia lectin-I (BSL-I) and Vicia villosa agglutinin (VVA), to the vomeronasal axons was investigated in the accessory olfactory bulb (AOB) of developing rats at embryonic day (E) 16, 18, and 20, and postnatal day (P) 0, 3, 7, 14, and 28. Intense fluorescence for VVA was first observed at E18, and the position-specific binding pattern observed in adults was established at P0; intense fluorescence for VVA was observed in the posterior 2/3 of the vomeronasal nerve layer (VNL) and glomerular layer (GL) and weak fluorescence was present in the anterior 1/3 of these layers. Fluorescence for BSL-I was observed in the posterior half of VNL and GL at P0; the area bound with BSL-I was expanded to the anterior area and intensity of the fluorescence increased as the development proceeded. At P28, binding of BSL-I was observed in the entire VNL and GL as identical to adults. These results indicate that the binding sites of BSL-I and VVA in the vomeronasal axons at the level of rat AOB develop differentially during ontogeny, suggesting that rat VN axons consist of two subpopulations expressing different glycoconjugates.
Low-frequency stimulation of the Schaffer-commissural pathways in slices prepared from juvenile rats (postnatal day 10-15) results in a long-term depression (LTD) of synaptic transmission. 30 min after 5 min of stimulation at 5 Hz, the response to the stimulated pathway was decreased by 36%, whereas the response to an unstimulated pathway projecting to the same neuronal population was decreased by 20%. Stimulation in the presence of the NMDA receptor antagonist AP5 completely prevented homosynaptic LTD. The phospholipase A2 inhibitor, bromophenacylbromide, also significantly reduced the extent of LTD in both the stimulated and control pathways. LTD was accompanied by a decrease in paired-pulse facilitation, suggesting a change in transmitter release. It also resulted in an increased effect of iontophoretically applied perchlorate, an ion which increases both the affinity of glutamate for the synaptic alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4- isoxazole propionate (AMPA) receptors and synaptic responses, suggesting a change in postsynaptic receptors. These findings indicate that certain stimulation paradigms produce a combination of pre- and postsynaptic modifications that could underlie changes in synaptic efficacy.
The interaction of the synaptic vesicle protein, synaptotagmin, and the presynaptic alpha-latrotoxin receptor, a neurexin, has been proposed to be involved in docking of synaptic vesicles at active sites or modulation of neurotransmitter release. Here I report the investigation of the domain of synaptotagmin responsible for this interaction. Pieces of synaptotagmin containing the carboxyl terminus are capable of purifying neurexins from solubilized brain homogenates. Pieces as small as a synthesized peptide corresponding to the COOH-terminal 34 amino acids are capable of enriching neurexins 100-fold. The binding of neurexins to synaptotagmin is calcium-independent and of moderate affinity. This COOH-terminal segment of synaptotagmin is conserved in all species characterized to date. Reflective of this, a synthetic peptide corresponding to the carboxyl terminus of Drosophila synaptotagmin is capable of purification of rat neurexins, suggesting the possibility that this interaction may also exist in Drosophila. I propose that the carboxyl terminus of synaptotagmin binds to the carboxyl terminus of the neurexins and that this interaction may mediate docking of synaptic vesicles or modulation of neurotransmitter release.


Effective treatments for neurodegenerative disorders are limited by our inability to alter the progression of the diseases. A number of proteins have specific neuroprotective activities in vitro; however, the delivery of these factors into the central nervous system over the long term at therapeutic levels has been difficult to achieve. BHK cells engineered to express and release human nerve growth factor were encapsulated in an immunoisolation polymeric device and transplanted into both fimbria-fornix-lesioned rat brains and naive controls. In the lesioned rat brain, chronic delivery of human nerve growth factor by the encapsulated BHK cells provided nearly complete protection of axotomized medial septal cholinergic neurons. Human nerve growth factor continued to be released by encapsulated cells upon removal from the aspirative site after 3 weeks or from normal rat striatum after 3 and 6 months in vivo. Long-term encapsulated cell survival was confirmed by histologic analysis. This encapsulated xenogeneic system may provide therapeutically effective amounts of a number of neurotrophic factors, alone or in combination, to virtually any site within the body.
In all vertebrates the brain develops from the enlarged anterior part of the neural plate. However, in the zebrafish mutant cyclops, the girth of the central nervous system (CNS) is nearly uniform along its length. Changes in expression patterns of homeobox genes and neuronal markers reveal a massive deletion of the ventral forebrain, particularly the diencephalon, as well as its precursor region in the neural plate. The deletion is due to a nonautonomous action of the mutation: very few wild-type cells transplanted to the midline of a mutant embryo can rescue the forebrain phenotype, including cyclopia. Establishment of forebrain ventral positional coordinates may thus require inductive signaling by forebrain midline cells whose specification depends upon the cyclops gene product.
Cerebral blood flow and glucose utilization were measured in rat neocortex, using [14C]iodoantipyrine and 2-deoxy-D-[14C]glucose quantitative autoradiography, respectively, following nitric oxide synthesis inhibition with L-NAME. In intact animals cortical blood flow was decreased, despite increased arterial blood pressure above autoregulatory limits, whilst glucose use remained unaffected. Unilateral sympathectomy at the superior cervical ganglion had no effect, suggesting that the autoregulatory response to L-NAME-induced hypertension is independent of sympathetic activity.
The present work employed immunocytochemical techniques and examined the distribution and cytological features of the AMPA receptor subunits, GluR2/3 and GluR1 within the entorhinal cortex of non-demented elderly (NC), patients with neuropathological and clinical verification of Alzheimer's disease (AD) and patients without a clinical history of dementia yet exhibiting sufficient quantities of senile plaques to meet neuropathological criteria of Alzheimer's disease (HPND). In NC cases, GluR2/3-immunolabeled neurons were abundantly distributed throughout layers II, III, V and VI of the entorhinal cortex. In contrast, GluR1-positive cells were comparatively sparse in number and largely restricted to layers V and VI. In AD, GluR2/3- and GluR1-labeled neurons were markedly reduced. Similarly, adjacent Nissl-stained tissue sections revealed substantial cell loss in the entorhinal cortex thus providing a reasonable explanation for the loss of these receptor subunits. Importantly, a dramatic loss of GluR2/3- and GluR1-immunolabeled neurons is also observed in the HPND cases, although examination of Nissl-stained tissue sections reveals little if any evidence of cell loss. The latter data suggest that a 'down-regulation' of these receptor subunits occurs prior to the actual loss of these cells. Furthermore, we hypothesize that the decrease of specific AMPA receptor subunits may influence neuronal vulnerability via a mechanism involving increased intracellular calcium and the destabilization of intracellular calcium homeostasis.
Using an antibody raised against an odor receptor protein, we investigated immunohistochemically the spatial distribution in the embryonic and adult rat olfactory epithelium of the olfactory receptor neurons that express the odor receptor protein. In adults, the immunoreactive olfactory receptor neurons were intermingled with immuno-negative receptor neurons, but were mostly restricted within a circumferential zone located in the lateral part of the epithelium. The immunoreactive olfactory receptor neurons were observed as early as embryonic day 14, with a strong tendency to localize in the lateral part of the epithelium. These results indicate that both selection of the odor receptor protein by individual olfactory receptor neurons and zonal segregation of the odor receptor protein expression occur early in embryonic development of the olfactory system.
One week after rat dorsal root fibers were severed, immunoreactivity for the high affinity neurotrophin receptors, trkA and trkB, was up-regulated on glial cells in the spinal cord dorsal column. Immunoreactivity for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) also increased. In contrast, no changes in immunoreactivity for trkA or trkB, or for GFAP were observed in the brainstem cuneate nucleus, a principal termination site for many of the severed dorsal root fibers.
To analyze interdependent transport of K and Cl, we investigated Rb (K) efflux from in vitro choroid plexus (CP) in isotonic artificial CSF (aCSF) medium containing anions or agents that alter KCl transport. Lateral ventricle CP was loaded with 86Rb for release to enable calculation of the efflux rate coefficient, k. With Cl as the main anion in control aCSF, the k value for 86Rb (K) in CP of 1 week infant rats (0.177 min-1) was 19% lower than in adults (0.218 min-1) (P &lt; 0.005). Replacing CSF Cl with NO3 or SCN, respectively, reduced k for K in infant CP by 73% and 43%; similar anion selectivity was observed in adult tissues (P &lt; 0.05). N-Ethylmaleimide (NEM), which stimulates KCI cotransport, significantly enhanced K efflux in infants and adults. In adult CP, the KCl cotransport inhibitor, furosemide (1 mM), decreased K efflux by 23% or 65%, respectively, when aCSF had Cl or NO3 as the main anion. In infant rat CP, 0.1 mM bumetanide (another KCl cotransport inhibitor), reduced k for K by 65%, whereas the Cl channel blocker diphenylamine carboxylate (1 mM) did not significantly alter K efflux. The collective findings for rat CP indicate a substantial component of K efflux that is associated with Cl concentration and the Cl transport protein sensitive to loop diuretics and NEM. The Cl-dependent K efflux is present in infants.
192 IgG-saporin, an immunotoxin targeted at the low affinity NGF receptor, was infused into the lateral ventricle of rat brain. Three days and one week post lesion, choline acetyltransferase activity was markedly decreased in cortex, hippocampus, olfactory bulbs, and septum (brain regions innervated by the cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain) with no change in cerebellum, striatum or pons. Measurement of monoamine levels revealed increases in HVA, DOPAC and dopamine, primarily in the olfactory bulbs at the 28-day time point only, suggesting a compensation for cholinergic inactivity. High levels of basal forebrain cholinergic lesioning can be obtained with this immunotoxin with minimal or no effects on monoaminergic or other cholinergic systems.
By means of a highly specific hyaluronic acid-recognizing protein the localization and regional distribution of hyaluronic acid was demonstrated in the tel- and diencephalon and in the midbrain of the adult rat nervous system. Histochemistry revealed labeling associated with the plasma membrane in highly discrete nerve cell bodies of the frontoparietal cortex, the red nucleus, the zona reticulata of the substantia nigra, the oculomotor nucleus and the reticular thalamic nucleus. A strong labeling without association with perikarya was demonstrated in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation. The present results open up the possibility that the hyaluronic acid found in high concentrations associated with some perikarya may have a special role in plasticity responses in these discrete nerve cell populations.
The effects of 7 days repeated cocaine administration on the dynamics of dopamine release and metabolism in four rat brain regions (frontal cortex, hypothalamus, nucleus accumbens and striatum) were evaluated 1 week (long-term effects) after the final cocaine injection. 3-Methoxytyramine and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) rates of formation were respectively used to assess the dynamics of dopamine release and metabolism. Consistent with a previous report, cocaine withdrawal was associated with marked reductions in DOPAC rate of formation in the frontal cortex and hypothalamus but not in the nucleus accumbens or the striatum. Dopamine release as indicated by 3-methoxytyramine steady-state concentration and its rate of formation was normal in all four brain regions 1 week after repeated cocaine exposure. The ratios of 3-methoxytyramine rate of formation to that of DOPAC were calculated and found to be increased in the frontal cortex and hypothalamus suggesting dopamine reuptake inhibition, at least 1 week after cocaine withdrawal, continued to be depressed in these regions. It is concluded that repeated cocaine has no long-term effect on dopamine release but produces selective long-term reductions in dopamine turnover in frontal cortex and hypothalamus. Cocaine withdrawal is therefore better associated with changes in dopamine turnover than with its release.

Rats received a unilateral lesion of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis (NBM) by infusion of ibotenic acid. Starting 2 weeks after the lesion, the animals were treated with nerve growth factor (NGF) or brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) by intraparenchymal infusion of 3 micrograms per day for 4 weeks. Lesioned control animals received a similar amount of cytochrome c. The activity of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in the frontal neocortex was significantly reduced by the lesion (-39%). However, the intraparenchymal treatment with NGF or BDNF did not affect cortical ChAT activity. The number of p75 NGF receptor-immunoreactive neurons in the NBM was significantly decreased (-49%) by the lesion and was not affected by NGF or BDNF. The size of the remaining neurons was significantly increased by NGF (+32%), but not by BDNF (+12%). Similarly, in situ hybridization showed enhanced expression of the p75 NGF receptor following treatment with NGF, but not with BDNF. These results suggest that although BDNF occurs in the target area of cholinergic NBM neurons, its effects on these neurons are less pronounced than those of NGF.
The gene encoding the neuropeptide galanin is upregulated by second messenger signal transduction pathways in bovine chromaffin cells. To identify its transcriptional regulatory elements, 5'-flanking sequences of the galanin gene were transiently transfected into primary cultures of bovine chromaffin cells within reporter gene constructs. Multiple regions of the galanin 5' flank seem to be necessary for basal activity. The most promoter-proximal of these regions contains a sequence (TGACG) -66 to -62 nucleotides upstream from the transcriptional start site which mediates stimulation by 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), as demonstrated by site-directed mutagenesis and cis-activation experiments. This cis-regulatory element mediates preferential TPA stimulation of transcription from the galanin promoter in chromaffin cells compared with bovine endothelial or HeLa cells. DNA-protein binding assays indicate that an oligonucleotide that includes the galanin TPA-responsive element (GTRE) binds specifically to proteins from nuclear extracts of chromaffin cells. TPA treatment persistently increases this binding activity in chromaffin but not in endothelial cells. Mutation of the galanin promoter within the -66 to -62 region renders it unresponsive to transcriptional stimulation by TPA, and a correspondingly mutated oligonucleotide fails to bind chromaffin cell nuclear proteins in a gel-shift assay. Chromaffin cell nuclear extracts also contain proteins that bind consensus TPA-responsive (TRE) and cyclic AMP-responsive (CRE) elements. GTRE, TRE, and CRE oligonucleotides all compete more efficiently for protein binding to their labeled congeners than for protein binding to either of the other labeled oligonucleotides, suggesting that the GTRE, TRE, and CRE oligonucleotides, suggesting that the GTRE, TRE, and CRE oligonucleotides each bind unique as well as common proteins, likely to be members of the Jun/Fos and cAMP-responsive element-binding protein/activating transcription factors (CREB/ATF) families of transcription factors, in chromaffin cells.
Several modifications of an HPLC-electrochemical assay method for plasma levels of norepinephrine (NE), epinephrine (EPI), dopamine (DA), dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) that improve the accuracy and reliability of DHPG, DOPA, and DOPAC measurements are described. In batch alumina extractions, increasing the amount of alumina decreased analytical recoveries of DHPG, DOPA, and especially DOPAC, and increasing the strength of the eluting acid increased recoveries of these catechols, without affecting recoveries of the amines NE, EPI and DA. Refrigeration (4 degrees C) until injection stabilized DOPAC in aqueous solution and therefore improved the reproducibility of plasma DOPAC measurements. Circulation of chilled water (15 degrees C) around the column using a water jacket decreased variability in retention times of the catechols and thereby facilitated identification of peaks, while enhancing separation of DHPG from the solvent front. Use of 6-fluoro-DOPA and 6-fluoro-DOPAC as internal standards did not improve inter-assay reliability. We recommend that in assays of plasma catechols including DOPAC, small (5 mg), precisely measured amounts of alumina be used, with a relatively strong eluting solution (e.g. 0.04 M phosphoric acid-0.2 M acetic acid, 20:80, v/v), and that the samples be refrigerated until injection, with column temperature held constant at less than 20 degrees C.
Optic nerve terminals segregate by functional class into distinct layers in the lateral geniculate nucleus, the thalamic relay nucleus of the visual system. In the rhesus monkey, the number of geniculate layers changes abruptly from six posteriorly (central vision) to four anteriorly (peripheral vision). The plane of transition between these patterns passes through small laminar gaps corresponding to the perceptual blind spot caused by the exit of the optic nerve from the eyeball. However, this plane of transition has no apparent functional link to the blind spot. A thermodynamic model of geniculate morphogenesis supports the hypothesis that the blind spot traps the transition in its stereotypic position by introducing a singularity in an otherwise smooth gradient in forces guiding the development of geniculate morphogenesis. This relation suggests that small-scale anomalies may be important in the determination of large-scale patterns in biological structure.

In the present study we have described an ex vivo binding assay in mice to measure the central nervous system (CNS) activity of systemically administered CCKB receptor antagonists. This assay incorporated a transcardiac perfusion step to remove the residual blood from the brain, which otherwise may result in an overestimation of CNS activity. The benzodiazepine CCKB receptor antagonist L-365,260 had marked CNS activity in this assay following i.v. (ED50 12.0 mg/kg) and p.o. (ED50 20.0 mg/kg) administration, whereas the dipeptoid CCKB receptor antagonist, CI988 exhibited relatively weak CNS activity following i.v. injection (ED50 &gt; 30.0 mg/kg). In contrast, following i.c.v. administration, CI988 potently inhibited ex vivo binding of [125I]Bolton Hunter-CCK-8S to mouse brain. The recently described acidic tetrazole CCKB receptor antagonist, L-368,935 had potent CNS activity with an ED50 of 5.6 mg/kg i.v. and an ED50 of 1.9 micrograms/kg i.c.v. These studies suggest that the weak CNS activity of CI988 following systemic injection may, in part, be due to poor brain penetration and that the ex vivo binding assay is a useful way of assessing the brain penetration of CCKB receptor antagonists.
The in vivo pharmacological profiles of the selective tachykinin NK1 receptor agonists, [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P and GR 73632, were examined in gerbils. Both agonists induced a pronounced chromodacryorrhea following intravenous injection which was stereoselectively antagonised by the tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist, CP-99,994, but not by its inactive enantiomer, CP-100,263, or the rat-selective tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist, RP 67,580. In contrast, chromodacryorrhea was not observed following intravenous injection of the selective tachykinin NK2 receptor agonist, [beta-Ala8]neurokinin A-(4-10), or the selective tachykinin NK3 receptor agonist, senktide. These results suggest that [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P-induced chromodacryorrhea results from activation of peripheral tachykinin NK1 receptors. Repetitive hind paw tapping was also observed in gerbils but only following intracerebroventricular injection of [Sar9,Met(O2)11]substance P or GR 73632. Furthermore, GR 73632-induced hind paw tapping was significantly attenuated by co-administration of the peptide tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist, GR 82334, or intravenous injection of CP-99,994. Thus, in contrast to chromodacryorrhea, repetitive hind paw tapping may result from activation of central tachykinin NK1 receptors.
Rates of GM2 ganglioside hydrolysis by fibroblasts from normal controls and patients with GM2 gangliosidosis were measured in situ, with cells growing in tissue culture by assaying the decrease in cell-incorporated 3H-GM2 over time, and in vitro by assaying the rate of 3H-GM2 hydrolysis using fibroblast extracts in the presence of no additives, sodium taurocholate, and GM2 activator protein. In tissue culture, normal cells hydrolyzed cell-incorporated GM2 while fibroblasts from patients with GM2 gangliosidosis did not. The half life of GM2 in normal fibroblasts was 78 hours. In vitro, only normal fibroblast extracts hydrolyzed GM2 in the absence of additives. In the presence of 10 mM sodium taurocholate, rates of GM2 hydrolysis by normal fibroblast extracts were increased 5-16-fold, fibroblast extracts from AB and B1 variant patients hydrolyzed GM2 at normal rates, cell extracts from patients with Tay-Sachs disease hydrolyzed GM2 at nearly normal rates, and cell extracts from Sandhoff disease patients hydrolyzed GM2 at about 10% of normal rates. In the presence of 1 microgram of GM2 activator, rates of GM2 hydrolysis by normal fibroblast extracts were increased 8-25-fold, fibroblast extracts from a patient with the AB variant hydrolyzed GM2 at normal rates, and cell extracts from other variants of GM2 gangliosidosis did not hydrolyze GM2. The results suggest that measuring the persistence of 3H-GM2 in tissue culture over time will detect any variant of GM2 gangliosidosis and may be the ideal way to test for the presence of this disease. Variants can be distinguished by assaying the hydrolysis of 3H-GM2 using cell extracts in the absence of additives, with sodium taurocholate, and with activator.
The protein which activates the hydrolysis of GM2 ganglioside by hexosaminidase A was purified from human kidney. The GM2 activator had a molecular mass of 28 kDa by gel filtration and was resolved into three major bands using polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis in the presence of SDS with molecular masses of 23, 22 and 21 kDa. These three bands corresponded respectively to strongly binding, weakly binding and non-binding fractions of GM2 activator chromatographed through concanavalin A-Sepharose, indicating that GM2 activator exists in multiple glycosylated forms.
Peptide T has been shown to be an effective treatment in psoriasis. The mechanism through which peptide T works in psoriasis is at present unknown. Furthermore, a clearance of psoriasis has also been registered using the inhibitory peptide somatostatin. These observations all focus on the fact that peptide T, somatostatin, and/or other peptides, might provide a clue to understanding the etiology and pathogenesis of psoriasis. Therefore, the effect of peptide T administration on somatostatin containing cutaneous cell populations was investigated. Ten psoriatic patients were treated with peptide T (D-Ala-peptide T amide; 2 mg/day i.v.) for 28 days. Serial biopsies were obtained from the psoriatic lesions before, once weekly during and 4 weeks after discontinuation of the peptide T treatment. An indirect immunofluorescence procedure was performed using a polyclonal antiserum against somatostatin. Clinically, most of the patients responded successfully to the treatment. Immunohistochemical investigations of the serial biopsies revealed the appearance of extensive changes in the number of dermal somatostatin immunoreactive dendritic cells. We believe that peptide T may stimulate the local synthesis and/or release of somatostatin, or proliferation and/or migration of certain dendritic cell populations in psoriatic lesions during healing. Since the benefits of peptide T treatment of psoriatic patients parallel earlier investigations using somatostatin infusions, it is likely that somatostatin given exogenously or synthesized/released endogenously plays a vital role in inducing the healing process.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The historical origins and developments of neuroscience are shortly revised. The recent advances at the molecular level and its relevance for clinical practice are emphasized. The general content of the programs and methods of neuroscience teaching in medicine are briefly discussed. It is concluded that neuroscience education in medicine must be expanded and reorganized in this country both at undergraduate and postgraduate level.

Gastrin is mitogenic for several colon cancers. To assess a possible autocrine role of gastrin in colon cancers, we examined human colon cancer cell lines for expression of gastrin mRNA and various forms of gastrin. Gastrin mRNA was not detected in the majority of colon cancer cell lines by Northern hybridization but was detected in all human colon cancer lines by the sensitive method of reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Gastrin mRNA was quantitated by the competitive PCR method. The majority of cell lines expressed very low levels of gastrin mRNA (&lt; 1-5 copies/cell); only one cell line expressed &gt; 20 copies/cell. The mature carboxyamidated form of gastrin was not detected in any of the cell lines by radioimmunoassay or immunocytochemistry. Results suggested that either gastrin mRNA expressed by colon cancer cells was altered (mutated) or posttranslational processing of progastrin was incomplete. Gastrin cDNA from all the colon cancer cell lines had an identical sequence to the published sequence of human gastrin cDNA. Specific antibodies against precursor forms of gastrin were used, and significant concentrations of nonamidated (glycine-extended) and prepro forms of gastrin were measured in tumor extracts of representative colon cancer cell lines. The presence of precursor forms of gastrin suggested a lack of one or more of the processing enzymes and/or cofactors. Significant concentrations of the processing enzyme (peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase) were detected in colon cancer cells by immunocytochemistry. Therefore, lack of other cofactors or enzymes may be contributing to incomplete processing of precursor forms of gastrin, which merits further investigation. Since low levels of gastrin mRNA were expressed by the majority of human colon cancer cell lines and progastrin was incompletely processed, it seems unlikely that gastrin can function as a viable autocrine growth factor for colon cancer cells. High concentrations of glycine-extended gastrin-17 (GG) (&gt; 10(-6) M) were mitogenic for a gastrin-responsive human colon cancer (DLD-1) cell line in vitro. It remains to be seen if GG or other precursor forms of gastrin are similarly mitogenic in vivo, which may then lend credibility to a possible autocrine role of gastrinlike peptides in colon cancers.
Spatial frequency and bandwidth characteristics were determined for neurones in cat striate cortex. Responses to drifting sine-wave gratings, optimized for orientation, direction and velocity, were determined over a range of spatial frequencies. Comparative measurements of spatial frequency tuning at constant velocity and at constant temporal drift frequency revealed that, overall, tuning derived by either method was similar. Results were evaluated in relation to neuronal class (simple or complex); complex cell subclass (standard, intermediate or special), defined by length summation; directionality; and velocity selectivity. Distributions of optimal spatial frequency for simple and complex neurones were comparable. By contrast, bandwidths of simple neurones were markedly narrower than for complex neurones. Standard complex neurones, in turn, had narrower bandwidths than special or intermediate complex neurones. Optimal spatial frequency correlated inversely with optimal velocity, directly with orientation selectivity. Thus, neurones tuned to high spatial frequencies tended to respond optimally to low velocities, and were more sharply orientation selective, than neurones tuned to low spatial frequencies. In binocular neurones, spatial frequency tuning characteristics of the two monocular inputs were compared. For either eye, spatial frequency tuning curves were reproducible over time. In a minority of neurones, spatial frequency characteristics were matched for the two eyes. A majority showed mismatch in spatial frequency characteristics between the eyes. Individual neurones were tuned to different bands of spatial frequencies through either eye; more sharply spatial-frequency selective through one eye than the other; or had both dissimilar bandwidth and spatial frequency. Changing input spatial-frequency resulted in profound, systematic shifts in ocular dominance. These were progressive in the case of spatial-frequency mismatch. In cases of bandwidth, or bandwidth and spatial-frequency mismatch, the eye associated with more sharply-tuned input exerted relatively greater influence at centre frequencies, the other eye relatively greater influence at extreme frequencies. There was a marginal tendency for the dominant (or contralateral) eye to be tuned to higher spatial frequencies than the more weakly driving (or ipsilateral) eye. By contrast, interocular differences in bandwidth were pronounced: in a majority of neurones the dominant eye was more broadly tuned than the more weakly driving eye. Related to the established preponderance of contralaterally dominated cortical neurones, the input from the contralateral eye was markedly more broadly tuned than that from the ipsilateral eye, consistent with the notion that stronger drive is associated with greater pooling of inputs. These differences have important implications for binocular vision and, potentially, for coding of visual perspective.

Developmental setback in children initially thought to be of normal cognitive potential is a serious complication of severe visual impairment; the prevalence, diagnostic specificity, clinical presentation, and factors that contribute to its genesis require systematic investigation. The findings are reported of a retrospective case review over a 15 year period of children attending the developmental vision clinic at the Wolfson Centre of the Institute of Child Health. One hundred and two children met the inclusion criteria of a period of normal development confirmed at initial assessment when aged less than 16 months, absence of additional disabilities, and follow up to at least 2.5 years of age. Developmental setback in their second or third year occurred in 10 (31%) of 32 children who were totally blind throughout (minimal perception of light or less), one (4%) of 25 who, though blind at first assessment, showed visual improvement, and none of 49 children with better vision throughout (awareness for near, large objects). This represents a significantly greater risk for totally blind children than for the other groups. The course and characteristics of the affected children varied, but all had visual diagnoses involving the nervous elements of the visual system, and 60% had major social adversity factors. The role of primary maldevelopment of the central nervous system, the degree of visual impairment, the developmental and emotional climate, and the stage of attentional and behavioural development in the causation of adverse developmental outcome are discussed.

Effective nursing management of the client experiencing myocardial ischaemia requires the nurse to integrate skills of clinical assessment (incorporating physiological and psychological domains), knowledge of myocardial oxygen supply and demand, knowledge of pain pathways and autonomic nervous system responses and appropriate nursing and pharmacological therapeutics. Part 1 of this article aims to describe cardiac pain pathways and the subsequent autonomic nervous system responses. This is necessary for the nurse to fully understand the clinical signs and symptoms found on clinical assessment of a client experiencing myocardial ischaemia. This myocardial ischaemia may manifest as pain. The concept of silent ischaemia will also be discussed as the critical care nurse must also be skilled in assessing a client experiencing myocardial ischaemia in the absence of pain. Part 2 in the next issue will provide a systematic framework for the nursing assessment of the client and discuss appropriate nursing and pharmacological therapeutics to reduce myocardial ischaemia.
In a series of interviews, personal stress was identified as the most significant problem for neuroscience nurses who care for patients in persistent vegetative states. Other issues included inconsistent medical care, demanding physical care requirements, quality-of-life, ordinary versus extraordinary treatments, and the impact of this condition on patients' families. Some recommendations are presented that should help to alleviate some of these concerns.
The effect of novelty, an environmental background variable affecting feeding and appetitive learning performance, was examined in a behavioral study of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis. Transfer of snails into a novel aquatic environment (clean water) evoked exploratory behavior which manifested itself in an increased number of spontaneous rasping movements of the mouth over the second to fifth minute after exposure to the novel environment. The intensity of this behavior was much weaker in a familiar environment (used water from the home tank). Similarly, sucrose-induced feeding rates were highest when the snails were given the sucrose stimulus in a novel environment. The effectiveness of appetitive conditioning using tactile stimulus paired with food (Kemenes &amp; Benjamin, 1989a) improved when the snails were subjected to conditioning in a novel environment. Satiety, an internal variable, suppressed the stimulating effects of the novel environment on the spontaneous, unconditioned, and conditioned feeding alike. After training in the novel environment, the conditioned response was retained for up to 12 days and thus provided a robust behavioral paradigm for the extension of the analysis to the neurophysiological mechanisms of factors affecting appetitive learning in molluscs.
The mass spectral behavior of a set of eight 2- and 10-disubstituted phenoxazines putatively possessing anticancer drug enhancer properties was investigated. Both electron ionization (EI) and keV-ion beam bombardment (liquid secondary ion mass spectrometry, LSIMS) were used. As expected, EI led to extensive fragmentation to produce structurally characteristics ions. Except in one example, the molecular ions were reasonably abundant. Two different liquid matrices--sulfolane and 3-nitrobenzyl alcohol--were used to obtain LSIMS data. The use of the latter produced more stable molecular ions. Ion beam bombardment also produced several structure-specific fragments. A unique feature of the LSI spectra obtained using either of the above matrices is production of both M+. and [M + H]+ ions, with the former being more abundant in most cases. Adduct formation with the liquid matrices was also observed for many compounds.

The purpose of this study was to determine the extent to which lobectomy affects ability to discriminate facial identity or facial expression. Fifteen right temporal, 15 left temporal, 5 right frontal, and 4 left frontal lobectomy patients, pair-matched for age, sex, and education to normal control subjects, participated in this study. Tasks included a Facial Identity Matching Task and a Facial Affect Matching task. The lobectomized patients as a whole were significantly impaired on both tasks (22% decrement in performance). The patients made twice as many errors resulting from perseveration of response-set of the first condition (identity or emotion matching) into the second condition. The site of lobectomy did not influence general performance on any one task or selective performance on any subset of affective categories. It was concluded that all four brain regions play a significant and equal role in face processing, and that circuits more specifically dedicated to visual face processing, which are responsible for hemispheric dominance affects and affect/identity dissociations, are probably located more posteriorly in the brain. Finally, it was concluded that perseveration of acquired habit may, under specific conditions, characterize temporal lobe dysfunction just as much as frontal lobe dysfunction.
To study the roles of bFGF and its receptor in the process of neuronal cell death and the wound repair response, we induced 10 min of transient global cerebral ischemia in rats and measured changes in expression of both bFGF and the FGF receptor, flg. CA1 pyramidal cells are selectively vulnerable to ischemia and die one to 3 days after 10 min of ischemia. In these cells, bFGF mRNA was induced by 6 hours, reached a maximal level by 24 h after ischemia, and subsequently decreased. Message for the FGF receptor, flg, was present in the pyramidal cells layer, and vanished almost completely in parallel with neuronal death. In the granule cell layer of dentate gyrus, the expression of bFGF mRNA increased more rapidly. It was maximal by 6 h and returned to the basal level by 3 days. In the hilus of the dentate gyrus, bFGF expression was maximal at 24 h and returned to control levels by 3 days. Despite the rapid changes in expression of bFGF mRNA, there was no significant change of bFGF immunoreactivity in either the CA1 pyramidal cell layer or in the granule cell layer of dentate gyrus within 3 days after ischemia. The apparent failure of the message to be efficiently translated supports the idea that translation is impaired under conditions where ischemia leads to delayed neuronal cell death. Expression of bFGF mRNA, FGFR mRNA and bFGF immunoreactivity increased dramatically in a broad area of CA1 subfield from 7 days until 30 days after ischemia because of increased expression by reactive glial cells. We suggest that these rapid and complex changes in the expression of bFGF mRNA and bFGF protein may be part of a coordinated response to ischemic injury that is designed to minimize the severity of neuron death.
alpha 2 Adrenergic receptors are involved in mediating pre- and postsynaptic responses in the sympathetic nervous system. In this study, the expression of alpha 2 genes was examined by the amplification of mRNA, extracted from adult rat superior cervical ganglion through reverse transcription and subsequent amplification of appropriate target sequence using polymerase chain reaction and sequence specific oligonucleotide primers for the three alpha 2 receptor genes. Results from these studies have shown that the major alpha 2 adrenergic mRNA transcript was the one that encodes the alpha 2A receptor. Nucleotide sequence of the 312 base-pair (bp) alpha 2A cDNA was homologous to the RG20 adrenergic receptor, the rat homologue of the human alpha 2A receptor. The 312 bp alpha 2A cDNA was used as a probe in Northern blot analysis of the mRNA from superior cervical ganglion and brain. A 3.9 kb mRNA transcript was present in these extracts. To confirm that the alpha 2A gene expression was in the sympathetic neurones we have used the 312 bp alpha 2A cDNA, biotinylated, as a probe for in situ hybridization studies and have demonstrated that the alpha 2A mRNA was found only in the cell bodies of sympathetic neurones.
AMPA receptors are comprised of individual subunits, and the divalent cation permeability of assembled AMPA receptors is determined by a single amino acid residue in the second transmembrane region of the GluR-B subunit. At this site, GluR-B subunits contain an arginine while other AMPA receptor subunits contain glutamine. Interestingly, the murine gene for GluR-B actually specifies a glutamine at the divalent cation permeability site. The appearance of arginine and not glutamine in the mature GluR-B protein is thought to be a result of RNA editing of the GluR-B messenger RNA. In that AMPA receptors are thought to mediate the bulk of fast excitatory signalling within the mammalian central nervous system, this process of RNA editing may play a pivotal role in normal neural function by mediating divalent cation permeability of AMPA receptors. Disruptions of RNA editing could lead to phenotypically altered AMPA receptors, with implications for pathogenic brain processes. We report that the human GluR-B gene sequence is also edited such that there is a difference between the human GluR-B gene and the complementary DNA (cDNA), as demonstrated both with allele-specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and restriction enzyme digestion of PCR products. Thus, as in the rodent brain, RNA editing of an AMPA receptor subunit appears to be an important process in the human brain. Disruptions of RNA editing may have neuropathological consequences.
Exposure of cultured cerebellar granule neurons to subtoxic concentrations of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) induces a state of excitoprotection when measured by subsequent exposure to toxic concentrations of glutamate. This NMDA-induced excitoprotective state is prevented by inhibitors of new RNA and protein synthesis. Since the neurotrophic and excitoprotective effects of NMDA in cerebellar granule neurons may involve changes in the expression of the immediate early genes c-fos and c-jun, we measured c-fos and c-jun mRNAs in cerebellar granule neurons after exposure to either toxic concentrations of glutamate or excitoprotective (subtoxic) concentrations of NMDA. Exposure of cerebellar granule neurons to toxic concentrations of glutamate induced a dramatic increase in c-fos and c-jun mRNAs which was not associated with a corresponding increase in c-fos and c-jun proteins as measured immunocytochemically. However, the increase in c-fos and c-jun mRNAs induced by toxic concentrations of glutamate was not altered by preexposing cerebellar granule neurons to NMDA, suggesting that increased expression of c-fos and c-jun mRNAs is not sufficient for glutamate toxicity of these neurons. Preexposure of cerebellar granule neurons to NMDA for 24 h, which induced a maximal excitoprotective state, resulted in a transient increase in c-fos, and to a lesser degree c-jun, mRNAs similar to that induced by toxic concentrations of glutamate. The induction of c-fos, but not that of c-jun, mRNA both by excitoprotective concentrations of NMDA and by neurotoxic concentrations of glutamate was blocked by the non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, MK-801.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Gender differences in hemispheric asymmetry for language functioning have been reported in the neuropsychological literature. Despite numerous reports of anatomic asymmetries in corresponding cortical regions, the possibility of gender dimorphism in the putative neuroanatomical substrate of language has not been systematically examined in vivo. We assessed asymmetry of the planum temporale (PT), a supratemporal region of auditory association cortex, in 12 normal, right-handed females and 12 age-matched right-handed males with the aid of MRI surface-rendering morphometry. Bilateral areas were also assessed for Heschl's gyrus (HG), a supratemporal region of primary auditory cortex where no asymmetry was anticipated. We found a significant interaction between gender and hemisphere for the PT, with males having significantly larger left versus right PTs. Left-right differences in PT area were not significant among females (10 of 12 males showed leftward lateralization of the PT, vs 5 of 12 females). No main effect of gender was found for total (left + right) PT area, and no asymmetries or gender effects were detected for HG. This finding of gender dimorphism in PT area is consistent with evidence for reduced asymmetry among females in the lateralization of language functions attributable to the supratemporal cortex. The implications for theories about interactions between sex hormones and the development of brain asymmetries are discussed.

To date, no pharmacological agent has been confirmed to lessen electroconvulsive therapy (ECT)-induced memory deficits. BR-16A is an herbal preparation, containing various organic extracts, used in India for the enhancement of cognition (among other applications). In the present study, adult male Sprague-Dawley rats received six once-daily electroconvulsive shocks (ECSs). Half the animals were treated with BR-16A (200 mg/kg/day) for 1 week before ECS, during the ECS course, and during the post-ECS learning assessment phase; the remaining animals received vehicle alone. In experiment 1, rats (n = 16/treatment group) were preassessed for learning on days 3 and 5 of exposure to the Hebb-Williams complex maze and were reassessed after comparable exposure to the maze starting from the second day post-ECS. In experiment 2, rats (n = 9/treatment group) were preassessed for number of trials to satisfactory learning and number of wrong arm entries in a T-maze and were reassessed on the second day post-ECS. The learning preassessments were conducted just prior to the commencement of the BR-16A/vehicle treatments. In both experiments, rats receiving BR-16A performed significantly better than controls. It is concluded that BR-16A protects against ECS-induced anterograde amnesia. BR-16A may therefore have scope in minimizing ECT-induced learning deficits.
Correlational analysis of cerebral metabolic (rCMRglc) data obtained with positron emission tomography (PET) assesses group differences and has demonstrated reduced frontal-parietal rCMRglc interdependencies in Alzheimer's disease (AD). A multivariate analysis of rCMRglc data assesses individual differences. We recently identified discriminant functions, reflecting frontal-parietal rCMRglc interdependencies, that separated AD from control subjects. To test if the functions would identify an AD rCMRglc pattern in older Down syndrome (DS) adults with (DS DAT+) or without (DS DAT-) dementia, we applied the functions to longitudinal rCMRglc data in: young DS (n = 15), DS DAT- (n = 10), DS DAT+ (n = 4), and young controls (n = 15). All DS DAT+ and some of the later DS DAT- scans were classified as AD. The results provide additional validation of the functions and suggest their utility for the early detection of AD.
This paper presents a comparison of the early language of nine blind and nine severely visually impaired children, with no other impairments, who were recruited from paediatric vision clinics in London and assessed in the second and third year of life using the Reynell-Zinkin Developmental Scales. Further information on milestones and content of early expressive language was obtained from parents' diary recordings of their children's emerging words. It is concluded that severely visually impaired children's expressive language tends to develop later than that of sighted children. The effect of children having even a small amount of vision could be discerned in their early words. The developmental course appears to be particularly variable for blind children, with implications for parental counselling.
During development, oligodendrocyte precursors undergo sequential stages of differentiation characterized by expression of distinct cell surface properties and proliferative responses. Although both PDGF and bFGF are mitogenic for these cells, the factors that regulate the progression of oligodendrocyte precursors through their differentiative program remain unclear. One factor present in the embryonic spinal cord that may regulate differentiation of oligodendrocyte precursors is retinoic acid. Here we show that retinoic acid inhibits the maturation of embryonic spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursors in vitro at an early, highly motile stage of differentiation, characterized by the expression of A2B5 immunoreactivity. Basic FGF acts both as a mitogen and an inhibitor of spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursor maturation, but at a significantly later stage of differentiation, characterized by the expression of O4 immunoreactivity. In the presence of RA both the mitogenic and differentiation inhibiting effects of bFGF are abolished, consistent with RA acting as an early regulator of oligodendrocyte differentiation. During embryonic development, oligodendrocyte precursors arise initially from a distinct group of cells at the ventral ventricular zone of the spinal cord. Myelination of the entire spinal cord is dependent on the migration of immature precursor cells to peripheral developing white matter. Since the embryonic spinal cord has the capacity to release relatively high levels of retinoids, we propose that RA inhibits oligodendrocyte differentiation during early embryonic development permitting their dispersal throughout the entire spinal cord.
To learn when cell fate differences first arise in the zebrafish trunk neural crest, individual premigratory crest cells were labeled intracellularly with fluorescent vital dyes, followed in living embryos and complete lineages recorded. Although some of the earliest cells to migrate produced derivatives of multiple phenotypes, most zebrafish trunk neural crest cells appear to be lineage-restricted, generating type-restricted precursors that produce single kinds of derivatives. Further, cells that produce derivatives of multiple phenotypes appear to do so by first generating type-restricted precursors. Among the various types of derivatives, sensory and sympathetic cells arise only from early migrating crest cells. Some type-restricted precursors display cell-type-specific characteristics while still migrating. Taken together, these observations suggest that some trunk neural crest cells are specified before reaching their final locations.
In zebrafish, the segmental series of pharyngeal arches is formed predominantly by two migratory cell types, neural crest and paraxial mesoderm, which arise in the early embryo. Neural crest cells migrate ventrally out of the neuroepithelium and into the arches to form cartilage, neurons, glia and pigment cells. Surrounding mesoderm generates muscles and endothelia. We labeled individual pharyngeal precursor cells with fluorescent dyes and found that their clonal progeny were confined to single segments and generated single cell types. When a neural crest or mesodermal cell was marked before migration into the pharynx, its progeny dispersed but generally remained confined to a single arch primordium. Such segmental restrictions arose first in the most rostral arches, mandibular and hyoid, and progressed caudally. The phenotypes of progeny generated by single cells were examined in the mandibular arch. Clones derived from premigratory neural crest cells generally did not contribute to more than one cell type. Further, the progenitors of some cell types were spatially separated in the premigratory crest. In particular, neurogenic crest cells were situated further laterally than cells that generate cartilage and connective tissues, while pigment and glial cell progenitors were more evenly distributed. Based on these results we suggest that arch precursors may be specified as to their eventual fates before the major morphogenetic movements that form the arch primordia. Further, cell movements are restricted during segmentation establishing a group of arch precursors as a unit of developmental patterning, as in the fashion of vertebrate rhombomeres or segmental lineage compartments in Drosophila.
Accumulation of the amyloid A beta peptide, which is derived from a larger precursor protein (APP), and the formation of plaques, are major events believed to be involved in the etiology of Alzheimer's disease. Abnormal regulation of the metabolism of APP may contribute to the deposition of plaques. APP is an integral membrane protein containing several putative phosphorylation sites within its cytoplasmic domain. We report here that APP is phosphorylated at Thr668 by p34cdc2 protein kinase (cdc2 kinase) in vitro, and in a cell cycle-dependent manner in vivo. At the G2/M phase of the cell cycle, when APP phosphorylation is maximal, the levels of mature APP (mAPP) and immature APP (imAPP) do not change significantly. However, imAPP is altered qualitatively. Furthermore, the level of the secreted extracellular N-terminal domain (APPS) is decreased and that of the truncated intracellular C-terminal fragment (APPCOOH) is increased. These findings suggest the possibility that phosphorylation-dependent events occurring during the cell cycle affect the metabolism of APP. Alterations in these events might play a role in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease.
When the ovaries of 23-day-old juvenile rats are transplanted to an ectopic site, they recover within 1 week the ability to control gonadotropin secretion via steroid negative feedback. Vascular corrosion casting followed by scanning electron microscopy revealed that the transplanted ovary becomes profusely revascularized within 48 h after transplantation. Vascular ingrowth was accompanied by a 40- to 60-fold increase in expression of the genes encoding two angiogenic factors, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and transforming growth factor-beta 1 (TGF beta 1), as assessed by RNA blot hybridization of the corresponding mRNAs. Although TGF beta 3 mRNA levels also increased, no changes in the levels of mRNAs encoding other putative angiogenic factors, such as TGF alpha, basic fibroblast growth factor, and TGF beta 2, were observed. Hybridization histochemistry demonstrated that in intact ovaries, VEGF mRNA is mainly expressed in granulosa cells of the cumulus oophorus and thecal cells of large antral follicles. Transplantation is followed by an increase in mRNA abundance and a dramatic shift in cellular localization, so that the mRNA becomes predominantly expressed in cells of the outer ovarian cortex. In intact ovaries, low levels of TGF beta 1 mRNA were detected in thecal-interstitial cells; after transplantation, its expression also became more predominant in the ovarian outer cortex, but this change was not as marked as in the case of VEGF. Because ovarian autotransplantation is followed by a rapid increase in serum gonadotropin levels, experiments were conducted to determine the importance of this rise in the activation of VEGF and TGF beta 1 gene expression. After transplantation, some animals were treated with the LHRH antagonist Nal-Glu LHRH (50 micrograms/rat, once a day for 2 days) to prevent the posttransplantation rise in serum gonadotropins. Quantitation of VEGF and TGF beta 1 mRNA by RNase protection assay 48 h later showed that suppression of gonadotropin secretion diminished the increase in both VEGF and TGF beta 1 gene expression. Concomitant treatment with PMSG (8 IU/rat, single injection), which mainly bypasses the suppression of endogenous FSH levels, restored the TGF beta 1 mRNA response, but had no effect on VEGF mRNA. The results suggest that the increase in gonadotropin secretion following ovarian transplantation contributes to revascularization of the graft by up-regulating the gene expression of two major angiogenic factors.
Neuropeptide-Y (NPY), a hypothalamic peptide, is involved in stimulation of LHRH and LH surges during proestrus and those induced by ovarian steroids in ovariectomized (ovx) rats. The NPY neurons that reside in the arcuate nucleus of the medial basal hypothalamus (MBH) and accumulate 17 beta-estradiol participate in the initiation of LHRH and LH surges. To determine whether NPY synthesis is altered in conjunction with the LH surge, we studied the dynamic changes in prepro-NPY mRNA levels in the MBH in association with the LH surge elicited by estradiol benzoate (EB) alone or by progesterone (P) in EB-primed ovx rats. Five days after ovariectomy, rats received oil or EB (30 micrograms/rat) at 1000 h on day 0. On day 2, these rats were injected with either oil or P (2 mg/rat) at 1000 h. Rats were killed before (1000 h) and at 2-h intervals after oil or P injection. The MBHs were dissected out and processed for determination of prepro-NPY mRNA levels by solution hybridization/RNase protection assay using a cRNA probe. Although in control ovx rats, prepro-NPY mRNA levels remained unchanged between 1000-1600 h, prepro-NPY mRNA levels showed dynamic changes in steroid-primed rats. In the EB-primed rats, prepro-NPY mRNA levels rose significantly (100%) at 1200 and 1400 h before the LH rise at 1600 h, and the levels remained elevated up to 1800 h. After P injection to the EB-primed rats, this response was further augmented, with a slightly different temporal pattern. Prepro-NPY mRNA levels rose at 1400 h (600%) before the onset of the LH rise at 1600 h and declined steadily to significantly lower values at 1800 h, coincident with the highest rate of LH secretion. These studies demonstrate dynamic shifts in hypothalamic NPY gene expression in association with the LH (LHRH) surge, and that maximal increases occur before the onset of the LH rise, but thereafter, NPY gene expression diverged in the two ovarian-steroid treatment models. These findings along with previous evidence of similar antecedent increases in NPY content in the median eminence, followed by release, suggest that augmented NPY synthesis and release are two temporally dissociable neural events for the LHRH and LH surges.
Chronic salt loading up-regulated the expression of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (NOS) mRNA in the supraoptic nucleus (SON) and paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus with a concomitant increase in NOS activity in the posterior pituitary. Once daily ip injection of N-omega-nitroarginine (N-Arg), a NOS inhibitor, significantly inhibited NOS activity in the posterior pituitary in a dose-dependent manner, but did not influence NOS mRNA levels. Two percent salt loading for 3 or 4 days significantly depleted the contents of both arginine vasopressin (AVP) and oxytocin (OT) in the posterior pituitary, and simultaneous treatment with daily injections of N-Arg at a dose of 10 mg/kg significantly enhanced the depletion of both AVP and OT. This effect was dose dependent and paralleled the inhibition of NOS activity in the posterior pituitary. N-Arg treatment had no effect on the levels of both AVP and OT transcripts in PVN or SON. These results suggest that NOS gene expression in the SON and PVN of the rat hypothalamus is increased during hyperosmotic stimulation and suggest a neuromodulatory role for NO in the rat hypothalamo-hypophysial system as an inhibitory regulator of AVP and OT secretion.
Direct interaction between the C-terminal portion of dystrophin and dystrophin-associated proteins was investigated. The binding of dystrophin to each protein was reconstituted by overlaying bacterially expressed dystrophin fusion proteins onto the blot membranes to which dystrophin-associated proteins were transferred after separation by SDS/PAGE with the following results. (a) Among the components of the glycoprotein complex which links dystrophin to the sarcolemma, a 43-kDa dystrophin-associated glycoprotein binds directly to dystrophin. Although at least one of the binding sites of this protein resides within the cysteine-rich domain of dystrophin, a contribution of additional amino acid residues within the first half of the C-terminal domain was also suggested for more secure binding. (b) Two other proteins also directly bind to dystrophin. Their binding sites are suggested to reside within the last half of the C-terminal domain which is alternatively spliced depending on the tissue type. Previously, based on the enzyme digestion experiments, we showed that the binding site for the glycoprotein complex on dystrophin is present within the cysteine-rich domain and the first half of the C-terminal domain [Suzuki, A., Yoshida, M., Yamamoto, H. &amp; Ozawa, E. (1992) FEBS Lett. 308, 154-160]. Here, we have extended this work and found that the region which is involved in interaction with the complex is widely extended to the entire length of this part of the molecule. On the basis of the present results, we propose a model of molecular architecture at the binding site for the complex on dystrophin.
The stimulation of cortical dopaminergic D1 receptors can counteract the increased locomotor activity evoked by D-amphetamine application in the nucleus accumbens (Vezina et al., Eur. J. Neurosci., 3, 1001-1007, 1991). Moreover, an alpha 1 antagonist, prazosin, prevents the locomotor hyperactivity induced by electrolytic lesions of the ventral tegmental area (Trovero et al., Neuroscience, 47, 69-76, 1992). Attempts were thus made to see whether blockade of alpha 1-adrenergic receptors in the rat prefrontal cortex could reduce nucleus accumbens D-amphetamine-evoked locomotor activity. Rats implanted chronically and bilaterally with cannulae into the medial prefrontal cortex and the nucleus accumbens were used for this purpose and locomotor activity was monitored in circular corridors. Preliminary experiments indicated that intraperitoneal injection of prazosin (0.06 mg/kg) reduces the locomotor hyperactivity induced by the peripheral administration of D-amphetamine (0.75 mg/kg). This effect of prazosin was not observed when locomotor hyperactivity was obtained by an intraperitoneal injection of scopolamine (0.8 mg/kg). Bilateral nucleus accumbens injections of D-amphetamine (4.0 nmol/side) markedly increased locomotor activity, as estimated in a 30 min period. Prior (20 min) bilateral injections of either prazosin or WB-4101 (0.16 pmol) into the medial prefrontal cortex abolished the nucleus accumbens D-amphetamine-evoked response. The recovery of the nucleus accumbens D-amphetamine-evoked response was closely dependent on the amount of prazosin used, very prolonged inhibitory effects of the drug being seen with a high amount (&gt; 4 days with 160 pmol). In contrast, whatever the amount of WB-4101 used (0.16-160 pmol), recovery occurred within 3 days.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Many reports indicate that GM1 ganglioside is effective in reducing CNS ischemic injury in animal models. These models employ invasive surgery to induce ischemic damage in otherwise healthy animals. The purpose of this study was to determine if the beneficial effects of GM1 could be generalized to Spontaneously Hypertensive Rats-Stroke Prone (SHRSP). The SHRSP strain develops a pathology similar to those observed in patients with stroke. The SHRSP have &quot;risk&quot; factors that include hypertension, fibrinoid necrosis, and sensitivity to diet. Female SHRSP were randomly assigned to GM1- or saline-treatment conditions. Rats were fed a stroke-inducing diet. Daily body weights, weekly blood pressure, time of stroke onset, and age at death were recorded. Spontaneous activity and performance on a tail-hang test were assessed thrice weekly. The results indicate that GM1 treatment did not delay the time of stroke onset or death. GM1 did reduce hyperactivity in the initial stages of the ischemic pathology, but did not prevent the marked decline in behavioral activity observed at later time points. There were no differences in weight loss, performance on the tail-hang test, or number of CNS injury-related symptoms observed. These findings suggest that GM1 was not as effective in decreasing mortality, weight loss, or behavioral deficits in SHRSP as previously reported using other animal models of ischemia. Distinguishing between those animal models in which GM1 is more and less effective may be useful in determining under which clinical situations GM1 is likely to be most suitable.
The influences of neurotrophic factors on adult mammalian spinal cords are incompletely understood. In the present experiment, we utilized somatic gene transfer to examine the effects of nerve growth factor (NGF) on the unlesioned spinal cords of adult Fischer rats. Fischer 344 rat primary fibroblasts were genetically modified in vitro to produce and secrete NGF, then grafted to spinal cords at the T7 level. Grafts survived in vivo for periods of up to 1 year, and induced an extremely robust ingrowth of spinal neurites. Control and basic fibroblast growth factor-producing grafts did not promote extensive neurite growth. Neurites penetrating the NGF grafts were of sensory origin, since they labeled immunocytochemically for calcitonin gene-related peptide but not markers of other neuronal transmitter phenotypes. Electron microscopy revealed that neurites within NGF-secreting grafts were enveloped in glial cell processes and that axons frequently became myelinated. These results indicate that (i) genetically modified cell grafts are a useful model for studying trophic factor effects in the adult mammalian spinal cord, (ii) sensory neurites maintain robust NGF responsiveness into adulthood, and (iii) sprouting neurites can follow glial channels and become myelinated in the adult spinal cord. Grafts of fibroblasts genetically modified to secrete trophic factors merit study as potential tools for promoting regeneration after spinal cord injury.
Acute Trypanosoma cruzi infection is commonly associated with disorders of impulse conduction and muscle contraction in heart. In order to determine the extent to which receptor function changed in response to infection, infected neonatal rat cardiac myocytes in culture were compared with matched controls with regard to chronotropic response and Ca2+ mobilization following the application of adrenergic agonists. At 7-9 days in culture (5-7 days postinfection), spontaneous beat rates of control myocytes were four times as rapid as those in infected cells. Control cells responded to 10(-5) M isoproterenol (ISO) and 10(-6) M norepinephrine (NE) with increases in beat rate of 34 and 40%, respectively. Effects of ISO on infected cells were similar, and adenylate cyclase activity was similar in control and infected cells when measured in the presence of ISO alone or in combination with Gpp(NH)p. NE produced a more marked chronotropic response in infected cultures and altered Ca2+ mobilization. NE treatment increased Ca2+ levels in control cardiac myocytes from 51.8 +/- 4.4 to 113 +/- 16 nM (in 0 Ca2+ medium) and from 85.2 +/- 6.8 to 131.3 +/- 24.5 nM (1 mM external Ca2+). In infected cardiac myocytes, NE increased Ca2+ from 116.8 +/- 17 to 164.7 +/- 9.6 nM (in 0 Ca2+ medium) and from 132.2 +/- 13.2 to 162.5 +/- 0.3 nM (1 mM Ca2+ medium). Thus, basal and alpha-adrenergic-stimulated Ca2+ levels were higher in infected than uninfected myocytes regardless of the extracellular Ca2+ levels, although the fractional increase in infected myocytes was significantly lower than that in controls (1.4- and 1.2-fold vs 2.2- and 1.5-fold). Therefore, both chronotropic and Ca(2+)-mobilization responses to the alpha-adrenergic agonist NE are altered in T. cruzi-infected cardiac myocytes; the chronotropic response of similarly infected cells to the beta-adrenergic agonist ISO was not affected. These data indicating that T. cruzi infection may be associated with a dissociation in responses to these agonists suggest a possible mechanism to explain, in part, the cardiac dysfunction characteristic of Chagas' disease.
We assessed the reactivity of purified S-100 antiserum in immuno-electron microscopy by counting the number of gold particles per microns 2 over inner ear tissues embedded in different media. Sections containing predominantly Schwann's cell cytoplasm and nucleus, afferent fiber axoplasm and myelin sheath of chick cochleae were reacted with anti-S-100 IgG, an antibody to a calcium binding protein of neuronal tissues, then labeled with anti-IgG-gold conjugate. This investigation was conducted because previously published procedures, unmodified, did not yield acceptable results. Preparation of all specimens was identical. Only the medium (PolyBed 812, Araldite or Spurr epoxies; and LR White, LR Gold or Lowicryl plastics) was changed. The medium was made the changing variable because antigens available in post-embedding immuno-electron microscopy are decreased by heat, either used and/or released during polymerization of the embedding medium. The results indicate that: (a) none of the embedding media above provided optimal signal-to-noise ratio for all parts of the nerve stained in the same section; (b) aggregation of gold particles over cells was highest in embedding media with high background labeling over areas devoid of tissue (noise); (c) aggregation occurred randomly throughout both cellular and acellular regions; and (d) particles aggregated less and were distributed more evenly in tissues from media yielding good ultrastructural integrity.
Machado Joseph disease (MJD) is a progressive, spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA) with an autosomal dominant mode of inheritance and almost complete penetrance. Clinically, it is difficult to distinguish it from other autosomal dominantly inherited ataxias, and it has been suggested that MJD may be caused by an allelic variant of SCA. Exclusion of MJD from the SCA1 locus on chromosome 6p has previously been demonstrated. However, following the recent assignment of a second locus for spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA2) to chromosome 12q in a large Cuban kindred of Spanish origin, we have investigated linkage in MJD families using the two markers, D12S58 and PLA2, that flank this disease gene. The MJD locus was definitively excluded from an interval spanning approximately 70 cM, which includes these loci. These studies demonstrate that MJD and SCA2 are genetically distinct despite similarities in disease phenotype and ancestral origins of the patients. Thus, the as yet unmapped MJD locus represents a third SCA locus, providing further evidence for genetic heterogeneity within these disorders.
Antibodies recognizing horse radish peroxidase (HRP) stain neurons in Drosophila and other insects. We have used Western blots to analyze and characterize some of the anti-HRP reactive components from Drosophila melanogaster. Anti-HRP reactive components can be reproducibly detected during all developmental stages, although the pattern changes at different developmental times. In adults, there are at least 10 reproducibly stained components. Two of the bands, with molecular sizes of 42 and 80 kDa are likely to be the major contributors to neuronal anti-HRP staining in Drosophila. These components are enriched in adult fly heads. In contrast, many of the other anti-HRP reactive components in adults are enriched in abdomen and are present exclusively or at much higher levels in male flies. We have purified and characterized two of the male specific components with molecular sizes of 62 and 48 kDa. Partial N-terminal amino acid sequencing revealed that the 62 kDa protein is identical to a part of D. melanogaster carboxylesterase to EC 3.1.1.1) while he 48 kDa protein does not match any known sequences. Esterase-6 has previously been shown to be enriched in male accessory gland and consistent with this we show staining of this structure with anti-HRP antibodies.
Tau is a developmentally regulated microtubule-associated protein that influences microtubule behavior by directly associating with tubulin. The carboxyl terminus of tau contains multiple 18-amino acid repeats that bind microtubules and are separated by 13-14-amino acid inter-repeat (IR) regions previously thought to function as &quot;linkers.&quot; Here, we have performed a high resolution deletion analysis of tau and identified the IR region located between repeats 1 and 2 (the R1-R2 IR) as a unique microtubule binding site with more than twice the binding affinity of any individual repeat. Truncation analyses and site-directed mutagenesis reveal that the binding activity of this site is derived primarily from lys265 and lys272, with a lesser contribution from lys271. These results predict strong, discrete electrostatic interactions between the R1-R2 IR and tubulin, in contrast to the distributed array of weak interactions thought to underlie the association between 18-amino acid repeats and microtubules (Butner, K. A., and M. W. Kirschner. J. Cell Biol. 115:717-730). Moreover, competition assays suggest that the R1-R2 IR associates with microtubules at tubulin site(s) distinct from those bound by the repeats. Finally, a synthetic peptide corresponding to just 10 amino acids of the R1-R2 IR is sufficient to promote tubulin polymerization in a sequence-dependent manner. Since the R1-R2 IR is specifically expressed in adult tau, its action may underlie some of the developmental transitions observed in neuronal microtubule organization. We suggest that the R1-R2 IR may establish an adult-specific, high affinity anchor that tethers the otherwise mobile tau molecule to the tubulin lattice, thereby increasing microtubule stability. Moreover, the absence of R1-R2 IR expression during early development may allow for the cytoskeletal plasticity required of immature neurons.
Vesicular transport within the secretory pathway can be arrested by incubating cells at 15 degrees C or 20 degrees C to block exit from the endoplasmic reticulum or trans-Golgi network, respectively. Using this powerful tool we have compared the intracellular sites of endoproteolytic processing of proopiomelanocortin and two prohormone processing enzymes in AtT-20 mouse pituitary corticotrope tumor cells. For comparison, proopiomelanocortin processing was also evaluated in primary neurointermediate pituitary cultures. AtT-20 cells synthesize and store endogenous proopiomelanocortin and prohormone convertase 1; AtT-20 cells expressing high levels of integral membrane or soluble peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase were generated by stable transfection. Cells were incubated with [35S]methionine and chased at 4 degrees C, 15 degrees C, 20 degrees C or 37 degrees C. The endoproteolytic processing of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating mono-oxygenase, prohormone convertase 1, and proopiomelanocortin was compared following immunoprecipitation. Endoproteolytic processing of integral membrane and soluble peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase proteins was completely blocked by incubation of cells at 20 degrees C. In contrast, prohormone convertase 1 processing from the 87 kDa precursor to the 81 kDa intermediate proceeded to completion at both 15 degrees C and 20 degrees C, while cleavage to generate the 63 kDa prohormone convertase 1 protein was completely blocked at 20 degrees C. In AtT-20 cells and neurointermediate pituitary cultures, generation of beta-lipotropin from proopiomelanocortin continued at a slow but significant rate at 20 degrees C, while processing of beta-lipotropin to beta-endorphin was blocked. Thus prohormone convertase 1 processing begins in the endoplasmic reticulum and is not completed until after the trans-Golgi network, while peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase processing begins after the trans-Golgi network. Selected proopiomelanocortin cleavages begin before entry into immature granules.
We examined effects of acute unilateral enucleation on incorporation from blood of intravenously injected unsaturated [1-14C]arachidonic acid ([14C]AA) and [1-14C]docosahexaenoic acid ([14C]DHA), and of saturated [9,10-3H]palmitic acid ([3H]PA), into visual and nonvisual brain areas of awake adult Long-Evans hooded rats. Regional cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglc) values also were assessed with 2-deoxy-D-[1-14C]glucose ([14C]DG). One day after unilateral enucleation, an awake rat was placed in a brightly lit visual stimulation box with black and white striped walls, and a radiolabeled fatty acid was infused for 5 min or [14C]DG was injected as a bolus. [14C]DG also was injected in a group of rats kept in the dark for 4 h. Fifteen minutes after starting an infusion of a radiolabeled fatty acid, or 45 min after injecting [14C]DG, the rat was killed and the brain was prepared for quantitative autoradiography. Incorporation coefficients k* of fatty acids, or rCMRglc values, were calculated in homologous brain regions contralateral and ipsilateral to enucleation. As compared with ipsilateral regions, rCMRglc was reduced significantly (by as much as -39%) in contralateral visual areas, including the superior colliculus, lateral geniculate body, and layers I, IV, and V of the primary (striate) and secondary (association, extrastriate) visual cortices. Enucleation did not affect incorporation of [3H]PA into contralateral visual regions, but reduced incorporation of [14C]AA and of [14C]DHA by -18.5 to -2.1%. Percent reductions were correlated with percent reductions in rCMRglc in most but not all regions. No effects were noted at any of nine non-visual structures that were examined. These results indicate that enucleation acutely reduces neuronal activity in contralateral visual areas of the awake rat and that the reductions are coupled to reduced incorporation of unsaturated fatty acids into sn-2 regions of phosphatidylcholine, phosphatidylinositol, and phosphatidylethanolamine. Reduced fatty acid incorporation likely reflects reduced activity of phospholipases A2 and/or phospholipase C.
A beneficial effect of insulin in reducing cerebral ischemic damage has been recently demonstrated, and a direct central mechanism of insulin action in cerebral ischemia has been proposed. To test the hypothesis that one of the neuroprotective mechanisms of insulin action involves a direct interaction with CNS tissue via a growth factor effect, a continuous intraventricular infusion of two doses of insulin and of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) was given to fed Wistar rats subjected to 10 min, 15 s of transient forebrain ischemia. Quantitative neuropathology after 1-week survival showed that low-dose insulin (7 IU/rat/day; n = 10) reduced selective necrosis in the striatum (p = 0.015) and one level of the hippocampus (p = 0.023) as compared with animals infused with phosphate-buffered saline (200 microliters/rat/day; n = 8). IGF-1 (50 micrograms/rat/day; n = 8) significantly ameliorated hippocampal damage in four of the six hippocampal levels (p &lt; 0.05). High-dose insulin infusion (23 IU/rat/day; n = 8) produced a robust reduction in cortical (p = 0.0108), striatal (p = 0.003), and hippocampal (p &lt; 0.05) necrosis at all coronal levels. However, this high-dose insulin reduced the blood sugar significantly (p &lt; 0.01), from 11.8 to 7.8 mM, probably by virtue of centrally administered insulin reaching the periphery. We conclude that insulin and IGF-1 offer a moderate, centrally mediated, neuroprotective effect, likely mediated at least in part via a growth factor mechanism.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Dynorphin facilitates conditioned place aversion and reduces locomotor activity through mechanisms potentially involving direct activation of target neurons or release of catecholamines from afferents in the nucleus accumbens. We examined the ultrastructural substrates underlying these actions by combining immunoperoxidase labeling for dynorphin 1-8 and immunogold silver labeling for the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). The two markers were simultaneously visualized in single coronal sections through the rat nucleus accumbens. By light microscopy, dynorphin immunoreactivity was seen as patches of immunoreactive varicosities throughout all rostrocaudal levels of the nucleus accumbens. The dynorphin-immunoreactive terminals identified by electron microscopy ranged from 0.2 to 1.5 microns in cross-sectional diameter, contained numerous small (30-40 nm) clear vesicles, as well as one or more large (80-100 nm) dense core vesicles. From the dynorphin-immunoreactive terminals quantitatively examined in single sections, 74% (173/370) showed symmetric synaptic junctions mainly with large unlabeled dendrites. Of the dynorphin-immunoreactive terminals forming identifiable synapses, approximately 30% contacted more than one dendritic target. In addition, single dendrites frequently received convergent input from more than one dynorphin-labeled terminal. Irrespective of their dendritic associations, dynorphin-immunoreactive terminals also frequently showed close appositions with other axons and terminals; these included unlabeled (41%), TH-labeled (10%) or dynorphin-labeled axons (14%). In contrast to dynorphin-immunoreactive terminals, TH-labeled terminals formed primarily symmetric synapses with small dendrites and spines or lacked recognizable specializations in the plane of section analyzed. In some cases, single dendrites were postsynaptic to both dynorphin and TH-immunoreactive terminals. We conclude that dynorphin-immunoreactive terminals potently modulate, and most likely inhibit, target neurons in both subregions of the rat nucleus accumbens. This modulatory action could attenuate or potentiate incoming catecholamine signals on more distal dendrites of the accumbens neurons. The findings also suggest potential sites for presynaptic modulatory interactions involving dynorphin and catecholamine or other transmitters in apposed terminals.
Battlefield use of nerve agents poses serious medical threats to combat troops and to civilians in the immediate or adjacent environment. The experiments reported herein were carried out in the 1980s to help to define both the neurological and neuropathological consequences of exposure to the organophosphate nerve agent Soman. These data contributed to the scientific foundation for a program of drug development to find agents that would prevent or reduce the risk of injury to the central nervous system and specifically pointed to the importance of including an anticonvulsant in the treatment of agent exposure. Since these experiments were conducted, research efforts have continued to improve pretreatment and treatment, such as the inclusion of the anticonvulsant diazepam in the medical treatment of exposed personnel.
Neuroscience seeks to understand how the human brain, perhaps the most complex electrochemical machine in the universe, works, in terms of molecules, membranes, cells and cell assemblies, development, plasticity, learning, memory, cognition, and behavior. The human behavioral sciences, in particular psychiatry and clinical psychology, deal with disorders of human behavior and mentation. The gap between neuroscience and the human behavioral sciences is still large. However, some major advances in neuroscience over the last two decades have diminished the span. This article reviews the major advances of neuroscience in six areas with relevance to the behavioral sciences: (a) evolution of the nervous system; (b) visualizing activity in the human brain; (c) plasticity of the cerebral cortex; (d) receptors, ion channels, and second/third messengers; (e) molecular genetic approaches; and (f) understanding integrative systems with networks and circadian clocks as examples.
Genetic counseling for Gaucher disease is complicated by the vast degree of clinical heterogeneity encountered in the disorder. Recent advances in our understanding of the molecular genetics of Gaucher disease are particularly relevant to genetic counseling. Although the identification of mutations in the glucocerebrosidase gene has enabled genotypic screening of Gaucher patients, the ability to reliably predict patient outcome on the basis of DNA studies is often limited. An appreciation of both the spectrum of clinical manifestations in Gaucher patients and the limitations of the available genotypic information is necessary when counseling patients, families and at-risk individuals.
A book, &quot;On Dexterity and Its Development,&quot; written by N. A. Bernstein in the 1940s has recently been published in Moscow. We describe briefly the amazing fate of this miraculously saved book and of its famous author. The book is unique in its reader-friendly handling of the most complicated issues of motor control, motor development, motor skill acquisition, and more general aspects of brain activity. It presents the basis for what is now called motor control and for some of the more fundamental issues of theoretical neuroscience. Bernstein described his views on multilevel control of movements, the role of sensory feedback, preprogramming, feedback and feedforward components in motor control, the role of exercise, and other subjects. Despite the fact that the book was written nearly half a century ago, its deep philosophical content remains beyond any competition.
Transient forebrain or global ischemia in rats induces selective and delayed damage of hippocampal CA1 neurons. In a previous study, we have shown that expression of GluR2, the kainate/alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor subunit that governs Ca2+ permeability, is preferentially reduced in CA1 at a time point preceding neuronal degeneration. Postischemic administration of the selective AMPA receptor antagonist, 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(f)quinoxaline (NBQX), protects CA1 neurons against delayed death. In this study we examined the effects of NBQX (at a neuroprotective dose) and of MK-801 (a selective NMDA receptor antagonist, not protective in this model) on kainate/AMPA receptor gene expression changes after global ischemia. We also examined the effects of transient forebrain ischemia on expression of the NMDA receptor subunit NMDAR1. In ischemic rats treated with saline, GluR2 and GluR3 mRNAs were markedly reduced in CA1 but were unchanged in CA3 or dentate gyrus. GluR1 and NMDAR1 mRNAs were not significantly changed in any region examined. Administration of NBQX or MK-801 did not alter the ischemia-induced changes in kainate/AMPA receptor gene expression. These findings suggest that NBQX affords neuroprotection by a direct blockade of kainate/AMPA receptors, rather than by a modification of GluR2 expression changes.
Major membrane lipids were quantified in frontal (Brodmann area 9) and temporal (Brodmann areas 21 and 22) cortices, caudate nucleus, hippocampus, and frontal white matter of 12 cases with Alzheimer's disease (AD) type I (early onset), 21 cases with AD type II (late onset), and 20 age-matched controls. The concentration of gangliosides--a marker for axodendritic arborization--was reduced to 58-70% of the control concentration in all four gray areas (p &lt; 0.0001) and to 81% in frontal white matter (p &lt; 0.01) of AD type I cases, whereas it was only significantly reduced in temporal cortex (p &lt; 0.01), hippocampus (p &lt; 0.05), and frontal white matter (p &lt; 0.05) in AD type II cases. The concentration of phospholipids was also significantly reduced (p &lt; 0.01-0.0001) in all four gray areas of AD type I cases but in no area of AD type II cases. The loss of cholesterol was only 50% of the corresponding phospholipid diminution in AD type I. These results suggested a pronounced loss of nerve endings in AD type I. The characteristic membrane lipid disturbance in AD type II was a loss of myelin lipids. This is the first time a fundamental biochemical difference has been shown between the two major forms of AD.
A spring-loaded device that &quot;breaks&quot; at preset forces was used to assess readings obtained by hand-held dynamometry by three raters with varying experience in the method. Overall accuracy (3%), but not reproducibility or variability, was improved by greater experience. Readings obtained jointly by three raters had 53% greater variability than those obtained by a single rater. Nine muscle groups in 19 patients with motor neuron disease were assessed at 10 sessions (three replications per session) over six days by the experienced rater. Muscle force was expressed relative to that of 22 matched normal controls. The reproducibility was good with a mean % difference of 13.2 and repeatability coefficient of 2.17 kg-force for readings six days apart; the overall correlation coefficient was 0.98. The mean coefficient of variation (CV) of 10 readings was 9.9%. The poorer reproducibility and greater variability seen in clinically weaker muscles may account for differences in patients with bulbar palsy and classical amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; the degree of spasticity had no effect. The rater was estimated to contribute 37% of the total variability when testing patients. The use of a composite score by combining normalised dynamometry readings of eight limb muscles improved mean % difference to 6.7 and mean CV to 5.8%. The reproducibility and variability of hand-held dynamometry readings obtained by a single rater compare well with those of fixed devices. Readings from single raters, irrespective of experience, have similar reproducibility and variability. If, however, multiple raters are used in longitudinal assessments of individual patients, as occurs in clinical trials, the variability of their combined readings should be estimated when calculating the same size required.

We report the effect of the 11,778 and 3460 base pair mitochondrial DNA mutations, found in Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON), on platelet mitochondrial respiratory chain enzyme activity. We measured respiratory chain enzyme activities in platelets from 4 patients with the 3460 mutation, 17 patients with the 11,778 mutation and compared them with those of 41 healthy age-matched controls. We observed a 67% (P &lt; 0.001) reduction in the mean NADH CoQ1 reductase (complex I) activity of the 3460 group compared to the control group. It has been shown previously that platelet mitochondrial biochemistry is affected by cigarette smoking. A significant reduction (25%, P &lt; 0.03) in the mean complex I activity of the 11,778 group was only observed when the non-smokers within that group were compared to the non-smoking controls. The effect of smoking observed in this study may explain why previous workers have not observed a decrease in complex I activity associated with the 11,778 mutation. There was no significant change in the activity of complexes II/III or IV with either of these mutations. There was a significant increase (26%, P &lt; 0.008) in citrate synthase (CS) activity with the non-smoking 11,778 group compared to the non-smoking control group, rising to 40% (P &lt; 0.002) in those with this mutation who smoked. This reflects an increase in mitochondrial mass with the 11,778 mutation. This effect was not observed with the 3460 mutation even though the complex deficiency was much more severe.
We describe a validation study of a new technique for detecting circulating pathological cerebral emboli. Theoretically one would expect solid emboli to be detectable as high intensity signals on the Doppler waveform, and such signals have been reported in humans with potential embolic sources. Pathological cerebral emboli (thrombi, platelet aggregates and atheroma) were introduced into the proximal carotid artery of an in vivo sheep model, and their passage detected in the cerebral circulation using Doppler ultrasound. All of 74 emboli, with a maximum dimension as small as 0.24 mm, were detected as short duration high intensity signals. Smaller pathological emboli could not be made but glass microspheres as small as 5-20 micron resulted in high intensity signals. A significant positive correlation was found between embolus size and relative intensity increase of the embolic signal. A significant positive correlation was also found between embolus size and duration of embolic signal. This study demonstrates that detection of circulating cerebral emboli is possible in vivo. This technique may allow selection of patients at particularly high risk of cerebral embolisation so that they can be given specific prophylactic treatment. Analysis of the Doppler signal may give information on the size of the embolus, although using current signal analysis it is impossible to distinguish between the signals produced by say a larger platelet embolus or a smaller thrombus embolus.
Neurochemical, pathologic, virologic, and histochemical correlates of simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV)-associated central nervous system (CNS) dysfunction were assessed serially or at necropsy in rhesus monkeys that exhibited motor and cognitive deficits after SIV infection. Some infected monkeys presented with signs of acquired immunodeficiency disease (AIDS) at the time of sacrifice. Seven of eight animals exhibited motor skill impairment which was associated with elevated quinolinic acid in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). Examination of the brains revealed diffuse increases in glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity in cerebral cortex in all animals, regardless of evidence of immunodeficiency disease. Reactive astrogliosis preceded or was coincident with the onset of neuropsychological impairments. Virus rescue from CSF of six of eight infected animals showed that one of three animals with AIDS and none of three animals without AIDS at necropsy had virus rescue-positive CSF. Multinucleated giant cells were seen in the brain of only one animal with end-stage AIDS and high systemic virus burden at death. Neither systemic nor CNS virus burden was associated with the onset of CNS dysfunction. SIV-associated motor/cognitive impairment is associated with subtle, widespread changes in CNS cytology and neurochemistry, rather than with large increases in brain virus burden or widespread virus-associated brain lesions.
1. High-speed fluorescence imaging was used to measure intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) changes in hippocampal neurons injected with the Ca(2+)-sensitive indicator fura-2 during intrasomatic and synaptic stimulation. The results of these experiments were used to construct a biophysical model of [Ca2+]i dynamics in hippocampal neurons. 2. A compartmental model of a pyramidal neuron was constructed incorporating published passive membrane properties of these cells, three types of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels characterized from adult hippocampal neurons, voltage-gated Na+ and K+ currents, and mechanisms for Ca2+ buffering and extrusion. 3. In hippocampal pyramidal neurons imaging of Na+ entry during electrical activity suggests that Na+ channels, at least in sufficient density to sustain action potentials, are localized in the soma and the proximal part of the apical dendritic tree. The model, which incorporates this distribution, demonstrates that action potentials attenuate steeply in passive distal dendritic compartments or distal dendritic compartments containing Ca2+ and K+ channels. This attenuation was affected by intracellular resistivity but not membrane resistivity. 4. Consistent with fluorescence imaging experiments, a non-uniform distribution of Ca2+ accumulation was generated by Ca2+ entry through voltage-gated Ca2+ channels opened by decrementally propagating Na+ action potentials. Consequently, the largest increases in [C2+]i were produced in the proximal dendrites. Distal voltage-gated Ca2+ currents were activated by broad, almost isopotential action potentials produced by reducing the overall density of K+ channels. 5. Simulations of subthreshold synaptic stimulation produced dendritic Ca2+ entry by the activation of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels. In the model these Ca2+ signals were localized near the site of synaptic input because of the attenuation of synaptic potentials with distance from the site of origin and the steep voltage-dependence of Ca2+ channel activation. 6. These simulations support the hypotheses generated from experimental evidence regarding the differential distribution of voltage-gated Ca2+ and Na+ channels in hippocampal neurons and the resulting voltage-gated Ca2+ accumulation from action and synaptic potentials.
1. The functional properties of sodium currents in acutely dissociated adult human, neonatal rat [postnatal day (P) 3 and P10], and mature rat (P21-23) neocortical pyramidal neurons were studied using whole-cell patch-clamp techniques. 2. The voltage dependence of activation and steady-state inactivation of neonatal rat sodium currents was shifted in the positive direction when compared with mature rat sodium currents. In contrast, no difference was detected between the voltage dependence of activation and steady-state inactivation of mature rat and adult human sodium currents. 3. The fast inactivation of rat (neonatal and mature) and human neocortical sodium currents were best fit with three components; a fast decay component, a slow decay component, and a persistent component. The magnitude of the persistent current in neocortical neurons averaged 1-3% of the peak current. Inactivation was faster for sodium currents in neonatal rat neocortical neurons than in mature neurons. No difference was detected in the kinetics of inactivation between mature rat and adult human sodium currents. 4. Saxitoxin (STX) inhibited neuronal sodium currents at nanomolar concentrations in neonatal and mature rat and adult human neocortical neurons. STX-insensitive channels were not detected. 5. STX affinity was also assayed using 3H-STX. A single high-affinity binding site was found in neonatal rat, mature rat, and adult human neocortical tissue. A developmental increase in STX binding site density in the rat neocortex was tightly correlated with the increase in the sodium current density (normalized to cell capacitance). Human neocortical tissue and mature rat neocortical tissue did not differ in STX binding site density or sodium current density. 6. From these electrophysiological and autoradiographic studies we conclude that 1) the increase in the normalized sodium current density and STX binding density with age postnatally reflects an increase in binding sites of sodium channels functionally expressed on neuronal membranes, 2) the functional differences in channel behavior with maturation can explain the higher threshold for excitation in neonatal neocortical neurons and the increase in accommodation or adaptation in firing in the mature neuron, and 3) mature rat neocortical neurons represent a valid model for the study of adult human pyramidal neocortical neurons in terms of Na+ channel expression and function.
The perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices constitute the major sources of cortical input to the monkey entorhinal cortex. Neuropsychological studies have shown that these three cortical regions contribute in an important way to normal memory function. We have investigated the topographic and laminar organization of the reciprocal projections between the entorhinal cortex and these two adjacent cortical areas by placing anterograde and retrograde tracers in all three regions. There were three major findings. First, the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices have distinct but partially overlapping interconnections with the entorhinal cortex. The perirhinal cortex tends to be interconnected with the rostral two-thirds of the entorhinal cortex while the parahippocampal cortex tends to be interconnected with approximately the caudal two-thirds of the entorhinal cortex. Second, the degree of reciprocity of the interconnections of the entorhinal cortex with the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices differs. The parahippocampal/entorhinal connections have a high degree of reciprocity. In contrast, the degree of reciprocity of the perirhinal/entorhinal interconnections varies depending on the mediolateral position within the perirhinal cortex; medial portions of the perirhinal cortex exhibit a higher degree of reciprocity with the entorhinal cortex than lateral portions. Third, the projections from the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices to the entorhinal cortex resemble a feedforward projection, while the projections from the entorhinal cortex to the perirhinal and parahippocampal cortices resemble a feedback projection pattern.
Behavioral sensitization to psychomotor stimulants has been shown to be accompanied by a number of alterations in the mesoaccumbens dopamine (DA) system, including DA autoreceptor subsensitivity in the ventral tegmental area (VTA), postsynaptic D1 receptor supersensitivity in the nucleus accumbens (NAc), and augmentation of the DA-releasing effects of stimulants in the NAc. The present study examined whether coadministration of the noncompetitive NMDA antagonist MK-801 with amphetamine, which has been shown to prevent the development of behavioral sensitization to amphetamine, would also prevent these changes in mesoaccumbens DA function. Rats were treated for 5 d with amphetamine according to a regimen known to produce lasting sensitization. Extracellular single-unit recordings from VTA DA neurons in amphetamine-treated rats, performed after 1 d of abstinence, revealed robust autoreceptor subsensitivity to DA agonists. This was prevented in rats coadministered MK-801 with amphetamine during the 5 d pretreatment period. Recordings from NAc neurons in amphetamine-treated rats demonstrated supersensitivity of D1 receptors to iontophoretic administration of selective agonists when tested after 7 d of abstinence. This was also prevented by MK-801 coadministration. Microdialysis studies performed in awake rats after 7 d of abstinence failed to demonstrate augmentation of amphetamine-stimulated DA release in amphetamine-treated rats as compared to water controls, despite the fact that behavioral sensitization was evident in the former group during microdialysis experiments. MK-801 coadministration prevented behavioral sensitization in microdialysis rats but did not alter amphetamine-stimulated DA release. These results suggest (1) NMDA receptor stimulation is required for the development of both autoreceptor subsensitivity in the VTA and postsynaptic D1 receptor supersensitivity in the NAc during repeated amphetamine treatment, (2) these functional changes therefore appear to be closely associated with the development of behavioral sensitization, and (3) a dissociation can be demonstrated between the intensity of amphetamine-stimulated behavioral responses and amphetamine-stimulated DA release in the NAc.
We discovered in slices of rat visual cortex that reliable long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic responses in layer III could be elicited by theta burst stimulation delivered to a site in the middle of the cortical thickness, corresponding mainly to layer IV. This synaptic plasticity was reflected in the extracellular field potentials and intracellular EPSPs in layer III, but was not observed in the intracellular responses of layer V neurons, suggesting a preferential involvement of synapses on layer III neurons. Tetanus-induced LTP in this preparation was input specific, and was blocked by application of an NMDA receptor antagonist (but not by an antagonist of nitric oxide synthase). In addition, LTP of layer IV-evoked responses could also be produced reliably by pairing low-frequency synaptic stimulation (approximately 100 pulses at 1 Hz) with strong intracellular depolarization of layer III neurons. Thus, LTP in this circuit satisfies the definition of a &quot;Hebbian&quot; modification. Tetanic stimulation of the white matter, in sharp contrast, consistently failed to elicit LTP in layer III unless a GABAA receptor antagonist was applied to the slice. Analysis indicated that the critical difference between layer IV and white matter stimulation was not the magnitude of the responses to single stimuli delivered to the two sites, but that it might lie in the postsynaptic response during high-frequency stimulation. Consistent with this idea, &quot;associative&quot; LTP could be elicited from white matter when converging but independent inputs from the white matter and layer IV simultaneously received tetanic conditioning stimulation. A hypothetical model is presented to account for the differences between layer IV and white matter stimulation. According to this &quot;plasticity gate hypothesis,&quot; inhibitory circuitry in layer IV normally acts as a sort of band-pass filter that constrains the types of activity patterns that can gain access to the modifiable synapses in layer III. By stimulating in layer IV, we have bypassed this filter and therefore do not need to block GABAA receptors to achieve the threshold for LTP in layer III.
Injury to peripheral tissue leads to hyperalgesia that appears to be partly mediated by functional changes at the level of the spinal cord. Glutamate receptors are thought to play a role in acute and short-term (minutes to hours) spinal cord nociceptive responses and may be involved in prolonged or chronic pain (hours to days). We used in situ hybridization to examine AMPA/kainate (GluR1, GluR2, and GluR3) and NMDA (NR1) receptor gene expression in spinal cord following induction of prolonged inflammation by a unilateral intraarticular injection of lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 10 micrograms) into the hindpaw. In control rats, GluR1 expression was prominent throughout the layers of the gray matter of the spinal cord. Microscopic examination revealed labeling of neuronal cell somata in all major nuclei. GluR2 was abundant in substantia gelatinosa and motor nuclei; emulsion-dipped sections exhibited intense labeling over densely packed neurons in the superficial laminae of dorsal horn and individual motoneurons of ventral horn. GluR3 and NR1 were expressed at low levels throughout spinal cord gray matter. One day after LPS injection, when joint swelling was maximal, GluR1 expression was bilaterally decreased by 25% in the substantia gelatinosa at the level of the lumbar cord. In contrast, no significant change was apparent in GluR2, GluR3, or NR1 expression in any nucleus of the cord. At 72 hr after injection, when joint diameter approached control values, all four transcripts were expressed at near control levels. These findings provide evidence for a specific decrease in GluR1 expression in the cord in response to joint inflammation.
ATP has been proposed as a possible chemical mediator of synaptic transmission in the spinal dorsal horn on the basis that it is released in dorsal horn synaptosomes in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner and that its effects mimic those of synaptic inputs to dorsal horn neurons. In the present study we examined the actions of ATP on neurons and glia in cell culture using optical and electrophysiological recording techniques. We found that ATP increased intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in &gt; 99% of astrocytes. In contrast, only 35% of neurons and 20% of oligodendrocytes responded to ATP. The prevalence of the ATP-evoked response in astrocytes led us to characterize the type of receptor mediating the response, the source of Ca2+, and the membrane currents activated by ATP. We found that ADP was approximately equipotent with ATP in increasing [Ca2+]i whereas AMP and adenosine had no effect. In addition, responses to ATP were blocked in a concentration-dependent manner by the P2 purinergic receptor antagonist suramin. Furthermore, as it was found that 2-methylthio-ATP was more potent than ATP and that beta, gamma-methylene-ATP was ineffective, the responses were mediated via the P2 gamma subtype of purinergic receptor. The increase in [Ca2+]i evoked by ATP persisted in extracellular medium with no added Ca2+ and containing EGTA, indicating that this increase was due to release of Ca2+ from intracellular stores. Release of Ca2+ by ATP was blocked by thapsigargin but was unaffected by caffeine. ATP had several effects on membrane current activating inward, outward, and mixed currents despite uniformly causing increases in [Ca2+]i. These observations indicate that ATP has diverse electrophysiological effects on astrocytes as well as increasing [Ca2+]i in these cells. We speculate that ATP released from synaptic terminals in the dorsal horn might act not only on postsynaptic neurons but also on perisynaptic astrocytes. Thus, a physiological role for ATP may be as a neuronal-glial signaling molecule within the spinal dorsal horn.
We examined age-related changes in object and spatial visual processing in two separate experiments. Regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) was measured in young and old subjects with positron emission tomography and H2(15)O during tests of face matching, location matching, and a control task. The task demands in the two experiments were identical, but the stimuli in Experiment II were constructed to equalize stimulus complexity across all three tasks. The old subjects performed more slowly than the young subjects in both experiments, and showed significantly slower reaction times during location matching compared to face matching in Experiment II. Both young and old subjects showed occipitotemporal rCBF activation during face matching and occipitoparietal activation during location matching when these conditions were compared to the control task. However, in both experiments and in both tasks, young subjects showed greater activation of prestriate cortex (Brodmann's area 18), and old subjects had larger rCBF increases in occipitotemporal cortex (area 37). Areas in prefrontal cortex, as well as in inferior and medial parietal cortex, were more activated in the old subjects during location matching in both experiments. These results demonstrate that reliable age-related changes during visual processing can be found in rCBF patterns, suggesting more efficient use of occipital visual areas by younger subjects and more reliance by older subjects on one or more cortical networks, particularly for spatial vision, perhaps to compensate for reduced processing efficiency of occipital cortex. Both the differentially increased reaction times and the more widespread prefrontal activation in the old subjects during location matching suggest that spatial vision may be affected to a greater degree by aging than is object vision.
In this study we have isolated and sequenced human cDNAs for the phosphoproteins DARPP-32, ARPP-21, and ARPP-16/19, and have compared these sequences to previously characterized bovine and rat cDNAs. In situ hybridization and Northern blot analysis with the human cDNA probes were used to study the expression of mRNAs encoding ARPP-16/19, ARPP-21, and DARPP-32 in human postmortem brain tissue. In situ hybridization was performed using horizontal whole hemisphere sections. Five representative levels of the brain ranging from 71 mm to 104 mm ventral to vertex were examined. All three probes showed distinct hybridization patterns in the caudate nucleus, putamen, nucleus accumbens, and the amygdaloid complex. For ARPP-16/19 mRNA, a hybridization signal comparable to the signal in caudate nucleus, putamen, and nucleus accumbens was also detected in the neocortex. ARPP-21 and DARPP-32 mRNA, on the other hand, were present in lower levels in neocortical regions. DARPP-32 mRNA was abundant in the cerebellar cortex at the level of the Purkinje cell layer. High levels of ARPP-16/19 and ARPP-21 mRNA were also found in the cerebellar cortex, where they were confined to deeper layers. The present result demonstrate that mRNAs for the three phosphoproteins are expressed in overlapping, but also distinct, areas of the human brain that in many cases coincide with previously described distribution of the dopamine D1 receptor.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMK) and p42 mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) are enriched in neurons and possess the capacity to become persistently active, or autonomous, following removal of the activating stimulus. Since persistent kinase activation may be a mechanism for information storage, we have used primary cultures of cortical neurons to investigate whether kinase autonomy can be triggered by bursts of spontaneous synaptic activity. We and others have found that both these kinases respond to synaptic stimulation, but differ markedly in their kinetics of activation and inactivation, as well as in their sensitivity to NMDA receptor blockade. While 90% of maximal CaMK activation was observed after only 10 sec of synaptic bursting, MAPK activity was unaffected at this early time and rose to only 30% of maximal after 2 min of stimulation. Following blockade of synaptic stimulation, CaMK activity decreased by 50% in 10-30 sec, while MAPK activity decayed by 50% within 6-10 min. Although MAPK exhibited relatively slow activation, short periods of synaptic activity could trigger the MAPK activation process, which persisted in the absence of synaptic stimulation. Comparison of the effect of NMDA receptor blockade on synaptic activation of these kinases revealed that CaMK activity is preferentially suppressed. As previous immunocytochemical studies indicate that CaMK is concentrated in dendritic processes in the vicinity of synapses, we measured synaptic calcium transients in fine dendritic processes (approximately 1 microns diameter) to assess their sensitivity to NMDA receptor blockade. Calcium transients in these fine processes were reduced by up to 90% by NMDA receptor blockade, possibly accounting for the profound sensitivity of CaMK to this treatment. The sharp contrast between the regulation of CaMK and MAPK by synaptic activity indicates that they may mediate neuronal responses to different patterns of afferent stimulation. The relatively slow activation and inactivation of MAPK suggests that it may be able to integrate information from multiple, infrequent bursts of synaptic activity.
We have used electrical stimulation of the vestibular apparatus to reveal parallels between the physiological responses of the vestibular afferents activated at different currents and the properties of the evoked eye movements before and after magnifying spectacles had been used to cause motor learning in the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR). Stimulation with the lowest currents caused little or no eye motion, but activated all the afferents with irregular spontaneous discharge, low sensitivities to head velocity, and highly phasic responses during rapid head turns. Stimulation with moderate currents caused substantial eye motion that was weakly affected by motor learning; these currents activated afferents with a wide range of physiological properties, including many that had intermediate discharge regularity, high sensitivity to head velocity, and clear phasic responses during rapid head turns. Stimulation at still higher currents caused still larger eye movements that were strongly altered by motor learning; these currents activated primarily afferents that had regular spontaneous discharge, lower sensitivities to head velocity, and tonic responses during rapid head turns. Stimulation at the highest currents did not cause any further increment in the amplitude of the evoked eye movement, but activated the afferents with the most regular spontaneous discharge and the lowest sensitivities to head velocity. The data imply that the VOR pathways receive substantial vestibular inputs from afferents with a middle range of thresholds for electrical stimulation. These afferents have a wide range of physiological properties, including a large group that shows substantial phasic responses during rapid head turns. The data also suggest that only a subset of these afferents, primarily those with more regular spontaneous discharge, project into the VOR pathways that are modified in association with motor learning.
Hippocampal neurons exhibit three voltage-gated potassium currents, two transient currents and a delayed rectifier, that influence numerous aspects of electrogenesis including action potential duration and accommodation to sustained depolarization. These currents, termed A-, D-, and K-currents, respectively, can be distinguished based on kinetics, steady state inactivation characteristics, and sensitivity to 4-aminopyridine (see Wu and Barish, 1992b). We have compared the voltage-gated potassium currents in voltage-clamped pyramidally shaped cultured hippocampal neurons growing on or touching glial fibrillary acidic protein-expressing astroglia (termed on-glia or touching-glia neurons, respectively) with those in similar neurons growing directly on a coated glass substrate (termed off-glia neurons). We observed differences in the wave forms of total potassium current that correlated with the extent of astroglial contact. After 5-7 d in culture, A-current amplitude in off-glial neurons was approximately 19% of that of neurons growing in the normal (for culture) on-glia configuration. D-current amplitude tended to be larger in these off-glia neurons. Neurons in contact with astroglia had greater membrane area than off-glia neurons. Comparison of current densities (current at a fixed voltage normalized to capacitance and expressed in units of pA/pF) indicated that A-currents were the major component of transient potassium current in on- and touching-glia neurons, while D-currents were more dominant in off-glia neurons. Astroglia influenced membrane currents by a surface- or extracellular matrix-associated mechanism, rather than by free diffusion of a soluble factor, as differences were observed between closely adjacent neurons on the same coverslip. Living glia were required, as potassium currents in neurons grown on dried or methanol-fixed glia resembled those of off-glia neurons. On-glia neurons in cultures treated with an RNA synthesis inhibitor [DRB (5,6-dichloro-1-beta-D-ribofuranosylbenzimidazole)] for 5-7 d had reduced whole-cell capacitance and A-current amplitude. This effect was localized to DRB actions on underlying astroglia, not on the neurons. Action potentials elicited by current injection varied with astroglial contact. In on-glia neurons with relatively larger A-currents a delay was seen in the onset of firing after depolarization. In contrast, action potentials in off-glia neurons rose smoothly after initiation of depolarization. We conclude that astrocytes modulate the appearance of transient potassium currents in hippocampal pyramidal neurons by inducing development of A-current.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neurons in the rostral ventromedial medulla (RVM) are the major source of serotonergic projections to the dorsal horn. A large body of evidence implicates RVM serotonergic neurons in the modulation of spinal nociceptive transmission. Three physiological classes of RVM neurons, on, off, and neutral cells, are postulated to have different nociceptive modulatory effects on spinal nocifensor reflexes. This study was undertaken to determine which RVM cell class(es) contains 5-HT. In anesthetized rats, RVM neurons were identified by their responses to noxious cutaneous stimuli, intracellularly labeled, and processed for 5-HT immunocytochemistry. Labeled neurons were examined with epifluorescence and imaged using a confocal laser microscope. A total of 25 RVM neurons were intracellularly labeled. No off (n = 9) or on (n = 8) cells were serotonergic. Half of the neutral cells (4 of 8) demonstrated 5-HT immunoreactivity. These results call for a reevaluation of the mechanisms of RVM modulatory influence on spinal cord nociceptive transmission. The finding that some neutral cells are serotonergic strongly suggests that serotonergic neutral cells are involved in the modulation of spinal nociceptive transmission. Additionally, inhibition of spinal nociceptive transmission by off cells is unlikely to involve 5-HT release. Finally, since opioid administration does not alter the firing of RVM neutral cells, the results of the present study indicate that serotonergic RVM neurons do not directly mediate the effects of supraspinal opioids in the rat.
We have examined several aspects of neurotransmitter function in the brains of mice carrying a deletion mutation in the gene encoding the purine salvage enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HPRT). During the first 6 weeks of postnatal development, dopamine levels in whole-brain extracts from the mutant mice (HPRT-) failed to increase at rates comparable to normal animals, resulting in 40% lower dopamine levels throughout adulthood. Regional analysis in adult animals showed the caudoputamen to be the most severely affected region, with dopamine deficits of 48-64%. Dopamine levels in other regions were normal or less severely affected. The decrease in dopamine was accompanied by a decrease in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) activity, the rate-limiting step in dopamine synthesis. Kinetic analysis of TH extracted from the caudoputamen of normal and HPRT- mice demonstrated a 45% decrease in Vmax with an increased affinity for the tetrahydropterin cofactor in the mutants. Labeling of midbrain dopamine neurons using TH immunohistochemistry revealed no obvious deficits in the number of midbrain dopamine neurons, but quantitative autoradiographic studies revealed significant reductions in the binding of 3H-N-[1-(2-benzo(beta)thiophenyl)cyclohexyl]piperidine (3H-BTCP) to dopamine uptake sites in the forebrain of the mutants. In contrast to these abnormalities of the dopamine systems in the mutant mice, other neurotransmitter systems appeared relatively unaffected. Norepinephrine, 5-HT, tryptophan hydroxylase, and glutamic acid decarboxylase were present at normal levels in the brains of the mutants. ChAT activity was slightly lower than normal in the caudoputamen of the mutant animals, but was normal in all other brain regions examined. These results indicate that HPRT deficiency is associated with a relatively specific deficit in basal ganglia dopamine systems that emerges during the first 2 months of postnatal development.
Neurons possess an RNA transport system that is present in dendrites (but not axons) and sort mRNAs so that some mRNAs are restricted to cell bodies while a few others (like the mRNA for MAP2) are present in dendrites. The present study evaluates when dendrite-specific RNA transport and mRNA sorting into cell body and somatodendritic compartments first appear in developing hippocampal neurons maintained in culture. A 3H-uridine pulse-chase paradigm was used to evaluate transport of newly synthesized RNA from the site of synthesis in the nucleus into the developing neurites. The intracellular distribution of mRNAs encoding actin, tubulin, GAP-43, and MAP2 as well as polyA RNA and rRNA was evaluated by in situ hybridization at different stages of development. Newly synthesized RNA was translocated into both developing axons and dendrites early in development, but only into dendrites as the neurons matured. Tubulin, GAP-43, and actin mRNAs, which are restricted to cell bodies in mature neurons, were found exclusively in neuronal cell bodies at all developmental stages. MAP2 mRNA, which is present in the dendrites of mature neurons, was present at very low levels in neurons at 2 or 3 d in culture and was not detectable within dendrites. The overall levels of MAP2 mRNA increased over time, and by 5-7 d in culture, MAP2 mRNA was detectable in some dendrites. PolyA RNA and rRNA were detectable in developing neurites including axons. Levels of polyA and rRNA increased in dendrites as neurons matured while labeling of axons diminished. By 10 d in culture, axonal labeling for polyA and rRNA had virtually disappeared. The increase in the levels of polyA, rRNA, and MAP2 mRNA in dendrites between 5 and 7 d in culture corresponds roughly with the appearance of other dendritic characteristics and the beginning of dendritic outgrowth.
Opioid receptors were localized at the cellular level, using either anti-opioid receptor antibodies or a biotinylated opioid ligand. In addition, a simple method was developed for selection of second antisera on their potencies to detect particular monoclonal antibodies (mAbs). Most anti-opioid receptor antibodies tested were not able to recognize the opioid receptor in frozen or fixed tissue sections, which was in contrast with their ability to recognize opioid receptors in isolated membrane fractions. However, one batch of anti-idiotypic mAbs gave a good immunocytochemical staining. Distribution of immunoreactivity suggested that these antibodies recognized more than one opioid receptor subtype. After very short fixation times, staining with a biotinylated kappa-selective ligand (DAKLIB) could be observed in the neural and intermediate lobe of pituitary. This binding could be displaced by non-biotinylated DAKLI. The pattern of DAKLIB staining in the neural lobe had the appearance of binding to both nerve fibres and astrocytes. The present results show successful staining of tissue sections with anti-idiotypic antibodies and with a biotinylated ligand. The specificity is discussed in the light of control experiments, pharmacological data and previous studies.
Plectin is a high molecular weight protein originally identified and characterized as a major cytoskeletal component of the C6 rat glioma cell. Here we demonstrate by immunoblotting of crude intermediate filament (IF) protein preparations that plectin is a cytoskeleton-associated component of the rat spinal cord. We then used avidin-biotin peroxidase immunocytochemistry and indirect immunofluorescence to localize plectin within the adult rat central nervous system (CNS) and examine its distribution with respect to IF proteins. Plectin immunoreactivity is localized to all ependymal cells including the choroidal epithelial cells and tanycytes, Bergmann glial processes, radially oriented glial cells in the spinal cord, astrocytes in white matter, a subset of astrocytes in gray matter, a subset of motoneurons in the brainstem and spinal cord, and certain endothelial cells. Colocalization studies with neural IF proteins show that plectin has a unique distribution pattern which most closely resembles, but is distinct from, that of vimentin. The few plectin positive neurons invariably also contain the neurofilament triplet proteins and peripherin, so that the ability of plectin to bind to the triplet proteins in vitro may reflect an in vivo interaction. The predominance of plectin at the inner ventricular boundaries of the nervous system as well as at the blood-brain barrier is in line with the pattern of plectin expression in other tissues and suggests a general role for plectin in the maintenance of such junctional regions.
Ferritin is the major iron storage protein and accounts for the majority of the iron in the brain. Thus, ferritin is a key component in protecting the brain from iron induced oxidative damage. The high lipid content, high rate of oxidative metabolism, and high iron content combine to make the brain the organ most susceptible to oxidative stress. The role of oxidative damage and disruption of brain iron homeostasis is considered clinically important to normal aging and a potential pathogenic component of a number of neurologic disorders including Alzheimer's disease and Parkinson's disease. Little is known, however, of the mechanism by which the brain maintains iron homeostasis at either the whole organ or cellular level. In this study we report the cellular distribution of the two isoforms of ferritin in the brain of adult subhuman primates. A subset of neurons immunolabel specifically for the H-chain ferritin protein, whereas cells resembling microglia are immunolabeled only after exposure to the L-chain ferritin antibody. Only one cell type immunostains for both H- and L-chain ferritin; these cells are morphologically similar and have the same distribution pattern as oligodendrocytes. Neither ferritin isoform is usually detected in astrocytes. These data indicate considerable differences in iron sequestration and use between neurons and glia and among neuronal and glial subtypes. This information will be essential in determining the role of each of these cells in maintaining general brain iron homeostasis and the relative abilities of these cells to withstand oxidative stress.

The distribution of mRNA for the rat alpha-1 A/D, alpha-1B, alpha-2A/D (RG20), alpha-2B (RNG), alpha-2C (RG10), beta-1 and beta-2 adrenergic receptors were studied in the rat kidney using in situ hybridization. After hybridized sections were exposed to autoradiography film or dipped in photographic emulsion and counterstained with hematoxylin and eosin, specific and selective labeling patterns characteristic for each probe in the kidney were observed. Labeling with the probe to the alpha-1A/D receptor was only observed in vessels in the renal parenchyma and in the ureter. Alpha-1B receptor mRNA was demonstrated in the outer and inner stripe of the outer medulla, corresponding to segment S3 of proximal tubules and the thick ascending limb of loop of Henle. Alpha-2A/D receptor mRNA was distributed in the inner stripe of the outer medulla and in the inner medulla, corresponding to collecting tubules, and in the ureter. The strongest signal in the kidney was obtained with the alpha-2B receptor probe, showing labelling in the outer stripe of the outer medulla with tubular rays radiating into the cortex, coinciding with segment S3 of proximal tubules. Weak labeling obtained with the alpha-2C receptor probe was present in the renal medulla. Labeling obtained with the probe to the beta-1 receptor was seen in the entire cortex and to a lesser extent also in the outer medulla. In addition, beta-1 receptor mRNA was shown in perirenal adipose tissue and in the ureter. Labeling obtained with the probe to the beta-2 receptor was demonstrated in the outer and inner stripe of the outer medulla.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Ethanol has been reported to interact with numerous voltage- and ligand-gated ion channels in central mammalian neurons. In particular, the type A gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA) receptor/chloride ionophore complex has received considerable attention as a cellular substrate for ethanol and other sedative-hypnotic drugs. Direct electrophysiological evidence that ethanol modulates GABAA receptor function has been controversial. In this study, we investigated the effects of ethanol on the GABAA receptors that mediate fast inhibitory synaptic transmission in the rat hippocampus. Using the whole-cell patch-clamp recording technique in brain slices, we found that clinically relevant concentrations of ethanol (10-50 mM) potentiate pharmacologically isolated GABAA-mediated inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) recorded from rat hippocampal CA1 neurons. In addition, we demonstrate that ethanol- but not diazepam-mediated enhancement of GABAA IPSCs requires intracellular ATP and can be blocked by Ro-31-8220 or PKC19-31, specific inhibitors of protein kinase C. Furthermore, the active phorbol ester 4-beta-PDBu but not its inactive analog also interferes with ethanol enhancement of GABAA IPSCs. These results demonstrate that ethanol potentiation of pharmacologically isolated GABAA IPSCs can be modulated by protein kinase C.
Normetanephrine (NMN) and metanephrine (MN), are the O-methylated metabolites of norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (E), whereas dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) is the deaminated metabolite of both NE and E. This study compared production of NMN, MN and DHPG during tracer and high-dose infusions of Ne and E in rats, with and without inhibition of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) or the A and B forms of monoamine oxidase (MAO). Animals also received infusions of NMN and MN to compare plasma clearances and spillovers of NMN and MN with and without MAO inhibition. Inhibition of COMT increased plasma DHPG and decreased plasma NMN and MN, whereas inhibition of MAO decreased plasma DHPG and increased plasma NMN and MN. The increase in NMN and MN after MAO inhibition reflected blocked deamination of NMN and MN by MAO-A, but not MAO-B. The A form of MAO was also largely responsible for deamination of NE. Infused E was deaminated to DHPG less efficiently than NE. High doses of infused E were O-methylated more efficiently than NE, whereas tracer doses were O-methylated similarly. After MAO inhibition NE was O-methylated more efficiently than E. Increased plasma NMN after MAO inhibition reflected the combined effects of a decrease in the plasma clearance of NMN and an increase in the spillover of NMN into plasma, whereas the smaller increase in plasma MN was due solely to a decrease in the plasma clearance of MN. Thus, E and MN are not deaminated at extraneuronal sites of O-methylation, whereas NE is both O-methylated and deaminated with proportionally more deaminated than O-methylated as the concentration of NE increases. The above results support the preference of NE over E for neuronal pathways of metabolism, but indicate considerably more complex differences in the metabolism of NE and E by extraneuronal O-methylation and deamination.
In rat pinealocytes, an increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) due to Ca2+ influx in response to norepinephrine (NE) is a well recognized event involved in regulating several metabolic functions. Since NE also stimulates the metabolism of phosphatidyl inositols in rat pineal gland, it is conceivable that Ca2+ release from intracellular stores also contributes to the NE-induced increase in [Ca2+]i. In this communication, we report that in rat pinealocytes loaded with fura-2, a Ca2+ indicator, NE induced a transient increase in [Ca2+]i that preceded the known Ca2+ influx. This novel [Ca2+]i response to NE was detected in pinealocytes bathed with Ca2+-free saline and prevented by TMB-8, a blocker of Ca2+ release from intracellular stores, supporting the notion that the transient NE-induced Ca2+ response was due to Ca2+ release from intracellular stores. In addition, after an extended exposure to NE a new addition of this neurotransmitter did not elicit the phasic Ca2+ response, and application of increasing amounts of NE induced a Ca2+ response that was progressively smaller, suggesting desensitization. Thus, NE is proposed to increase [Ca2+]i in rat pinealocytes by two mechanisms: (1) phasic release from intracellular stores and (2) tonic influx through a mechanism activated by larger applications of NE than required to evoke the phasic release.
Two patients with schizophrenia had markedly abnormal neuroimaging studies; one was found to have a large, cystic cavum vergae, while the other demonstrated complete agenesis of the septum pellucidum with a monoventricular system. The increased prevalence of developmental abnormalities of midline forebrain structure in patients with schizophrenia suggests that dysgenesis of these structures may be contributory to the neurobiology of schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders.


Mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase 1 (MKK1), a dual-specificity tyrosine/threonine protein kinase, has been shown to be phosphorylated and activated by the raf oncogene product as part of the mitogen-activated protein kinase cascade. Here we report the phosphorylation and inactivation of MKK1 by phosphorylation on threonine 286 and threonine 292. MKK1 contains a consensus phosphorylation site for p34cdc2, a serine/threonine protein kinase that regulates the cell division cycle, at Thr-286 and a related site at Thr-292. p34cdc2 catalyzes the in vitro phosphorylation of MKK1 on both of these threonine residues and inactivates MKK1 enzymatic activity. Both sites are phosphorylated in vivo as well. The data presented in this report provide evidence that MKK1 is negatively regulated by threonine phosphorylation.
The alpha-bungarotoxin-binding acetylcholine receptors from the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y were found to cross-react with some monoclonal antibodies to alpha 7 subunits of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors from chicken brain. The human alpha 7 subunit cDNA from SH-SY5Y was cloned, revealing 94% amino acid sequence identity to rat alpha 7 subunits and 92% identity to chicken alpha 7 subunits. Native human alpha 7 receptors showed affinities for some ligands similar to those previously observed with native chicken alpha 7 receptors, but for other ligands there were large species-specific differences in binding affinity. These results paralleled properties of alpha 7 homomers expressed in Xenopus oocytes. Human alpha 7 homomers exhibited rapidly desensitizing, inwardly rectifying, agonist-induced, cation currents that triggered Ca(2+)-sensitive Cl- channels in the oocytes. A change in efficacy from partial agonist for chicken alpha 7 homomers to full agonist for human alpha 7 homomers was exhibited by 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium. This result reveals a large species-specific pharmacological difference, despite small differences in alpha 7 sequences. This is important for understanding the effects of these drugs in humans and for identifying amino acids that may contribute to the acetylcholine binding site, for analysis by in vitro mutagenesis. These results also characterize properties of native alpha 7 receptors and alpha 7 homomers that will provide criteria for functional properties expected of structural subunits, when these can be identified, cloned, and coexpressed with alpha 7 subunits.
An exceptionally conserved sequence that is shared among most G protein-coupled neurotransmitter receptors is an aspartate-arginine-tyrosine triplet that is located at the amino terminus of the putative second cytoplasmic domain, where the arginine residue is invariant. Using the m1 subtype of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors as an example, we induced a point mutation of the arginine residue at position 123 into asparagine. This mutation resulted in a precipitous decrease in the coupling of m1 receptors to activation of phosphoinositide hydrolysis, in spite of the expression of the wild-type and mutant receptors at similar concentrations in Chinese hamster ovary cells. There were no significant effects on antagonist or partial agonist binding. In marked contrast, whereas binding of the full agonist carbachol to wild-type receptors exhibited high and low affinity components, this agonist bound to a single low affinity state in asparagine-123 mutant cells. Furthermore, agonist-induced enhancement of the specific binding of guanosine-5'-O-(3-[35S] thio)triphosphate was not observed in membranes of cells expressing the mutant receptor. A similar mutation in the m2 muscarinic receptor resulted in a significant but smaller decrease in its coupling to inhibition of cAMP formation. On the other hand, a point mutation of tyrosine-124 in the m1 receptor sequence produced less marked changes in agonist-induced phosphoinositide hydrolysis and no effects on agonist or antagonist binding to the receptor. Taken together, our data demonstrate for the first time that this highly conserved arginine residue plays an important role in coupling of muscarinic receptors to signal transduction mechanisms.
These studies examined which alpha 2-adrenoceptor subtype is expressed in the hypothalamus and preoptic area and the influence of estradiol administration on alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the hypothalamus of female rats. The alpha 2-adrenoceptor antagonist [3H] RX821002 bound to a single site in hypothalamus, preoptic area, and cortex membranes, with high affinity and low nonspecific binding, as determined by Scatchard and kinetic binding analyses. Competition for [3H]RX821002 binding in the hypothalamus and preoptic area by various noradrenergic agonists and antagonists revealed a unique pharmacological specificity with a high degree of similarity to that of the alpha 2D-adrenoceptor. Norepinephrine displacement of [3H]RX821002 binding in hypothalamic membranes from ovariectomized animals was monophasic and characterized by high affinity. In contrast, norepinephrine competition for [3H]RX821002 binding sites in the hypothalamus from rats exposed to estradiol for 48 hr was biphasic, and norepinephrine bound to both a high (18%) and a low (82%) affinity site in these membranes. Thus, the formation of agonist high affinity alpha 2D-adrenoceptor complexes was inhibited by prior exposure to estrogen. In both control and estradiol-exposed hypothalamic membranes, 100 microM 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate [Gpp(NH)p] converted the norepinephrine competition curves to ones characterized by monophasic, low affinity binding. In addition, binding of the full alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist [3H]UK-14,304 in the hypothalamus and preoptic area of female rats was concentration-dependently diminished by Gpp(NH)p treatment. Complete loss of [3H]UK-14,304 binding was effected by 100 microM Gpp(NH)p. This suggests that [3H]UK-14,304 may be useful in labeling the agonist high affinity state of alpha 2-adrenoceptors. Decreasing the incubation temperature in saturation studies from 25 degrees to 0 degrees increased [3H]UK-14,304 binding in hypothalamic membranes of control rats but not in membranes from estradiol-treated rats. Estradiol treatment for 48 hr decreased [3H]UK-14,304 binding in hypothalamic membranes by 34% (0 degrees) to 60% (25 degrees), without changing the Kd. These results suggest that the alpha 2D-adrenoceptor is the predominant subtype in the hypothalamus and preoptic area of female rats and that estradiol treatment markedly reduces the number of alpha 2D-adrenoceptors in the agonist high affinity state.
There is now considerable evidence to support a defect of the mitochondrial respiratory chain, and complex I in particular, in Parkinson's Disease (PD). However, the site specificity of the defect within the chain, its anatomical selectivity within the brain, and its presence in other tissues still remain controversial. Much of the present confusion surrounding the mitochondrial defect can be dispelled by careful analysis of the available data. The molecular basis of the deficiency and its relevance to the pathogenesis of PD remain unknown. Nevertheless, the complex I deficiency in PD provides a direct biochemical link between the idiopathic disease and the MPTP toxin model. The relationship between the mitochondrial defect and other abnormalities within the PD substantia nigra suggests that a self amplifying cycle of events might be precipitated either by a genetic or environmentally induced abnormality of mitochondrial function or free radical metabolism. Alternatively, a biochemical event separate from these might precipitate a cascade which terminates in complex I dysfunction and free radical formation. An understanding of the molecular basis of the complex I defect in PD and its relationship to other biochemical changes will provide important insight into the potential chain of events that lead to dopaminergic cell death in PD.
Focal atrophy of a limb is usually caused by loss of muscle due to nerve or muscle disease. However, focal atrophy of subcutaneous tissues, an uncommon but well described entity, can mimic neuromuscular disease by producing a similar appearance of the limb. The clinical sign of thinness of the subcutaneous tissues (the &quot;pinch-an-inch&quot; test) suggests lipoatrophy as the cause of the limb asymmetry.
The purpose of this study was to estimate the time needed to warm an extremity prior to measuring nerve conduction. In 8 normal subjects tibial and sural nerve conduction variables were measured during cooling and warming of the leg in water of 18 degrees C and 36 degrees C, respectively. During cooling, nerve conduction velocity (NCV) decreased and distal motor latency (DML), duration, and area of the compound muscle action potentials (CMAP), and compound nerve action potentials (CNAP) increased. The reverse occurred during warming. During cooling or warming the change in these variables became progressively smaller with time. The time course could therefore be described by an exponential relation, the parameters of which were determined. On the basis of these data, correlations were calculated between the skin temperature at the start of the investigation and the warming time needed to obtain a good estimate of nerve conduction variables at 36 degrees C. The use of correction factors, instead of actual warming, yielded acceptable errors only for NCV and not for the other variables.
A series of recent reports have identified cases of a quadriplegic myopathy characterized by myofiber necrosis and loss of myosin filaments associated with the use of nondepolarizing muscle blocking agents and glucocorticoids. We report electrophysiological findings in 7 intensive care unit patients who developed evidence of an acute myopathy in association with the use of nondepolarizing muscle blocking agents. Several important features were identified: (i) a neuromuscular transmission deficit was observed in 3 patients up to 7 days following withdrawal of vecuronium; (ii) motor M potentials were of low amplitude, there was mild abnormal spontaneous activity on needle electromyography, and sensory conduction was relatively preserved; (iii) not all patients received glucocorticoids or were asthmatic; (iv) 2 patients given vecuronium had very high creatine kinase levels and developed acute renal failure associated with myoglobinuria; and (v) rises in motor M potentials accompanied clinical recovery. This complication of intensive care may be severe, but is reversible and possibly avoidable. Our findings implicate nondepolarizing muscle blocking agents in the development of the myopathy. Electrophysiological studies provide important prognostic guidance.
The importance of neuronal reuptake for terminating the actions of noradrenaline is well established, but the role of extraneuronal uptake is less clear. This study used plasma concentrations of the extraneuronal noradrenaline metabolite, normetanephrine, to estimate rates of extraneuronal removal of noradrenaline in rats. Animals received infusions of 3H-noradrenaline, with and without inhibition of catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) and monoamine oxidase (MAO), to examine the extraneuronal removal of noradrenaline and formation of normetanephrine from infused and endogenous noradrenaline. Infusions of 3H-normetanephrine were also carried out to examine the plasma kinetics of normetanephrine before and after inhibition of MAO. Normetanephrine was cleared rapidly from the circulation and had a short plasma halflife (1 min). Spillover of normetanephrine into plasma (79 pmol kg-1 min-1) was a third that of noradrenaline, but increased 2.8-fold after inhibition of MAO; noradrenaline spillover remained unchanged. Combined inhibition of MAO and COMT decreased the plasma clearance of 3H-noradrenaline by 38%, reflecting removal of 3H-noradrenaline by extraneuronal uptake. Division of the rate of extraneuronal removal of 3H-noradrenaline by the specific activity of plasma 3H-normetanephrine during the 3H-noradrenaline infusion indicated that the rate of extraneuronal removal of endogenous noradrenaline was 250 pmol kg-1 min-1; this was close to the spillover of normetanephrine into plasma after inhibition of MAO (219 pmol kg-1 min-1). Forty-five% of plasma normetanephrine was derived from circulating noradrenaline and 55% from noradrenaline before entry into the circulation. Assuming that these proportions reflected the sources of noradrenaline metabolized extraneuronally indicated that the rate of extraneuronal metabolism of noradrenaline before entry into the circulation was 138 pmol kg-1 min-1. Comparison of this with the rates at which noradrenaline was recaptured by sympathetic nerves (2540 pmol kg-1 min-1) or spilled over into plasma (228 pmol kg-1 min-1), indicated that 87% of the noradrenaline released by sympathetic nerves was recaptured, 5% was metabolized extraneuronally and 8% escaped into plasma. Thus, extraneuronal uptake removes much less of the noradrenaline released by sympathetic nerves than neuronal reuptake.



Oxytocin proteolysis was studied in vitro with purified synaptic membranes and in vivo after injection into the hippocampus of male Wistar Kyoto rats of different ages. When oxytocin was incubated in vitro with brain synaptic membranes obtained from 2-, 6-, and 12-month-old rats, no difference in the content of C-terminal and N-terminal fragments formed by membrane-bound aminopeptidase-like and endopeptidase-like enzymes, respectively, was found after high performance liquid chromatography separation and quantification by amino acid analysis. In contrast, the content of all fragments decreased by about 20%-25% when membranes obtained from 18- and 24-month-old rats were used. When [3H-Tyr2]oxytocin was injected in vivo in the hippocampus of 2-, 6-, 12-, and 18-month-old rats, no difference in the content of free [3H]-tyrosine and other [3H]-labelled fragments was found in the hippocampal peptidic extract after high performance liquid chromatography fractionation. However, the content of all radioactive fragments was about 50% lower in the extract from 24-month-old rats. The findings suggest that oxytocin proteolysis in brain decreases during aging. Such a decrease might counterbalance the impairment of central oxytocinergic transmission caused by the age-related decrease of oxytocin content in brain.
Rat cerebellar slices were incubated in absence and presence of N-methyl-D-aspartate and then used to prepare a purified nuclear fraction. The purity of the nuclear fraction was assessed by electron microscopy and measurements of Na+, K(+)-ATPase activity. The presence of protein kinase C in nuclear fractions was measured by [3H]phorbol dibutyrate binding. Treatment of cerebellar slices with N-methyl-D-aspartate caused a significant, two-fold increase in the density of nuclear [3H]phorbol dibutyrate binding sites, indicating the translocation of protein kinase C to the nuclear fraction. The effect of N-methyl-D-aspartate was prevented by the presence of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist (+)5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzocyclohepten-5,10-imine maleate (MK-801). These results suggest a possible role for protein kinase C in mediating N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced nuclear events.
To study the mechanisms of free radical-induced brain damage and the antioxidant defense in the brain, we quantified the superoxide and hydroxyl radical scavenging effects of brain homogenate using electron spin resonance spectrometry. Brain homogenate was found to scavenge both superoxide and hydroxyl radicals in concentration-dependent fashion. Heat denaturation significantly decreased these scavenging effects. The ability of brain homogenate to scavenge free radicals implies that brain damage can be induced by free radicals since they are known to react virtually with any type of molecule such as nucleic acids, membrane lipids, and proteins in the brain. On the other hand, some molecules which can be regenerated or repaired after free radical scavenging are considered to be antioxidants which include both enzymatic and non-enzymatic antioxidants. Measurement of the decrease in antioxidant activity following heat denaturation suggests that the contribution of enzymatic antioxidants is about 20-40% in scavenging superoxide radicals and about 10-20% in scavenging hydroxyl radicals.
Phospholipase A2 activity was measured in cerebral microvessels isolated from 5 to 6 month (young adult) and 21 to 24 month (aged adult) old mice. Radiolabeled 1-stearoyl-2-[1-14C]arachidonyl choline phosphoglyceride was used as the enzyme substrate, and enzyme activity determined at pH 8 and pH 9. Activity in older animals was significantly less than in younger animals at both pH's. With choline phosphoglyceride as a substrate, phospholipase A2 activity was predominantly Ca(2+)-dependent, although a small, but measurable Ca(2+)-independent component was present. Negligible production of diacylglycerol indicated little or no phospholipase C activity. These findings indicate that activity of a phospholipase A2, which utilizes choline phosphoglyceride as a substrate, is affected by the aging process. Moreover, a change in PLA2 activity would result in altered metabolism of specific phosphoglycerides and turnover of fatty acids at the sn-2 position in cerebral microvessels.
The effect of various metal ions on neuronal membrane fluidity was examined using 2-(14-carboxypropyl)-2-ethyl-4,4-dimethyl-3-oxazolidinyloxy, which has been used for the examination of membrane fluidity in hydrophobic areas by electron spin resonance spectrometry. Potassium, cobalt, calcium, magnesium, nickel, copper, ferric, and aluminium ions decreased the membrane fluidity while ferrous ions increased it at each high concentration. Sodium and zinc ions had no effect. Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid decreased membrane fluidity at high concentrations. Nicardipine lowered membrane fluidity and flunarizine elevated it at each high concentration. There was no change in membrane fluidity by other calcium antagonists, nimodipine and nifedipine.
The action of kainic acid (KA), quisqualic acid (QA), and 1-(4-chlorobenzoyl)-piperazine-2,3-dicarboxylic acid (pCB-PzDA) was investigated in the central nervous system of male Sprague Dawley rats. Intracerebroventricularly injected KA and QA (100 nmol) induced spike discharges, and pCB-PzDA (100 nmol) suppressed electrocorticograms for one hour. pCB-PzDA enhanced the KA-induced spike discharges and inhibited those induced by QA. 2,3-Di-hydroxyphenylacetic acid(DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) levels were increased transiently by 10 nmol and continuously by 100 nmol of KA. KA dose-dependently increased 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) levels 2 hours after administration. While 10 nmol of QA slightly increased the HVA level, 100 nmol of QA significantly increased DOPAC, HVA, and 5-HIAA levels. DOPAC and HVA levels were increased by 100 nmol of pCB-PzDA, although this agent inhibited KA-induced increases in DOPAC, HVA, and 5-HIAA levels. On the other hand, while pCB-PzDA first inhibited QA-induced increases in DOPAC, HVA and 5-HIAA levels for one hour, DOPAC and HVA levels thereafter increased additively. These findings suggest that pCB-PzDA may act not only as a NMDA antagonist, but that it may also act directly on dopaminergic neurons.
A young man presented with recurrent episodes of muscle pain and myoglobinuria after prolonged exercise or fasting. Studies on isolated muscle mitochondria showed slow flux through beta-oxidation and the presence of only saturated long-chain acyl coenzyme A (acyl-CoA) esters. These results strongly suggested a defect in the dehydrogenation of long-chain acyl-CoA esters that we confirmed by measurement of enzyme activity in muscle and platelet mitochondrial fractions and fibroblast homogenates. In all tissues studied from the patient, the enzyme activity was approximately 10% of control values with acyl-CoA esters from C16-C22 as substrates. We investigated the intramitochondrial location of the deficient acyl-CoA dehydrogenase by subfractionation of platelet mitochondria and, in contrast to the short-chain and medium-chain enzymes, which were localized in the soluble fraction, the majority of the acyl-CoA dehydrogenase activity with long-chain substrates was in the membrane fraction. These studies indicate that in humans, the predominant enzyme catalyzing the dehydrogenation of long-chain acyl-CoA esters is membrane-bound and that deficiency of this enzyme is a cause of muscle pain and rhabdomyolysis.

Telencephalin (TLN) is a 130 kd glycoprotein expressed exclusively in neurons of the telencephalon, the most rostral brain segment. In the neurons, TLN is localized to soma-dendritic membrane but not to axonal membrane. In this study, we have cloned cDNA encoding rabbit and mouse TLN. The cDNA-derived primary structure of TLN predicts an integral membrane protein with nine tandem immunoglobulin-like domains in an extra-cellular region, a transmembrane domain, and a short cytoplasmic tail. The distal eight immunoglobulin-like domains of TLN show highest homology with the immunoglobulin-like domains of intracellular adhesion molecules (ICAMs) 1, 2, and 3/R. The structural similarity of TLN with ICAMs provides a new and strong link between immunoglobulin superfamily molecules in the nervous and immune systems. TLN is an example of a dendrite-associated cell adhesion molecule involved in the brain's segmental organization, cell-cell interactions during dendritic development, and maintenance of functional neuronal networks.
An in situ study of mRNAs encoding NMDA receptor subunits in the developing rat CNS revealed that, at all stages, the NR1 gene is expressed in virtually all neurons, whereas the four NR2 transcripts display distinct expression patterns. NR2B and NR2D mRNAs occur prenatally, whereas NR2A and NR2C mRNAs are first detected near birth. All transcripts except NR2D peak around P20. NR2D mRNA, present mainly in midbrain structures, peaks around P7 and thereafter decreases to adult levels. Postnatally, NR2B and NR2C transcript levels change in opposite directions in the cerebellar internal granule cell layer. In the adult hippocampus, NR2A and NR2B mRNAs are prominent in CA1 and CA3 pyramidal cells, but NR2C and NR2D mRNAs occur in different subsets of interneurons. Recombinant binary NR1-NR2 channels show comparable Ca2+ permeabilities, but marked differences in voltage-dependent Mg2+ block and in offset decay time constants. Thus, the distinct expression profiles and functional properties of NR2 subunits provide a basis for NMDA channel heterogeneity in the brain.
The phenomenon of prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the acoustic startle reflex is widely used as an operational measure of sensorimotor gating mechanisms. Because sensorimotor gating abnormalities have been identified in schizophrenic patients, the exploration of the neural substrates involved in PPI may provide insight into the neural dysfunctions underlying this disorder. Both dopaminergic and glutamatergic systems are involved in the modulation of PPI in rats. In addition, the present studies demonstrate complex serotonergic influences in this phenomenon. Specifically, both the 5-HT2 agonist, DOI, (2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodoamphetamine), and the 5-HT1B agonist, RU 24969, [5-methoxy-3(1,2,3,6)tetrahydropyridin-4- yl]-1H-indole, potently and reversibly disrupted PPI. The 5-HT2C agonist mCPP, [1-(m)-chlorophenyl-piperazine], was ineffective. Furthermore, ketanserin (2.0 mg/kg) and haloperidol (0.1 mg/kg) but not (+/-)propranolol (20.0 mg/kg) blocked the effect of DOI. In addition, the same doses of haloperidol, and, to a lesser extent, (+/-)propranolol, prevented the disruption of PPI induced by RU 24969. Together with previous reports of 5-HT1A involvement in PPI, these results argue for multiple serotonergic mechanisms in the modulation of PPI.
Tissue samples from the caudate nucleus were obtained from eight children (eight to 172 months of age) who underwent hemispherectomies for the relief of intractable seizures. Neurophysiological, pharmacological and morphological properties of caudate neurons were characterized by intracellular recordings in an in vitro slice preparation. These properties were compared with those of tissue obtained from animal studies. Electrophysiological properties of human caudate neurons that were similar to those of cat caudate and rat neostriatal cells included resting membrane potential, input resistance, action potential rise time, fall time, duration and action potential afterhyperpolarization amplitude, as well as the general characteristics of locally evoked synaptic responses. Properties that were different included action potential amplitudes and time-constants. Human caudate neurons also displayed responses similar to those of cat caudate or rat neostriatal cells to manipulation of excitatory amino acid receptor systems and to dopamine application. Kynurenic acid, a broad-spectrum excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist, decreased the amplitude of evoked synaptic responses, indicating that they were partially mediated by excitatory amino acids. In Mg2+ free Ringer's solution, the amplitudes and durations of postsynaptic responses were increased and bursts of action potentials were induced. These effects were mediated by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors since they were blocked by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, a specific N-methyl-D-aspartate-receptor antagonist. Iontophoretic application of N-methyl-D-aspartate also induced membrane oscillations and bursts in almost all caudate neurons. Dopamine decreased the amplitude of postsynaptic responses, an effect antagonized by domperidone, a selective D2 dopamine receptor antagonist. Developmentally, the greatest change was an increase in action potential amplitude, although input resistance decreased and action potential afterhyperpolarization amplitude increased. Postsynaptic responses were similar across age. All but one of the caudate neurons identified by intracellular injection of biocytin or Lucifer Yellow were medium-sized spiny cells. These experiments show that human caudate neurons display a number of electrophysiological properties similar to rat neostriatal or cat caudate neurons recorded in brain slices. Furthermore, few electrophysiological parameters changed significantly over the age period examined suggesting that the human caudate at eight months displays many of the neuronal functions of the more mature caudate nucleus.
An aberrant network of dopamine axons was found to pervade the rat substantia nigra following neonatal destruction of its dopamine nerve cell bodies and dendrites by cerebroventricular administration of 6-hydroxydopamine. Light-microscopic immunocytochemistry with a primary monoclonal antibody directed against dopamine-glutaraldehyde-protein was used to investigate the time-course of development and the critical period of induction of this ectopic dopamine innervation (neoinnervation). In rats 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned at postnatal day 3 (P3) and examined at P7, P10, P15, P30 or later, some dopamine fibers were already present in the substantia nigra at P7; their number increased sharply until P15 and only slightly thereafter, assuming a topographic distribution reminiscent of the missing dopamine nerve cell bodies and dendrites. A similar growth of dopamine fibers took place in the substantia nigra after lesions made at P6, P9 and P12, but was less pronounced after lesion at P15 and absent after lesion at P21 or later. Excessive innervation by dopamine axons (hyperinnervation) was concomitantly observed in the nearby interpeduncular nucleus. The sprouting of dopamine axons in both regions was therefore rapid and coincided in time and space with the developmental redistribution of mesencephalic dopamine neurons in normal rat. It is conceivable that these aberrant dopamine innervations play a role in the peculiar behavior and responsiveness to dopaminergic agents manifested by neonatally 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats. It will be of particular interest to investigate the functional consequences of the dopamine neoinnervation in the substantia nigra, where an eventual axonal release might thus be replacing the normal somatodendritic release of this amine.
We have studied the possible purinoceptor-mediated modulation of astroglial cell proliferation in neuron-glia primary cultures obtained from rat corpus striatum. Cultures were grown for three days in the presence of either 2-chloro-adenosine or alpha beta-methylene-ATP (which behave as agonists of adenosine/P1 and ATP/P2 purinoceptors, respectively), and then immunostained with an antibody to glial fibrillary acidic protein. 2-Chloro-adenosine decreased and alpha beta-methylene-ATP increased the number of astroglial cells in culture. For both derivatives, the effect was dose-dependent. The effect of alpha beta-methylene-ATP was antagonized by the trypanoside suramin, suggesting the involvement of a suramin-sensitive P2 purinoceptor, whereas the effect of 2-chloro-adenosine was not reversed by the P1 purinoceptor antagonist p-sulphonyl-phenyl-theophylline, implying the activation of a xanthine-insensitive adenosine purinoceptor subtype. In order to evaluate the extent of astrocyte proliferation in the presence of these two analogues, some cultures were incubated with bromodeoxyuridine for 24 h before fixing, and then double-immunostained for glial fibrillary acidic protein and bromodeoxyuridine. The percentage of bromodeoxyuridine positive astrocytes was significantly increased after exposure to both agents. It is therefore concluded that purines can modulate astroglial cells in opposite ways, inducing decreases or increases of cell number by activation of P1 and P2 purinoceptors, respectively. For the P2 purinoceptor-mediated effect, there was a quantitative correlation between the percentage of bromodeoxyuridine positive astrocytes and the cell number. For the P1 purinoceptor-mediated effect, no apparent correlation between these two parameters was found. This suggests the activation of independent effects, which involve other mechanisms besides the stimulation of DNA synthesis, and which eventually result in a reduction of cell number. The possible relevance of these findings to in vivo regulation of astrocyte cell function as well as in trauma- and ischaemia-associated hypergliosis is discussed.
Both RNase protection assay and in situ hybridization were used to investigate the effect of intraperitoneal injection of kainate on the messenger RNA levels for basic fibroblast growth factor in the rat central nervous system. Limbic motor seizures were produced by kainate injection and this event was followed by a significant elevation of basic fibroblast growth factor gene expression in rat hippocampus and striatum 6 h after the convulsant injection. The increase in hippocampus was maximal at 24 h and it was delayed with respect to nerve growth factor induction, which peaked 3 h after kainate injection. Animals that suffered prolonged seizure activity also showed a significant elevation of basic fibroblast growth factor gene expression four and 14 days after kainate, when no changes in nerve growth factor gene expression were observed. We show that, within the hippocampus, the increase of basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA was localized in dentate gyrus and the CA1 layer 6 and 24 h after kainate injection. Long-term effects on its gene expression were measurable only in the CA1 hippocampal subfield, where major cell damage and astrocytosis have been reported to occur following kainate-induced seizure activity [Ben-Ari Y. et al. (1981) Neuroscience 7, 1361-1391; Lothman E. W. and Collins R. C. (1981) Brain Res. 218, 299-318; Schwob J. E. et al. (1980) Neuroscience 5, 991-1014]. Indeed, the animals which displayed elevated messenger RNA levels for basic fibroblast growth factor four and 14 days after kainate injection showed a marked induction of messenger RNA expression for the astroglial marker glial fibrillary acidic protein. These results indicate that the glutamate analogue kainate produces short- and long-term increases of basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA expression with a specific anatomical pattern. Therefore, the gene expression for this neurotrophic factor is probably regulated by neuronal activity at early points in time, whereas the induction observed at later time points is related to adaptive mechanisms taking place following kainate-induced neuronal degeneration.
Basic fibroblast growth factor stimulates cultured adrenal chromaffin cells to divide and to transform into sympathetic neurons, but the efficacies reported for these actions of basic fibroblast growth factor have varied widely. We have examined the effect of various growth substrates on basic fibroblast growth factor responses and here we show that the ability of basic fibroblast growth factor to transform neonatal rat chromaffin cells into sympathetic neurons depends on laminin as the culture substrate. On collagen, less than 5% of the cells were transformed into neurons by basic fibroblast growth factor, even when the culture was supplemented with heparin or heparan sulphate, but 65% of cells entered the S phase in the presence of basic fibroblast growth factor compared to 15% in its absence, showing that the basic fibroblast growth factor receptor is still active. On laminin, by contrast, over 60% of the cells transformed into neurons in response to the same concentrations of basic fibroblast growth factor, suggesting that an overlapping pool of cells change their phenotype depending on growth substrate. The cyclic AMP analogue 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)cyclic AMP apparently mimicked the actions of basic fibroblast growth factor, promoting neuronal differentiation on laminin, but mitogenic stimulation on collagen. These data support the notion that collagen and laminin promote different instructions in chromaffin cells that can collaborate with the signals induced by basic fibroblast growth factor and 8-(4-chlorophenylthio)cyclic AMP to determine chromaffin or neuronal cell fates.
Layer V pyramidal cells in the intermediate part of the cerebral cortex enter the lumbar spinal gray, but not the cervical spinal gray matter, during the first postnatal week. To study if the ingrowth of intermediate corticospinal axons into the lumbar spinal gray is guided by a diffusible tropic factor, we co-cultured explants of the intermediate part of the sensorimotor cortex and of the lumbar spinal gray matter in 3-D collagen gels. Using this test system, a target specific directional growth of cortical axons towards the lumbar spinal gray explant can be demonstrated in vitro. Retrograde labeling indicates that most labeled cell bodies were located in layer V of the cortex explant and were characterized by a pyramidal cell shape. Furthermore, axon behavior of retrogradely labeled neurons within the cortical explant is considerably affected by the presence of lumbar spinal gray target tissue. In contrast to lumbar spinal gray innervation, intermediate corticospinal tract axons do not enter the cervical spinal gray in vivo. Is it the inability of intermediate corticospinal tract axons to respond to cervical target-derived influences? In the current study we co-cultured explants of the intermediate cortex and cervical spinal gray matter in 3-D collagen gels. Our data indicate that in vitro axons from layer V neurons in the intermediate part of the cortex are capable of recognizing and responding to a diffusible factor released by the cervical spinal cord target area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Determination of the thermal nociceptive threshold in the rat hind paw was used to investigate the participation of postganglionic sympathetic neurons and of capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons to bradykinin-induced thermal hyperaesthesia. Intraplantar injection of 0.5 microgram bradykinin or of 0.3 microgram prostaglandin E2 significantly lowered paw withdrawal latencies, whereas injection of [des-Arg9]bradykinin was ineffective. The B-2 receptor antagonist HOE 140 (0.1 mg/kg) prevented bradykinin- but not prostaglandin E2-induced thermal hyperaesthesia. While morphine (1 mg/kg) antagonized the effect of bradykinin and prostaglandin E2, indomethacin (10 mg/kg) reduced only bradykinin-induced sensitization. Although this can be taken as indication that bradykinin-induced sensitization of heat-sensitive fibres is mainly mediated via local prostanoid formation, we failed to obtain evidence for an involvement of sympathetic postganglionic fibres in this process: chemical sympathectomy, which lowered the tissue concentration of noradrenaline by more than 90%, did not influence the ability of bradykinin to induce a decrease in thermal nociceptive threshold. The target of bradykinin/prostaglandin E2 action seemed to be capsaicin-sensitive afferents, since in rats which had been treated with capsaicin to destroy this group of afferents, both substances were completely ineffective in producing sensitization. We suggest therefore that in the rat paw, bradykinin, independently from sympathetic postganglionic neurons, lowers the thermal nociceptive threshold mainly via B-2 receptor-mediated formation of cyclo-oxygenase products which, in turn, act exclusively on capsaicin-sensitive afferent neurons.
A model of thalamocortical relay neuron is studied to assess whether a 7-14 Hz (spindle) oscillation and a 0.5-4 Hz (delta) oscillation may result from the interplay between a T-type calcium current and a non-specific cation sag current. With moderate change of membrane parameter values, the model neuron can exhibit both the spindle and delta rhythms, at different levels of hyperpolarization; only the slower (delta) one or none. In the case when the model neuron is not intrinsically oscillatory, its response to rhythmic hyperpolarization is complex, and displays the &quot;intermittent phase-locking&quot; phenomenon where bursts of Na+ action potentials occur infrequently but their occurrence is phase-locked to the rhythmic input. The rhythmic bursting, whenever possible, is shown to emerge (bifurcate) from a subthreshold oscillation. Near the bifurcation chaotic discharge patterns are observed, where spikes occur intermittently at randomly chosen cycles of a mostly subthreshold slow oscillation. Furthermore, when both the spindle and delta modes can be realized, the transition between the two appears as a sudden drop of the rhythmic frequency with increased hyperpolarization. The T-type calcium current and the sag current may explain the &quot;intermittent phase-locking&quot; phenomenon that is characteristic to thalamic relay neurons during spindle oscillation and provide a cellular basis for the 7-14 Hz rhythm and the slower 0.5-4 Hz rhythm.
Extracellular single-unit recordings were obtained from 107 area postrema and 74 nucleus tractus solitarius neurons in sodium pentobarbital anaesthetized rats. Systemic administration of vasopressin (1-10 ng) decreased the firing frequency of 45.8% of area postrema neurons and 58.1% of nucleus tractus solitarius neurons tested while the firing frequency of 38.3% of area postrema neurons and 21.6% of nucleus tractus solitarius neurons was increased by this peptide. To determine whether these neurons were specifically influenced by vasopressin or the accompanying pressor response, the effects of alpha-adrenergic agonists on neuronal activity were also determined. Cells that responded similarly to vasopressin and the change in blood pressure elicited by alpha-adrenergic agonists were classified as &quot;blood pressure-sensitive&quot;, whereas those neurons that responded differently to both agents were classified as &quot;vasopressin-sensitive&quot; neurons. The majority (85.2%) of area postrema cells that decreased firing frequency in response to vasopressin were determined to be &quot;vasopressin-sensitive&quot;, while 68.8% of area postrema neurons responding to vasopressin with increases in firing frequency were classified as &quot;blood pressure-sensitive&quot;. In contrast, 78.6% of nucleus tractus solitarius neurons that decreased firing frequency in response to vasopressin and 55.5% of those that increased firing frequency were classified as &quot;blood pressure-sensitive&quot; neurons. To determine whether the actions of vasopressin in the area postrema were mediated by V1 receptors the effect of vasopressin after V1 receptor blockade was examined in seven &quot;vasopressin-sensitive&quot; area postrema neurons. All seven neurons tested showed no response to vasopressin after such V1 receptor blockade. These data suggest that there exists a population of area postrema neurons specifically responsive to circulating vasopressin as a result of actions of this peptide at V1 receptors. They also implicate these neurons in the physiological mechanisms through which circulating vasopressin acts in the area postrema to influence baroreceptor reflex sensitivity.
The messenger RNAs encoding three somatostatin receptor subtypes, SSTR1, SSTR2 and SSTR3, were detected in rat by RNA blotting and in situ hybridization histochemistry to identify the sites of synthesis and expression of these somatostatin receptor subtypes. RNA blotting revealed that SSTR1 messenger RNA of 3.8 kilobases was highly expressed in cerebral cortex, hippocampus, midbrain and hypothalamus. In situ hybridization histochemistry revealed that SSTR1 messenger RNA was localized to discrete layers of the cerebral cortex, the piriform cortex and the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus. SSTR1 messenger RNA was expressed at low levels in the cerebellum and pituitary and was not detectable in striatum or other peripheral organs. At least two SSTR2 messenger RNAs were detected by RNA blotting of 2.4 and 2.8 kilobases which correspond to the size of the spliced and unspliced forms of this receptor messenger RNA. SSTR2 messenger RNA detected by in situ hybridization is diffusely expressed in cerebral cortex and amygdala but is discretely localized to dentate gyrus in the hippocampus, medial habenula and ventromedial and dorsomedial nuclei and arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. The levels of SSTR2 messenger RNA are very low in the cerebellum and were not observed in the striatum or peripheral tissues other than the pituitary or adrenal gland. A single SSTR3 messenger RNA of 4.0 kilobases was seen in hippocampus, cerebral cortex, midbrain, hypothalamus and pituitary. However, the tissue with the highest levels of SSTR3 messenger RNA is the cerebellum with messenger RNA localized to the granule cell layer. The expression of the three different somatostatin receptor messenger RNAs are distinct but overlapping. Such distinct expression may contribute to the selective biological roles of the receptor subtypes.
Spinal recurrent inhibition via Renshaw cells and proprioceptive feedback via skeletal muscle and muscle spindle afferents have been hypothesized to constitute a compound feedback system [Windhorst (1989) Afferent Control of Posture and Locomotion; Windhorst (1993) Robots and Biological Systems--Towards a New Bionics]. To assess their detailed functions, it is necessary to know their dynamic characteristics. Previously we have extensively described the properties of signal transmission from motor axons to Renshaw cells using random motor axon stimulation and data analysis methods based thereupon. Using the same methods, we here compare these properties, in the cat, with those between motor axons and group Ia muscle spindle afferents in terms of frequency responses and nonlinear features. The frequency responses depend on the mean rate (carrier rate) of activation of motor axons and on the strength of coupling between motor units and spindles. In general, they are those of a second-order low-pass system with a cut-off at fairly low frequencies. This contrasts with the dynamics of motor axon-Renshaw cell couplings which are those of a much broader band-pass with its peak in the range of c. 2-15 Hz [Christakos (1987) Neuroscience 23, 613-623]. The second-order non-linearities in motor unit-muscle spindle signal lines are much more diverse than those in motor axon-Renshaw cell couplings. Although the average strength of response declines with mean stimulus rate in both subsystems, there is no systematic relationship between the amount of non-linearity and the average response in the former, whilst there is in the latter. The qualitative appearance of motor unit-muscle spindle non-linearities was complicated as was the average response to motor unit twitches. Thus, whilst Renshaw cells appear to dynamically reflect motor output rather faithfully, muscle spindles seem to signal local muscle fibre length changes and their dynamics. This would be consistent with the hypothesis that the two feedback pathways monitor different state variables determining the production of muscle force: neural input and length and its changes. Specifically, the dynamic properties of both subsystems may combine favourably to decrease the risk of instability (tremor) in the motoneuron-muscle spindle loop.
Intracellular recording techniques were used to characterize changes that take place in rat hypoglossal motoneuronal excitability from early postnatal stages to adulthood. This study focused primarily on the first two weeks of postnatal life, when major changes in the maturation of the neuromuscular system take place. Neonatal hypoglossal motoneurons were identified by their location within the hypoglossal nucleus and by their characteristic electrophysiology. These criteria were supported by antidromic activation and intracellular staining of retrogradely labeled hypoglossal motoneurons. Action potential duration decreased progressively during postnatal development. The reduction was primarily due to a more rapid repolarization, suggesting developmental changes in voltage-dependent potassium conductances. The duration of the calcium-dependent afterhyperpolarization decreased by half during the first two weeks of postnatal life. Changes in subthreshold responses included a decrease in input resistance and an increase in the degree of hyperpolarizing sag and inward rectification with age. Rheobase current was negatively correlated with input resistance, and increased progressively during postnatal development. Membrane time constant decreased almost four-fold over the first two postnatal weeks, suggesting that membrane resistivity is not constant. This decrease in membrane resistivity could account for a large fraction of the change in input resistance and rheobase with age. Thus, the early postnatal development of the rat includes systematic changes in the electrophysiological properties of motoneurons innervating tongue muscles. Some of these modifications are not easily explained by a mere change in neuronal surface area but likely involve changes in the density of expressed ion channels.
Local neocortical blood flow and glucose utilization were measured in conscious rats using [14C]iodoantipyrine and [14C]2-deoxyglucose quantitative autoradiography, respectively, following intravenous injection of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (30 mg/kg). The dose of NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester was chosen so as to produce a level of hypertension equivalent to that produced in a parallel group of rats by the infusion of angiotensin-II (5 micrograms/ml at 0.5-2.0 ml/h). In those animals in which angiotensin-induced hypertension did not exceed 150 mmHg (mean arterial blood pressure), there were no significant effects upon cortical blood flow when compared to controls, but at higher pressures (157 +/- 1 mmHg), blood flow was significantly increased in circumscribed areas of cortex, most notably in parietal (from 204 +/- 10 to 780 +/- 44 ml/100 g per min) and occipital cortex (from 175 +/- 5 to 600 +/- 46 ml/100 g per min), whilst other cortical areas (e.g. temporal and frontal areas) were unchanged. Despite the fact that NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester increased blood pressure to levels (164 +/- 1 mmHg) which were in excess of the highest produced by angiotensin, there was no evidence of focal hyperaemia; indeed blood flow was significantly reduced in every cortical region except parietal area 1. No significant differences in glucose use were evident between any of the groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The expression of phospholipase C isozymes and phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase in the rat facial nucleus was studied using in situ hybridization at various times after unilateral crushing and resectioning the facial nerve. The level of phospholipase C alpha messenger RNA increased from three days to one week after the operation. On the other hand, an apparent reduction in the level of phospholipase C beta 1 occurred from three days to one week after resection. After either crushing or resection, phospholipase C gamma 1 messenger RNA levels were not noticeably changed. As phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase is the rate-limiting enzyme for the production of phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate, which is the preferred substrate for phospholipase C, we investigated the expression of phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase messenger RNA. The level of phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase messenger RNA was decreased one day after axonal injury. Among phospholipase C isozymes, phospholipase C alpha is up-regulated. As the structure of phospholipase C alpha is different from other isozymes, phospholipase C alpha is supposed to have a different function. The present unique up-regulation of phospholipase C alpha may suggest a novel function in nerve regeneration. Phospholipase C beta 1 is down-regulated, as is phosphatidylinositol 4-kinase. This suggests that the signal transmission system using a G-linked receptor is broken down after nerve injury. On the other hand, phospholipase C gamma 1, which is related to the receptor tyrosine kinase, does not demonstrate any transcriptional regulation after nerve injury.
Daily tetanization of the Schaffer collaterals (kindling) in the rat hippocampus induces a persistent epileptogenic focus in area CA1. Neurons were enzymatically isolated from the focal region one day or six weeks after seven class V generalized seizures had been evoked. Calcium currents were measured under voltage-clamp conditions in the whole-cell patch configuration. One day after kindling, as well as six weeks later, the amplitudes of a slow-inactivating (tau = 90 ms) and a non-inactivating calcium current component were, in comparison to controls, enhanced by 30 and 40%, respectively. This enhancement was therefore related to the kindled state of enhanced excitability. The enhancement of the calcium current was independent of the steady-state intracellular calcium concentration. Fast calcium-dependent inactivation was provoked with double-pulse protocols that conditioned the neuron with a defined calcium-influx in the first pulse. Despite the larger calcium current during the conditioning pulse, the relative calcium-dependent inactivation of the sustained current component was reduced in neurons from the kindled focus. Repetitive depolarizations, once every second, evoked a cumulative calcium-dependent inactivation. Nothwithstanding the larger calcium current, kindling also persistently reduced this slow inactivation of both transient and sustained high threshold calcium current. The reduction in calcium-dependent inactivation cannot be responsible for the increased current, but can certainly enhance the calcium influx during prolonged activation or seizures. The changes can be explained by assuming that additional calcium channels are recruited at a location that prevents calcium-dependent inactivation.
Vesamicol inhibits the vesicular loading of acetylcholine molecules. The effects of vesamicol and similarly acting compounds on neuromuscular transmission in frogs were investigated to determine whether these inhibitors-inhibit the frequency augmentation-potentiation of transmitter release. Various vesicular acetylcholine transport blockers suppressed the stimulation frequency-related release parameter, k, in a dose-dependent manner. Artane, cetiedil, chloroquine, ethodin, quinacrine, vesamicol and its benzyl-analogue, 2-(4-benzylpiperidino)cyclohexanol, had strong effects, while those of aminacrine, chlorpromazine, fluphenazine, imipramine, pyrilamine and thioridazine were weak. A significant correlation was observed between the biochemically reported values of IC50 and the electrophysiological inhibitory potencies on k at 20 microM. Contrary to expectations from the biochemical data, however, vesamicol and its benzyl-analogue showed equipotent inhibitory actions on the electrophysiological frequency augmentation-potentiation relation. Low sensitivity and low selectivity of the frequency augmentation-potentiation for vesamicol and its benzyl-analogue lead us to conclude that the vesicular acetylcholine transporter is not the site of the electrophysiological action of vesamicol and similarly acting chemicals.
We have investigated the influence of various second messengers on the biosynthesis of large dense-core vesicle constituents in rat PC12 cells. After treatment with forskolin, phorbol ester or a combination of both substances for up to six days, the messenger RNA levels of several vesicle components were determined by northern blotting. Forskolin increased the expression of messenger RNA encoding the soluble proteins chromogranin B, neuropeptide Y and VGF. Addition of phorbol ester markedly enhanced the effects of forskolin. On the other hand, the expression of two further soluble proteins, chromogranin A and secretogranin II, remained fairly unchanged with all treatments tested. Amongst partly membrane-bound vesicle components, the biosynthesis of glycoprotein III and peptidylglycine alpha-amidating mono-oxygenase was significantly up-regulated by combined treatment with forskolin plus phorbol ester. The carboxypeptidase H messenger RNA increased due to phorbol ester and after long-term application of both drugs. In contrast, phorbol ester alone or plus forskolin down-regulated the expression of dopamine beta-hydroxylase. Essentially the same applies to the intrinsic membrane protein cytochrome b-561, whose messenger RNA level declined in all treatment groups. In conclusion, our results show that forskolin and phorbol ester can regulate the composition of large dense-core vesicles in quite distinct patterns.
The localization of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and neuropeptide Y in submucous nerves of rat jejunum was studied using both single-label pre-embedding immunocytochemistry and post-embedding double-label immunogold techniques. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive fibres and cell bodies were regularly observed in submucous plexus and a similar distribution was seen for neuropeptide Y. Varicose fibres were observed in single-label studies and when areas of specific interest were subjected to double-label immunogold protocols these immunoreactive profiles exhibited vesicles clearly stained for both vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and neuropeptide Y. Synaptic vesicles in immunopositive fibres observed close to the mucosa (and elsewhere in the submucosa) were dense-cored with an average diameter of 80 nm. Nerves associated with vascular elements only stained for neuropeptide Y, not for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. These findings suggest that these two unrelated enteric peptides are co-released in the vicinity of the mucosal lining and the likely implications of such co-release are discussed.
This study evaluated Fos-like immunoreactivity in lumbar spinal cord neurons following intense cold stimulation and then the modifications induced by opioid administration. Under urethane anaesthesia, the rat's right foot was stimulated by holding it in a regulated temperature bath at 15, 10, 0, -10, -15, -17.5 or -20 degrees C. There was no or little Fos-like immunoreactivity in lumbar spinal cord neurons when the paw was at temperatures between 15 and -10 degrees C (0-5 Fos-like immunoreactive neurons/section). The threshold to induce consistent c-fos expression was -15 degrees C. From -15 to -20 degrees C, the number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons increased with decreases in temperature. At -20 degrees C, Fos-like immunoreactive neurons were numerous in L3 and L4 segments, in laminae I-II (approximately 60 Fos-like immunoreactive neurons/section) and to a lesser extent in laminae V-VI (approximately 20). Almost no Fos-like immunoreactivity was present in laminae III-IV (&lt; 5). At -20 degrees C, the number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons increased with the duration of the stimulation. The number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons induced by the cold stimulation temperatures was significantly decreased by pretreatment with 10 mg/kg s.c. morphine and moderately decreased by 5 mg/kg s.c. This effect was antagonized by the combined administration of morphine (10 mg/kg s.c.) and naloxone (2 mg/kg s.c.). Naloxone (2 mg/kg s.c.) significantly increased the number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons induced by -20 degrees C as compared to saline-injected rats. This study showed that Fos-like immunoreactivity distribution is in good agreement with the location of neurons receiving noxious inputs and that the threshold to induce c-fos expression with cold was unexpectedly low at -15 degrees C. Taking into account, on the one hand, previous investigations using the same technique using noxious heat stimulation and, on the other hand, electrophysiological and psychophysiological studies using cold stimulation in animals and humans, our results suggest that Fos-like immunoreactivity induced by extremely cold stimulation, which seems to reproduce frostbite, may reflect activation of nociceptors due to vasoconstriction.
The heterogeneity of evoked dopamine overflow in vivo was examined and compared in striatal and striatoamygdaloid regions of the rat. The characteristics of appearance and disappearance rates and the maximum concentration elicited were determined from overflow curves measured by fast-scan cyclic voltammetry. Overall, the characteristics of evoked dopamine overflow were quite variable in the striatum compared to the relative uniformity of overflow in the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus. In addition, there was a significant decrease in the extracellular disappearance rate of evoked dopamine with depth in the striatum. This gradient did not alter with passage from the caudate-putamen to the nucleus accumbens and no change was observed for the appearance rate or maximum concentration. In contrast, differences in evoked dopamine overflow within the striatoamygdaloid region were sharply defined dorsoventrally and appeared to be region-specific. Dopamine terminal fields in the striatum are not clearly demarcated into the caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens, but may exist as a continuum. The uptake of dopamine appears to be the distinguishing characteristic for the regulation of extracellular dopamine levels in the striatum and the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus.
Excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists have been proposed as novel therapeutic agents to be used with levopoda in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. We examined the neural substrates for the interaction between levodopa and antagonists of either the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid or N-methyl-D-aspartate type of excitatory amino acid receptor using 2-deoxyglucose autoradiography. Thus, we compared the effects of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline (10 mg/kg, i.v.) and the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg, i.v.) on cerebral metabolic responses to levodopa (25 mg/kg, i.v., with 12.5 mg/kg benserazide) in rats with a unilateral nigrostriatal pathway lesion. Levodopa increased glucose utilization ipsilateral to the lesion in substantia nigra pars reticula (up to 104%), entopeduncular nucleus (up 90%) and subthalamic nucleus (up 30%), indicating that levodopa alters striatal output through the striatonigral, striatoentopeduncular and striatopallidal pathways. Levodopa also decreased metabolic rate in lateral habenula (down 39%), a target of projections from entopeduncular nucleus, implying a reduction in basal ganglia output. 2,3-Dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline and MK-801 by themselves did not affect glucose utilization in any of these regions. Pretreatment with 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline reduced the effect of levodopa in substantia nigra pars reticulata but not in entopeduncular nucleus or subthalamic nucleus, while MK-801 attenuated the effect of levodopa in all three of these structures; neither 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline nor MK-801 altered the effect of levodopa in lateral habenula. When given at the same doses to a separate group of lesioned animals, neither 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulfamoyl-benzo(F)quinoxaline nor MK-801 affected rotational behavior elicited by levodopa. These findings indicate that alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists differentially modify dopamine receptor-mediated striatal output. alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor blockade may preferentially attenuate the effect of dopamine receptor activation on the striatonigral pathway, while N-methyl-D-aspartate blockade appears to reduce the actions of dopamine on the striatonigral, striatoentopeduncular and striatopallidal pathways.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Muscarinic responses were studied in dissociated guinea-pig celiac ganglion neurons using the whole-cell voltage-clamp technique. Muscarine (0.025-1 mM; EC50 = 95 microM) administered to cells for 1.5 s evoked inward shifts in holding current in 53 of 74 cells. The amplitude of the inward current transients decreased with hyperpolarization and the null potential averaged -71 +/- 3.4 mV (n = 11). The currents that underlie the responses to muscarine were examined with hyperpolarizing voltage stepping protocols to -100 mV from a holding potential of -30 mV. Eighty-one per cent of cells displayed voltage-dependent current relaxations characteristic of the M-potassium current. Twenty per cent of responding cells displayed no M-current but only a voltage-independent current consistent with a leak current. In the latter type of cells, the muscarine-evoked inward currents reversed near EK and became outward at more hyperpolarized potentials. Analysis of steady state I-V relationships before and after bath application of muscarine showed that the two muscarine-sensitive potassium currents were distributed differently among three types of cells: (i) with M-current (18%); (ii) with leak current (18%); and (iii) with M-current and with leak current (64%). Cesium and barium were used to differentiate the M-current and the muscarine-sensitive leak current. Barium (2 mM) reduced the M-current and the leak potassium current, whereas cesium (2 mM) reduced the M-current but did not affect leak current. Thus, barium reduced the amplitude of muscarinic responses by 79% but cesium reduced them by only 14%. We conclude that muscarinic responses in guinea-pig celiac neurons are produced by suppression of two K+ currents: the M-current and a muscarine-sensitive leak current. These two currents are differentially susceptible to the potassium channel blockers barium and cesium.
The electrophysiological and morphological characteristics of neurons in the guinea-pig olfactory cortex brain slice were investigated using a combined intracellular recording and neurobiotin-dye filling technique, in an attempt to show whether a clear relation existed between cell morphology and excitatory muscarinic response profile. Out of 46 sampled neurons, 25 (termed type 1), responded to bath-application of the muscarinic agonist oxotremorine-M (10 microM, 2-3 min) with a strong and persistent excitation coupled with the appearance of a slow depolarizing afterpotential (10-20 mV amplitude) following a large depolarizing stimulus. These neurons were identified as deep pyramidal cells located in cortical layer III, with characteristic pyramidal/ovoid shaped cell bodies, prominent apical dendrites with branches extending to the surface, and extensive basal dendritic trees. The cells showed a regular spiking pattern in response to injected depolarizing current, with no evidence of bursting behaviour. Nine cells (termed type 2), were strongly excited by oxotremorine-M, but only generated a weak depolarizing afterpotential (&lt; 5 mV) following stimulation. These neurons (located in layer III or at layer II-III border) had a variable, non-pyramidal morphology with either a fusiform/tripolar, stellate/multipolar or bipolar/bi-tufted appearance, respectively. Apart from a more prominent post-spike afterhyperpolarization observed in some type 2 cells, their resting membrane properties and firing patterns were indistinguishable from those of type 1 responding cells. Twelve cells (termed type 3) showed little or no excitatory response to oxotremorine-M, and never generated a post-stimulus slow afterdepolarization. These cells (within compact layer II) had the morphological features of superficial pyramidal cells, typified by their short apical trunks and well-developed apical dendritic trees. They could be distinguished electrophysiologically by their ability to show spike fractionation during injection of large depolarizing current pulses. The morphology and laminar position of neurobiotin-filled cells was also compared with those of cells stained by the Golgi-Cox method. Some factors that may have contributed to the observed differences in muscarinic response profile are discussed. It is proposed that the selective muscarinic induction of the slow depolarizing afterpotential phenomenon in deep pyramidal cells may be important in olfactory cortical learning and memory processes.
Intracellular recordings were obtained from neurons of the laterodorsal tegmental and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei in a brain-slice preparation. The action of exogenously applied 5-hydroxytryptamine and acetylcholine was studied on NADPH-diaphorase-labeled cells which contain nitric oxide synthase and are presumed to be cholinergic. Our results indicated that these cells were hyperpolarized by both 5-hydroxytryptamine and acetylcholine; the ionic mechanism of this inhibition was investigated using current and voltage clamp methods. Cells voltage-clamped at resting membrane potential exhibited a net outward current and an increased membrane conductance during 5-hydroxytryptamine and acetylcholine mediated inhibition. The membrane hyperpolarization and outward current generated by this paradigm reversed near the expected K equilibrium potential and was blocked by low concentrations of extracellular Ba. The 5-hydroxytryptamine- and acetylcholine-dependent currents showed inward rectification and the reversal potential shifted in the depolarizing direction by about 15 mV for a doubling of extracellular K, indicating that both 5-hydroxytryptamine and acetylcholine activate inwardly rectifying, potassium-selective conductances. The 5-hydroxytryptamine-evoked hyperpolarization was antagonized by spiperone and mimicked by (+)8-hydroxy-2-(Di-N-propylamino)-tetralin suggesting the presence of a 5-hydroxytryptamine1A receptor while the acetylcholine-evoked hyperpolarization was blocked by atropine and only high concentrations of pirenzepine, suggesting a muscarinic M2 receptor. The outward currents evoked by 5-hydroxytryptamine and acetylcholine were not additive, suggesting that both receptors are coupled to an overlapping pool of K channels as has been observed in several systems in which receptors are coupled to effectors by G-proteins. These results indicate that the dominant actions of 5-hydroxytryptamine and acetylcholine relate to the inhibition of mesopontine cholinergic neurons via activation of an overlapping pool of inwardly rectifying K channels. Cholinergic neurons of these nuclei are thought to play an instrumental role in the induction and maintenance of rapid eye movement sleep. It has been previously hypothesized that acetylcholine would be excitatory and that 5-hydroxytryptamine would be inhibitory to these cells in the context of rapid eye movement sleep. [McCarley R. and Massaquoi S. (1986) Am. J. Physiol. 251, R1011-R1029; McCarley R. W. et al. (1975) Science 189, 58-60]. Our results are consistent with the proposed inhibitory action of 5-hydroxytryptamine but indicate recurrent input to cholinergic neurons would be inhibitory. Accordingly, models of the neural substrate underlying rapid eye movement sleep production need to be changed to reflect this inhibitory action of acetylcholine on cholinergic neurons.
The stimulatory effect of excitatory sulphur-containing amino acids on inositol phosphate formation was investigated in primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells. L-Cysteine sulphinate (CSA), L-cysteate (CA), L-homocysteine sulphinate (HCSA), L-homocysteate (HCA) and S-sulpho-L-cysteine (SSC) dose-dependently stimulated the formation of [3H]inositol phosphates exhibiting EC50 values in the range 60-200 microM and maximal effects of six- to 17-fold that of basal [3H]inositol phosphate levels. Endogenous L-glutamate spontaneously released into the extracellular medium or following exposure of cells to HCSA, HCA or SSC did not contribute significantly to formation of [3H]inositol phosphates, whereas 10% of the total [3H]inositol phosphates accumulated following exposure to CSA and CA was due to released L-glutamate. The selective N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (APV, 500 microM) attenuated by 20% (HCSA) to between 80 and 100% (CSA, CA, SSC, HCA) the formation of [3H]inositol phosphates induced by 1 mM sulphur-containing amino acids. When, however, HCSA was used at 100 microM (a concentration near to its EC50 for phosphoinositide hydrolysis), APV inhibited induced responses by 70%. Sulphur-containing amino acid-stimulated [3H]inositol phosphate formation was unaffected by the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX, 10 microM). Inhibition of sulphur-containing amino acid-stimulated [3H]inositol phosphate formation by co-administration of APV and CNQX was similar to that obtained in the presence of APV alone. CSA-, CA-, SSC- and HCA-stimulated [3H]inositol phosphate formation was markedly reduced by removal of Ca2+ from the extracellular medium whereas that stimulated by HCSA was less affected. A similar inhibitory profile was observed when the levels of sulphur-containing amino acid-induced increases in intracellular free calcium ([Ca2+]i) were measured in the presence of 500 microM APV; 1 mM HCSA-induced responses being inhibited by only 30% whereas responses to the remaining sulphur-containing amino acid (also at 1 mM) were inhibited by &gt; 45%. When the sulphur-containing amino acids were used at concentrations approximating their EC50 values for phosphoinositide hydrolysis, APV inhibited the induced increases in [Ca2+]i by 70-100%. HCA and SSC co-administered with the less efficacious but selective metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, (+-)-1-aminocyclopentane-trans-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (trans-ACPD) at maximally effective concentrations (1 mM) of each agonist stimulated [3H]inositol phosphate formation in an additive manner.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Selective death of CA1 pyramidal neurons after transient forebrain ischemia has attracted interest for its possible relation to the pathogenesis of memory deficits and dementia. Using whole cell patch-clamp recording from CA1 pyramidal neurons in hippocampal slices of gerbils after ischemia we studied the intracellular signaling mechanisms related to the phosphoinositide cycle. Intracellular application of an antibody against phosphatidylinositol 4,5-bisphosphate rescued ischemic neurons from stimulus-induced irreversible depolarization. Furthermore, application of inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate in normal cells caused an irreversible depolarization in response to synaptic input, which mimicked the deterioration of ischemic neurons. Depolarization of both ischemic and normal neurons in the presence of inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate was prevented by the addition of the Ca2+ chelator, 1,2-bis(o-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetate. Application of antibody against inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate 3-kinase, which blocks formation of inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate, also protected against cell deterioration. Our results suggest that the vulnerability of hippocampal pyramidal neurons following ischemia is caused by a disturbed phosphoinositide cascade, with one metabolite, inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate, playing a key role in the induction of Ca2+ accumulation, which leads to neuronal death.
The action of a phorbol ester (phorbol-12,13-diacetate) on the voltage-activated sodium current has been investigated by the voltage-clamp method in acutely isolated pyramidal neurons from rat hippocampus. The intracellular perfusion of isolated pyramidal neurons for 30-40 min induced a gradual 10-15 mV shift in both the current-voltage relationship and voltage-dependent steady-state inactivation to more negative potentials. The application of phorbol ester (1-10 microM) to isolated neurons for the same time increased the amplitude of sodium current by 15-20%, shifted the above-mentioned voltage-dependent parameters for an additional 10-15 mV in the same direction and changed the slope of the steady-state inactivation curve. In contrast, after prolonged incubation of slices in the phorbol ester-containing solution (1-10 microM) for 0.5-3 h, subsequent application of phorbol ester at the same concentration caused neither the addition shift of the voltage-dependent characteristics of sodium channels nor the change of the slope of the steady-state inactivation curve. However, in this case an increase in the amplitude of sodium current by 15-20% during 30-40 min intracellular perfusion was observed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Behavioral and immunocytochemical techniques were used to study the effects of adrenal medulla grafts implanted in hippocampus--after lesion of this structure--on the memory capacities of rats. Performances of the grafted rats in the radial maze test were significantly improved and, in some aspects, fully restored. On the other hand, grafts had no significant effects on a one-trial spatial recognition test and impaired object recognition. Immunocytochemical identification showed that the grafts contained chromaffin cells with a choline acetyltransferase stainings while, in parallel, phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase stainings seemed to be decreased. Cholinergic innervation was established between the graft and the host hippocampus. A likely interpretation of this complex pattern of results is that the functional effects of the grafts depended on the arousal level induced by the behavioral task. At the neurobiological level, these effects probably set into play an interaction between opioid, catecholaminergic and cholinergic factors. Our results may contribute to the clarification of the problem of specificity of functional effects of intracerebral grafts as well as the problem of hippocampal role in learning and memory.
A recent study has described synchronous burst discharges of dentate hilar neurons and area CA3 pyramidal cells in the presence of the convulsants 4-aminopyridine and picrotoxin in guinea-pig hippocampal slices [Mller W. and Misgeld U. (1991) J. Neurophysiol. 65, 141-147]. To examine the synchronous activity of dentate cells and area CA3 pyramidal cells further, epileptiform burst discharges were examined in morphologically and/or electrophysiologically identified non-granule cells in the hilus and granule cell layer of the rat dentate gyrus and compared to simultaneously-recorded pyramidal cells of area CA3a, b, and c. Specifically, the types of dentate cells and the types of discharge were examined, as well as the timing of burst discharge of dentate cells relative to different cells of area CA3. In the presence of the GABAA receptor antagonist bicuculline (30 microM), all dentate cell types discharged in rhythmic, spontaneous bursts that were synchronized with area CA3 pyramidal cell epileptiform bursts. The sampled cells included hilar &quot;mossy&quot; cells, hilar fast-spiking cells (putative interneurons) as well as interneurons located in the granule cell layer, such as the pyramidal &quot;basket&quot; cells. Simultaneous recording from dentate non-granule cells and area CA3 pyramidal cells during exposure to bicuculline demonstrated that stimulus-evoked and spontaneous epileptiform bursts occurred almost exactly at the same time; there were only a few milliseconds between the onsets of pyramidal cell bursts and dentate cell bursts, with the pyramidal cell preceding the dentate cell in almost every case. There were no systematic differences among dentate cell types in the extent they lagged behind pyramidal cells, and there were no detectable differences among area CA3 pyramidal cells. In slices that were cut between area CA3 and the dentate gyrus, epileptiform bursts occurred in area CA3 but not in the dentate. These findings suggest that, in the absence of GABAA receptor-mediated inhibition, excitatory pathways from area CA3 to the dentate gyrus are strong and widespread. These pathways, and possibly other mechanisms, can lead to tightly synchronized action potential discharge of pyramidal cells and dentate non-granule cells. The results also suggest that disinhibition alone is insufficient to cause synchronous bursts in the dentate gyrus, in contrast to area CA3.
Many forms of learning depend on the ability of an organism to sense and react to the adaptive value of its behavior. Such value, if reflected in the activity of specific neural structures (neural value systems), can selectively increase the probability of adaptive behaviors by modulating synaptic changes in the circuits relevant to those behaviors. Neuromodulatory systems in the brain are well suited to carry out this process since they respond to evolutionarily important cues (innate value), broadcast their responses to widely distributed areas of the brain through diffuse projections, and release substances that can modulate changes in synaptic strength. The main aim of this paper is to show that, if value-dependent modulation is extended to the inputs of neural value systems themselves, initially neutral cues can acquire value. This process has important implications for the acquisition of behavioral sequences. We have used a synthetic neural model to illustrate value-dependent acquisition of a simple foveation response to a visual stimulus. We then examine the improvement that ensues when the connections to the value system are themselves plastic and thus become able to mediate acquired value. Using a second-order conditioning paradigm, we demonstrate that auditory discrimination can occur in the model in the absence of direct positive reinforcement and even in the presence of slight negative reinforcement. The discriminative responses are accompanied by value-dependent plasticity of receptive fields, as reflected in the selective augmentation of unit responses to valuable sensory cues. We then consider the time-course during learning of the responses of the value system and the transfer of these responses from one sensory modality to another. Finally, we discuss the relation of value-dependent learning to models of reinforcement learning. The results obtained from these simulations can be directly related to various reported experimental findings and provide additional support for the application of selectional principles to the analysis of brain and behavior.
The present study sought to determine whether the D1 dopamine receptor agonist CY 208-243 increases Fos-like immunoreactivity in neurochemically distinct populations of interneurons in the 6-hydroxydopamine-denervated striatum. In vivo microdialysis studies indicate that cholinergic interneurons in the striatum are excited by the administration of CY 208-243 and that this effect is potentiated by dopaminergic deafferentation. Since Fos is considered to be a marker of neuronal activity, we examined the overlap between CY-208-243-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity and striatal cholinergic interneurons labelled with the cholinergic marker enzyme choline acetyltransferase. Unexpectedly, cholinergic interneurons in the striatum were not found to express Fos-like immunoreactivity. However, D1 agonist-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity was found in neurons immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y. Consequently, the failure of cholinergic neurons in the striatum to express D1 agonist-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity does not appear to be a general property of striatal interneurons. Indeed, CY 208-243 increased Fos-like immunoreactivity in choline-acetyltransferase-positive neurons in the basal forebrain and lateral dorsal tegmental nucleus. In the case of cholinergic basal forebrain neurons, administration of CY 208-243 has been shown to enhance the release of acetylcholine from their terminals located in the frontal cortex. Thus, unlike cholinergic interneurons in the striatum, the expression of Fos-like immunoreactivity in cholinergic basal forebrain neurons is correlated with an increase in transmitter release. Choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity was markedly reduced in cholinergic basal forebrain neurons ipsilateral to the 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. This decrease in choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity was confined to a pocket of cortically projecting neurons located in the posterior part of the horizontal limb of the diagonal band which included the medial preoptic nucleus. Interestingly, D1 agonist-induced Fos-like immunoreactivity was located predominantly in those cholinergic neurons which displayed depressed choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. Since Fos is often induced as a consequence of increased activity, it is tempting to speculate that those neurons which stained weakly for choline acetyltransferase had been excited by the D1 agonist administration. Accordingly, the destruction of mesencephalic dopaminergic neurons with 6-hydroxydopamine may have deprived these cholinergic neurons of an excitatory D1 receptor-mediated drive, resulting in a reduction of choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. These results suggest that the degeneration of nigrostriatal dopamine neurons may contribute to the loss of cholinergic basal forebrain function in Parkinson's disease.
The effects of epileptiform bursts on hippocampal excitability were examined in the CA3 region of guinea-pig hippocampal slices. Partial blockade of gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABAA)-mediated inhibition by 500 IU/ml penicillin produced low frequency (2-4 Hz) &quot;pro-convulsant&quot; field potential oscillations. Normal spontaneous activity recovered less than 30 min after the penicillin was rinsed out providing bursting was prevented. Synchronized bursting rarely began on its own even after 1 h in penicillin 500 IU/ml, but could be initiated in most slices after one to eight all-or-none bursts were evoked by low-intensity, low-frequency (0.2-0.25 Hz) stimuli. Spontaneous bursting, once initiated, persisted for at least 1 h without further stimulation suggesting that a small number of bursts produced a long-lasting increase in excitability. Bursts disappeared more slowly than anticipated after convulsants were rinsed out and were followed by &quot;post-burst&quot; oscillations with different frequency characteristics than proconvulsant oscillations which persisted for at least 4 h. Selective augmentation of evoked N-methyl-D-aspartate excitatory postsynaptic potentials appeared to be the critical first step in the initiation of bursting. The specific N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist, 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (50-100 microM), only partially suppressed pro-convulsant oscillations in partially disinhibited slices but completely prevented stimulus-triggered spontaneous bursting and prolonged hyperexcitability. Although N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors were necessary for the induction of bursting in partially disinhibited slices, they were not required to initiate bursting after more complete disinhibition. However, when 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid was applied prior to and during perfusion with 2000 IU/ml penicillin, spontaneous bursts occurred at long, irregular intervals and lacked afterdischarges. These bursts rapidly disappeared upon penicillin washout and were not followed by persistent post-burst oscillations. N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists applied only after bursts already established in penicillin blocked the afterdischarges but did not reduce the burst frequency. These observations indicate that epileptiform bursts can produce long-lasting, hippocampal hyperexcitability. The induction of these plastic changes requires N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation which then enhances both N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor mechanisms. Furthermore, N-methyl-D-aspartate excitatory postsynaptic potentials can participate in triggering spontaneous bursts but this role is masked once plasticity has occurred. Partial disinhibition produces a pro-convulsant state which does not induce long-lasting changes in hippocampal excitability but renders the neuronal network vulnerable to develop persistent epileptiform bursting with small additional excitatory inputs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
At present it is not clear whether N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonists have a direct excitotoxic effect on somatostatin interneurons in rat striatum. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor comprises a multivariant complex encoded by a family of subunit complementary DNAs. Evidence suggests that expression of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit NR1 (zeta 1) is essential for functional receptors. To investigate the expression of NR1 messenger RNA by striatal somatostatin cells, a dual in situ hybridization technique was applied to fresh frozen tissue sections. Cellular sites of NR1 and somatostatin gene expression were visualized in the same tissue section using [35S]NR1 and alkaline phosphatase-labelled somatostatin oligonucleotides. Only 8-18% of striatal somatostatin cells expressed a strong NR1 hybridization signal; most cells (&gt; 80%) expressed a weak or undetectable signal. In contrast NR1 messenger RNA was enriched in neighbouring medium-sized non-somatostatin cells. These data suggest that while the NR1 gene is expressed in some striatal somatostatin cells most do not express a strong NR1 signal, a finding which may explain, in part, the preferential survival of somatostatin cells in Huntington's disease.
Secretion of catecholamines from chromaffin cells is mediated by cholinergic and peptidergic neurotransmitters. The cholinergic transmitter acetylcholine activates both nicotinic and muscarinic receptors to trigger catecholamine secretion in rat adrenal medulla. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) has been identified as the peptidergic transmitter in rat adrenal medulla and may also be the non-cholinergic transmitter in bovine adrenal. Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP), a VIP-like secretin peptide, is also found in the adrenal, and is a potent secretagogue. Thus, PACAP may be another peptidergic transmitter at the adrenal synapse. A most intriguing property of rat chromaffin cells is that stimulation of nicotinic, muscarinic, VIP or PACAP receptors are each able to produce robust catecholamine secretion on their own. This raises the question of whether a single chromaffin cell can respond to each of the above agonists or whether the secretion is due to subpopulations of chromaffin cells. This issue was addressed by using electrochemical techniques to monitor exocytosis from individual chromaffin cells in culture. We demonstrate that acetylcholine, nicotine, muscarine, VIP and PACAP are each able to evoke catecholamine secretion from a single chromaffin cell. Some cells only responded to acetylcholine. Furthermore, each agonist produced a distinct pattern of exocytosis. Muscarine-evoked secretion exhibited a latency of 0.5-2 s, but exocytosis persisted up to 30 s following 500 ms stimulation. Nicotine produced an immediate response which usually ended within 10 s. The secretory pattern following acetylcholine appeared to be the sum of the nicotinic and muscarinic patterns, showing both rapid onset and longer duration.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We describe the distribution and characteristics of nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons in rat spinal cord using a polyclonal affinity-purified antibody against rat cerebellar nitric oxide synthase. Numerous neurons were stained throughout the entire rostrocaudal extent of the spinal cord. Cell bodies, dendrites and axons stained in a uniform manner. Nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity was intense in neurons of laminae I-IV and X throughout the entire spinal cord. Neurons in the intermediolateral cell column of the thoracic and lumbar spinal cord were also intensely stained for nitric oxide synthase. The sacral cord demonstrated substantial nitric oxide synthase immunostaining within lamina VII. For the entire cord, scattered neurons in laminae V, VI, VII, and VIII were weakly positive. In addition, punctate nitric oxide synthase staining throughout laminae I, III and surrounding some large motor neurons in the ventral horn suggested the presence of nitric oxide synthase at synapses. Axons and dendritic terminals located in the gray and white matter were also stained. The majority of nitric oxide synthase positive neurons in the intermediolateral cell column were double-labelled by subcutaneously injected FluoroGold confirming that these cells were preganglionic autonomic neurons. Most NADPH-diaphorase-stained neurons were also nitric oxide synthase-positive. The distribution of nitric oxide synthase-containing neurons in spinal cord suggests that nitric oxide plays a role in spinal cord neurotransmission including: preganglionic sympathetic and parasympathetic, somatosensory, visceral sensory and possibly motor pathways. In particular, the autonomic nervous system appears enriched with nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity. The precise role of each neuron type remains to be demonstrated in physiologic and pathophysiologic paradigms.
Nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity was detected in neurons and fibers of the rat pontine medulla. In the medulla, nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons and processes were observed in the gracile nucleus, spinal trigeminal nucleus, nucleus of the solitary tract, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, nucleus ambiguus, medial longitudinal fasciculus, reticular nuclei and lateral to the pyramidal tract. In the pons, intensely labeled neurons were observed in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, paralemniscal nucleus, ventral tegmental nucleus, laterodorsal tegmental nucleus, and lateral and medial parabrachial nuclei. Labeled neurons and fibers were seen in the interpeduncular nuclei, dorsal and median raphe nuclei, central gray and dorsal central gray, and superior and inferior colliculi. Double-labeling techniques showed that a small population (&lt; 5%) of nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons in the medulla also contained immunoreactivity to the aminergic neuron marker tyrosine hydroxylase. The majority of nitric oxide synthase-immunoreactive neurons in the dorsal and median raphe nuclei were 5-hydroxytryptamine-positive, whereas very few 5-hydroxytryptamine-positive cells in the caudal raphe nuclei were nitric oxide synthase-positive. Virtually all nitric oxide synthase-positive neurons in the pedunculopontine and laterodorsal tegmental nuclei were also choline acetyltransferase-positive, whereas nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity was either low or not detected in choline acetyltransferase-positive neurons in the medulla. The results indicate a rostrocaudal gradient in the intensity of nitric oxide synthase immunoreactivity, i.e. it is highest in neurons of the tegmentum nuclei and neurons in the medulla are less intensely labeled. The majority of cholinergic and serotonergic neurons in the pons are nitric oxide synthase-positive, whereas the immunoreactivity was either too low to be detected or absent in the large majority of serotonergic, aminergic and cholinergic neurons in the medulla.
In order to develop a rodent model displaying a progressive degeneration of the dopamine neurons of the substantia nigra, we bilaterally injected the tracer substance FluoroGold into the terminal field of the nigrostriatal projection, i.e. the striatum. One week later, rats received unilateral injections of 20 micrograms 6-hydroxydopamine into one of the two striatal tracer deposits. Groups of animals were killed one, two, four, eight and 16 weeks later. Ipsilateral to the lesion there was a progressive loss of FluoroGold-labelled nigral cells, with cell counts dropping from 96% of the contralateral side at one week to 59% at two weeks, 35% at four weeks, 23% at eight weeks and down to 15% at 16 weeks. Labelled nigral neurons ipsilateral to the lesion showed a moderate to marked atrophy at all investigated time points. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells was decreased to 83% of contralateral at one week, 39% at two weeks, 44% at four weeks, 34% at eight weeks and 52% at 16 weeks postlesion. Rhodamine fluorescence immunocytochemistry showed that the proportion of surviving ipsilateral fluorogold-labelled cells displaying immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase was 69% at one week postlesion, 51% at two weeks, 63% at four weeks, 69% at eight weeks and 76% at 16 weeks. We conclude that injection of 6-hydroxydopamine into the terminal field of nigral dopaminergic neurons causes a progressive degeneration of these cells, starting between one and two weeks after lesion and continuing over eight to 16 weeks. This degeneration is preceded, and accompanied by, cellular atrophy and a partial loss of marker enzyme expression, thus yielding an animal model which mimics the degenerative processes in Parkinson's disease more closely than the animal models available so far. The present model may be helpful in investigating the in vivo effects of putative neuroprotective agents and neurotrophic factors.
A class of pharmacologically active substances, known as &quot;specific bradycardic agents&quot;, exerts a negative chronotropic influence on cardiac activity, which heavily relies upon a potent blockade of the hyperpolarization-activated cation current in Purkinje fibers. Since the cation conductance activated by hyperpolarization seems to represent an ubiquitous class of membrane channel in mammals, the present study was undertaken to evaluate the influence of specific bradycardic agents [UL-FS 49 (zatebradine) and its derivative DK-AH 268] on excitable cells of the central nervous system. Thalamocortical relay neurons of the dorsolateral geniculate nucleus, prepared from the guinea-pig thalamus as in vitro slices, were taken as model cells, because the significance of the hyperpolarization-activated cation current (Ih) for electrogenic activity is well documented in these neurons. Local application to relay neurons of the bradycardic agents at concentrations in the range 10(-5) to 10(-3) M resulted in a significant reduction in the amplitude of the Ih current, in the amplitude of the Ih activation curve, and in the slope of the fully activated Ih I/V-relationship. The bradycardic agents did not affect the instantaneous currents with no contribution of Ih, the time course of Ih activation, the voltage range of Ih activation, or the reversal potential of Ih. The inhibitory effect was critically dependent upon Ih activation with open Ih channels probably representing a sufficient condition for blockade. Significant recovery from block did not occur. Under current-clamp conditions, slow anomalous inward rectification of the membrane in the hyperpolarizing direction was blocked, and the resting input resistance increased by 30% associated with a negative shift (average 10 mV) of the membrane potential into a region of Ca(2+)-mediated burst activity. Parameters of electrophysiological activity outside the range of Ih activation were not significantly affected. These data indicate a selective and use-dependent blockade exerted by specific bradycardic substances on the conductance underlying Ih with no alteration in the gating properties. In view of the existence of hyperpolarization-activated cation conductances in neurons from various regions of the mammalian peripheral and central nervous systems, the results of the present study remind us of possible neuronal side-effects of bradycardia-producing agents.
Horizontal and amacrine cells in the isolated carp retina were impaled with micropipette electrode, identified by their characteristic light responses, and injected iontophoretically with markers for morphological study. Both Lucifer Yellow CH and biocytin were injected simultaneously. Lucifer Yellow was seen by its own fluorescence while biocytin was visualized by binding with Texas Red-linked or horseradish peroxidase-conjugated avidin. For cone-connected horizontal cells, biocytin-coupled cells were found to be approximately five-times more numerous than Lucifer Yellow-coupled cells. Coupling for both tracers was consistently hampered by intravitreally applied dopamine. In untreated retinas, the injected Lucifer Yellow was restricted within one rod-connected horizontal cell, while biocytin revealed several coupled neighbors. Amacrine cells, labeled by the tracers, were morphologically grouped into eight types, based on our earlier classification. Among them, amacrine cells, belonging to three types (Fnd, Pmb or Pma), were confirmed to be Lucifer Yellow-coupled, and the number of biocytin-coupled cells was more numerous (about 2.5 times) than that of Lucifer Yellow-coupled cells. Most amacrine cells (i.e. Pwd, Fnb and Fna) showed biocytin-coupling with no Lucifer Yellow-coupling. A few classified (i.e. Pwb and Fwa) and unclassified cells did not show any coupling. Since the tracer coupling takes place via gap junctions, the majority of amacrine cells, belonging to certain homologous types, appear to be functionally coupled with each other in the inner plexiform layer. However, dopamine did not influence the range of tracer coupling between amacrine cells in the carp retina under the present experimental conditions.
The central distribution of vagal afferents in the medulla containing either substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide or 5-hydroxytryptamine was examined using a double-labelling technique and laser scanning confocal microscopy. Areas of the nucleus tractus solitarii, dorsal motonucleus of the vagus nerve and area postrema were scanned for double-labelled axon profiles. Analysis of this material revealed that all three neurochemicals were contained within the central terminals of vagal nerve sensory neurons. However, the distribution of vagal nerve afferents containing each of these putative transmitters differed. Afferents containing 5-hydroxytryptamine were detected mainly in the areas postrema and the adjacent nucleus tractus solitarii, with a smaller number in the ventral subnuclei of the solitary tract. In contrast afferents containing calcitonin gene-related peptide were found primarily in the medial and commissural regions of the nucleus tractus solitarii. Afferents containing substance P-immunoreactivity were surprisingly few in number and did not appear to be associated with any particular region. These results establish the presence of 5-hydroxytryptamine, substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide in the central axons of vagal sensory afferents. Furthermore, the differential distribution of afferents immunoreactive for these neurochemicals seen in this study, together with previous demonstrations of the viscerotopic organization of vagal sensory afferents suggests a possible &quot;chemical coding&quot; for individual end organs.
Intracellular recordings were made from myenteric neurons of the guinea-pig ileum in vitro; they were classified into S and AH neurons according to electrophysiological criteria. ATP (10 nM-100 microM) inhibited excitatory synaptic potentials in the myenteric plexus; fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials and slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials of S neurons and slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials in AH neurons. This inhibitory action was reversible and dose-dependent, and was usually followed by a transient augmentation of the synaptic potentials after washing of ATP. The actions of ATP on the synaptic potentials were prevented by pretreatment with theophylline, caffeine, quinidine and 8-phenyl theophylline. The ATP analogues, ATP-gamma-s (100 nM-100 microM) and alpha-beta-methylene ATP (100 nM-100 microM) also depressed the synaptic potentials recorded from both types of neurons. The inhibitory effect of adenosine on the synaptic potentials was 10 times weaker than that of ATP. Thus, it seems clear that the presynaptic inhibition is not occurring through adenosine A1 or A2 receptors. Furthermore, ATP at high concentrations ( &gt; or = 1 microM) augmented nicotinic fast depolarizations of S neurons produced by extracellular acetylcholine. However, ATP at the same concentrations inhibited the slow depolarizations of S and AH neurons caused by exogenous acetylcholine (muscarinic) and substance P. It is concluded that ATP regulates synaptic transmission in the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig ileum and the sites of ATP actions are pre- and postsynaptic.
Supraoptic neurosecretory neurons express a prominent N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor system. Recent in vitro evidence reveals that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation dramatically alters the spontaneous discharge patterns of supraoptic neurons. In this study we evaluate whether N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors in vivo contribute to the development of characteristic phasic discharge patterns displayed by vasopressin-secreting neurons. Intravenous administration of ketamine hydrochloride, a non-competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, was used to examine whether N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor blockade influences patterned spontaneous discharge observed in supraoptic neurosecretory neurons. Extracellular recordings were obtained from identified hypothalamic supraoptic neurons in pentobarbital-anaesthetized Long-Evans rats. Systemic administration of ketamine (&lt; or = 1.5 mg/kg) potently suppressed spontaneous phasic discharge in 16/19 putative vasopressin-secreting cells. The ketamine-induced blockade was dose dependent, fully reversible and was associated with the complete blockade of activity evoked by local pressure application of N-methyl-D-aspartate, but not the activity evoked by alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate receptor agonists (6/6 cells). Ketamine had no detectable effect on threshold or shape of antidromic action potentials. By comparison, the activity in 9/10 continuously active neurons (putative oxytocin-secreting) was unaffected by administration of identical doses of ketamine. These data suggest that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors play an important role in regulating the onset and maintenance of spontaneous phasic activity patterns displayed by rat supraoptic vasopressin neurons in vivo.
The purpose of this experiment was to characterize the longitudinal field gradients from exogenously applied electrical stimulation in the normal and injured rodent spinal cord. In addition, we compared the field gradients arising from stimulation with two different types of stimulating electrodes. Twenty normal rats underwent the surgical implantation of either extradural disc (n = 10) or cuff (n = 10) electrodes in the lower cervical and upper thoracic spinal cord. Sine waves of 1.5 to 50 microA and 0.5 to 50 Hz were used for stimulation. Field gradients were measured differentially from two extracellular glass microelectrodes, positioned stereotactically in the spinal cord at different locations between the stimulating electrodes. The effect of acute spinal cord injury on local field strength was studied in five animals from each group. The field gradients from stimulation with disc electrodes were greatest in close proximity to the discs and decreased markedly toward the point equidistant between the electrodes. In contrast, the gradients produced by cuff electrodes were much more evenly distributed along the spinal cord, increasing only slightly in proximity to the electrodes. These fields were also more evenly distributed throughout the spinal cord in cross-section but were generally weaker than those arising from disc electrodes. Acute spinal cord injury significantly increased the field gradients arising from both disc and cuff electrodes. However, the observed gradients remained substantially lower than those reported to enhance neurite growth in vitro. We conclude that the position and design of stimulating electrodes has a profound effect on longitudinal field gradients within the mammalian spinal cord, as does the presence of an acute spinal cord injury.
We have previously shown that nerve growth factor (NGF) induces a rapid and relatively continuous activation of Ras in rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells while epidermal growth factor (EGF) activates Ras transiently, and that tyrosine kinase activity of the NGF receptor is essential for the activation of Ras (Muroya et al., Oncogene, 7, 277-281, 1992). In order to explore the signaling mechanism from tyrosine kinase to Ras activation in more detail, interactions between two adaptor molecules, Shc and Grb2/Ash, which contain Src homology regions, and their interactions with the NGF and EGF receptors were examined. Both NGF and EGF induced rapid tyrosine phosphorylation of Shc and its association with both the receptors and with Grb2/Ash. When cells were stimulated with EGF at 4 degrees C, the activation of Ras proceeded slowly and MAP kinase activation was quite low. Under such restricted conditions, tyrosine-phosphorylated Shc formed a complex with Grb2/Ash, suggesting that the complex formation may be one of the immediate early responses. In contrast to Shc, Grb2/Ash bound to EGF receptor but did not form a stable complex with the NGF receptor. These results suggest that there may be an alternative pathway for the activation of Ras in PC12 cells.
The responses of primate spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons to innocuous and noxious mechanical stimuli applied to the skin can be enhanced for more than an hour following prolonged noxious stimulation. This increased responsiveness is thought to reflect sensitization of dorsal horn neurons and may help account for secondary hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia. The proposal that central sensitization is due to the activation of second messenger system was tested in this study by examining the effect of trans-ACPD (trans-D,L-1-amino-1,3-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid), an agonist of metabotropic excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptors, introduced into the dorsal horn by microdialysis. A low dose of trans-ACPD resulted in an increase in the responses of STT cells to an innocuous mechanical stimulus (BRUSH), but no increase in the responses to noxious mechanical and thermal stimuli or in the excitation produced by iontophoretically applied EAAs. A high dose of trans-ACPD caused a transient increase in background activity, but no change in the responsiveness of spinothalamic cells to any of the test stimuli. It is concluded that low doses of trans-ACPD can selectively enhance transmission through interneuronal pathways mediating tactile inputs to spinothalamic cells.
Cerebral hypoxia and ischemia are two of the most common disorders of the central nervous system. The pathomechanism has been a focus of interest in neuroscience for many years not only because of the clinical significance but also because of the peculiar distribution of the lesion (selective vulnerability) depending on the type of injury. This article reviews recent advances in the study of hypoxia-induced tissue injury of the central nervous system.
We have analyzed the effect of nifedipine on the macroscopic high-threshold, voltage-activated (HVA) calcium current in four cell types: postnatal rat Purkinje and dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, embryonic chick DRG neurons, and adult cat ventricular myocytes. As is consistent with previous reports, nifedipine reduced HVA current in myocytes in a voltage-sensitive manner. Analysis of nifedipine actions on neurons, however, was compromised by slow inactivation of the current at holding potentials between -80 mV and -40 mV. The slow inactivation was voltage-dependent, irreversible after 5 min, and contributed to &quot;rundown&quot; of the current. At -40 mV, slow inactivation displayed two time constants: 12 +/- 8 s and 7 +/- 4 min. When slow inactivation was taken into account, we found no evidence for a nifedipine-sensitive component of the HVA current in these neurons. Consistent with previous studies, DRG neurons were reduced irreversibly by omega-conotoxin, whereas cardiac and Purkinje cells were unaffected. Our biophysical and pharmacological results are consistent with two types of neuronal HVA currents (N type and P type) in developing neurons that are distinct from cardiac HVA currents (L type).
There have been relatively few published reports of the taste preferences of nonhuman primates due, in part, to the expense and relative difficulty associated with maintaining a large group of these animals. The present report describes a version of the single-bottle preference test that can be used effectively with small groups of macaque monkeys. Experiment 1 determined the optimal durations for the pretest water deprivation period, the test trial itself, and the posttest rehydration period. Experiment 2 used this procedure to examine intake of the four prototypical gustatory stimuli. The results showed that cynomolgus monkeys, like other species, accept solutions containing sucrose and isotomic saline and reject those containing quinine hydrochloride. Unlike most other species, however, these monkeys do not find moderate concentrations of hydrochloric acid aversive.
A fully automated, 10-channel gustometer for use with nonhuman primates is described. The system, constructed primarily from commercially available components, includes an intelligence panel (containing sample spout, reward spout, and two operant response keys) that attaches to the door of a standard primate cage. The novel feature of the gustometer is a sample delivery spout that can be flushed, rinsed, and refilled within a specially designed rinsing chamber. All wetted surfaces of the gustometer are either Teflon, glass, or stainless steel. Flame photometric analysis confirmed the absence of cross-contamination between trials. Behavioral data collected from one rhesus monkey using a shock-suppression procedure demonstrates the detection threshold for sodium chloride. Improvements to the design, including the addition of pressurized sample delivery triggered by a lickometer circuit, are discussed.
Salty taste is blocked by the diuretic amiloride, which inhibits specific sodium channels. We have isolated an amiloride-sensitive sodium channel (ASSC) from taste tissues by polymerase chain reaction and screening of a cDNA library prepared from rat circumvallate papillae. Northern analysis reveals ASSC in taste and non-taste tissues with the highest level of expression of ASSC in the lung. In situ hybridization establishes ASSC localizations in the epithelia of lung and colon as well as tongue epithelial layers containing and lacking taste buds. These results support a model in which ASSC in non-taste cells regulates responses of taste cells to salt as well as other tastants.
Optic nerve transection in adult rats results in the death of approximately 50% of the axotomized retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) by 1 week and nearly 90% by 2 weeks after injury. The capacity of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) to prevent this early, severe loss of RGCs was investigated in vivo by intravitreal injections of BDNF [5 micrograms in 5 microliters of bovine serum albumin/phosphate-buffered saline (BSA/PBS)] or vehicle (5 microliters of BSA/PBS). Using quantitative anatomical techniques, we show that (i) all RGCs survived 1 week after a single injection of BDNF at the time of axotomy. (ii) RGC densities decreased in the BDNF-treated retinas by 2 weeks but remained significantly greater than in the untreated controls. (iii) An enhanced RGC survival was obtained with single injections of BDNF from 6 days before to 5 days after axotomy. (iv) Repeated injections resulted in greater numbers of surviving RGCs, an effect that declined to undetectable levels by 6 weeks. (v) There were indications for an endogenous local source of trophic support whose expression was triggered by ocular injury, particularly to the anterior part of the eye. (vi) With multiple BDNF injections, there was profuse axonal sprouting around the optic disc. This remarkable intraretinal growth was not, however, reflected in increased RGC innervation of the peripheral nerve grafts, which are known to facilitate regeneration when used as optic nerve substitutes.

We have used a synthetic peptide consisting of the first 30 residues of striated muscle alpha-tropomyosin, with GlyCys added to the C-terminus, to investigate the effect of N-terminal acetylation on the conformation and stability of the N-terminal domain of the coiled-coil protein. In aqueous buffers at low ionic strength, the reduced, unacetylated 32mer had a very low alpha-helical content (approximately 20%) that was only slightly increased by disulfide crosslinking or N-terminal acetylation. Addition of salt (&gt; 1 M) greatly increased the helical content of the peptide. The CD spectrum, the cooperativity of folding of the peptide, and sedimentation equilibrium ultracentrifugation studies showed that it formed a 2-chained coiled coil at high ionic strength. Disulfide crosslinking and N-terminal acetylation both greatly stabilized the coiled-coil alpha-helical conformation in high salt. Addition of ethanol or trifluoroethanol to solutions of the peptide also increased its alpha-helical content. However, the CD spectra and unfolding behavior of the peptide showed no evidence of coiled-coil formation. In the presence of the organic solvents, N-terminal acetylation had very little effect on the conformation or stability of the peptide. Our results indicate that N-terminal acetylation stabilizes coiled-coil formation in the peptide. The effect cannot be explained by interactions with the &quot;helix-dipole&quot; because the stabilization is observed at very high salt concentrations and is independent of pH. In contrast to the results with the peptide, N-terminal acetylation has only small effects on the overall stability of tropomyosin.
Correlational approaches that examine the relation between neuropsychological measures and brain morphology or physiology in schizophrenia have yielded inconsistent results. This may be due in part to difficulties in ascertaining precisely to what degree each measure deviates from its genetically and environmentally determined potential level. We attempted to surmount this problem in a paradigm involving monozygotic twin pairs discordant for schizophrenia. In this paradigm, the difference score between the unaffected member and affected member of a twin pair should represent the degree of pathologic involvement irrespective of actual level. In correlating intrapair difference scores of anatomic structures measured from magnetic resonance imaging (n = 15) and prefrontal regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) (n = 10) with cognitive abilities (after partialing IQ), we found strong associations between (1) the left hippocampus and a parameter of verbal memory, and (2) prefrontal rCBF with symptom scores and perseveration on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test. These results support other research implicating medial temporal and prefrontal regions as important in the symptomatic expression and cognitive failures of schizophrenia. Overall, however, there was a relative paucity of significant associations between neuroanatomic and neurocognitive variables. This may have been due to the relatively restricted ranges of hippocampal size or cognitive ability found in this sample.
The immune system is influenced by central nervous system processes that are shaped by social and psychological factors. Considerations of social factors, intrapersonal process, and autonomic psychophysiology therefore may contribute to a fuller understanding of both immune and brain function. Research reviewed here (a) examines the socioemotional factors that contribute to, or moderate, responses to brief and chronic stressors, (b) determines whether or not stable individual differences in heart rate reactivity predict neuroendocrine and immune responses to a brief psychological stressor and to an influenza virus vaccine, and (c) investigates the autonomic origins of individual differences in low and high heart rate reactivity and their relationship to neuroendocrine and immune responses to chronic and acute stressors. Among our findings are: (a) acute psychological stressors activate the sympathetic adrenomedullary system across individuals and affect immune function; and (b) individuals characterized by high sympathetic cardiac reactivity to acute psychological stressors also show a relative activation of the hypothalamic pituitary adrenocortical system and altered immune function.
Understanding the neurophysiological basis of learning enables nurses working with spinal cord injured persons to astutely assess potential for learning. This is particularly relevant when head injury or drug effects are influencing neurological systems relevant to learning. The neuroanatomical and neurophysiological bases of learning are related to attention, memory, concept formation/abstraction, reasoning, and executive systems. Concept formation/abstraction, reasoning and executive systems are discussed as they relate to learning in this article. This information is incorporated into expanded assessment. More in-depth nursing assessment related to cognitive systems necessary for learning enables nurses to identify intact and deficit cognitive systems and quantify deficits. Astute assessment is fundamental to planning effective teaching and learning strategies for spinal cord injured persons especially when learning deficits exist, e.g., in head injured persons who have sustained a spinal cord injury. Implications for client and family education derive from an understanding of the normal neurophysiological basis of learning and normal and abnormal assessment findings.

In the first two reports of this series, in vivo intracellular recording techniques were used to characterize the electrophysiological properties of two types of striatal neurons that had been identified by their distinct response patterns to stimulation of corticostriatal afferents. In this paper, we examined whether cells showing Type I or Type II response patterns also differed with respect to their morphology or compartmental localization by combining intracellular recording and Lucifer yellow staining with immunocytochemical localization of calbindin 28 kd immunoreactivity. In the majority of cases, both Type I and Type II neurons exhibited similar morphological characteristics, with 80% of the Type I cells (13/16) and all of the Type II cells (n = 40) being small or medium spiny neurons. In each case where the morphological class of the cell was different than the spiny cell class, the cell exhibited a Type I response pattern. These spiny neurons had somata that averaged 17.1 +/- 1.3 microns in diameter and gave rise to between four and eight primary dendrites. The axons typically arose from cell bodies (7/13 for Type I and 25/40 for Type II cells) and emitted extensive local axonal collaterals. However, the axons of Type I cells more frequently originated from the dorsal surface of the somata (9/13; 69%), whereas Type II axons more frequently arose from the ventral surface of the somata (25/35; 71%), which may account for their different extracellular waveforms. In coronally sectioned tissue (n = 18), the axons always projected laterally when the somata were located in the medial striatum and projected medially when the somata were in the lateral striatal region. In a subset of experiments (N = 22), Lucifer yellow-stained neurons were localized with respect to their position within the patch and matrix compartments of the striatum using subsequent staining for calbindin 28 kd immunoreactivity. Of the 20 labeled medium spiny neurons examined (Type II: N = 13; Type I: N = 7), 19 were located in the calbindin-positive matrix compartment. The only neuron localized to the patch compartment was a medium spiny cell that exhibited a Type II paired impulse response pattern. In addition, of the two aspiny neurons from this group with beaded dendrites, one was localized to the border between adjacent patch and matrix compartments, whereas the other was located completely within the matrix compartment. Therefore, despite their distinct paired impulse response patterns, the majority of both Type I and Type II neurons were medium spiny cells located in the matrix compartment of the striatum.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Two subtypes of neurons in the striatum have been defined on the basis of their different response patterns to paired-impulse stimulation of corticostriatal afferents, with type I cells showing a longer spike latency, facilitation at short intervals, and inhibition at long intervals, and type II cells defined by the facilitation occurring at long interstimulus intervals. Nevertheless, the companion report has shown that this distinction of cell types cannot be accounted for by differences in the basic physiological properties of these cells, but instead is likely to be due to differences in their synaptic connectivity. The experiments performed in this study were directed at examining in detail the membrane factors and synaptic responses that may contribute to these distinct response patterns. When pairs of stimuli were delivered to the corticostriatal fibers at 10-30 ms interstimulus intervals, the EPSPs elicited in type I neurons exhibited a temporal summation, resulting in a facilitation of spike firing to the second stimulus relative to the first. In contrast, type II cells showed decreased EPSP amplitude at short intervals, and in cells showing a short-interval inhibition, there was a significant increase in spike threshold (+5.3 +/- 1.4 mV) during the second response. All type II neurons recorded with KCl-filled microelectrodes showed short-interval facilitation with little or no change in spike threshold. Although the use of KCl electrodes did not alter the facilitation at short intervals in type I neurons it did increase the rate of rise of the EPSP, causing spikes to be triggered at a latency similar to that of type II cells. Paired stimuli delivered at 75-150 ms interstimulus intervals showed inverse effects on type I and type II cells with respect to the probability of spike firing. In type I cells, the evoked EPSP was followed by a long-latency membrane hyperpolarization that prevented the second EPSP from reaching spike threshold. In contrast, the smaller-amplitude hyperpolarization evoked in type II cells enabled the second stimulus to activate an EPSP at the same membrane potential as the first stimulus, resulting in a facilitation of spiking.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The electrophysiological characteristics of two subtypes of striatal neurons, identified by their distinct patterns of response to paired impulse stimulation of corticostriatal afferents, were compared using in vivo intracellular recordings in rats. As observed in previous extracellular recording studies, the majority of neurons (73%) were found to be of the Type II class, with the remaining cells exhibiting the Type I response pattern. For all cells, cortical stimulation elicited 5-30 mV EPSPs at latencies ranging from 2.0-5.3 msec. Increasing the stimulating current intensity caused a progressive increase in the amplitude of the evoked EPSPs without altering their latencies, suggesting that the EPSPs are monosynaptically mediated. Both the average amplitude and duration of the evoked EPSPs at spike threshold in Type I neurons (9.8 +/- 1.7 mV, 11.8 +/- 2.8 msec; mean +/- SEM) were significantly smaller than those of Type II cells (20.3 +/- 1.4 mV, 22.7 +/- 2.1 msec). Although the average latency to the onset of the EPSP was similar for both cell classes (Type I cells: 2.3 +/- 0.3 msec; Type II cells: 2.2 +/- 0.2 msec), the EPSPs in Type I cells reached peak amplitude and the spikes were triggered at significantly longer latencies than in the Type II cells (peak I: 11.2 +/- 2.5 msec vs. II: 7.6 +/- 0.7 msec; spike I: 8.0 +/- 1.2 msec vs. II: 5.7 +/- 0.4 msec). Striatal neurons had a comparatively hyperpolarized resting membrane potential (-70.2 +/- 2.1 mV) and had an average input resistance of 35.4 +/- 7.6 M omega. Overall, striatal neurons exhibited low levels of spontaneous activity (0.6 +/- 0.7 Hz) with 50% of the neurons being quiescent. Type I cells exhibited significantly higher firing rates (3.2 +/- 0.8 Hz) than Type II cells (0.8 +/- 0.3 Hz), although their resting membrane potentials were not significantly different. Spontaneously occurring spikes had an average amplitude of 72.7 +/- 3.4 mV and spike thresholds of -50.1 +/- 1.5 mV. Irregularly occurring depolarizing plateau potentials, which typically gave rise to spike discharge, were frequently observed in both spontaneously firing and quiescent neurons. A small proportion of the cells recorded (3/55) exhibited a Type I response pattern but had unique physiological characteristics that were similar to those described by others as arising from large, aspiny striatal neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The amplitude spectra of simple cells in areas 17 and 18 were estimated in two and three dimensions (2-D and 3-D) using drifting sinusoidal gratings. In 2-D, responses were sampled with 16 x 16 resolution in spatial and temporal frequency at the optimal orientation. In 3-D, responses were sampled with 12 x 12 x 10 resolution in spatial frequency, orientation, and temporal frequency. For 45/50 cells studied, the spatial attributes of the receptive fields (RFs) were independent of temporal frequency except for a scale factor. The five exceptions to this general finding could be described as follows: For four area 17 cells, responses in the null direction increased with temporal frequency, reducing direction selectivity. For one area 18 cell, the optimal spatial frequency increased with temporal frequency and vice versa. The 2-D discrete Fourier transform was applied to all of the estimated amplitude spectra assuming zero spatial and temporal phase. These transforms were compared with the results of first-order reverse correlations as described in the previous paper (McLean et al., 1994). Direction selective cells exhibited excitatory subregions that were obliquely oriented in space-time in both the raw correlation data and inverse transforms of the spectral data. The slopes of the subregions found in these two measures were highly correlated. Direction indices obtained from space and frequency domain measures were comparable. We demonstrate that the spectral response profiles of most simple cells are aligned with the coordinate axes in frequency domain. That is, they may be considered one-quadrant separable, suggesting that these cells are not velocity tuned per se, but are tuned for spatiotemporal frequency. The spectral bandwidth establishes the range of velocities to which these cells will respond. These findings are consistent with the one-quadrant separability constraint of linear quadrature models. We conclude that most simple cells perform as roughly linear filters in two dimensions of space and time.
A reverse correlation technique, which permits estimation of three-dimensional first-order properties of receptive fields (RFs), was applied to simple cells in areas 17 and 18 of cat. Two classes of simple cells were found. For one class, the spatial and temporal RF characteristics were separable, i.e. they could be synthesized as the product of spatial and temporal weighting functions. RFs in the other class were inseparable, i.e. bright and dark subregions comprising each field were obliquely oriented in space-time. Based on a linear superposition model, these observations led to testable hypotheses: (1) simple cells with separable space-time characteristics should be speed but not direction selective and (2) simple cells with inseparable space-time characteristics should be direction selective and the optimal velocity of moving stimuli should be predictable from the slope of the oriented subregions. These hypotheses were tested by comparing responses to moving bars with those predicted by application of the convolution integral. Linear predictions accounted for waveforms of responses to moving bars in detail. For cells with oriented space-time characteristics, the preferred direction was always predicted correctly and the optimal speed was predicted quite well. Most cells with separable space-time characteristics were not direction selective as predicted. The major discrepancies between measured and predicted behavior were twofold. First, 8/32 cells with separable space-time RFs were direction selective. Second, predicted directional indices were weakly correlated with actual measurements. These conclusions hold for simple cells in both areas 17 and 18. The major difference between simple RFs in these areas is the coarser spatial scale seen in area 18. These results demonstrate a significant linear contribution to the speed and direction selectivity of simple cells in areas 17 and 18. Where additional, nonlinear mechanisms are inferred, they appear to act synergistically with the linear mechanism.
Midget bipolar cells form the first distinct step in the parvocellular (P-) pathway of the primate visual system, and are the major determinant of the receptive field properties of colour selective midget ganglion cells. This paper describes the sampling properties of the midget bipolar cell population and relates this to the processing of chromatic information in the P-pathway. Immunocytochemical markers were used to label midget bipolar cells so that their spatial density could be compared with that of cones and ganglion cells. Sections through macaque monkey retinae were immunostained with antibodies against cholecystokinin (CCK), and recoverin. In CCK-labelled sections, in addition to blue cone bipolar cells, numerous thin bipolar cell dendrites, which could be associated with individual cone pedicles are stained. CCK-immunoreactive midget bipolar cells are found throughout the retina. A different population of midget bipolar cells is revealed in recoverin-labelled sections. Based on a comparison with midget bipolar cells in Golgi-stained retinae we propose that ON-midget (invaginating) bipolars are immunoreactive for CCK and confirm that OFF-midget (flat) bipolar cells are immunoreactive for recoverin [Milam, Dacey and Dizhoor (1993) Visual Neuroscience, 10, 1-12]. The density of recoverin labelled midget bipolars matches the cone density to an eccentricity of about 10 mm; from there outwards it drops to 60% of the cone density. This suggests convergence of several cones to individual midget bipolar cells in peripheral retina. We conclude that midget bipolar cells are present throughout the entire primate retina, and could, in peripheral as well as in central retina, provide chromatically specific input to the P-pathway.
Intraoperative thrombolysis with recombinant tissue plasminogen activator (rtPA) was performed in 15 patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. All patients had significant basal cistern blood accumulation seen on CT scans preoperatively. The patients underwent surgery within four days of subarachnoid hemorrhage with aneurysm clipping in all patients. Postoperatively, transcranial doppler examinations demonstrated reduction in the development of vasospasm to a greater degree in patients treated with rtPA than a similar group of patients managed without the rtPA treatment. Eighty percent of patients receiving intracisternal rtPA had fair to good results compared with 78% of a similar group of patients who underwent surgery shortly after subarachnoid hemorrhage and were not given rtPA. Intracisternal rtPA remains an adjunctive treatment of questionable benefit in the management of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage.
This experiment was designed to highlight the relationships between septo-hippocampal cholinergic activation and the processing of memory consolidation. For that purpose, we have analyzed the consequences of a medial septal electrical stimulation (100 Hz, 30 microA) applied soon after partial acquisition session of an appetitive operant conditioning task on in vivo hippocampal cholinergic activity on the one hand and on subsequent retention 24 h later on the other hand. For maximize our data base for such comparison we used two neurochemically and behaviorally distincts strains of mice, BALB/c and C57BL/6. In these conditions, our results showed that BALB/c mice evidenced better performance in retention than C57BL/6 mice after medial septal stimulation. On the other hand, the stimulation applied in resting conditions produced a moderate and similar hippocampal cholinergic activation in the two strains. Moreover, in BALB/c mice the only strain which exhibited good consolidation capacities the stimulation do not induced any additive effect on the substantial increase of the hippocampal cholinergic activity produced by the previous acquisition session. Finally, a correlative study realized in C57BL/6 mice seems to indicate that the higher the hippocampal cholinergic activity was the lower were the consolidation capacities. These results lead us to suggest that the improvement of memory consolidation induced by the medial septal stimulation is the consequence of the recruitment of non cholinergic elements located close to the electrode tip. Consequently the septo-hippocampal cholinergic activation is more likely to facilitate certain information processes prior to the consolidation mechanisms proper.
Previous work on normal adult rat showed that the vibrissae project, through the climbing fiber (CF) system, onto the Purkinje cells (PCs) of the contralateral cerebellar hemivermis of lobule VII. The highly elaborated CF projections from a given row of vibrissae delimit a narrow parasagittal zone which can be regarded as a functional olivo-cerebellar microzone. Interestingly, the adult one-to-one relationship between PCs and CFs is preceded by a transient phase during which each PC receives synaptic inputs from several CF collaterals which will be eliminated but one, when granule cells begin to establish synapses on PCs. Therefore, the question arose as to whether this synaptic elimination process could participate in the refinement of the topographical organization of CF projections and could contribute to the formation of such precise peripheral maps onto the cerebellum. In the present study, the topographical map of the CF-mediated projection of mystacial vibrissae onto the vermal PCs of lobule VII was determined in adult rats whose cerebellar PCs remain polyinnervated by olivary CFs due to degranulation by postnatal X-irradiation. Using intracellular recordings, we examined the responsiveness of PCs in lobule VII during mechanical stimulation of the 3rd row of contralateral vibrissae, and positioned cells responding to the stimulation on an averaged planar map of lobule VII. Comparison of the results to those obtained in our previous work on normal rats showed that the activated cells were more numerous and more diffusely distributed.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
GAP-43 is a highly conserved neuronal protein whose expression is spatially and temporally regulated. Because this regulation may occur, at least in part, at the level of transcription, we have begun to characterize the regions upstream of the GAP-43 transcription unit which direct its neuronal-specific expression. Functional analyses of GAP-43 promoter-reporter constructs have been performed in stably transfected cell lines, including PC12, C6 and RAT2. These data indicate that as little as 600 bp of GAP-43 5'-flanking DNA sequence directs the expression in a neuronal-specific manner. A shorter construct containing 230 bp of 5'-flanking DNA sequence defines a GAP-43 minimal promoter that is active in both neuronal and glial but not in non-neural cell lines. An upstream region, previously shown by other investigators to have promoter activity, was able to stimulate transcription when linked to the downstream minimal promoter. However, this upstream region was by itself unable to direct transcription of the reporting gene. In addition, we have demonstrated that two polypurine tracts within the 5'-flanking DNA sequence of the GAP-43 gene adopt a non-duplex configuration in plasmids, and, when studied in the context of chromosomal integration, these regions have a stimulatory effect on transcription.
In this study, it was clearly demonstrated that the enhanced negative feedback sensitivity to glucocorticoids to inhibit stress-induced adrenocortical response, which was produced by periodic maternal deprivation (PMD) treatment for the first 3 weeks of life, did persist in rats tested at 66 and 92 weeks of life, suggesting that some stressful experience during early life permanently alters the adrenocortical response to stressful stimuli. This effect of PMD was not accompanied by an increased density of glucocorticoid receptor binding sites in the hippocampus from 93-week-old rats.
Anti-homocysteate antibodies with postembedding immunohistochemistry for light microscopy were used to localize homocysteate-like immunoreactivity in human multiform glioblastoma. The most remarkable stained elements (6.8% of the total tumoral tissue) corresponded to distinct astrocytic cell bodies, intermingled fibrous processes and puncta of diverse size, some of them closely apposed to capillaries. In not affected peritumoral tissue, on the other hand, numerous labelled dots resembling portions of glial processes were observed in the neuropil and around blood vessels (2.7% of the total peritumoral tissue). However, glial and neuronal cell bodies could not be detected. These observations extend to a human brain tumor of glial nature the knowledge on the preferential localization of homocysteate in glia.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) can be modulated by a number of neurotransmitter receptors including muscarinic and GABAergic receptor types. We have found that a novel nicotinic agonist, 2,4-dimethoxybenzylidene anabaseine (DMXB), facilitated the induction of LTP in the hippocampus in a dose-dependent and mecamylamine-sensitive manner. DMXB displaced high affinity nicotinic [125I]alpha-bungarotoxin and [3H]acetylcholine binding in rat brain. Xenopus oocyte studies demonstrated that DMXB has agonist activity at alpha 7 but not alpha 4/beta 2 nicotinic receptor subtypes. These results indicated that DMXB is a novel nicotinic agonist with apparent specificity for the alpha 7/alpha-bungarotoxin nicotinic receptor subtype and indicate that nicotinic receptor activation is capable of modulating the induction of long-term potentiation.
Musicians and non-musicians were presented with short musical phrases that were either selected from the classical musical repertoire or composed for the experiment. The phrases terminated either in a congruous or a 'harmonically', 'melodically', or 'rhythmically' incongruous note. The brain waves produced by the end-notes differed greatly between musicians and non-musicians, and as a function of the subject's familiarity with the melodies and the type of incongruity. The timing of these brain waves revealed that musicians are faster than non-musicians in detecting incongruities. This study provides further neurophysiological evidence concerning the mechanisms underlying music perception and the differences between musical and linguistic processing.
It has been previously demonstrated that members of the neurotrophin family may prevent death of motoneurones following axotomy. Here we report that the expression of mRNA for full-length trkB, which is a signal transducing receptor for BDNF and NT-4, increases transiently in spinal motoneurones after axotomy in adult rats. Thus, transection of the sciatic nerve resulted in markedly increased levels of trkB mRNA in axotomized motoneurones three days postinjury, while the levels had returned to normal within three weeks. The data support that neurotrophins may be important for survival and/or regeneration of motoneurones after axon lesion.
In adult mammals, transection of the hypoglossal nerve results in a dramatic loss of choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) in the hypoglossal motor neurons without affecting their cell number. This injury-induced reduction in ChAT is prevented when brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) is applied to the proximal end of the transected nerve. In contrast, application of ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) has no such effect, even though both factors are known to rescue developing motor neurons from cell death. These results suggest that BDNF may regulate the phenotypic expression of ChAT in mature motor neurons, and indicate that the sensitivity and response of motor neurons to such neurotrophic agents change with development.
The effect of Co-dergocrine (Hydergine) on acetylcholine (ACh) release in the striatum and hippocampus has been studied by means of brain microdialysis and compared to the effect of SKF 38393 and of LY 171555 selective D1 and D2 dopamine (DA) receptor agonists, respectively. Co-dergocrine (1 and 5 mg kg-1 i.p.) as well as LY 171555 (0.2 and 0.5 mg kg-1 i.p.) decreased the extracellular concentration of ACh in the striatum, whereas SKF 38393 (5 and 10 mg kg-1 i.p.) increased it. On the other hand, Co-dergocrine (1 and 5 mg kg-1), LY 171555 (0.2 and 0.5 mg kg-1) and SKF 38393 (5 and 10 mg kg-1) increased ACh release in the hippocampus in a dose-dependent way. These results show that Co-dergocrine, which is widely used in the treatment of senile mental decline, enhances the release of ACh in the hippocampus in a similar manner to both D1 and D2 DA agonists. This effect might be relevant for the amelioration of cognitive processes. Moreover, our results which demonstrate that Co-dergocrine is able to decrease the release of ACh in the striatum, as are selective D2 agonists, suggest that Co-dergocrine may have a potential therapeutic benefit in Parkinsonian dementia.
Galactosialidosis is a heterogeneous disorder that is manifested in infantile, late infantile, juvenile/adult, and atypical forms. In every instance the primary defect is in the ability of protective protein to associate with beta-galactosidase and neuraminidase to protect them from intralysosomal proteolysis. The protective protein is in reality a serine protease that displays both cathepsin A and C-terminal deamidase activity. We summarize the major clinical features of each form, and the range of storage products accumulated. The concept of an intralysosomal complex containing beta-galactosidase and neuraminidase in addition to protective protein seems irrefutable but major gaps exist in our understanding of how the complex is formed and in what subcellular organelles, how it is sustained, and the protein domains contributed by the constituent enzymes that play a pivotal role in this process.
Calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II is a prominent enzyme in the mammalian brain that phosphorylates a variety of substrate proteins. In the present study, monoclonal antibodies that specifically recognize either the alpha or the beta isoforms of this enzyme were used to determine the distribution of these isoforms within the rat and monkey spinal cord. In the rat, the corticospinal tract consists of two components: the dorsal corticospinal tract, which occupies the ventralmost aspect of the dorsal funiculus; and the ventral corticospinal tract, which occupies an area adjacent to the ventral median fissure. Both dorsal and ventral corticospinal tract fibers were strongly immunopositive for the alpha-antibody. Unilateral ablation of the sensorimotor cortex of the rat eliminated the alpha-immunoreactive staining in the contralateral dorsal corticospinal tract. The neuropil in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn (Rexed's laminae I and II) was densely stained with the alpha-antibody, whereas the neuropil in laminae IV-X was immunonegative. Dense alpha-immunopositive neurons were also distributed in the head of the dorsal horn (laminae I-IV). In contrast to the strong alpha-immunoreactivity seen in the dorsal corticospinal tract fibers, only very weak beta-immunoreactivity was observed in this tract. Moderate beta-immunoreactive products were distributed homogenously throughout the neuropil of the gray matter, although the neuropil of the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn (laminae I and II) was stained more strongly than the other regions of the gray matter (laminae III-X). Neuronal components in all laminae were immunopositive for the beta-antibody. Thus, motoneurons in the ventral horn, which were immunonegative for the alpha-antibody, were immunopositive for the beta-antibody. This selective distribution pattern of immunoreactivity of alpha- and beta-antibodies in the rat was also present in the monkey spinal cord, although the alpha-immunopositive corticospinal tract fibers in the monkey descended in the lateral funiculus as the lateral corticospinal tract instead of passing through the dorsal funiculus, as is the case in the rat. The differential distribution of immunoreactivity in the spinal cord suggests that these two isoforms of calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II may have different functional roles in the spinal cord.
Can there be a generally accepted account of consciousness? Consciousness is the main aspect of the mind-body problem and has intrigued man since he achieved the awareness of his own existence and identity, i.e. since he became self-conscious. The topic of consciousness spans the efforts of the humanist and naturalist, psychological, theological and physiological thinking and research. During the last years an upsurge of both neurophysiological and philosophical interest has tried to outline the place of consciousness and self-consciousness in the order of nature. 'Without consciousness, the mind-body problem would be much less interesting. With consciousness it seems hopeless', Nagel (16) wrote. Our thesis, supported by a significant part of today's epistemology (which takes up the believes of several main physiologists from the last century up to now), is that the question of consciousness and the mind-body problem are systematically and scientifically insoluble because the mind is fated to remain intrinsically mysterious to us. Thus, even though consciousness and self-consciousness belong to the intrinsic characteristics of our everyday life and experience, they seem to remain indefinable and mysterious and, therefore, to fall outside the scope of rational inquiry, defying both scientific and philosophical investigation. This assumption does not mean that neurophysiological sciences are unfeasible, but it is just an inquiry into their methodologic and cognitive limits.
Pretreatment of rats for 4 days with the selective dopamine D1 receptor agonist A-77636 attenuated the ability of cocaine to induce locomotor hyperactivity and to stimulate the expression of the proto-oncogene c-fos in the striatum and nucleus accumbens. Our results suggest that repeated D1 agonist treatment leads to subsensitivity of D1 receptors involved in mediating some of the effects of cocaine on behavior and gene expression.
The distribution and density of NMDA receptors in spinal cord and motor cortex was compared in motor neuron disease (MND; 10 cases) and controls (8 cases) using [3H]MK-801 autoradiography. In the spinal ventral horn of MND cases, [3H]MK-801 binding was reduced and there were fewer focal hot spots of binding. These changes are likely to reflect loss of motor neurons (MN) bearing NMDA receptors. [3H]MK-801 binding was increased in intermediate spinal grey matter and deeper layers of the motor cortex in MND cases compared to controls. This may represent either an adaptive response to MN loss or a pathophysiological phenomenon contributing to MN degeneration.
The effects of neurotensin and neurotensin analogues on dopamine neurones were studied in an in vitro slice preparation of rat substantia nigra, pars compacta using extracellular and intracellular recording techniques. Neurotensin had an EC50 of 13 nM in these experiments. This study showed that the C-terminal 5 amino acids of neurorotensin in neurotensin-(9-13) retained agonist activity on substantia nigra neurones. The naturally occurring neurotensin analogues neuromedin N and avian neurotensin were also active whilst kinetensin was inactive. Kinetensin differs from the C-terminal neurotensin 5-amino acids by two amino acids. The difference between the activity of neurotensin and the inactivity of kinetensin was investigated using synthetic peptides which contained single amino acid substitutions. These results show that position 12 of neurotensin is important for agonist activity in the substantia nigra.

Clonidine, an antihypertensive drug, binds to alpha 2-adrenergic and imidazoline receptors. The endogenous ligand for imidazoline receptors may be a clonidine-displacing substance, a small molecule isolated from bovine brain. This clonidine-displacing substance was purified and determined by mass spectroscopy to be agmatine (decarboxylated arginine), heretofore not detected in brain. Agmatine binds to alpha 2-adrenergic and imidazoline receptors and stimulates release of catecholamines from adrenal chromaffin cells. Its biosynthetic enzyme, arginine decarboxylase, is present in brain. Agmatine, locally synthesized, is an endogenous agonist at imidazoline receptors, a noncatecholamine ligand at alpha 2-adrenergic receptors and may act as a neurotransmitter.
GABAergic projections of the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) were demonstrated in a double-labelling ultrastructural study which visualised the efferents of the SCN by PHA-L tracing, diaminobenzidine (DAB) immunocytochemistry, and GABA with immunogold postembedding staining. The results show a strong contralateral projection of the SCN that is partly GABA-containing. In addition, ipsilateral SCN projections to the dorsomedial hypothalamus and periventricular part of the paraventricular nucleus and sub-paraventricular nucleus were shown to contain GABA. The present results indicate that the SCN may utilize this inhibitory neurotransmitter to regulate and organize its own circadian rhythm as well as using GABA to transmit its diurnal information to other regions of the brain.
In primary cultures of rat astroglial cells exposure to bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS) causes induction of a Ca(2+)-independent form of the nitric oxide synthase (iNOS) enzyme. We have now cloned the mRNA encoding astroglial iNOS using a combination of cDNA library screening and polymerase chain reaction (PCR) amplification with degenerate oligonucleotides directed against conserved regions of all NOS enzymes. The sequence of astroglial iNOS cDNA is highly similar to the mouse macrophage sequence, having an overall homology of 92% at the DNA level and 93% at the protein level. As in other NOSs, canonical binding sites for redox cofactors are present. The 3'-untranslated region displays 4 consensus AU-pentamers, 2 polyadenylation sites, and terminates in a stretch of 17 adenosine residues. In situ hybridization studies with LPS-treated astrocyte cultures demonstrated the presence of iNOS mRNA in the majority of astroglial cells, identified by antibody staining to the glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). PCR analysis showed that LPS stimulated synthesis of astrocyte iNOS mRNA, which was detected as early as 2 hr after exposure to LPS, peaked at 4 hr, and slowly declined over the next 20 hr. These results confirm that astrocytes can express iNOS and provide tools for the subsequent analysis of iNOS gene expression in rodent brain.
An in vitro tissue culture cell model system for investigating the biochemical mechanisms involved in the neurodegenerative actions of beta-amyloid has been established. Using rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells, it was found that an early, specific response of cells to the beta-amyloid protein or the beta-amyloid fragment 25-35 was a potent inhibition of cellular redox activity, as measured by 3-[4,5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2, 5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) reduction. This inhibitory response was rapid and occurred at nanomolar concentrations of peptide, concentrations at which no equivalent decreases in cell proliferation or cell survival were observed. The inhibition of PC12 cell MTT reduction was initially reversible upon removal of the peptide; if sustained for several days, however, by repeated peptide application, it became associated with a dramatic reduction in cell survival. Inhibition of MTT reduction may, therefore, be an early indicator of the mechanism of beta-amyloid-mediated cell death.
In vertebrates, the gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) decapeptide is secreted from hypothalamic nerve terminals to regulate reproduction via control of synthesis and release of pituitary gonadotropins. Only one GnRH peptide has been found in mammals, with one exception, although numerous other vertebrate species express more than one of the eight known decapeptide forms as shown by immunocytochemical labeling of distinct cell groups in the brain. However, neither the functional nor the evolutionary relationships among these GnRH forms are clear, because only one preprohormone gene sequence from any species has been reported. The most ubiquitous alternative form of GnRH is [His5,Trp7,Tyr8]GnRH (also referred to as chicken-II), which differs from the mammalian sequence at amino acids 5, 7, and 8. This peptide has been shown to have the most potent releasing-hormone activity, although immunocytochemical staining has suggested it is synthesized only in the mesencephalon. Here we report the cloning and expression pattern of the gene for the precursor of this form from the teleost fish Haplochromis burtoni. This is the second GnRH-encoding gene to be characterized in this species. The newly discovered preprohormone gene differs from that previously reported in two ways. First, whereas the original gene predicts only a single associated peptide, this one predicts two associated peptides, both of which appear to be unique. Second, the gene for [His5,Trp7,Tyr8]GnRH is expressed in only one cell group in the mesencephalon. In contrast, the previously reported gene is expressed only in the terminal nerve. The striking differences between the preprohormone structure and localization suggest that the genes coding for the two known GnRH forms in H. burtoni did not arise from a recent duplication event. Interestingly, neither of the two genes found to date in this species is expressed in cells which project from the hypothalamus to the pituitary, suggesting that yet a third gene coding for GnRH may exist.
The coexistence of the neuropeptides substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin, somatostatin and neuropeptide Y with glucocorticoid receptors was studied in neurons of the rat lumbar dorsal root and trigeminal ganglia by means of the double immunofluorescence technique. Based on analysis of microphotographs, about one-third of the populations of nerve cells (small and large) containing substance P or calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity (IR) showed nuclear glucocorticoid receptor IR. A similar pattern was observed within the dorsal root and trigeminal ganglia. Furthermore, within the lumbar dorsal root ganglia 50% of the small neurons, containing galanin IR, possessed nuclear glucocorticoid receptor IR of moderate intensity. Glucocorticoid receptor IR was not observed in the galanin immunoreactive neurons of the trigeminal ganglion neither in the somatostatin and NPY immunoreactive neurons of both the dorsal root and the trigeminal ganglia. The results provide a chemical anatomical basis for a direct regulation by glucocorticoids of distinct populations of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactive nerve cells in the lumbar spinal and trigeminal ganglia and of galanin immunoreactive nerve cells of the spinal but not of the trigeminal ganglia.
At low (&lt; nM) concentrations, mu, delta or kappa opioid peptides as well as morphine and other opioid alkaloids elicit dose-dependent excitatory prolongation of the calcium-dependent component of the action potential duration (APD) of many mouse sensory dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, whereas application of the same opioids at higher (uM) concentrations results in inhibitory shortening of the APD. These bimodal opioid excitatory/inhibitory effects on DRG neurons are blocked by naloxone. In contrast to bimodally acting opioids, the opioid alkaloids, etorphine and dihydroetorphine (thebaine-oripavine derivatives) uniquely elicited only dose-dependent, naloxone-reversible inhibitory effects on sensory neurons in DRG-spinal cord explants, even at concentrations as low as 1 pM, and showed no excitatory effects at lower concentrations. These remarkably potent inhibitory opioid receptor agonists also act as antagonists at excitatory opioid receptors since pretreatment of DRG neurons with subthreshold concentrations (&lt; pM) blocked excitatory APD prolongation by nM morphine (or other opioids) and unmasked inhibitory APD shortening which generally requires much higher concentrations. Furthermore, acute application of pM-nM etorphine to chronic microM morphine- or D-Ala2-D-Leu5 enkephalin (DADLE)-treated DRG neurons blocked the nM naloxone-precipitated APD prolongation that generally occurs in DRG cells sensitized by bimodally acting opioids. In the presence of pM etorphine, chronic treatment of DRG neurons with microM morphine or DADLE no longer resulted in development of tolerance/dependence effects, as previously observed after similar chronic opioid treatment in the presence of cholera toxin-B subunit. These in vitro studies may clarify the mechanisms underlying the potent analgesic effects of etorphine and dihydroetorphine in vivo and to guide the use of these and other excitatory opioid receptor antagonists in attenuating development of opiate dependence/addiction.
We examined whether rapid sympathoexcitatory responses to hypoxia in rats resulting from excitation of reticulospinal vasomotor neurons of rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) results from activation of protein kinase C. In peripherally chemodenervated rats, the specific phosphokinase C inhibitor 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine (H-7) administered intracisternally (i.c., 1 mumol), abolished responses of medullary vasomotor neurons and sympathetic nerves to baroreceptor activation, but did not attenuate excitation of RVL or sympathetic neurons to systemic hypoxia (100% N2 for 20 s). Responses of the vasomotor neurons to iontophoretically applied GABA were not attenuated by H-7. In slices, arachidonic acid (100 microM, 40 s) did not change membrane currents (VH = -70 mV) of RVL neurons in the presence tetrodotoxin (10 microM). The inward membrane currents (0.49 nA) induced by cyanide (300 microM, 40 s) were not reduced by H-7 (100 microM, 20 min). The results indicate that activation of protein kinase C does not underlie mechanisms involved in rapid hypoxic excitation of reticulospinal vasomotor neurons.
This study was undertaken to investigate whether a neonatal vibrissa lesion in the rat may lead to a central plasticity in undamaged vibrissae innervating primary sensory neurons. One vibrissa follicle was removed on the day of birth. After 3-4 months, choleragenoid-horseradish-peroxidase was injected in an adjacent vibrissa follicle either within the row of the missing follicle or across the rows and in the corresponding contralateral follicle. The trigeminal ganglion and nucleus caudalis was studied following retrograde and transganglionic transport of the tracer. The number of labeled cells was not significantly different on the two sides, whereas the central terminal field of labeling was considerably increased on the side of the lesion, but only when the injected follicle was located in the same row as the missing one. Cortical plasticity after neonatal vibrissae follicle lesions may thus be associated with a corresponding plasticity in primary sensory neurons innervating the vibrissae.
We investigated the secretion of amyloid beta-protein (beta AP) in a mouse neuronal cell line SN49. SN49 cells stably transfected with mouse beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP) 695 cDNA released approximately three times greater amounts of a 4 kDa protein immunoreactive with anti-beta AP antibodies than untransfected and mock-transfected cells. This 4 kDa protein was further identified as mouse beta AP by direct amino acid sequence analysis. These results strongly suggest that the beta AP secretion occurs in mouse neuronal cells as in human cells.
The present study examined the effect of naloxone on ethanol- and gamma-hydroxybutyric acid-induced narcosis in mice and the changes induced by these drugs on striatal dopamine metabolism. The results show that naloxone (1-10 mg/kg s.c.) markedly reduced ethanol-induced narcosis but failed to modify the duration of sleep induced by gamma-hydroxybutyrate. Naloxone (10 mg/kg) modified neither ethanol- nor gamma-hydroxybutyrate-induced changes in striatal dopamine and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) content. The results suggest that gamma-hydroxybutyrate- and ethanol-induced narcosis are mediated by different mechanisms and that opioid receptors are not involved in the changes in dopamine metabolism induced by these compounds.
Loreclezole is a novel antiepileptic that interacts in a unique way with the GABAA receptor complex. Its anticonvulsant effect in rats is reversed by benzodiazepine receptor partial inverse agonists, such as CGS 8216 but not by the competitive benzodiazepine receptor antagonist, flumazenil (Ro 15-1788). In this study loreclezole (30.0-50.0 mg/kg i.p.) was found to induce an anxiolytic-like effect in a rat conditioned emotional response test that was reversed neither by flumazenil (10.0 mg/kg) nor by CGS 8216 (2-phenylpyrazolo[4,3-c]quinolin-3(5H)-one, 0.3-3.0 mg/kg). The results suggest that the anxiolytic-like effects of loreclezole are not mediated by the benzodiazepine receptor.
The distribution of tenascin was examined in the lesioned adult rat optic nerve and central nervous system (CNS) non-neuronal cells in vitro, by means of a double immunofluorescence technique. Tenascin-like immunoreactivity is localized to the leptomeninges and astrocytes that border the site of optic nerve transection. Anti-tenascin labeling was observed as early as 24 hours after transection, when it appeared as a fine interface between leptomeninges and neural tissue. The anti-tenascin labeling increased in the cells at this border zone during the next 2 weeks, and disappeared 18-21 days after transection. In vitro studies further confirmed that both astrocytes and leptomeningeal cells express tenascin as detected by immunofluorescence labeling with anti-tenascin antibodies. However, the pattern of immunolabeling associated with the two cell types differed. Astrocytes showed exclusively punctate labeling of the cell surface, while leptomeningeal cells showed mainly coarse, fibrillary, matrix-like deposits. Astrocytes and leptomeningeal cells remained segregated when cocultured. In these cultures, an increased amount of the fibrillary, matrix-like deposits of tenascin was also observed in the region of the interface between astrocytes and leptomeningeal cells when these two cell types contact each other. Given the antiadhesive and antispreading properties of tenascin, these in vivo and in vitro results suggest that tenascin might play a role in the initial segregation of leptomeningeal cells from neural tissue at the site of CNS trauma during the first 2 weeks after injury, i.e., prior to the formation of a fully differentiated glia limitans. Therefore, tenascin may influence the early stages in the formation of the glia limitans, and thus prevent the indiscriminate migration of leptomeningeal cells into CNS tissue after injury.
By means of two monoclonal antibodies specific for heparan sulfate (HS)-related epitopes, one (10E4) against native HS chains and one (3G10) against desaturated uronates, a highly regional and differential distribution of these two epitopes have been observed in the adult rat brain. The 10E4 epitope immunoreactivity (IR) is mainly found in the substantia nigra, the red nucleus and the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus, while the 3G10 epitope IR is mainly found in the CA2 area of the hippocampal formation and the pyramdial cells in the layer V of the frontoparietal cortex. The codistribution of both types of IRs with basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF, FGF-2) in neurons and astroglia supports the notion that heparan sulfate proteoglycans (HSPG) in the extracellular matrix may serve as a site for storage of bFGF and assist in the bFGF-induced activation of the high-affinity FGF receptors linked to astroglia and neurons in these discrete areas.
Poly(adenosine 5'-diphosphoribose) synthetase (PARS) is a nuclear enzyme which, when activated by DNA strand breaks, adds up to 100 adenosine 5'-diphosphoribose (ADP-ribose) units to nuclear proteins such as histones and PARS itself. This activation can lead to cell death through depletion of beta-nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide (the source of ADP-ribose) and adenosine triphosphate. Nitric oxide (NO) stimulated ADP-ribosylation of PARS in rat brain. Benzamide and other derivatives, which inhibit PARS, blocked N-methyl-D-aspartate- and NO-mediated neurotoxicity with relative potencies paralleling their ability to inhibit PARS. Thus, NO appeared to elicit neurotoxicity by activating PARS.
The characteristics of the low affinity component of 1,3-di(2-[5-3H]tolyl)guanidine binding to the guinea pig cerebellum were investigated. Saturation binding assays where sigma 1 receptors were masked with dextrallorphan indicated that 1,3-di(2-[5-3H]tolyl)guanidine bound to cerebellar membranes in a fashion best described by a 1 site+non-specific binding model with a low density of specific binding sites (Bmax approximately 200 fmol/mg protein). Boiling the cerebellar membranes before addition to the saturation assay had no effect on the density of 1,3-di(2-[5-3H]tolyl)guanidine binding. In contrast, both the Kd and Bmax for 1,3-di(2-[5-3H]tolyl)guanidine binding to liver membranes was significantly reduced by boiling, as was the density of [3H](+)-pentazocine binding to cerebellum and liver. Thus, a substantial component of 1,3-di(2-[5-3H]tolyl)guanidine binding in the guinea pig cerebellum is to non-specific, proteinaceous binding sites with some of the pharmacological characteristics of the sigma 2 binding site.
There have been tremendous advances in the diagnosis and treatment of increased intracranial pressure in the past decade. The author presents a review of the pathophysiology of intracranial hypertension, incorporating recent data from neuroscience research. Additional investigations that have implications for the nursing care of patients with actual or potential intracranial pressure also are described.

We performed a prospective study of all perforating eye injuries in a western part of Sweden during 1989-1991. We registered 140 cases (141 eyes) in a population of 1.4 million. Annual incidence was 3.3 per 100,000 inhabitants. Follow-up time was 6 months or more in 91 (64%) of the cases. Perforating eye injuries were 5.6 times more common in men than in women. Occupational injuries accounted for 37% of perforating eye injuries. Twenty-nine per cent of perforating eye injuries were injuries that occurred during domestic and leisure time. In addition to metal fragments, a whole nail was a common perforating object in these groups. Playing activity accounted for 11% of the perforating eye injuries, traffic accidents for 3% and assault for 9%. In a group of elderly patients (9%) perforating eye injuries were caused by falls. Visual acuity was 0.5 or better in 57 (63%) of the eyes with a follow-up period of at least 6 months. Only 2 of the 141 eyes were enucleated.


The role of oxytocin (OT) in the modulation of arginine vasopressin (AVP)-induced cardiovascular effects within the central nervous system was investigated in urethan-anesthetized rats. Intracerebroventricular injection of AVP (1-10 pmol) produced dose-dependent increases in mean arterial pressure (MAP) and heart rate (HR). These responses were enhanced in rats pretreated 24 h earlier with OT (10 pmol icv). The enhanced cardiovascular effects of AVP in OT-pretreated animals were dose dependent, blocked by the V1 antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)AVP, not evoked by OT alone, and occurred in the absence of changes in basal (nonstimulated) MAP and HR. In addition, central administration of AVP in OT-pretreated rats, but not in saline-pretreated controls, caused dose-dependent oscillations of the MAP and HR responses and, at higher doses, death of the animals. The enhanced cardiovascular actions of centrally injected AVP in OT-pretreated rats do not appear to be secondary to skeletal muscle contractions or the result of cerebral ischemia. Our data point to an interaction between the central oxytocinergic and vasopressinergic systems in cardiovascular control.
The immunocytochemical detection of Fos, the protein product of the immediate-early gene c-fos, was used as a marker for activated neurons to examine whether the C1 neurons in the rat rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) respond to changes in baroreceptor afferent activity. After hydralazine-induced hypotension or sinoaortic denervation, two treatments that reduce baroreceptor afferent activity, numerous Fos-positive neurons were observed in the RVLM. The number of Fos-positive neurons in the RVLM was counted in brain stem sections from hydralazine-treated rats that had been previously injected with Fluorogold into the upper thoracic spinal cord to label spinally projecting RVLM neurons as well as stained for phenylethanolamine-N-methyltransferase (PNMT) as a marker of C1 neurons. The results indicate that approximately 80% of the C1 neurons expressed Fos in response to hydralazine injection; this was true of spinally projecting C1 neurons as well as those C1 neurons that were not labeled with Fluorogold. Furthermore, in hydralazine-treated rats, the majority of Fluorogold-labeled Fos-positive neurons contained PNMT. These results suggest that C1 neurons are sensitive to baroreceptor afferent input and support a role of these neurons in cardiovascular regulation.
Properties of gap junction channels present between specific cell types constituting the hepatopancreas of the crayfish (Procambarus clarkii) were investigated using the dual whole cell voltage clamp technique. Four different cell types (E, Fe, R and B) were identified on the basis of their morphology using light and electron microscopy. Although junctional conductance (Gj) could not be measured in B-B cell pairs, junctional currents were resolved in both homologous and heterologous combinations of the other cell types. E-E, Fe-Fe, and E-Fe cell pairs exhibited strong dependence on inside-out voltage (Vi-o), such that Gj increased with hyperpolarization to a maximal plateau reached at approximately -40 mV and was abolished with depolarization &gt; 10 mV. The Gj-Vi-o relationship can be described by a squared Boltzmann relation with A = 0.101 and V0 = 0.135 mV. In this system, sensitivity of the junctions to transjunctional voltage was slight, if present at all. Gating mechanisms were complex, as evidence by the presence of multiple unitary channel conductance states. Single channel recordings showed that large unitary conductances (&gt; 200 pS) were generally found between E-E, Fe-Fe, and E-Fe cell pairs, whereas smaller channel sizes (&lt; 90 pS) were detected between R-R cell pairs.
The ciliate protozoa, Stentor and Paramecium, have been reported to escape from the bottom end of narrow capillary tubes into a larger volume of medium with increasing rapidity over the course of trials. This change in behavior has been considered an apparent example of associative learning. This decrease in escape time is not due to a change in the protozoa's environment, their swimming speed, frequency of ciliary reversals, or the proportion of time spent forward or backward swimming. Instead, most of the decrease results from a decrease in the proportion of time spent in upward swimming. However, a similar decrease in upward swimming occurs when the task is altered to require escape from the upper end of the capillary tubes. Because the protozoa exhibit the same change in behavior regardless of the reinforcing stimulus, tube-escape learning is not associative learning.
Adult male rats consumed 50-150% more 0.5 M NaCl solution than females did during a 7-hr drinking test when robust salt appetite was elicited by dietary sodium deprivation for 8 days, daily injections of deoxycorticosterone, or adrenalectomy followed by 2 days of sodium deprivation. In contrast, male rats drank much less saline after systemic treatment with the natriuretic agent furosemide, adrenalectomy followed by 1 day of sodium deprivation, or sc treatment with colloid solution after 2 days of sodium deprivation, and female rats drank comparably small volumes. Conversely, 30-day-old prepubescent male and female rats showed equally robust salt appetites after 8 days of sodium deprivation. These and other findings support an inhibitory role of estrogen on salt appetite in rats, which appears to occur only when the appetite is especially pronounced.
The measurement of individual respiratory chain complexes is an important component of the investigation of diseases due to mitochondrial dysfunction. We have evaluated assays which measure complexes I to IV in human skeletal muscle mitochondria and in addition optimized these assays to provide sensitive and reliable diagnostic techniques, particularly in situations where a partial interruption at a single complex needs to identified. Using several established methods of membrane disruption we have found that optimal activities of complexes I and II are obtained by freeze-thawing the mitochondria in hypotonic potassium phosphate buffer, whereas complex III and IV activities are markedly increased by the addition of the detergent n-dodecyl-beta-D-maltoside. Complex I activity is measured in the presence of 2.5 mg.ml-1 bovine serum albumin, which increases rotenone sensitivity, and we have shown that NADH-cytochrome b5 reductase makes an important contribution to the rotenone-insensitive NADH-ubiquinone oxidoreductase activity. Complex II activity is measured after preincubation of the mitochondrial fraction with succinate to fully activate the complex. Complex I and III activities are dependent upon the length of the isoprenoid chain of the ubiquinone and ubiquinol, respectively. These assays have been used to establish a control range.

The aim of the present study was two-fold: first, to examine the temporal relationship between increased expression of Fos in LHRH neurons of proestrous hamsters and increased plasma levels of LH, FSH, estradiol-17 beta (E2), and progesterone (P4); and second, to establish whether male hamsters, like females, also show diurnal variations in the number of LHRH neurons expressing Fos. Blood samples were collected from proestrous females at 0900 n, 1200 h, 1500 h, and 1800 h and also from males at 0300 h, 0900 h, 1500 h, and 2100 h. RIA of the plasma revealed significant peaks of LH, FSH, and E2 at 1500 h, and of P4 at 1800 h in the females; a significant but smaller peak of LH also occurred at 1500 h in the males. Double-label immunocytochemistry, using antibodies directed against amino acids 127-152 of the human Fos protein and against LHRH, showed that female hamsters expressed Fos in fewer than 10% of their LHRH neurons during the morning and at noon of proestrus but in approximately 41% of these neurons during the late afternoon (1800 h). In contrast, no expression of Fos occurred in LHRH neurons of male hamsters at any time of the day. The finding that the females showed an increase in the number of LHRH neurons expressing Fos after, and not before, the initiation of the preovulatory gonadotropin surge is significant because it does not readily support the hypothesis that this expression of immediate-early genes is in some way associated with the induction of the surge. Instead, the results are consistent with the view that expression of Fos in LHRH neurons reflects either the activation of a mechanism responsible for terminating the surge or, alternatively, the activation of a compensatory mechanism responsible for replenishing depleted neuropeptide stocks.
The rational discovery of a high affinity NK2 receptor antagonist is described utilizing a general strategy for peptoid design. The contribution to NK2 receptor binding affinity for each amino acid of the hexapeptide 'minimum fragment': Leu-Met-Gln-Trp-Phe-GlyNH2 (8c), was examined by preparing derivatives where each amino acid in turn was replaced with Ala in an 'alanine scan'. The results from this study indicated the primary importance of the Trp and Phe side-chain for binding and led to the observation that Z-Trp-PheNH2 (9a) is a micromolar affinity NK2 receptor dipeptide lead. Further exploration of structure-affinity via conformationally restricted analogues and N- and C-terminus modifications gave a selective, nanomolar affinity NK2 receptor antagonist, (2,3di-CH3OPh)CH2OCO(S)Trp(S)alpha-MePheGlyNH2, PD 147714 (19) with an K(i) = 1.4 nM (hamster urinary bladder membranes and using [125I]-iodohistidyl-NKA (0.1 nM) as the radioligand).
Alamethicin and its analogs from cation selective, multi-conductance channels in lipid bilayers. The conductance levels have been thought to be due to a barrel-stave structure where conducting pores (barrels) are formed by the self-assembly of a variable number of alpha-helical rods (staves). The conductance transitions were then interpreted as the addition or deletion of peptide monomers from the pore-forming complex (Sansom, M.S. 1991. Prog. Biophys. Mol. Biol. 55:139-235). Initially, pore conductances were calculated from that expected of right circular cylinders of &quot;bulk&quot; electrolyte. More recent theories also included the access resistance of the electrolyte outside the pore. However, they all consistently overestimated the observed conductances. The reason for the discrepancy is presented here. Previous theories ignored the effects of ion concentration gradients near the pore. Hence, they only held in the limit of small bilayer potentials (&lt; 25 mV) and so would overestimate measurements that typically used much larger potentials (&gt; 100 mV). This theoretical flaw is corrected by using Luger's theory of diffusion-limited ion flow (Luger, P. 1976. Biochim. Biophys. Acta. 455:493-509). Thus, including the effects of ion concentration gradients results in a considerable improvement in predicting pore conductances. It is found that: 1) the effects of ion concentration gradients must be included in the barrel-stave model for it to apply to the available data; 2) previously published explanations for the discrepancy between the model and the data, namely the &quot;distorted bundle&quot; and the &quot;head-to-tail aggregate&quot; hypotheses are not necessary (reviewed by Sansom, 1991).
This study describes the depression of calcium currents caused by activation of human D3 dopamine receptors which have been stably expressed in the neuroblastoma x glioma NG108-15 cell line. Transfected cells, which had been differentiated with prostaglandin E1 and isobutylmethylxanthine, exclusively expressed D3 receptor mRNA, which was demonstrated by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction techniques. Transfected cells had high affinity binding sites for iodosulpiride, with a Kd of 0.8 nM and receptor density of 240 fmol mg-1 protein. Calcium currents were recorded using nystatin-perforated patch clamp techniques. In contrast to untransfected cells that had been differentiated, high-threshold calcium currents in differentiated hD3-NG108-15 cells were depressed by application of dopamine and quinpirole. These responses were abolished by the dopamine receptor antagonist S-(-)-sulpiride (1 microM), demonstrating that they were caused by the activation of the transfected dopamine receptors. Coupling of human D3 receptors to calcium currents was sensitive to the action of pertussis toxin, suggesting the involvement of G-proteins of the Gi and/or G(o) subtype. These results demonstrate that human D3 receptors represent a functional class of dopamine receptor.
Electromyographic (EMG) recording was performed synchronously from the levator palpebrae superioris (LP) and the orbicularis oculi (OO) muscles in 28 patients referred to us for treatment of blepharospasm with botulinum A toxin. At the time of this study, 19 patients were under the treatment with botulinum, four started treatment shortly after the EMG recording and five patients had not yet been treated. Based on the EMG patterns, we were able to classify five major groups of abnormalities. Group 1 (blepharospasm): consisted of 10 patients with dystonic discharges limited to OO, normal LP tonic activity, intact reciprocal inhibition between LP and OO and dense bursts of action potentials with high amplitude preceding the return of LP tonic activity, i.e. 'postinhibition potentiation' of LP, brought about by a brief contraction of OO. Group 2 (combined dystonic activities of LP and OO): seven patients belonged to this group. The EMG recording revealed alternating tremulous discharges in both LP and OO muscles, and short intervals of co-contractions due to moderately disturbed reciprocal inhibition. Group 3 (combination of blepharospasm, LP motor impersistence): the EMG patterns, observed in three patients, were characterized by a gradual cessation of LP activity, followed by a brief contraction of OO, which facilitated the return of LP activity, resulting in opening of the eyes. The EMG recordings, thus, revealed the crucial, beneficial role of postinhibition potentiation as a compensatory mechanism in this type of eyelid movement disorder. The EMG patterns were also characterized by short or prolonged periods of dystonic discharges limited to the OO muscles. Group 4 (combination of blepharospasm, involuntary LP inhibition): this group consisted of four patients. In addition to episodes of dystonic activities of OO, the EMG also showed some periods of involuntary inhibition of LP without any concomitant activities of OO. Two patients also exhibited a failure of inhibition of OO muscle activity, following the voluntary contraction of this muscle. The postinhibition potentiation was often not observed. Group 5 (involuntary LP inhibition): consisted of four patients with EMG patterns of involuntary inhibition of LP activity, without any dystonic discharges in OO. The postinhibition potentiation was not observed in this group. The response to the treatment with botulinum toxin was good in the first group and gradually worsened towards the fifth group. Application of botulinum into multiple sites of OO, especially its pretarsal portion, resulted in better response to the treatment in the second and fourth groups.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Twenty-four subjects were studied before and up to 1 year after surgery that produced injury to a major sensory branch of the trigeminal nerve. We employed a battery of 11 psychophysical tests, in which the neural mechanisms underlying performance are understood, to study the basis of recovery following nerve injury. Immediately after nerve injury, sensation was profoundly impaired in all subjects. In the following weeks and months, the recovery of performance proceeded in an orderly fashion. Although the rates of recovery varied between subjects, the order of recovery between tasks did not. The recovery rates fell into three distinct categories. Recovery in one task, brush-stroke directional discrimination, was most rapid. Two weeks after nerve injury, 52% of subjects could discriminate brush-stroke direction; by 3 months only one subject could not perform this task. The second category comprised recovery rates for pain thresholds for noxious heat, cold and mechanical stimuli, and to preinjury performance in tasks assessing touch and vibration detection, two-point discrimination, cooling detection and subjective magnitude estimation of mechanical force. The third, slowest group included recovery rates for warming detection and grating orientation discrimination. Early recovery to preinjury performance levels in the brush-stroke direction and one-point versus two-point discrimination tasks was correlated with later recovery to near normal performance in the grating orientation task. The grating orientation task was unique in providing a measure that corresponded consistently with the subjects' reports of sensory deficits. Our psychophysical findings are consistent with neurophysiological data showing that the major primary afferent fibre classes reinnervate the skin at a similar rate. A hypothesis that accounts for the psychophysical findings in this study is that differences in recovery rates between tasks is determined largely by their relative dependencies on functional innervation density. Alternative hypotheses are considered.
We examined the expression of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor gamma 1 and gamma 2 subunit mRNAs in the rat trigeminal ganglion using in situ hybridization histochemistry. Most ganglion cells expressed both gamma 1 and gamma 2 mRNAs simultaneously. These findings are a marked contrast to the findings in the central nervous system where areas expressing both subunits are rare. In addition, we demonstrated using immunohistochemistry that the gamma 1 subunit is also expressed at the protein level in trigeminal ganglion neurons and fibers in the trigeminal spinal nucleus.
The glutamate analogue kainic acid was injected into the hippocampus of intact or 6-hydroxydopamine deafferented rats to investigate the influence of hippocampal neurons on the expression of dopamine D1 and D2 receptor mRNAs in subregions of the striatal complex and possible modulation by dopaminergic neurons. Quantitative in situ hybridization using 35S-labeled oligonucleotide probes specific for dopamine D1 and D2 receptor mRNAs, respectively, were used. It was found that an injection of kainic acid into the hippocampal formation had alone no significant effect on dopamine D1 or D2 receptor mRNA levels in any of the analyzed striatal subregions in animals analyzed 4 h after the injections. Kainic acid stimulation in the hippocampus ipsilateral to the dopamine lesion produced an increase in D1 receptor mRNA levels in the ipsilateral medial caudate-putamen, and a bilateral increase in core and shell of nucleus accumbens (ventral striatal limbic regions). A unilateral 6-hydroxydopamine lesion alone caused an increase in D2 receptor mRNA in the lateral caudate-putamen (dorsal striatal motor region) ipsilateral to the lesion and an increase in D1 receptor mRNA in the accumbens core ipsilateral to the lesion. However, in dopamine-lesioned animals, dopamine D1 receptor mRNA levels were increased bilaterally in nucleus accumbens core and shell and in the ipsilateral medial caudate-putamen following kainic acid stimulation in the hippocampus ipsilateral to the dopamine lesion. These results indicate a differential regulation of the expression of dopamine D1 and D2 receptor mRNAs by midbrain and hippocampal neurons.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of the ionotropic glutamate receptor agonist, AMPA, on intracellular Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i) was studied in dopaminergic neurons present in primary cultures of ventral tegmental mesencephalon of 14 day rat embryos. Exposure of cells to 10 microM AMPA for 1 min increased [Ca2+]i by 2-3 fold in dopaminergic and other neurons and this response was obliterated within 5 min by superfusion with AMPA-free incubation buffer. In dopaminergic neurons, 1 min or 5 min exposure to 50 microM AMPA increased [Ca2+]i 3 to 5 times over control values. This rise in [Ca2+]i persisted even after a 20 min superfusion with AMPA-free media, whereas, [Ca2+]i in non-dopaminergic neurons was reversed to control values during this time. Preincubation (2 min) of cultured cells with NBQX or the L-type channel blocker, nifedipine, but not with MK-801 blunted the rise of [Ca2+]i in dopaminergic and other neurons. Pretreatment with 2 microM NBQX shifted the dose response curve for AMPA to the right without changing the basal [Ca2+]i. The presence of 10 microM dantrolene, a blocker of Ca2+ release from intracellular stores, did not alter the initial rise of [Ca2+]i elicited by 50 microM AMPA, but prevented the destabilization of Ca2+ homeostasis by facilitating the recovery to normal of basal [Ca2+]i. Exposure to 50 microM AMPA (5 min) caused an irreversible increase of [Ca2+]i in dopaminergic neurons and cell death was manifested by propidium iodide uptake 6-7 h after AMPA exposure.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

Gilles de la Tourette syndrome is a neurological disorder characterized by the presence of motor and vocal tics. Other associated features include complex motor and vocal tics, obsessive compulsive behavior and attention-deficit disorder. Although initially thought to be a rare condition, it now appears that the gene for Tourette syndrome may be present in as many as one in a thousand people, and is transmitted as an autosomal dominant trait. However, many individuals carrying the gene may exhibit only minimal symptoms. Neuropathophysiology of Tourette syndrome is unknown but investigations have suggested that the cause may be an abnormality either in the dopaminergic or endorphin receptor system within the basal ganglia. Treatment of Tourette syndrome involves education and counseling of the patient and family. Medications such as neuroleptics, serotonin-reuptake inhibitors, and stimulants are available to treat the manifestations of Tourette syndrome and need to be individualized for each patient.
We explored the effects of chronic lumbar intrathecal NMDA infusion (mini-osmotic pumps) in Sprague-Dawley rats on motor and sensory axon integrity. Several different infusion protocols, each given over a 4 week period were examined: 0.15 M NMDA in phosphate buffered saline; phosphate buffered saline without NMDA; and 0.20 M magnesium sulfate plus 0.15 M NMDA; 0.35 M NMDA. In two additional protocols, 0.15 M NMDA or phosphate buffered saline were infused for a total of 8 weeks. Within 1-2 weeks of the onset of NMDA, but not phosphate buffered saline infusions, the rats exhibited irritability, circling, biting and excessive grooming resulting in loss of hair, and skin ulcerations from autotomy localized to lumbar and sacral innervated dermatomes. Co-infusion of NMDA with magnesium sulfate almost completely prevented these findings. The behavioural changes were not associated with abnormalities of sensory or motor conduction. Intrathecal infusion of NMDA induces a chronic &quot;central&quot; experimental pain disorder in rats, localized to the cord segment with the greatest exposure to the infusion, without involvement of peripheral sensory axons and sparing the axonal integrity of anterior horn cells.
Expression of a panel of oncogenes and potential oncogenes was studied in normal human brain and in 17 human gliomas, including three low- and 14 high-malignancy-grade tumors. PolyA RNA was isolated from glioma biopsies and used as template for reverse transcriptase-catalyzed synthesis of radioactively labeled cDNA. Labeled cDNA was then hybridized to filters to which probes for various oncogenes had been attached. Increased signal intensity, as compared with that of normal brain, was observed for the ros oncogene in six of 17 gliomas, including gliomas of both low and high malignancy grades. Increased ros expression was verified by Northern blot analysis in one tumor. These results suggest that increased ros expression may play a role in tumorigenesis in a significant proportion of gliomas. Increased expression of other genes, including the erbA2, mel, and ets oncogenes was observed in a smaller proportion of the gliomas tested, suggesting a possible role for these oncogenes in individual tumors but no generalized role in development or progression of human gliomas.
Neuroendocrine light yellow cells of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis express a neuropeptide gene encoding three different peptides. The morphology of the cell system has been studied by in situ hybridization, using two synthetic oligonucleotides encoding parts of light yellow cell peptides I and III, and by immunocytochemistry with antisera to synthetic light yellow cell peptide II and to two fragments of light yellow cell peptide I. One large cluster of light yellow cells was observed in the ventro-lateral protrusion of the right parietal ganglion, smaller clusters lying in the posterior dorsal part of this ganglion and in the visceral ganglion. The cells had an extended central neurohaemal area. Immunopositive axons projected into all nerves of the ganglia of the visceral complex, into the superior cervical and the nuchal nerves, and into the connective tissue surrounding the central nervous system. Axon tracts ramified between the muscle cells of the walls of the anterior aorta and of smaller blood vessels. Peripheral innervation by the light yellow cell system was only found in muscular tissue of the ureter papilla. The antisera to the two peptide fragments of light yellow cell peptide I not only stained the light yellow cells, but also the identified yellow cells, which have previously been shown to produce the sodium influx-stimulating neuropeptide. The latter cells were negative to the in situ hybridization probes and antisera specific to the light yellow cell system. It is therefore unlikely that the yellow cells express the light yellow cell neuropeptide gene. Nevertheless, the cells contain a neuropeptide sharing antigenic determinants with light yellow cell peptide I.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

We made a double-blind, crossover comparison of buspirone (10 mg orally, twice a day) and placebo in 10 patients with Parkinson's disease and levodopa-induced dyskinesias. The duration of the study was 3 weeks, for both buspirone and for placebo treatment. Chronic therapies remained unchanged. The extrapyramidal symptoms, dyskinesias, and anxious/depressive symptoms were evaluated at the beginning of the study and after the buspirone and placebo treatments. Seven patients concluded the trial. The extrapyramidal symptoms, evaluated in both the &quot;off&quot; and &quot;on&quot; states during an oral L-Dopa test, did not show any worsening during the trial. Buspirone significantly lessened the severity of levodopa-induced dyskinesias in five of the seven patients, whereas it proved ineffective in the two patients with the mildest dyskinesias. There were no changes in the mild anxious and depressive symptoms at any time during the study. The activities of buspirone on the serotonin and dopamine systems might have led to the antidyskinetic effect we observed. At daily dosages of 20 mg, buspirone might prove effective in reducing levodopa-induced dyskinesias without worsening of parkinsonism.
After overnight drug withdrawal and in the fasting state, 11 patients with Parkinson's disease (PD) and a fluctuating response to chronic levodopa treatment were given, in random sequence on consecutive days, equivalent levodopa doses (with peripheral decarboxylase inhibitor) (a) as levodopa methyl ester (ME), (b) as Sinemet CR, or (c) as half the dose of ME together with a halved tablet of Sinemet CR. All patients turned ON rapidly after treatments a and c, but only half did so after treatment b. On period duration was longest after treatment c, intermediate after treatment a, and shortest after treatment b. Pharmacokinetic analysis in a subset of 6 patients revealed no significant difference between treatments a and c, although there was a trend for t1/2 to be longer after treatment c. We conclude that giving ME with a halved tablet of Sinemet CR provided a useful clinical balance between rapid onset and extended duration of action of at least the first levodopa intake of the day. In view of differing release profiles between whole and halved tablets of Sinemet CR, similar single-dose pharmacokinetic studies, followed by sequential-dose clinical studies, are indicated when Sinemet CR 125 tablets soon become available.
Neurofilaments make up the major intermediate filament system in mature neurons. Recent studies demonstrate that neurofilaments in vivo are obligate heteropolymers and are required for proper radial growth of axons. Furthermore, forced over-expression of neurofilament subunits in transgenic mice shows that abnormal accumulation and assembly of neurofilaments, similar to that commonly found in human motor neuron disease can directly cause motor neuron dysfunction.
Cell-cell communication directs the development of photoreceptor cells in the Drosophila retina. A recent set of studies has provided a genetic dissection of one of these interactions, the induction of the R7 photoreceptor cell by the neighboring R8 photoreceptor cell. The results from these experiments shape our understanding of both the molecular basis of signal transduction mediated through receptor tyrosine kinases, as well as the developmental strategies used to generate different cell types in neuronal systems.
In my commentary on Monique Radeau's comprehensive and enlightening review I will (1) discuss methodological problems and their solution, (2) distinguish &quot;intersensory bias&quot; from the related process of adaptation, (3) elaborate on the likely mechanism by which intersensory bias operates, and (4) address Radeau's contention that ventriloquism is &quot;cognitively impenetrable.&quot;
Recent studies in this and other laboratories demonstrated that leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF) can regulate differentiation and survival of nerve growth factor (NGF)-dependent primary sensory neurons. To determine whether development of NGF-independent sensory neurons could be similarly regulated, the present study examined the effects of LIF and the related cytokine-like growth factor, ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF), on survival of rat nodose ganglion (NG) cells in culture. In addition, survival in LIF-treated cultures was compared in the presence and absence of the neurotrophins brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), NT-3, and NT-4, factors previously shown to target NG sensory neurons, to determine whether the cytokine-like factors and neurotrophins act on the same population of ganglion cells. Treatment of dissociate cultures of Embryonic Day (E) 16.5 NG with LIF or CNTF (10 ng/ml) resulted in a four- to fivefold increase in neuronal survival; the number of neurons supported by either factor represented approximately 50% of the total NG population. In contrast, less than 10% of newborn NG neurons survived in the presence of LIF or CNTF, suggesting a loss in responsiveness to these factors during fetal development in vivo. In cultures of E16.5 ganglia, BDNF, NT-3, or NT-4 alone each increased cell survival to varying degrees (BDNF &gt; NT-4 = LIF &gt; NT-3); NGF, on the other hand, had no effect. Combining LIF with BDNF, NT-3, or NT-4 had only partially additive effects on NG neuron number (LIF + BDNF, 36% greater than BDNF alone; LIF + NT-3, 21% greater than LIF alone; LIF + NT-4, 49% greater than NT-4 or LIF alone; P &lt; 0.05), indicating that LIF and these neurotrophins support survival of overlapping subsets of NG neurons in culture. To begin defining whether NG neurons were capable of responding to CNTF and LIF in vivo, Northern blots were used to examine expression of mRNAs coding for CNTF and LIF receptor components (CNTFR alpha, gp130, and LIFR beta) in the intact ganglion. mRNAs for all three receptor components were present in both E16.5 and newborn ganglia, suggesting that LIF and CNTF receptors are expressed in the NG in vivo. Taken together, these data demonstrate that LIF and CNTF can support survival of NGF-independent sensory neurons in culture and indicate that cytokine-like growth factors may play a role in regulating visceral sensory development in vivo.
Cell lineage analysis of central nervous system progenitors during gastrulation and early segmentation in the zebrafish reveals consistent coupling of specific morphogenetic behaviors with particular cell cycles. Cells in single clones divide very synchronously. Cell divisions become progressively oriented, and act synergistically with oriented intercalations during the interphases of zygotic cell cycles 15 and 16 to extend a single lineage into a long, discontinuous string of cells aligned with the nascent embryonic axis. Dorsalwards convergence brings the string to the midline and, once there, cells enter division 16. This division, or sometimes the next one, and the following cell movement reorient to separate siblings across the midline. This change converts the single string into a bilateral pair of strings, one forming a part of each side of the neural tube. The stereotyped cellular behaviors appear to account for the previously reported clonal restriction in cell fate and to underlie morphogenesis of a midline organ of proper length and bilateral shape. Regulation of cellular morphogenesis could be cell-cycle dependent.
There is a 2-fold increase in the percentage of gonadotropes bearing LH beta or FSH beta mRNAs or antigens as the cells approach proestrus. The purpose of this study was to identify the source of these cells with dual labeling techniques. The first hypothesis was that they stemmed from small monohormonal gonadotropes (containing only LH or FSH) that were driven to transcribe and translate the other gonadotropin. Alternatively, they may stem from other pituitary cell types. We detected the LH beta or FSH beta mRNAs by in situ hybridization (biotinylated oligonucleotide probes were detected by peroxidase-labeled avidin). Second, immunolabeling protocols localized the pituitary hormones. The percentages of cells with LH beta antigens and FSH beta mRNA increased to 81% of the LH beta antigen-bearing cells by the time of peak expression of FSH beta mRNA. Similarly, FSH beta antigen-bearing cells increased their expression of LH beta mRNA to 40% of such cells by the morning of proestrus. During the peak period of expression (the evening of proestrus), LH antigen-bearing cells had increased their expression of LH beta mRNA to 93%. Furthermore, 81% of the same cells expressed FSH beta mRNA. Thus, at least 80% of cells with LH antigens became bihormonal as the cells approached proestrus. This partially supports the first hypothesis for the origin of the new gonadotropes. However, the dual labeling studies also showed that 47% or 60% of cells with GH antigens expressed LH beta or FSH beta mRNAs, respectively, during peak expression (14% of pituitary cells contained gonadotropin mRNAs and GH antigens). Expression by cells with other antigens was low or absent (&lt; 5% of pituitary cells). Perhaps a subset of somatotropes expresses gonadotropin mRNAs. Alternatively, the labeling could signify the presence of GH bound to GH receptors in gonadotropes. In either case, it appears that GH cells may be somehow linked to gonadotrope function as the cells approach proestrus.
In this study, a specific galanin (GAL) receptor antagonist, galantide, was employed to evaluate the role of endogenous GAL in episodic basal and phasic LH release in rats. To assess the specificity of galantide, a series of experiments was performed. In the first experiment, we observed that administration of GAL (0.62 nm) intracerebroventricularly (icv) in ovarian steroid-primed ovariectomized (ovx) rats rapidly increased plasma LH levels between 10-30 min, and prior injection of galantide icv (5 nm) blocked the GAL-induced LH release. In the second experiment, galantide inhibited the GAL-evoked in vitro release of LHRH from the median eminence-arcuate nucleus (ME-ARC) of ovarian steroid-primed ovx rats. In addition, galantide on its own significantly decreased the basal efflux of LHRH from the ME-ARC of similarly treated rats, thereby suggesting that even the basal LHRH secretion may be a GAL-dependent event. In the third experiment, the effects of galantide on the phasic LH surge elicited by progesterone (P) in estradiol benzoate-primed ovx rats and that occurring spontaneously on proestrus were examined. Ovx rats bearing icv cannulae were primed with estradiol benzoate (30 micrograms/rat, sc) and 2 days later received a P (2 mg/rat, sc) injection at 1000 h to evoke a LH surge in the afternoon. Galantide (1 or 5 nm) in 3 microliters saline or saline was injected icv at 1300, 1400, and 1500 h. The results showed that the two dosages of galantide suppressed the LH surge in the afternoon. On the other hand, only a very high dose of galantide (15 nm) injected iv at 1300, 1400, and 1500 h blunted the P-induced LH hypersecretion. Central injections of galantide (1 or 5 nm) at 1300, 1400, and 1500 h on proestrus also inhibited the preovulatory LH surge and significantly reduced the numbers of rats ovulating the following day. In the final experiment, the role of GAL receptors in modulation of episodic LH release was analyzed in ovx rats. The results showed that an injection of galantide (5 nm, icv) significantly decreased both the mean LH levels and the amplitude of LH episodes during the 3-h observation period. Cumulatively, these results show that normally GAL stimulates LHRH release by activation of a specific receptor located in the ME-ARC, and that GAL may be a key excitatory signal in the hypothalamic neural circuitry involved in the regulation of basal episodic and phasic LHRH secretion in cycling female rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have used a complete, synthetic precursor to adipokinetic hormone I (AKH I) and oligopeptides derived from this precursor as substrates for prohormone-processing enzymes extracted from AKH-synthesizing neurosecretory cells to reconstitute the post-translational steps in AKH biosynthesis in vitro. The results demonstrate the existence of endoproteolytic activity which cleaves the precursor only at the appropriate processing site (at the C-terminal side of Arg13). Further proteolytic processing of C-terminally extended AKH I (AKH-Gly-Lys-Arg) by a carboxypeptidase H-like activity removes the basic residues producing AKH-Gly-Lys, followed by AKH-Gly. Finally, a peptidylglycine-alpha-amidating-monooxygenase activity produces the amidated bioactive product from the glycine-extended peptide in a two-step process, the first of which requires ascorbate and Cu2+. Our results show that all steps in AKH precursor processing can be reconstituted and studied in vitro, providing a system to characterize the processing enzymes and to investigate the development of enzyme inhibitors for use as potential insecticides.
In the search for substances with a potential role in plastic responses of spinal motoneurons we have studied the distribution of trkC-like immunoreactivity in the spinal cord of adult monkeys (Macaca fascicularis). The presence of trkC, which is a signal-transducing receptor for neurotrophin-3, was detected by the use of indirect immunofluorescence with a rabbit polyclonal antibody raised against a synthetic peptide corresponding to the carboxy-terminal domain of the mouse trkC-encoded protein, thus detecting only full-length signal-transducing receptors. trkC-immunoreactive fibres/varicosities could be found at all spinal cord levels and the densest innervation was found in the autonomic intermediolateral and Onuf's nuclei, but somatic motoneuron pools also received a significant contribution of trkC-immunoreactive fibres. Terminals immunoreactive for trkC were also seen in the dorsal horn. Double-labelling experiments revealed a high degree of coexistence between trkC- and 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin)-like immunoreactivity in all areas except in the dorsal horn. The results of the present study suggest that neurotrophic signalling with an influence on serotoninergic as well as non-serotoninergic inputs to the adult monkey spinal cord is at hand.
In order to assess the requirement for matrix metalloproteinases in neuronal regeneration, in vitro neurite outgrowth by chick dorsal root ganglionic neurons (DRGn) was examined within a reconstituted extracellular matrix. For these studies, cultured neurons were treated with a synthetic peptide inhibitor of metalloproteinases (spIMP), LMHKPRCGVPDVGG. spIMP inhibited all neuronal metalloproteinase activities in zymography and substrate-release assays and was used to examine the role of metalloproteinases in neurite outgrowth by DRGn. Cultures of dissociated DRGn rapidly extended neurites on planar extracellular matrix substrates and this rate of outgrowth was not affected by adding NGF or spIMP. In contrast, neurite extension within a three-dimensional gel of extracellular matrix increased nearly threefold after adding NGF. The NGF-induced neurite penetration was negated in the presence of spIMP but not by control peptide. Similar results were obtained using explanted dorsal root ganglia. These findings suggested that NGF-induced neurite outgrowth within an extracellular matrix involves metalloproteinase activity. Zymographic analysis of media conditioned by NGF-treated DRGn revealed a pair of gelatinolytic bands with apparent molecular masses 72 and 66 kDa, which comigrated as a single 66-kDa band after activation with an organomercurial agent. The gelatinase activities were calcium- and zinc-dependent and were absent from zymograms developed in the presence of spIMP, indicating that NGF-treated DRGn release and activate a 72-kDa metalloproteinase. Samples from DRGn cultures treated with low levels of NGF contained similar amounts of latent and activated metalloproteinase, while high levels of NGF induced an apparent increase in total metalloproteinase secretion and a substantially greater proportion of activated enzyme. Western blot analysis showed this metalloproteinase was immunologically similar to 72-kDa type IV collagenase and immunoassays revealed that this matrix metalloproteinase was increased threefold by high NGF. Furthermore, after high NGF treatment, DRGn media contained sixfold more metalloproteinase activity in assays of matrix degradation. In summary, these results indicate that NGF enhanced metalloproteinase-dependent neurite outgrowth of DRGn within a reconstituted extracellular matrix. Also, NGF increased the expression and activation of 72-kDa type IV collagenase, suggesting a role for this matrix-degrading metalloproteinase in neuronal regeneration.
Peptides corresponding to the first 40 amino acids of beta amyloid peptide (beta 1-40) and the reverse sequence (beta 40-1) were synthesized, purified, and compared for their ability to aggregate and cause toxicity in vitro to human neuroblastoma cells (SH-SY5Y), as well as for effects following injection into young or aged rats. Aggregation of both peptides produced similar sedimentation velocity profiles and resulted in significant toxicity in vitro with no observable differences between beta 1-40 and beta 40-1. In addition, when injected into the cortex of young rats, beta 1-40 was more toxic than beta 40-1 although both resulted in significant lesions. However, in aged rats the two peptides resulted in lesions of similar size. Alz 50 staining and abnormal neurites were associated with both beta 1-40 and beta 40-1 lesions; however, no evidence of plaques or tangles was found in either age group. While both peptides were toxic in vitro, only beta 1-40 elicited Alz 50 staining of SH-SY5Y cells. Electron microscopic examination of beta 1-40 and beta 40-1 aggregates showed that beta 1-40 formed fibrillar structures whereas beta 40-1 resulted in amorphous particles. Thus, although both peptides were toxic to cultured cells and aged rats, the toxicities may have resulted from different mechanisms.
The present series of experiments demonstrate that a polypeptide activity present in rat serum induces a proliferative response in cultured rat Schwann cells. Schwann cells in multi-well tissue culture plates were incubated in medium containing 10% heat-inactivated fetal bovine serum and serial dilutions of normal rat serum, and control preparations were incubated in the same culture medium without rat serum. Rates of cell proliferation were assayed by measuring DNA incorporation of tritiated thymidine using liquid scintillation counting. A prominent dose-dependent proliferative response was observed among Schwann cells incubated with rat serum and rat plasma dilutions as compared to controls; this activity is abolished by heat inactivation and by proteolytic digestion, and was not affected by dialysis against a cellulose ester membrane that excludes molecules larger than 10,000 daltons. In contrast, no increase in DNA uptake of tritiated thymidine was observed when astrocyte and oligodendrocyte cultures were incubated with serial dilutions of rat serum. No proliferative effect was observed when rat Schwann cells were incubated with a dilution of standard adult bovine serum. These results suggest there is an intravascular plasma polypeptide with a molecular weight greater than 10,000 daltons that specifically stimulates Schwann cell proliferation, and it is proposed that this factor may be the mitogen responsible for the Schwann cell proliferative response known to occur after nerve injury.
The specificity of antibodies to actin was assayed by use of immunoblots and histological sections of control tissues enriched for each of six different isoforms. On immunoblots, all antibodies stained at most one band of protein in most of the control materials, with a molecular weight of approximately 43 kDa. Their pattern of staining of muscle and nonmuscle tissues indicated their isoform specificity. On tissue sections, immunocytochemical staining demonstrated cellular and subcellular localization of the different isoforms. Once characterized with regard to specificity, these antibodies were used to probe actin in the guinea pig organ of Corti. None of the four muscle isoforms of actin were found in either immunoblots or tissue sections of the organ of Corti. Both beta- and gamma-cytoplasmic isoforms of actin were present in hair cells and supporting cells. This leaves open to investigation the role which cytoplasmic actins play in these cells of the organ of Corti.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is highly concentrated in the hippocampus and is thus a possible neural substrate of learning and memory. This study was designed to determine whether partial acquisition (i.e., the minimal amount of training leading to above-chance performance) of a spatial discrimination in an eight-arm radial maze alters hippocampal PKC activity. Mice were sacrificed at different times (5 minutes, 1 hour, 24 hours) after the second learning session, and PKC activity was measured in both cytosolic and membrane fractions of the hippocampus. In order to determine which component of the task was involved in the alterations in enzymatic activity, hippocampal PKC activity was also measured in a group of mice that was allowed to explore the maze freely. Significantly less PKC activity was found in the cytosolic fraction from the trained animals than from the quiet or active control groups. No differences were observed between the quiet and active controls. In contrast, there were no significant between-groups differences in membrane-bound PKC activity, although a negative correlation between the membrane-bound PKC activity and learning scores (accuracy) was noted. These results suggest that hippocampal PKC activity is involved essentially in the associative component of the task. The lack of learning-induced alterations in membrane-bound PKC activity and the negative correlation between this enzymatic activity and learning accuracy are discussed.


Potocytosis is an endocytic pathway that utilizes glycosylphosphatidylinositol-anchored membrane proteins and caveolae to concentrate and internalize small molecules. We now report that activators of protein kinase C are potent inhibitors of potocytosis. Activators such as phorbol-12-myristate-13-acetate (PMA) inhibit the internalization of receptors for 5-methyltetrahydrofolate but allow the internal receptor pool to return to the cell surface. PMA does not affect the clustering of the folate receptor but instead markedly reduces the number of caveolae. Exposure to PMA totally blocks the intracellular accumulation of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate without affecting receptor-independent uptake or the formation of polyglutamylated species of 5-methyltetrahydrofolate in the cytoplasm. These data suggest that PMA inhibits uptake by inactivating caveolae internalization.
Teleost pigment cells (erythrophores and melanophores) are useful models for studying the regulation of rapid, microtubule-dependent organelle transport. Previous studies suggest that melanophores regulate the direction of pigment movements via changes in intracellular cAMP (Rozdzial and Haimo, 1986a; Sammak et al., 1992), whereas erythrophores may use calcium- (Ca(2+)-) based regulation (Luby-Phelps and Porter, 1982; McNiven and Ward, 1988). Despite these observations, there have been no direct measurements in intact erythrophores or any cell type correlating changes of intracellular free Ca2+ ([Ca2+]i) with organelle movements. Here we demonstrate that extracellular Ca2+ is necessary and that a Ca2+ influx via microinjection is sufficient to induce pigment aggregation in erythrophores, but not melanophores of squirrel fish. Using the Ca(2+)-sensitive indicator, Fura-2, we demonstrate that [Ca2+]i rises dramatically concomitant with aggregation of pigment granules in erythrophores, but not melanophores. In addition, we find that an erythrophore stimulated to aggregate pigment will immediately transmit a rise in [Ca2+]i to neighboring cells, suggesting that these cells are electrically coupled. Surprisingly, we find that a fall in [Ca2+]i is not sufficient to induce pigment dispersion in erythrophores, contrary to the findings obtained with the ionophore and lysed-cell models (Luby-Phelps and Porter, 1982; McNiven and Ward, 1988). We find that a rise in intracellular cAMP ([cAMP]i) induces pigment dispersion, and that this dispersive stimulus can be overridden by an aggregation stimulus, suggesting that both high [cAMP]i and low [Ca2+]i are necessary to produce pigment dispersion in erythrophores.

N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor channels in cultured CA1 hippocampal neurons were studied using patch-clamp techniques. The purpose of the research was to determine the occupancy of the channel by permeant cations and to determine the influence of charged residues in or near the pore. The concentration dependence of permeability ratios, the mole-fraction dependence of permeability ratios, the concentration dependence of the single-channel conductance, and a single-channel analysis of Mg2+ block all independently indicated that the NMDA receptor behaves as a singly-occupied channel. More precisely, there is one permeant cation at a time occupying the site or sites that are in the narrow region of the pore directly in the permeation pathway. Permeability-ratio measurements in mixtures of monovalent and divalent cations indicated that local charges in or near the pore do not produce a large local surface potential in physiologic solutions. In low ionic strength solutions, a local negative surface potential does influence the ionic environment near the pore, but in normal physiologic solutions the surface potential appears too small to significantly influence ion permeation. The results indicate that the mechanism for the high Ca2+ conductance of the NMDA receptor channel is not the same as for the voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel (VDCC). The VDCC has two high affinity, interacting binding sites that provide high Ca2+ selectivity and conductance. The binding site of the NMDA receptor is of lower affinity. Therefore, the selectivity for Ca2+ is not as high, but the lower affinity of binding provides a faster off rate so that interacting sites are not required for high conductance.
Neocortical decreases in synaptic density correlate significantly with the cognitive impairment seen in Alzheimer disease. Recently available monoclonal antibodies (MAb) have made possible the highly specific and sensitive detection of synapse-associated proteins in immunocytochemical and immunochemical techniques. We describe a simple yet highly sensitive dot-immunobinding assay for relative quantification of the synapse marker protein synaptophysin in human brain homogenate fractions with the mouse MAb SY38. Fractions prepared from control and Alzheimer specimens were blotted to nitrocellulose membranes and reacted with SY38, rabbit secondary antibody, and iodinated protein A. A relative standard curve was constructed to normalize results from multiple assay runs. We correlated the results with the more complex immunocytochemical synaptic density measurement technique of immunolabeling coupled with laser confocal imaging, showing good correlation at r = 0.821. Results from Alzheimer cases showed a 40% decrease in synaptophysin immunoreactivity in midfrontal cortex compared with normal controls.
We previously reported that the nude mouse-derived splenic T cell clone N-9F exhibits a proliferative response when cultured on thymic stromal cells. This N-9F proliferation is mediated by direct cell-to-cell interactions between T and thymic stromal cells. A thymic epithelial cell clone, SL10.3, also supports N-9F growth. To identify the molecule involved in T cell development in the thymus, we established mAb specific to the N-9F clone. One of these mAb, QR6.6, was found to inhibit the N-9F proliferative response on SL10.3. QR6.6-positive cells were detected in thymus but not in other lymphoid organs such as bone marrow, lymph nodes, or spleen. QR6.6-positive cells accounted for 3 to 5% of the cells in adult thymuses whereas higher percentages were found in neonatal (10-20%) and fetal thymuses (70% at E17 and 10-20% at E15). The positive cells were primarily CD4-8- thymocytes in fetuses and CD4-8- to CD4+8+ thymocytes in adults. The QR6.6 mAb precipitates a 100 kDa molecule from the N-9F clone. The addition of the mAb to fetal thymus organ culture reduces the recovery of cells at culture day 4. It was also found that the mAb inhibits fetal thymocyte proliferation on the SL10.3 thymic epithelial cell line. These results suggest that the 100 kDa molecule detected by the QR6.6 mAb may play a crucial role in the early stage of thymocyte development.
We have utilized immunochemical techniques to investigate the developmental expression of the Hu proteins, a neuron-specific family of RNA binding proteins in vertebrates. Previous work suggests that these proteins may play an important role in neuronal development and maintenance. For the present study, we developed a monoclonal antibody (MAb 16A11) that binds specifically to an epitope present in gene products of all known Hu genes, including HuD, HuC, and Hel-N1. Using brief pulses (1-2 h) of the DNA precursor analog bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU) in conjunction with MAb 16A11, we observed Hu+/BrdU+ cells in nascent sensory and sympathetic ganglia in vivo, and in populations of cultured neural crest cells. In addition, a few Hu+ cells were ambiguously BrdU+ in the neural tube. We conclude that Hu+ cells first appear in avian neurogenic populations immediately before neuronal birthdays in the peripheral nervous system, and at the time of withdrawal from the mitotic cycle in the central nervous system. Consistent with these conclusions, we have also observed neural crest-derived cells that are both Hu+ and in metaphase of the cell cycle. We suggest that Hu proteins function early in neurogenic differentiation.
The adult rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) contains low levels of galanin- and vasoactive intestinal peptide-(VIP) like immunoreactivity, with very few immunostained principal neurons. Immunoreactivity for both neuropeptides increases in these neurons after explantation or postganglionic axotomy in vivo. Northern blot analysis has demonstrated concomitant increases in mRNAs encoding these peptides. To localize cells in axotomized ganglia which increase their expression of these mRNAs, we performed in situ hybridization studies. In control SCG, only a few principal neurons contained mRNA for either galanin or VIP. After 48 h in organ culture, galanin mRNA was expressed in the majority of principal neurons. At 48 h after in vivo axotomy of both postganglionic trunks of the SCG, the internal and external carotid nerves, the distribution and number of neurons, expressing galanin mRNA increased similarly to that seen in culture. Lesioning either trunk alone produced increases in galanin mRNA localized to those regions of the ganglion containing neurons that project into the lesioned trunk. Transection of the predominantly preganglionic cervical sympathetic trunk increased galanin mRNA expression in a small population of neurons near that nerve trunk. The distributions of these labeled neurons, together with previous neuroanatomical studies, suggests that they had been axotomized by the lesions. Similar studies examining VIP mRNA expression demonstrated that although considerably fewer VIP mRNA expressing neurons than galanin mRNA expressing neurons were present after axotomy, the distribution of neuropeptide mRNA-positive cells were similar in both cases. These observations suggest that increases in the peptides galanin and VIP after nerve transection result from changes in the levels of their mRNAs in those neurons that have been axotomized.
The distribution of [3H]tryptamine binding sites, in autopsied brain tissue from cirrhotic patients with hepatic encephalopathy (HE) and an equal number of age-matched control subjects free from hepatic, neurological, or psychiatric disorder, was investigated. Scatchard analysis demonstrated a heterogeneous distribution for this binding site, with the highest density being observed in hippocampus &gt; frontal cortex = caudate nucleus &gt; temporal cortex = cerebellum. When comparing [3H]tryptamine binding site densities in control brain tissue with that in brain tissue from patients with HE, significant decreases in densities were observed in the frontal cortex (by 56%, p &lt; 0.001), hippocampus (by 43%, p &lt; 0.001), and caudate nucleus (by 41%, p &lt; 0.01) of the HE group. Binding site affinities were within normal limits. The findings of decreased densities of [3H]tryptamine binding sites taken in conjunction with previous reports of increased CSF and brain tryptamine concentrations in HE suggest a pathogenic role for this neuroactive amine in HE resulting from chronic liver failure.
Stably transfected cells expressing mouse choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) cDNA were established, and the synthesis and release of acetylcholine (ACh) were examined. A cDNA clone coding for mouse ChAT was inserted into an expression vector (pEF321) containing a promoter for human elongation factor 1 alpha to construct pEFmChAT. Neuronal (NG108-15, NS20Y, N1E115, and Neuro2A) and nonneuronal cell lines (L cells and NIH3T3) were transfected with pEFmChAT, and the cell lines that stably expressed high ChAT activity were selected. These cells expressed the 66-kDa ChAT protein and accumulated ACh mostly in the cytosol. The concentration of intracellular ACh in the cells increased upon raising the choline level in the medium. The cells continuously released ACh in a Ca(2+)-independent fashion. Neither high K+ nor calcium ionophore stimulated release of ACh from the cells.
Previous studies have suggested an involvement of enkephalins in regulation of oxytocin (OXT) and vasopressin (AVP) release, which seems to disagree with the very low affinities of Met- and Leu-enkephalin for the kappa opioid receptor. As opioid receptors in the neural lobe exclusively exist of kappa receptors, we studied the binding characteristics of larger pro-enkephalin derived peptides for opioid binding sites in the neural lobe by means of light microscopic receptor autoradiography. In addition, the pharmacological characteristics of opioid binding sites in the neural lobe were compared with those in other parts of the pituitary. In the neural as well as the intermediate lobe both high and low affinity 3H-bremazocine binding sites were present. Binding to these sites was completely displaceable by both naloxone and nor-binaltorphimine suggesting that these sites represent kappa opioid receptors. Also with regard to selectivity and affinity characteristics to other ligands, opioid binding sites in the neural and intermediate lobe were quite similar. In the anterior lobe a very low level of bremazocine binding was present, which could not be displaced by nor-binaltorphimine. Displacement studies with pro-enkephalin and pro-dynorphin derived peptides showed that both groups of peptides could bind to opioid binding sites in the neural and intermediate lobe. Especially the relatively large pro-dynorphin and pro-enkephalin derived peptides, such as dynorphin 1-17 and BAM22, appeared to be very potent ligands for these opioid binding sites and were much more potent than smaller fragments, such as dynorphin 1-8, and Met- and Leu-enkephalin. These results contradict the existence of a mismatch in the neural (and intermediate) lobe with regard to the local type of opioid peptides and receptors present.
Myelin basic protein is an autoantigen present in the central nervous system suspected to be the target of destruction in multiple sclerosis. In the present study, we have demonstrated that T cell clones specific for myelin basic protein have the ability to induce proliferative responses in resting T lymphocytes in the autologous mixed lymphocyte culture (AMLC). T cell recognition of the AMLC stimulatory determinants on the clones required the presence of autologous monocytes. T lymphocytes primed against an autologous myelin basic protein-specific T cell clone displayed specific memory responses against the original stimulating clone and failed to exhibit secondary reactivity to 'sister' myelin basic protein-reactive clones and to autologous T cell clones specific for another antigen. Monoclonal antibodies specific for class II HLA-DR antigens inhibited secondary AMLC responses. Modulation of the T cell receptor from the surface of the clones decreased their AMLC stimulatory ability. These results indicate that idiotype-like determinants on the T cell receptor of autoantigen-specific T cell clones are capable of triggering anti-idiotypic T cell responses.
Dystrophin is a muscle cytoskeletal protein with a molecular mass (MM) of approximately 420 kDa and an isoelectric point (pI) of approximately 5.5, which is abnormal in size and/or abundance in Becker muscular dystrophy (BMD). We investigated the abnormality of dystrophin molecule in muscles biopsied from 23 BMD patients using the two-dimensional gel electrophoresis (TDGE). We found 7 protein spots which reacted specifically with the monoclonal anti-dystrophin antibody (mAb) A1C raised against N-terminal domain of the normal dystrophin. These spots were focused on the two-dimensional gel at the same position as the normal dystrophin (#1), at the position with MM approximately 480 kDa/pI approximately 5.35 (#2), the position with MM approximately 400-330 kDa/pI approximately 5.51-5.47 (#3), the position with MM approximately 300 kDa/pI approximately 5.4 (#4), the position with MM approximately 235-250 kDa/pI approximately 5.53-5.5 (#5), the position with MM approximately 165 kDa/pI approximately 6.0 (#6), and the position with MM approximately 160 kDa/pI approximately 5.75 (#7). These spots were classified into five patterns in individuals, that is, #1 alone in 3 patients, #3 alone in 1, the combination of #3 and 5 in 17, the combination of #1, 3 and 5 in 1 and the combination of #1, 2, 4, 6 and 7 in 1. The combination of #3 and 5 was observed in 17 of 23 patients (75%).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. In the cat step cycle the electromyographic (EMG) activity in ankle extensor muscles commences approximately 70 ms before foot contact. There is a sharp peak between 10 and 25 ms after contact and the EMG then declines for the remainder of the stance phase. It has been posited that the abrupt transition in EMG after contact is the consequence of reflexes elicited by the large barrage of afferent input that signals foot touchdown. However, it is also possible that the basic profile might be generated within the CNS, with little modification by afferent input. 2. These ideas were tested in 11 normal cats. We compared EMG responses and hindlimb kinematics in steps with normal ground support and steps in which an actuator-controlled trap door unexpectedly opened, withdrawing ground support just before foot contact. 3. In the absence of ground support the transition in EMG activity was still present. The averaged EMG pattern was similar for at least 30 ms after the foot passed through the plane of the floor. We conclude that the basic extensor activation profile in this part of the cycle is generated centrally and is not substantially altered by afferent input. 4. Between 35 and 200 ms after contact the stance phase was aborted and the foot was lifted smartly out of the hole. This reaction varied both in latency and kinematic detail, suggesting a fairly complex corrective response.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Sensitization of dorsal horn neurons is thought to play an important role in pain perception, secondary hyperalgesia, and allodynia. Recent experimental evidence suggests that the sensitization of dorsal horn neurons is induced by combined increased release of excitatory amino acids and peptides in the spinal cord dorsal horn from nociceptive primary afferents due to an injury-caused barrage of impulses. We tested the hypothesis that protein kinase C (PKC) is involved as a second messenger in this process of neuronal sensitization. To activate PKC, infusion of a phorbol ester [12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA)] into the dorsal horn through a microdialysis fiber was used. During TPA infusion the background activity of spinothalamic (STT) neurons increased substantially. After TPA application, while the background activity of the STT neurons was still increased, the responses evoked by either innocuous or noxious mechanical stimulation of the cutaneous receptive field did not change from the control level. However, 1 h after TPA administration the background activity returned to the control level and responses to innocuous mechanical stimuli were significantly elevated. The responses of STT cells to noxious heat and noxious mechanical stimuli did not change significantly after TPA administration. When a phorbol ester that does not activate PKC was applied (alpha-TPA), no significant changes in background or evoked activity of STT cells were observed. Our results provide evidence that PKC may play an important role in the process of sensitization of dorsal horn neurons to innocuous mechanical stimuli.
1. Hair cells in whole-mount in vitro preparations of the utricular macula of the bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) were selected according to their macular location and hair bundle morphology. The sensitivity and response dynamics of selected hair cells to natural stimulation were examined by recording their voltage responses to step and sinusoidal hair bundle displacements applied to their longest stereocilia. 2. The voltage responses of 31 hair cells to sinusoidal hair bundle displacements were characterized by their gains and phases, taken with respect to peak hair bundle displacement. The gains of Type B and Type C cells at both 0.5 and 5.0 Hz were markedly lower than those of Type F and Type E cells. Phases, with the exception of Type C cells, lagged hair bundle displacement at 0.5 Hz. Type C cells had phase leads of 25-40 degrees. At 5.0 Hz, response phases in all cells were phase lagged with respect to those at 0.5 Hz. Type C cells had larger gains and smaller phase leads at 5.0 Hz than at 0.5 Hz, suggesting the presence of low-frequency adaptation. 3. Displacement-response curves, derived from the voltage responses to 5.0-Hz sinusoids, were sigmoidal in shape and asymmetrical, with the depolarizing response having a greater magnitude and saturating less abruptly than the hyperpolarizing response. When normalized to their largest displacement the linear ranges of these curves varied from &lt; 0.5 to 1.25 microns and were largest in Type B and smallest in Type F and Type E cells. Sensitivity, defined as the slope of the normalized displacement-response curve, was inversely correlated with linear range. 4. The contribution of geometric factors associated with the hair bundle to linear range and sensitivity were predicted from realistic models of utricular hair bundles created using morphological data obtained from light and electron microscopy. Three factors, including 1) the inverse ratio of the lengths of the kinocilium and longest stereocilia, representing the lever arm between kinociliary and stereociliary displacement; 2) tip link extension/linear displacement, largely a function of stereociliary height and separation; and 3) stereociliary number, an estimate of the number of transduction channels, were considered in this analysis. The first of these factors was quantitatively more important than the latter two factors and their total contribution was largest in Type B and Type C cells. Theoretical models were also used to calculate the relation between rotary and linear displacement.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Hair cells in whole-mount in vitro preparations of the utricular macula of the bullfrog (Rana catesbeiana) were selected according to their macular location and hair bundle morphology. The voltage responses of selected hair cells to intracellular current steps and sinusoids in the frequency range of 0.5-200 Hz were studied with conventional intracellular recordings. 2. The utricular macula is divided into medial and lateral parts by the striola, a 75- to 100-microns zone that runs for nearly the entire length of the sensory macula near its lateral border. The striola is distinguished from flanking extrastriolar regions by the elevated height of its apical surface and the wider spacing of its hair cells. A line dividing hair cells of opposing polarities, located near the lateral border of the striola, separates it into medial and lateral parts. On average, the striola consists of five to seven medial and two to three lateral rows of hair cells. 3. Utricular hair cells were classified into four types on the basis of hair bundle morphology. Type B cells, the predominant hair cell type in the utricular macula, are small cells with short sterocilia and kinocilia 2-6 times as long as their longest stereocilia. These hair cells were found throughout the extrastriola and, more rarely, in the striolar region. Three other hair cell types were restricted to the striolar region. Type C cells, found primarily in the outer striolar rows, resemble enlarged versions of Type B hair cells. Type F cells have kinocilia approximately equal in length to their longest stereocilia and are restricted to the middle striolar rows. Type E cells, found only in the innermost striolar rows, have short kinocilia with prominent kinociliary bulbs. 4. The resting potential of 99 hair cells was -58.0 +/- 7.6 (SD) mV and did not vary significantly for hair cells in differing macular locations or with differing hair bundle morphology. The RN of hair cells, measured from the voltage response to current steps, varied from 200 to &gt; 2,000 M omega and was not well correlated with cell size. On average, Type B cells had the highest RN, followed by Type F, Type E, and Type C cells. When normalized to their surface area, the membrane resistance of hair cells ranged from &lt; 1,000 to &gt; 10,000 k omega.cm2. The input capacitance of hair cells ranged from &lt; 3 to &gt; 15 pA, corresponding on average to a membrane capacitance of 0.8 +/- 0.2 pA/cm2.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Brain metabolic mapping techniques, such as positron emission tomography (PET), can provide information about the functional interactions within entire neural systems. With the large quantity of data that can accumulate from a mapping study, a network analysis, which makes sense of the complex interactions among neural elements, is necessary. A network analysis was performed on data obtained from a PET study that examined both the changes in regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and interregional correlations among human cortical areas during performance of an object vision (face matching) and spatial vision (dot-location matching) task. Brain areas for the network were selected based on regions showing significant rCBF or interregional correlations between tasks. Anterior temporal and frontal lobe regions were added to the network using a principal components analysis. Interactions among selected regions were quantified with structural equation modeling. In the structural equation models, connections between brain areas were based on known neuroanatomy and the interregional correlations were used to calculate path coefficients representing the magnitude of the influence of each directional path. The combination of the anatomical network and interregional correlations created a functional network for each task. The functional network for the right hemisphere showed that in the object vision task, dominant path influences were among occipitotemporal areas, while in the spatial vision task, occipitoparietal interactions were stronger. The network for the spatial vision task also had a strong feedback path from area 46 to occipital cortex, an effect that was absent in the object vision task. There were strong interactions between dorsal and ventral pathways in both networks. Functional networks for the left hemisphere did not differ between tasks. Networks for the interhemispheric interactions showed that the dominant pathway in the right hemisphere also had stronger effects on homologous left hemisphere areas and are consistent with a hypothesis that intrahemispheric interactions were greater in the right hemisphere in both tasks, and that these influences were transmitted callosally to the left hemisphere.
Layer I is a dense synaptic zone ubiquitous in cerebral cortex. Here we describe a novel in vitro preparation of rat somatosensory (SI) neocortical slices that isolates the fibers that extend horizontally through layer I, and allows intracellular and extracellular analysis of synaptic input to dendrites in layer I. Current source-density analysis of this isolated horizontal layer I input reveals monophasic current sinks restricted to layer I and the most superficial part of layer II. The layer I synaptic response of each neuron was correlated with its morphology by filling penetrated cells with biocytin. All filled cells that responded to horizontal layer I inputs were pyramidal neurons in layers II, III, or V with distal apical dendrites in layer I. There was no evidence of antidromic activation from isolated layer I stimulation, and HRP injected into layer I was not transported via the isolated layer I pathway to cortical neurons within the slice. Therefore, this preparation provides a unique way to study an extrinsic synaptic input localized to the most distal apical dendrites of many pyramidal neurons. In contrast to the EPSP-IPSP sequence characteristically evoked by deep layer stimulation, horizontal layer I inputs evoked long-lasting EPSPs (approximately 50 msec); IPSPs were observed only rarely, in the most superficial neurons. Horizontal layer I-evoked EPSPs were blocked by the non-NMDA glutamate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. Consistent with the very distal site of layer I inputs to layer V pyramidal neurons, the amplitudes of initial EPSPs were insensitive to manipulations of the somatic membrane potential. However, these distal EPSPs were greatly attenuated when combined with IPSPs evoked by deep layer stimulation, indicating that the proximal inputs may modulate distal EPSPs with shunting inhibition. In many layer V neurons, the initial EPSP evoked by horizontal layer I stimulation was followed by a variable late depolarization that was blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. Since these late depolarizations were enhanced by somatic depolarization and abolished by hyperpolarization, they appeared to be generated postsynaptically at a site more proximal than the initial EPSP that was insensitive to these manipulations. Synaptic inputs to the distal tufts of pyramidal neurons may trigger active currents along the apical dendrites that amplify the EPSP on its way to the soma.
We examined the relationship between presynaptic calcium levels and postsynaptic potentials during normal synaptic transmission, paired-pulse facilitation (PPF), and long-term potentiation (LTP) in CA3-CA1 synapses of hippocampus. By selectively loading the presynaptic terminals with the calcium indicator fura-2, we simultaneously recorded a presynaptic calcium (Ca) transient and the corresponding field EPSP evoked by a single stimulus given to the Schaffer collateral-commissural pathway in guinea pig hippocampal slices. A volume average presynaptic Ca influx was obtained by taking the first time derivative of the Ca transient. Our data indicate that the synaptic transmission represented by the initial slope of the field EPSP is approximately proportional to the fourth power of the presynaptic Ca influx, the volume average Ca current. Our results in combination with similar findings at the squid giant synapse (Augustine et al., 1985b; Augustine and Charlton, 1986) suggest that the relationship between Ca influx and transmitter release is well conserved from the molluscan to the mammalian nervous system. A transient increase of the residual Ca level ([Ca]res) is generally thought to be the mechanism underlying PPF (Katz and Miledi, 1968; Charlton et al., 1982); however, the relationship between PPF and the presynaptic [Ca]res had not been examined before. Our results demonstrate that PPF is approximately linearly related to the [Ca]res. This finding further supports the residual Ca hypothesis for PPF. Accumulated evidence from other groups suggests that the presynaptic site contributes to the maintenance of LTP in CA3-CA1 synapses (Bekkers and Stevens, 1990; Malinow and Tsien, 1990); however, our data show that neither an increase of the Ca transient nor a sustained increase of the [Ca]res occurs in the presynaptic terminals during maintenance of LTP. This suggests that the presynaptic mechanism underlying LTP must be downstream to Ca influx.
The capacity of regenerating axons for long-term growth and synaptic plasticity was investigated in the visual system of adult hamsters. Four to six and 8-10 months after the eye and the superior colliculus (SC) were linked by a peripheral nerve (PN) graft, the retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons that had regrown into the SC were examined ultrastructurally. Together with the data from hamsters with similar PN grafts for 2 months (Carter et al., 1989), this study spans most of the life of these animals. The overall findings indicate that (1) the RGC axons extended twice as far into the SC and the number of RGC terminals increased 30-fold between 2 and 4-6 months. These parameters did not change thereafter. The highest density of regenerated RGC terminals observed in the SC was 11.5% of controls. (2) The new RGC terminals acquired most of their normal ultrastructural characteristics by 2 months. (3) The mean size of the terminals was larger than in controls but decreased gradually, and there was a small increase in the size of the regenerated synapses. (4) At all times, the RGC terminals remained confined to the layers of the SC that normally receive retinal inputs, and their synapses were formed in normal proportions with the dendritic shafts and spines of SC neurons. Thus, there is a protracted long-term growth and remodeling of the RGC axons that have regenerated into the SC of these adult mammals.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The efficacy of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) in the treatment of the autoimmune disease, idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP), has been well documented in the literature. This has encouraged researchers to examine possible therapeutic uses of IVIG in other immune-mediated disorders. Recent clinical reports have suggested that IVIG may have a role in the treatment of neurological disorders with a possible immunopathogenic etiology. Intravenous immunoglobulin, a blood product which contains immunoglobulin G and a trace amount of immunoglobulin A, is believed to work as an immunomodulating agent. However, its mechanism of action is not well understood. Nurses involved with the administration of IVIG must be well informed about the manufacturing and regulation, proper dose and administration, adverse effects, appropriate assessments and related patient education.
Central pontine myelinolysis (CPM) is a neurological disorder with a variety of manifestations which may be fatal or result in permanent disabilities. Various factors, most commonly too rapid correction of serum sodium, have been implicated in the development of this osmotic demyelinating syndrome. The patient's survival depends on accurate assessment and prompt intervention by the neuroscience nurse. Optimal outcome depends on collaboration by all members of the health care team.
Munchausen syndrome by proxy (MSP) is a recently described form of child abuse in which a caregiver fabricates or induces symptoms in a child in order to attract medical attention. The epidemiology, clinical features, diagnosis and the spectrum of MSP are reviewed. Central nervous system symptoms are a common presentation of MSP because they can be reported without confirmation. Three cases are reported to illustrate the most common neurological manifestations. It is important for neuroscience nurses to have an awareness that MSP can present as a neurologic problem, because appropriate management depends on early identification and treatment.
In many regions of the rat central nervous system, oligodendrocytes develop from migratory A2B5+ precursor cells. In the rat spinal cord, during early embryonic development the capacity for oligodendrogenesis appears to be restricted to ventral regions of the spinal cord, while cultures of postnatal rat spinal cord contain a distinct population of A2B5+ astrocyte precursors. To determine if, as in other regions of the CNS, spinal cord A2B5+ cells give rise directly to oligodendrocytes and astrocytes, the initial distribution, and subsequent dispersion, proliferation, and differentiation of spinal cord A2B5+ cells have been examined in both explant and dissociated cell cultures. Spinal cord oligodendrocytes develop from A2B5+ cells. At E14, A2B5+ cells are restricted to ventral regions of the spinal cord and as development proceeds they become more uniformly distributed throughout the spinal cord. In explant cultures, greater than 95% of the explants that contain oligodendrocytes also contain A2B5+ cells and a proportion of mature oligodendrocytes retain detectable A2B5 immunoreactivity briefly on their surface. The maturation of spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursors occurs in a number of distinct stages characterized by the expression of O4 immunoreactivity, which first appears at E16, and GC immunoreactivity, which first appears at E18. As spinal cord oligodendrocyte precursors acquire O4 immunoreactivity they appear to lose the ability to proliferate in response to PDGF but retain the ability to proliferate in response to bFGF, suggesting that the control of proliferation of oligodendrocyte precursors is, in part, dependent on their maturational state. In the presence of high serum, spinal cord A2B5+ cells fail to develop in isolated E14 dorsal spinal cord cultures, while in ventral cultures they subsequently differentiate into A2B5+ astrocytes suggesting that A2B5+ astrocyte precursors are also initially ventrally located. Unlike oligodendrocyte differentiation, however, the differentiation of spinal cord A2B5+ cells into astrocytes is delayed in early embryonic-derived cultures compared to those from older animals. These observations suggest that local influences may regulate the timing of spinal cord A2B5+ astrocyte development, but not spinal cord oligodendrocyte development.
Although normally quiescent, astrocytes in the adult brain respond to various types of brain injury by rapidly dividing, swelling, extending cellular processes, and expressing increased amounts of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). These phenomena are collectively referred to as &quot;astrogliosis.&quot; Similarly, astroglia in primary culture stop dividing when they attain confluency, yet, as seen in situ, they retain their proliferative capacity for extended periods and resume rapid division when subcultured. To examine the impact of glial division on secretion of neurite-promoting factors, conditioned medium (CM) was removed from subconfluent, newly confluent, and long-term confluent (&quot;aged&quot;) neonatal rat astrocyte cultures, and from aged confluent cultures that had been repassaged, &quot;lesioned&quot; (scraping with a rubber policeman), or triturated 3 days before harvest. Secretion of neurite-promoting factor(s) by glial cells into these CM was then assayed by treating neuroblastoma cultures with these various CM and quantitating neurite elaboration. Extensive neurite sprouting was elicited by CM from cultures just reaching confluency and from repassaged, lesioned, or triturated cultures. CM from aged confluent cultures did not induce sprouting. These results indicate that secretion of neurite-promoting factor(s) is regulated by glial division, and suggest that gliosis in situ may contribute to neurite sprouting by similar mechanisms. Immunoblot analysis demonstrated the presence in CM of varying amounts of laminin and amyloid precursor protein (APP), including isoforms containing the Kunitz-type protease inhibitor domain. CM from subconfluent cultures contained trace amounts of these proteins, but CM from cultures just reaching confluency contained significant amounts. Although CM from aged cultures contained barely detectable levels of either protein, trituration or repassage of aged cultures dramatically increased secretion of these proteins. APP- and laminin-enriched CM fractions promoted neuritogenesis to a similar level as respective unfractionated CM; anti-APP and anti-laminin antisera blocked this effect. Purified human brain APP promoted neuritogenesis when added to non-conditioned medium and aged CM. Increased secretion of APP and laminin therefore mediates at least a portion of CM-induced neuronal sprouting; these proteins may perform analogous functions during astrogliosis in situ.
Transcranial Doppler ultrasound (TCD) findings are described in a patient with acute thrombosis of the sagittal venous sinus. The TCD finding of prominent venous signals adjacent to the middle cerebral artery gave the first indication of the diagnosis, which was subsequently confirmed by computerized tomography. Awareness of the possible TCD findings in patients with a similar history may lead to a more rapid diagnosis of cerebral venous sinus thrombosis.
A 60-year-old man presented with progressive and unique neurological symptoms. Investigations identified an isolated cerebellar lesion. This lesion fulfilled the histological criteria for lymphomatoid granulomatosis, and in situ hybridization and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) dot blot techniques revealed significant amounts of Epstein-Barr virus DNA within the tumor cells. The patient underwent cranial radiation therapy, and 16 months after the initial presentation the lesion evolved into a malignant lymphoma. He subsequently died secondary to subdural empyema, bacterial meningitis, and bronchopneumonia. The unique clinical and etiological aspects of this case are addressed.
Evidence is growing that high-molecular-weight glycoproteins (mucins) of human milk bind to certain pathogenic microorganisms and thus could interfere with their colonization of the infant gut. This investigation sought to determine whether one of the two principal milk mucins, MUC-1 (also known as PAS-0 and episialin), persists into the feces. Fecal samples from seven breast-fed and seven formula-fed infants, aged from 20 days to 6 months, were analyzed. Glycoproteins in the specimens, solubilized with sodium dodecylsulfate, mercaptoethanol, and heat, were resolved by gel electrophoresis. The gels were blotted on nitrocellulose sheets that were immunostained with monoclonal antibodies specific for epitopes in the tandem repeat region of MUC-1. Mucin fragments of approximately 200,000 MW were detected in specimens from three of the seven breast-fed subjects; only one of them showed evidence of the intact mucin. Four breast-fed and all seven formula-fed babies were negative for the mucin in their stools. While these results provide evidence of a variable degree of breakdown, we speculate that MUC-1 resists degradation in the gut and thus may help bind host-detrimental microorganisms and inhibit their colonizing and infecting actions.
The anticonvulsant and neuroprotective activity of dextromethorphan (DM, [+]-3-methyl-17-methylmorphinan) may be, in part, due to its metabolism to the phencyclidine hydrochloride-like compound dextrorphan (DX). We evaluated the anticonvulsant activity and neurological impairing effects in rats of three novel analogs of DM which, based upon their position-3 substituents, would either not be expected to be metabolized to DX or might do so at a reduced rate. The DM analogs were determined to be more potent and more efficacious than DM against maximal electroshock convulsions; two of the analogs, namely [(+)-3-ethoxy-17-methylmorphinan] and [(+)-3-(2-propoxy)-17-methyl-morphinan], were equipotent to DX. [(+)-3-(Ethoxy-17-methylmorphinan], and [(+)-3-(2-propoxy)-17-methylmorphinan) exhibited a duration of action (1-2 hr) slightly longer than DX (0.5-1 hr) and similar to DM (2-4 hr). The anticonvulsant effect of [(+)-3-amino-17-methylmorphinan] persisted 4-6 hr. Against flurothyl convulsions DM was proconvulsant, DX was anticonvulsant and the DM analogs were inactive. In contrast, N-methyl-D-aspartate convulsions were antagonized by i.c.v. pretreatment with DM and the DM analogs, albeit with a potency approximately 10 times less than that of DX. Results of rotarod performance testing further distinguished the analogs from DM, DX or the anticonvulsant drug diazepam. No behavioral impairment was observed at the highest doses tested of each of the DM analogs, resulting in protective indices (i.e., rotarod TD50/maximal electroshock anticonvulsant ED50) greatly exceeding DM, DX or clinical anticonvulsant drugs. The results of this study establish these 3-substituted DM analogs as novel anticonvulsants exhibiting improved potency, efficacy, duration and side-effect profiles.
The effects of chronic activation of mu- and kappa-opioid receptors on the release of [3H]dopamine from cultured ventral mesencephalic neurons and that of [3H]noradrenaline from cultured locus ceruleus neurons were studied. It was found that a 4-day exposure of cultured mesencephalic neurons to the kappa-agonist U69,593 (5 alpha, 7 alpha, 8 beta)-(-)-N-methyl-N-[7(1-pyrrolidinyl)-1-oxaspiro(4,5)-dec-8-yl] benzeneacetamide; 1 microM] increased markedly 25 mM K(+)-induced dopamine release upon opioid withdrawal by about 70%, with no change in the release-inhibitory effects of U69,593 (EC50, 3-6 nM; maximal inhibition about 50%). Moreover, 1.2 mM Ca++ (in the continuous presence of K+) and 100 microM N-methyl-D-aspartic acid receptor-mediated dopamine release also was potentiated to a similar extent after chronic kappa receptor activation. Similarly, 4-day treatment of cultured locus ceruleus neurons with morphine (1 microM) caused an enhanced release of [3H]noradrenaline induced by K+, Ca++ or N-methyl-D-aspartic acid upon opioid withdrawal by 55 to 150%. In addition, the release-inhibitory effect of the mu-selective agonist [D-Ala2,MePhe4,Gly-ol5]-enkephalin on the K(+)-induced [3H]noradrenaline release remained unaffected (EC50, 10-12 nM; maximal effect, 80-90%). Interestingly, chronic activation of autoreceptors on cultured mesencephalic neurons by the dopamine D-2 receptor-selective agonist LY171,555 [(trans)-(-)-(4aR)-4, 4a,5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-propyl-1H-pyrazolo[3,4g]quinoline; 1 microM] or those of cultured locus ceruleus neurons by the alpha-2 adrenoceptor-selective agonist clonidine (1 microM) did not affect K(+)-induced neurotransmitter release upon agonist withdrawal.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The coupling of m5 muscarinic acetylcholine receptors to the generation and release of nitric oxide (NO) was investigated. Chinese hamster ovary cells, which stably express m5 receptors, were transiently transfected with the gene encoding neuronal NO synthase and used as a model system. Increased generation of NO upon stimulation of cells by muscarinic agonists was detected by an increase in cyclic GMP in admixed mouse neuroblastoma N1E-115 cells or more directly by measuring the conversion of L-arginine into L-citrulline. Carbachol increased cyclic GMP formation in the mixture of cells in a time- and concentration-dependent manner, with a half-maximal response occurring in the nanomolar range. This response was significantly attenuated by scavengers of NO or inhibitors of NO synthase. This high potency of carbachol was also observed in measurements of L-citrulline formation. A series of muscarinic agonists were as efficacious as carbachol in stimulating NO synthase, whereas McN-A-343 and pilocarpine were partial agonists in this regard. Evidence for an exceptionally high efficiency of coupling of m5 receptors to this response and its possible implication in the interaction between cholinergic and dopaminergic neurotransmission is discussed.
We have shown previously that the MAb 1A1 recognizes a cell surface glycoprotein with adhesive properties expressed exclusively on astrocytes in the rat central nervous system (CNS). In this study, the role of this molecule in neuronal migration in the developing rat cerebellum was investigated by antibody perturbation experiments. The MAb 1A1 binds to the surface of cultured radial Bergmann glia, a subclass of astrocytes known to guide the migration of postmitotic neurons by cell-cell contact, but does not bind to neurons in the cerebellum. The antibody does not bind to tissue sections for immunohistochemical studies. However, by immunoprecipitation the level of this antigen increases by about twofold between Postnatal Day 1 (P1) and P20 followed by a decrease to the P1 level at P35. In addition, the number of 1A1+ Bergmann glia also increases from 33 to 78% between P1 and P7 in dissociated cell cultures. Monovalent fragments of the MAb 1A1 inhibit the adhesion of neurons to Bergmann glia by about 50% in dissociated cultures of the P7 cerebellum. In addition, the migration of neurons on Bergmann glia was assessed in microexplant cultures of the P7 cerebellar cortex after 3 days in vitro. In these experiments the MAb 1A1 blocks the migration of neurons by 60%. These findings suggest that the 1A1 molecule might play a role in glial-guided neuronal migration in the developing cerebellum.
A cell surface glycoprotein has been identified from detergent extracts of cultured astrocytes obtained from neonatal rat cerebral cortex using a mouse monoclonal antibody (MAb 1A1). This antibody inhibits neuron-astrocyte and astrocyte-astrocyte adhesion, as well as neurite outgrowth on astrocytes in vitro. The MAb 1A1 does not bind to tissue sections, but by indirect immunofluorescence of dissociated CNS cultures, the antibody labels subpopulations of astrocytes (flat, type 1 astrocytes and Bergmann glia) and cells derived from the mesenchyme (leptomeninges and fibroblasts). The latter cells are labeled only when grown to confluency. The 1A1 cell surface glycoprotein appears as a single band of approximately 135 kDa on both reduced and nonreduced SDS-PAGE. Based on its unique cell-type distribution, functional properties and biochemical analysis, this 135-kDa protein appears to be distinct from other known adhesion molecules expressed on astrocytes. This molecule, thus, belongs to the growing list of cell adhesion molecules that may play a role in histogenesis and axonal growth during development of the mammalian CNS.
The role of cell surface GM1 ganglioside in neurite outgrowth of Neuro-2a neuroblastoma cells was investigated by application of anti-GM1 antibody and the B subunit of cholera toxin (cholera B) to cultured cells stimulated to grow neurites in various ways. When the cells were simultaneously treated with stimulatory agent and cholera B, inhibition, as measured by percent of neurite-bearing cells, was observed with most stimuli: neuraminidase; GD1a ganglioside, retinoic acid, and low serum. However, with dibutyryl cyclic AMP the small reduction observed was not statistically significant. The inhibitory effect of cholera B on neurite outgrowth induced by low serum was dose-dependent, reaching a maximum at 200 ng/mL; 48 h after washout of cholera B the cells were released from inhibition and regrew neurites at nearly the previous rate in the presence of low serum. When the cells were exposed to stimulus for 6 h or more the inhibitory effect of subsequent addition of cholera B was reduced or eliminated; inhibition thus occurs during an early stage of neurite initiation. Anti-GM1 antibody at dilutions of 1:100-1:400 had the same inhibitory effect as cholera B with cells stimulated by GD1a or retinoic acid, whereas anti-GM2 antibody had no effect at 1:200 or 1:400; inhibition by the latter antibody at 1:100 dilution was similar to that attained with control ascites fluid. These results point to a pivotal role for cell surface GM1 in Neuro-2a differentiation induced by many (but not all) neuritogenic agents.
We have established a transgenic model to facilitate the study of stress-induced gene regulation in the hypothalamus. This model, which uses a human proenkephalin-beta-galactosidase fusion gene, readily permits anatomic and cellular colocalization of stress-regulated immediate early gene products (e.g. Fos) and other transcription factors [e.g. cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB)] with the product of a potential target gene. Moreover, Fos provides a marker of cellular activation that is independent of the transgene. Hypertonic saline stress induced Fos in almost all cells in the PVN that exhibited basal expression of the proenkephalin transgene; however, all cells in which the transgene was activated by stress also expressed Fos. CREB was found in essentially all neurons. Gel shift analysis with and without antisera to Fos and CREB showed that AP-1 binding activity, containing Fos protein, was induced by hyperosmotic stress. However, Fos was not detected binding to the proenkephalin second messenger-inducible enhancer even in hypothalamic cell extracts from stressed animals. In contrast, CREB formed specific complexes with both the proenkephalin enhancer and a cAMP- and calcium-regulated element (CaRE) within the c-fos gene. Moreover, we found that hypertonic saline induced CREB phosphorylation in cells that express the transgene within the paraventricular nucleus and supraoptic nucleus. These results suggest a model in which proenkephalin gene expression in the paraventricular nucleus is regulated by CREB in response to hypertonic stress.

alpha 8 subunits of alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive chick neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors expressed in Xenopus oocytes from cRNA are shown to form homomeric, acetylcholine-gated, rapidly desensitizing, inwardly rectifying, Ca(2+)-permeable cation channels similar to those of alpha 7 homomers. alpha 8 forms oligomers of several sizes, of which &lt; 14% are expressed on the oocyte surface, which is less efficient than for alpha 7 homomers. alpha 8 homomers are more sensitive to agonists but less sensitive to antagonists than are alpha 7 homomers, and some agonists for alpha 8 homomers are partial agonists or antagonists for alpha 7 homomers. The pharmacological properties of homomers of alpha 8 and alpha 7 subunits generally reflect those of native alpha 8 and alpha 7 receptors.
We examined whether the dystrophin-associated glycoprotein complex (GPC), which serves to fix dystrophin to cell membranes, is present at the sarcolemma in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) muscles using an immunohistochemical method. Antibodies against 50DAG (A2) and 43DAG (A3a), the components of GPC, were used for the detection of GPC. We found that, although the amount of GPC was reduced in DMD muscles where utrophin but not dystrophin was distinctly present, 43DAG (A3a) was fairly heavily and 50DAG (A2) was lightly but distinctly stained on the cell surfaces. It is likely that the capability of utrophin to preserve 50DAG (A2) is less than that of dystrophin, although utrophin has been reported to bind to GPC. We also found that 43DAG (A3a) but not 50DAG (A2) was detected in the peripheral nerves where utrophin was detected. Therefore, it is likely that 43DAG (A3a) is essential for the fixation of utrophin to cell membranes, as in the case of dystrophin. 50DAG (A2) may play other important roles in the pathogenesis of DMD.
Meningiomas are common central nervous system tumours which present usually in the 4th and 5th decades of life. Loss of constitutional heterozygosity on chromosome 22 in 60% of sporadic meningiomas has implied the involvement of a tumour suppressor gene. The neurofibromatosis type 2 gene (NF2), a prime candidate for involvement in meningioma, was screened for point mutations. After examining eight of the 16 known NF2 exons in 151 meningiomas, 24 inactivating mutations were characterized. Significantly, these aberrations were exclusively detected in tumours which lost the other chromosome 22 allele. These results provide strong evidence that the suppressor gene on chromosome 22, frequently inactivated in meningioma, is the NF2 gene, and suggest that another gene is involved in the development of 40% of meningiomas.
Rats that consume a diet 50% rich in protein exhibit hyperactivity and hyperresponsiveness to nociceptive stimuli, in which facilitation of dopaminergic activity has been implicated. We studied the regional changes in the concentrations of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites, dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) in the brains of rats that were maintained on high-protein (HP, 50% casein), normal-protein (NP, 20% casein), and low-protein (LP, 8% casein) diets for 36 weeks. Brain nuclei that represented different DAergic systems were punch-dissected and analyzed using HPLC. In the substantia nigra, the striatum, and the dentate gyrus, DA concentrations decreased and increased, respectively, with a decrease and increase in dietary protein (p &lt; 0.05 compared to the NP diet). Similar trends in the effect of the HP diet were observed in the ventral tegmental area, amygdala, frontal cortex, subiculum, centromedial nucleus (CM) of the thalamus, and inferior colliculi (IC), although the differences in DA concentrations were not statistically significant. These brain areas also showed a pattern of decreased DA concentration in association with the LP diet, and the differences were statistically significant (p &lt; 0.05) in the CM and IC. DA concentrations in most regions of the midbrain and brainstem were not different between the diet groups, nor were consistent trends observed in those regions. Also, there were no consistent relationships between DOPAC/DA and HVA/DA ratios and dietary protein level. These data suggest that only discrete dopaminergic neuronal circuits in the rat forebrain were sensitive to changes in dietary protein level.
The effects of pre-treatment with ENA-713, an acetylcholinesterase (AChE) inhibitor, on changes in pre- and postsynaptic cholinergic indices in gerbil brain following transient ischemia were studied at 4 and 14 days after recirculation. In the ischemic group, hippocampal acetylcholine (ACh) level was significantly reduced (to 23% of sham-operated controls) at 4 days post-ischemia, but this reduction was completely prevented by ENA-713 treatment. Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) and cholinesterase (ChE) activities were not significantly changed at 4 and 14 days post-ischemia. Although the maximum number (Bmax) of muscarinic ACh receptor (mACh-R) binding in the hippocampus was decreased (to 44%) without any change in affinity at 14 days post-ischemia, this decrease was also inhibited by ENA-713 treatment. In addition, histological experiment indicated that ENA-713 inhibited ischemia-induced pyramidal cell loss in the hippocampal CA1 regions. Thus, these findings suggest that ENA-713 has protective, neurotrophic and therapeutic effects on cerebrovascular type dementia due to cerebral ischemia.
Patients with left unilateral spatial neglect following lesions that mainly involved the right parietal lobe performed a line extension task, extending a horizontal line leftward to double its original length. We examined line extension performances in the left and right hemispaces, as well as in the midline, to assess whether spatial conditions affected these performances. Whatever the severity of neglect found in the line bisection test, the line extension performances of the patients were almost accurate and comparable with those of normal controls across the three spatial conditions. The neglect patients executed movements in or toward the contralesional space as the task oriented their attention sufficiently to the left. The results suggest that the motor component, ie, directional hypokinesia, has little part in left unilateral spatial neglect due to right parietal lesions.
Postmortem studies of brains from adults with Down's syndrome (DS) reveal a dramatic age-dependent increase in the incidence of neuropathology associated with Alzheimer's disease (AD). By the age of 40 years, virtually all DS individuals have AD neuropathology. Documentation of cognitive correlates of this phenomenon has been difficult, partly because of the preexisting mental retardation in DS. In the current study, we compared a group of adults with DS, 22 to 51 years old, with a matched control group on various behavioral measures such as savings scores, which are known to be sensitive in detecting early dementia in AD patients. By using the short delayed savings score from the California Verbal Learning Test (a test of verbal memory), a subgroup of DS adults was identified as memory-impaired. This group demonstrated a decline in performance on various other cognitive tests with advancing age, whereas another group identified as having non-memory-impaired DS, and the non-DS controls, showed no evidence of decline with age. These results provide evidence for the presence of early dementia among adults with DS within an age range in which neuropathologic manifestations of AD are predicted to be developing.
Infantile autism is a neurologic disorder of social, cognitive, and language development. Earlier MRI studies found hypoplasia of posterior vermal lobules VI and VII and cerebellar hemispheres in the majority of autistic patients, and recent autopsy analyses find severe Purkinje neuron loss in the posterior vermis (lobules VI and VII and VIII to X) and hemispheres. A second type of cerebellar pathology in infantile autism was recently found: hyperplasia (excessive enlargement) of posterior vermal lobules VI and VII. If the autistic samples in some MRI studies that did not detect cerebellar hypoplasia were actually composed of both the hypoplasia and hyperplasia subtypes, then the autistic mean size reported in such studies would have appeared to be near the normal mean size only because it would be the sum of the two opposite subtypes. To test this possibility, we statistically reanalyzed previously published vermal area measures of 78 autistic patients from four separate studies. The results revealed that the autistic patient samples from these four studies were indeed composed of both the hypoplasia subtype (87%, 92%, 89%, and 84% of patients) and the hyperplasia subtype (13%, 8%, 11%, and 16% of patients). Cerebellar abnormalities have been found in 15 autopsy and quantitative MRI reports from nine laboratories involving a total of 226 autistic cases. Autism may be one of the first developmental neuropsychiatric disorders for which substantial concordance exists among several independent microscopic and macroscopic studies as to the location and type of neuroanatomic maldevelopment. Onset might be as early as the second trimester. Discovery of the etiologies underlying cerebellar maldevelopment may be the key to uncovering some of the causes of infantile autism.

The rate of decrease of neuronal [Ca2+]i after an elevation induced by a glutamate pulse is much slower than that after a comparable [Ca2+]i elevation induced by a K+ depolarization. To investigate whether the [Na+]i increase taking place during the glutamate pulse reduces the rate of Ca2+ extrusion, we monitored simultaneously [Na+]i and [Ca2+]i during a K+ depolarization and a glutamate pulse lasting 1 min. The K+ depolarization evoked only a transient increase of [Na+]i from 4 mM to 13 mM, whereas the glutamate pulse increased [Na+]i to 60 mM, and this increase persisted after glutamate removal. An application of bepridil immediately after glutamate pulse when [Na+]i was greatly elevated, but not 14 min after glutamate removal when a basal [Na+]i was restored, evoked a [Ca2+]i increase accompanied by a decrease of [Na+]i, indicating a reverse mode of operation of the Na+/Ca2+ exchanger. These data suggest that the glutamate-evoked increase in [Na+]i may play a role in Ca2+ homeostasis destabilization.
These studies have examined the effects of the selective neurokinin1 (NK1) receptor antagonist CP-99,994 on the retching and vomiting response to apomorphine. CP-99,994 (1-3 mg/kg i.p.) attenuated retching and vomiting induced by apomorphine (0.25 mg/kg s.c.) with complete inhibition of retching and vomiting at the 3 mg/kg dose. In contrast CP-100,263 (3 mg/kg i.p.), the enantiomer of CP-99,994 with 1000-fold lower affinity for the NK1 receptor, was without effect.
In the brain of young (two weeks old) rats, angiotensin II receptors (AT2 receptors) are found in brain nuclei which receive and integrate direct visual input from the retina, the suprachiasmatic nuclei (containing only AT1 receptors), the lateral geniculate nuclei (containing AT2 receptors) and the superior colliculus (which contains both receptor types with a majority of AT2). In adult rats, angiotensin II receptors are present in the suprachiasmatic nuclei and the superior colliculus but not in the lateral geniculate. Using quantitative autoradiography we found that, in adult rats, bilateral eye enucleation caused a significant decrease in AT2 receptor binding, but not in AT1 receptor binding, and only in the superior colliculus. Unilateral enucleation of 12-day-old pups led to a decrease in AT2 receptor binding from the contralateral superior colliculus, as early as day 2 post-enucleation. Conversely, there was a significant increase in binding to AT1 receptors in the ipsilateral superior colliculus after seven days. No changes were seen in the lateral geniculate or suprachiasmatic nuclei. Angiotensin II binding to subcellular fractions of tissue from the superior colliculus region of 19-day-old pups suggested that AT2 receptor sites were present on the plasma membrane of the postsynaptic cell body. Membrane binding studies also showed a significant decrease in AT2 receptor binding to the same subcellular fractions when 19-day-old pups, enucleated seven days earlier, were compared to sham-operated animals. Our results suggest that expression of AT1 and AT2 receptors in the superior colliculus may be regulated by retinal input.
As the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus has an important anatomical position as an output station for the striatum, its role in the mediation of behaviour stimulated by d-amphetamine and apomorphine was investigated. Bilateral ibotenate lesions were made in either the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus or, as a control, in the adjacent deep mesencephalic nucleus; sham lesions were made using phosphate buffer. Over the 14 days after surgery there were no significant differences in the rats' body weight or food intake. Deep mesencephalic lesioned rats spilled more food and drank more water (never more than 5 ml more) than controls or pedunculopontine tegmental lesioned rats. Spontaneous locomotion and that elicited by d-amphetamine or apomorphine were not affected by ibotenate lesions of either the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus or deep mesencephalic nucleus. At higher doses of d-amphetamine and apomorphine, however, excessive biting and licking were observed in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus, but not deep mesencephalic nucleus, lesioned rats. Such orofacial stereotypies are never observed in normal rats after systemic injection of d-amphetamine. Post mortem analysis showed that ibotenate lesions of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus had destroyed cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons there but had left the deep mesencephalic nucleus intact; ibotenate lesions of the deep mesencephalic nucleus destroyed neurons in that structure but not the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus. These data demonstrate that lesions in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus and deep mesencephalic nucleus have different effects, measured histologically and behaviourally; that neither spontaneous locomotion nor that stimulated by d-amphetamine or apomorphine is dependent on the integrity of the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus; and that the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus plays an important role in mediating orofacial activity stimulated by these drugs. The data are discussed in terms of their implications for understanding outflow from the caudate-putamen and nucleus accumbens.
We have investigated the presence of c-Myc-like antigens in the enteric nervous system of the guinea-pig, rat, dog, sheep, monkey and human. c-Myc-like immunoreactivity was demonstrated by immunohistochemistry in the enteric nervous system of all animals tested, with one or more monoclonal antibodies raised against peptide sequences found in the human c-Myc protein. While in most cases the labelling was nuclear, cytoplasmic labelling was also observed. In the guinea-pig enteric nervous system, c-Myc-like immunoreactivity detected by two different antibodies remained detectable for up to 4 h in the presence of cycloheximide. The size and density of labelled nuclei in the ileal submucous plexus were consistent with exclusive neuronal labelling by one antibody and neuronal plus glial labelling by the other. Double-labelling with antiserum directed against vasoactive intestinal peptide revealed a subset of c-Myc-immunoreactive neurons that also contain this neuropeptide. Anti-c-Myc antibodies specifically immunoprecipitated proteins from guinea-pig myenteric plexus-longitudinal muscle preparations whose sizes were consistent with previous observations for c-Myc antigens and whose distribution was consistent with synthesis in the myenteric plexus. We conclude that c-Myc proteins are expressed in mammalian enteric neurons and that they have characteristics similar to those of c-Myc proteins in other nonproliferative cells.
The possible functional interaction between angiotensin and dopamine mechanisms in the rat was investigated by examining the effects of the angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors captopril and enalapril on apomorphine-induced stereotypy. Apomorphine-induced behaviour was observed, and recorded using a keypad linked to a microcomputer. In agreement with previous findings, low doses of apomorphine induced a syndrome of vacuous mouth movements, penile grooming, yawning and immobility whereas at higher doses the yawning syndrome disappeared to be replaced with sniffing, licking and gnawing. Two antagonism studies were carried out. In the first the effects of captopril on apomorphine-induced behaviour were compared with those of the classical neuroleptic haloperidol, and in the second dose-response curves for the effects of captopril and enalapril on apomorphine-induced behaviour were determined. Captopril had no effect on the apomorphine-induced yawning syndrome whereas this was blocked by haloperidol. In contrast, both captopril and haloperidol blocked oral stereotypy (licking and gnawing) induced by apomorphine but had no effect on sniffing induced by the dopamine agonist. Selective blockade of apomorphine-induced oral stereotypy by angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition was confirmed in the second study in which both captopril and enalapril were observed to antagonize apomorphine-induced gnawing. The inhibition of apomorphine-induced gnawing by enalapril correlated with inhibition of brain angiotensin converting enzyme, but not lung angiotensin converting enzyme, by the drug as assessed by ex vivo penetration studies. These data suggest that angiotensin converting enzyme inhibition modulates the expression of apomorphine-induced oral stereotypy, a response that is thought to be mediated by postsynaptic dopamine receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Changes in chemical sensitivity of peripheral nociceptors following injury or inflammation have been studied in in vitro preparation of the saphenous nerve-hind paw skin from adult rats. Heat hyperalgesia in the hind paw was induced by a prior ultraviolet irradiation and the skin from these animals was investigated five days later. Polymodal nociceptors were quiescent in normal skin but were spontaneously active in the majority of fibres after ultraviolet exposure. Capsaicin-induced activation of fine fibres was enhanced after ultraviolet pretreatment. Direct administration of morphine, DAGOL (mu-receptor agonist) and U-69593 (kappa-receptor agonist), but not DPDPE (delta-receptor agonist) to the receptive field produced a concentration-related and naloxone-reversible suppression of spontaneous firing in polymodal nociceptors of ultraviolet-treated skin. Morphine did not reduce the activity of fibres in normal skin when these were driven by KCl depolarization. These data show that polymodal nociceptors change their activity and sensitivity to exogenous chemicals following the induction of peripheral hyperalgesia by ultraviolet irradiation. Specifically, evidence is provided for the expression of opioid sensitivity and inhibition of polymodal nociceptor activity through mu- and kappa-opioid receptors. These observations may account for peripheral antinociceptive actions of opioids during specific states of peripheral hyperalgesia.
We attempted to elucidate the mechanisms operating in the mediation of the cerebrovasodilator action of the defence area within the periaqueductal gray matter, employing radiolabelled microsphere flowmetry in 50 anaesthetized rats. The caudal two-thirds of this brain region were chemically stimulated with N-methyl-D-aspartate (1 nmol as 100 nl in a 10-mM solution). Besides eliciting a distinctive pattern of haemodynamic defence responses, the stimulation consistently provoked a cerebrovasodilator action, preferentially in the supratentorial brain regions. In particular, 56% of the overall flow increase in the parasagittal cerebral cortex was solely attributable to the unique cerebrocortical vasodilator action of the periaqueductal gray matter, independent of unspecific effects of concomitantly occurring hypertension itself. This flow change was not associated with a specific change in the metabolic rate for O2 of this cortical region. We conclude that the major part of the unique cerebrocortical vasodilator action provoked from the defence area within the periaqueductal gray matter was mediated by non-metabolic mechanisms. The involvement of the metabolic mechanism could be of only minor importance, if any. Cerebral vasodilatation may be involved in the natural defence reactions for coping with the emergency that threatens the animal.
The haemodynamic defence responses were studied by chemically stimulating the lateral periaqueductal gray matter in 27 anaesthetized, artificially ventilated, and paralysed rats. Blood flow was measured by the radiolabelled microsphere method. Microinjection of N-methyl-D-aspartate (1 nmol as 100 nl of a 10-mM solution, delivered over 10 s) into the brain region elicited a distinctive pattern of haemodynamic defence responses. Vasodilation of the hindlimb skeletal muscle tended to be provoked from the caudal third of the periaqueductal gray, whereas vasoconstriction was elicited from the intermediate third. Whichever stimulation was made, however, increases in arterial pressure, heart rate, cardiac output, and total peripheral resistance were consistently provoked. The blood flow was redistributed away from the abdominal viscera. One new finding was that the brain and heart also had their blood flow increased consistently, the former with and the latter without a significant decrease in vascular resistance. As suggested for the classic pattern of haemodynamic defence responses, we consider that the cerebral and coronary circulations may also be involved in coping with the emergency that threatens the animal. The increased cerebral blood flow should be beneficial for ensuring adequate achievement of central processing and organization of the well-coordinated defence reactions. The increased coronary blood flow should help to ensure maintenance of an increased cardiac output striving against the increased total peripheral resistance.
Noxious somatic stimuli elicit vasopressin secretion, an effect thought to result from activation of a facilitatory input from A1 catecholamine cells of the medulla oblongata. To better characterize the A1 cell response and effects on other neuroendocrine A1 projection targets, particularly within the paraventricular nucleus, we have now mapped c-fos expression in neurochemically identified catecholamine and neurosecretory cells following a noxious somatic stimulus. Unilateral hind paw pinch significantly increased c-fos expression in contralateral A1 cells whereas other brainstem catecholamine cell groups were unaffected. Expression of c-fos was also increased in the supraoptic nucleus, this effect being more pronounced for vasopressin than oxytocin neurosecretory cells and, as with A1 cells, primarily on the side contralateral to the stimulated paw. In contrast, the increase in the paraventricular nucleus was greater in oxytocin rather than in vasopressin cells. Additionally there was a significant rise in c-fos expression in medial parvocellular paraventricular nucleus cells of noxiously stimulated animals. Notably, the majority of tuberoinfundibular corticotropin-releasing factor cells are located in this medial parvocellular zone. These results are consistent with and expand on those previously reported from electrophysiological and anatomical studies. The finding of differing neurosecretory cell responses between supraoptic and paraventricular nuclei has interesting implications with regard to the afferent control of neurosecretory cell activity. For example, the substantially greater activation of supraoptic versus paraventricular nucleus vasopressin cells, despite being innervated by the same medullary noradrenergic cell group, raises the possibility of a differential input or differences in responsiveness. Furthermore, the activation of paraventricular nucleus parvocellular cells is consistent with suggestions that the A1 cell group provides an excitatory input to this population.
Neurons of the adult mammalian central nervous system are limited in their ability to regenerate in response to injury. In certain circumstances, however, such neurons can exhibit morphological plasticity (e.g. sprouting). Unilateral transection of the perforant path in the adult rat induces terminal degeneration of entorhinal axons within the molecular layer of the ipsilateral hippocampal dentate gyrus. Cholinergic (and other) afferents subsequently sprout within the denervated zone. We show that despite the breach in the blood-brain barrier at the site of the aspirative lesion, the barrier remains intact in the areas of terminal degeneration (and reinnervation), and peripheral monocytic macrophages do not infiltrate this area to participate in the degenerative and/or regenerative events. Perforant path transection does not induce expression of major histocompatibility antigens on reactive cells within the denervated zone, nor are T lymphocytes recruited to this area. T lymphocyte-deficient Nude rats exhibit normal cholinergic sprouting. Perforant path transection does induce rapid and robust proliferation of microglia, and astrocytes to a lesser extent, in areas undergoing terminal degeneration. Histological evaluation after antimitotic administration shows that this glial proliferation is not required for the subsequent neuronal sprouting events. These results show that the reparative process in this model system involves interactions between cells endogenous to the brain in a non-immune context. Knowledge of these cellular responses provides a framework from which to further investigate putative molecular signals involved in initiating the neuronal sprouting events. Discovering the cellular and molecular interactions taking place under sprouting conditions is likely to be critical for understanding the mechanisms of reactive neuronal growth and, furthermore, may provide insights as to why regeneration is so limited in the central nervous system.
Developmental cell death is a major event of neurogenesis, and emphasis has systematically been placed on the roles of either the peripheral targets or central postsynaptic neurons in the control of neuronal survival. In this article, the main types of experimental design used to test the control of neuronal death by the afferent supply are compared with analogous data indicating neurotrophic support by the targets. It is argued that targets and afferents may have equivalent roles and interact in the control of neuron numbers during development of the vertebrate nervous system. Possible mechanisms of anterograde trophic control include contact-mediated cell interactions, activity-dependent processes mediated by neurotransmitters or neuromodulators, modulation of the levels of cytoplasmic free calcium and the involvement of neurotrophic factors.
In the adult nervous system, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide acts as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator, and during development, it may also act as a neurotrophic factor. In the adult mammalian retina, this peptide is contained in a population of wide-field amacrine cells. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry, we examined the distribution and developmental expression of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine messenger RNA in the rat retina. Retinas collected from birth to adulthood were hybridized with an RNA probe as whole mounts, and then cut either perpendicular or parallel to the vitreal surface. Adult retinas were used in double labeling experiments for the visualization of both the hybridization signal and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactivity in the same tissue section. In adult retinas, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine messenger RNA is localized to amacrine cells positioned in the proximal inner nuclear layer, and rarely to displaced amacrine cells in the inner plexiform layer and ganglion cell layer. The neurons expressing this messenger RNA are sparsely distributed, with a non-random distribution and densities of about 190 cells/mm2. An estimate of their total number gives about 12,350 cells/retina. The double labeling experiments showed that the hybridization signal is specifically confined to neurons displaying vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactivity. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine messenger RNA is first detected at postnatal day 5 in cells located in the proximal part of the neuroblastic layer. A greater number of these neurons is present in the inner nuclear layer at postnatal day 10, and a few labeled neurons are also detected in the inner plexiform layer and in the ganglion cell layer. At this time, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide/peptide histidine isoleucine messenger RNA-containing amacrines in the inner nuclear layer are non-randomly distributed on the retinal surface, as in adult retinas. At postnatal day 15 (eye opening), there is a peak in both the density and the estimated number of labeled neurons, and their pattern of distribution in the retinal layers is similar to that in the adult. The present study shows that in the adult rat retina vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and peptide histidine isoleucine are synthesized in a sparsely distributed amacrine cell population, extending previous immunohistochemical findings. The appearance of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide peptide histidine isoleucine messenger RNA during the first postnatal week is consistent with the reported appearance of other transmitter-identified amacrine cell populations.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Organotypic cultures established from the third thoracic ganglion of locust embryo have been used to investigate dopamine receptors. In this in vitro system, neurites emerge directly from the explants and form a dense network around the explants, presenting cell surface freely exposed for experimental labelling. Polyclonal anti-idiotypic antibodies raised in rabbits to antibodies against dopamine conjugate, and previously found to bind to dopamine receptors, have been used to investigate putative dopamine receptors in these neurites. Immunocytochemical detection by light microscopy employing immunofluorescence labelling, was correlated with electron microscopy, using peroxidase staining. In addition to a location for dopamine receptors on the neurite surface, intracellular binding sites were also found in neurites. This internal labelling might represent an intracellular pool of dopamine receptor precursors. The labelling was specific in that it was not present when the anti-idiotypic dopamine antibodies were replaced with non-immune serum or when preincubation with conjugated dopamine preceded incubation with anti-idiotypic dopamine antibodies.
Previous studies employing 5-hydroxydopamine to identify nigrostriatal dopaminergic axons and their synapses found that labeled axons made few synapses or that asymmetric contacts predominated. In contrast, recent studies using tyrosine hydroxylase or dopamine antibody techniques indicate that presumed dopaminergic axons form small symmetric contacts. We re-examined 5-hydroxydopamine-labeled material from the rat neostriatum using serial three-dimensional reconstruction techniques to characterize the morphology of labeled axons, synapses and postsynaptic targets. This ultrastructural analysis revealed a class of heavily labeled axons that are small (0.06-1.5 microns in diameter) and lack large varicosities. These axons form small (0.011-0.09 microns 2), en passant, symmetric synapses, mainly onto dendritic spines and spiny dendritic shafts and, in some cases, onto aspiny dendritic segments near branch points. The sites of these synapses along the axon appeared unrelated to the locations of axonal enlargements, suggesting that counting varicosities may not be an accurate indication of the extent of dopaminergic innervation in the neostriatum. The characteristics of these 5-hydroxydopamine-labeled elements correspond in all respects to axons and synapses identified as dopaminergic by immunohistochemistry in previous studies. In tissue in which all labeled and unlabeled synapses were classified, approximately 9% of all synapses were identified as dopaminergic by this type of label. Three-dimensional reconstructions provided additional insight concerning the interaction of dopaminergic afferents with postsynaptic striatal targets and their relation to other afferents to these neurons. They reveal that a short, unbranched dopaminergic axonal segment can make multiple synapses onto dendritic spines, shafts and branch points of one or more dendrites. In addition, one dendrite can receive contacts from several labeled axons. Dopamine synapses onto spines are always associated with unlabeled, asymmetric synapses onto the same spine. Synapses of various morphologies with a distinctly different, lighter form of labeling were much rarer, and may represent other aminergic afferents to the neostriatum. The presence of this second form of label in earlier 5-hydroxydopamine studies may have contributed to the long-standing controversy over the appearance of dopaminergic synapses examined by different techniques. Our results help to resolve this controversy and confirm that the nigrostriatal projection makes small symmetric synapses with a variety of striatal targets.
We measured c-fos messenger RNA levels and Fos protein immunoreactivity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus of rats as a function of light and time of day. Immunohistochemistry demonstrated a daily rhythm of immunoreactive Fos in the ventrolateral subdivision of the suprachiasmatic nucleus of animals entrained to a 12 h/12 h light-dark cycle; expression was low during the dark phase, peaked about 2 h after light onset at dawn, and remained elevated at an intermediate level for the remainder of the light phase. Immunoblots of nuclear extracts showed a 54,000 mol. wt band that increased in density from the dark phase to the early light phase and decreased again during the late light phase. In situ hybridization using a radiolabeled cDNA probe revealed a c-fos messenger RNA signal that was detected as early as 15 min after dawn, prominent at 30 min, and absent by 2 h. The expression of c-fos messenger RNA and Fos immunoreactivity in the suprachiasmatic nucleus depended on the presence of ambient light. In rats entrained to two daily 1-h light pulses corresponding to dawn and dusk (&quot;skeleton&quot; photoperiod) instead of the complete light-dark cycle, immunoreactive Fos was elicited by the dawn pulse alone and was less persistent than during the complete photoperiod. In rats free-running in constant darkness, c-fos messenger RNA and Fos immunoreactivity were stimulated by 2-h light pulses administered only during the subjective night and early subjective day, but not by light pulses during the middle or late subjective day or in the absence of light pulses.
Transforming growth factor-beta 1 was studied as a possible regulator of messenger RNAs in astrocytes and neurons that increase after hippocampal deafferentation by perforant path transection: tubulin alpha 1, clusterin and glial fibrillary acidic protein messenger RNA. Because transforming growth factor-beta 1 messenger RNA is increased after this lesion, we examined which messenger RNA lesion responses could be induced by transforming growth factor-beta 1 alone. Porcine transforming growth factor-beta 1 infused into the lateral ventricle elevated the messenger RNAs for tubulin alpha 1, clusterin and glial fibrillary acidic protein 24 h after infusion in the ipsilateral hippocampus. As assayed by nuclear run-on, the transcription of glial fibrillary acidic protein RNA was increased in the ipsilateral hippocampus after perforant path transection and in primary rat astrocyte cultures by transforming growth factor-beta 1. In contrast, transforming growth factor-beta 1 did not change apolipoprotein-E messenger RNA or transcription, or growth associated protein-43 messenger RNA levels. We conclude that transforming growth factor-beta 1 increases subsets of neuronal and astrocyte messenger RNAs coding for cytoskeletal proteins that are also elevated in response to experimental lesions and Alzheimer's disease. This suggests that transforming growth factor-beta 1 might be a local organizing factor of neuronal and astrocyte responses to brain injury.
We investigated the discrete regional effects of bilateral olfactory bulbectomy on central- and peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors in rat brains at weekly intervals until one month after bulb ablation. Persistent increases in [3H]flunitrazepam binding to central benzodiazepine receptors were observed in the cingulum (27%) and in the frontal (15%) and parietal (14%) cortices. Progressive increases in central benzodiazepine receptors, reaching statistical significance four weeks after olfactory bulbectomy, were observed in the ventromedial thalamic nucleus (35%), the lateral hypothalamic region (22%), the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus (23%) and substantia nigra (25%). Persistent major increases (between four- and six-fold) in [3H]PK-11195 [eH]1-(2-chlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-(1-methylpropyl)-3-isoquinoline carboxamide binding to peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors were observed in all anterior olfactory nuclei. Similarly, throughout the time period studied, [3H]PK-11195 binding densities were increased two- to three-fold in the piriform cortex and lateral olfactory tract. These observations confirm the usefulness of [3H]PK-11195 binding as a marker of neuronal insult in the brain. Moreover, the persistent regional increases in [3H]flunitrazepam binding to central-type benzodiazepine receptors suggest that GABAergic transmission is altered following olfactory bulb ablation.
When the entorhinal cortical input to the rat dentate gyrus is destroyed, the process of sprouting and synaptogenesis begins within the denervated dendritic laminae. The present study used immunohistochemical methods to determine whether there was an increase in the oncoproteins c-fos and ras within the denervated neuropil of the dentate gyrus during this period of terminal growth and synapse formation. Animals were prepared for immunolabeling one, three, six and 30 days after unilateral lesion of the entorhinal cortex. Rats were perfused with paraformaldehyde fixative and brain sections were incubated with antibodies to either c-fos or ras oncoprotein. Qualitative light microscopic analysis showed a marked increase in both c-fos and ras proteins over the denervated zone at three days postlesion when compared to both the intact contralateral control and the naive control. At one- and six-day postlesion intervals there was also an increase in labeling over the denervated neuropil with each oncoprotein; however, the intensity of label was reduced relative to that of the three-day time interval. No increase in labeling over the denervated zone was visible for either antibody at 30 days postlesion. The high level of both c-fos and ras labeling in the denervated molecular layer was confirmed with Western blot analysis of dissected molecular layers from lesioned and contralateral control hippocampi. Controls for antibody and method specificity showed that the labeling was specific for c-fos and ras proteins. The high level of c-fos labeling over the denervated molecular layer was uniform with scattered punctate sites of reaction product interspersed in the neuropil. Glial cell bodies in the neuropil contained the highest levels of c-fos oncoprotein. The granule cell nuclei showed an apparent reduction in the level of c-fos labeling at one, three and six days postlesion when compared with the nuclear staining of naive control cases. At 30 days postlesion, high levels of labeling over the denervated zone were not visible and c-fos localization had returned to the typical predominant nuclear sites seen in controls. Ras oncoprotein localization was diffuse in the cell processes of the molecular layer, with intermittent glial labeling within the denervated zone. No cell nuclei labeling was observed with antibodies to ras protein. These results show that both c-fos and ras oncoproteins are increased within the denervated neuropil of the dentate gyrus during sprouting and synapse formation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
To study the neural mechanisms of interhippocampal transfer of lateralized place navigation engrams in rats, lidocaine was injected via chronically implanted cannulae to reversibly inactivate the hippocampal formation and the visual cortex on one side. The eye opposite the blocked side was occluded. Under these conditions, rats learned the location of an invisible platform in a water maze [mean escape latencies per four-trial block (t) = 5-6 s at the performance asymptote]. Monocular intact brain retrieval with the trained eye (t = 7) was better than with the untrained eye (t = 13). However, analysis of each retrieval trial indicated untrained eye performance was only poor on the first trial (t = 30). To test whether trans-commissural read-out alone or write-in (i.e. interhippocampal transfer) of the lateralized engram explains the above results, rats acquired a new platform location (t = 5). Two groups were then given a 30-s &quot;free swim&quot; (the platform was removed) with intact brain and either the trained or untrained eye occluded. A third group did not have this &quot;transfer&quot; trial. Retrieval was tested with the trained hippocampus and visual cortex blocked. With the trained eye occluded, retrieval in the rats that had the transfer trial (t = 11) was better than in those that did not (t = 25), but slightly worse than in rats tested with the untrained eye, hippocampus and visual cortex blocked (t = 7). Additionally, retrieval was similar, independent of whether the trained (t = 12) or untrained (t = 11) eye was open on the transfer swim. The 30-s swim alone did not induce comparable savings. We conclude that interhippocampal transfer of lateralized place learning is easily induced, is equal if the transfer is facultative or imperative, and involves both trans-commissural read-out and write-in processes.
Image analysis techniques were used to examine changes in the intrinsic optical properties in the isolated brain of the guinea-pig in order to map normal neuronal activity patterns and seizure propagation in the olfactory cortex. Electrical stimulation of the lateral olfactory tract decreased light reflectance in distant cortical areas where fibres of the tract are known to project. These areas included the amygdalar, anterior and posterior piriform, and entorhinal cortices, as well as the olfactory tubercle. Stimulation of the lateral entorhinal cortex decreased reflectance in a more circumscribed area in the lateral and medial entorhinal cortex. By imaging intrinsic signals in real-time, we also demonstrated that seizure activity elicited in the entorhinal cortex/hippocampus preferentially propagated to the posteromedial cortical amygdaloid nucleus. The magnitudes of the intrinsic optical signals were correlated with the amplitudes of field potentials recorded in laminae II or III of the olfactory cortex of the same preparations. These signals had onset times of approximately 3 s during 5 Hz stimulation, consistently recovered and were graded with stimulation frequency. The generation of the intrinsic signals required postsynaptic activation, since attenuating synaptic transmission with kynurenic acid (an excitatory amino acid antagonist) eliminated the signals. The intrinsic signals exhibited maxima at 425-450, 550 and 600 nm, suggesting that they arose from changes in light absorption by cytochromes. Intrinsic signals of relatively constant magnitude were also present at 400, 475-500 and 575 nm, and at wavelengths greater than 600 nm. This suggested that an additional component of the intrinsic signal arose from changes in light scattering, possibly due to cellular swelling.
Recent ultrastructural descriptions of synaptic contacts suggest that potential synaptic efficacy may be directly correlated with bouton size. The characteristics of a synaptic bouton which presumably underlie its potential physiological strength (such as vesicle number, active zone number and area, and mitochondrial volume) are all linearly related to the volume of the bouton. Furthermore, at synapses which contact dendritic spines in both the hippocampus and cerebellum, the volume of the spine is linearly related to bouton volume. The existence of these scaling relationships has widespread implications for interpreting synaptic anatomy and variability, and for examining synaptic plasticity. We review evidence in support of the &quot;ultrastructural size principle&quot; outlined above and its potential generality.
P19 embryonal carcinoma cells are pluripotent and can be efficiently induced to differentiate in culture into neurons and astroglia by brief treatment with retinoic acid. Retinoic acid-treated P19 cells survive after grafting into the adult rat striatum and differentiate into neurons and glia within the transplantation site. No tumours develop from the grafted cells which continue to express foreign genes that had been transfected into the parental P19 cells. The neurons in these grafts express a variety of neurotransmitters similar to those formed in retinoic acid-treated P19 cell cultures and they mature to acquire the electrophysiological properties expected of fully developed neurons. These results suggest that P19 cells may be used for studies related to neuronal cell development and maturation and that P19 cells may be considered for cell replacement strategies in neurodegenerative disorders of the central nervous system.
Treatment of P19 embryonal carcinoma cells with retinoic acid induces their differentiation into a population of cells consisting of neurons and other cell types normally derived from neuroectoderm. We used immunohistological and histochemical techniques to identify some of the neurotransmitters in the P19-derived neurons. The majority of neurons contained GABA, glutamic acid decarboxylase, and GABA-transaminase. Neuropeptide Y and somatostatin were less frequently found and both were partially co-expressed with GABA and with one another. Smaller numbers of cells were positive for tyrosine hydroxylase, DOPA decarboxylase, serotonin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, galanin and substance P. The variety and proportions of cells with different transmitter types were reproducible from one experiment to the next and varied very little over 40 days in culture except for cells containing enkephalin, which were abundant only in mature cultures of 32 days or more. Synapses formed between neurons and some contained both small clear and large dense-core vesicles within the presynaptic bouton. Because GABA, neuropeptide Y and somatostatin are abundant in P19-derived neurons as well as in embryonic neurons in rostral regions of the mammalian CNS, we suggest that the developmental events occurring in P19 cell cultures closely resemble those of the embryonic neuroectoderm.
If the sciatic nerve is crushed in neonatal rats, a large proportion of motoneurons die, but the same injury inflicted at five days of age results in little, if any, motoneuron death. However, these motoneurons are rendered susceptible to the excitotoxic effects of the glutamate agonist, N-methyl-D-aspartate. Retrograde labelling of soleus motoneurons after nerve crush at five days of age, followed by treatment with N-methyl-D-aspartate seven days later, shows that only 36 +/- 7.5% of motoneurons have survived. If the motoneurons are allowed to reinnervate their target, and N-methyl-D-aspartate is applied three weeks after the nerve injury, no motoneuron death is observed. Furthermore, adult motoneurons remain resistant to the toxic effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate, even after nerve injury. These results indicate that glutamate, the main excitatory neurotransmitter in the developing spinal cord, may be involved in the motoneuron death that occurs following nerve injury during early postnatal development.
In vivo microdialysis was employed to measure release of endogenous L-glutamate and L-aspartate in the region of the dorsomedial medulla oblongata including the medial nucleus tractus solitarius of the anaesthetized rat. Basal extracellular levels of these amino acids were stable and increased over two-fold when the perfusate was changed to a high KCl (80 mM) artificial cerebrospinal fluid. This high K(+)-evoked release was calcium-dependent, while basal levels were insensitive to removal of calcium ions from the perfusate. An intravenous infusion of phenylephrine, which elevated blood pressure, caused a marked increase of both spontaneous and evoked release of glutamate. In contrast aspartate efflux was not significantly altered. The present data provide evidence that the excitatory amino acids, glutamate and aspartate, serve a neurotransmitter function in the nucleus tractus solitarius of the rat. Furthermore, the increase in glutamate release following baroreceptor activation with phenylephrine suggests that glutamate may be a neurotransmitter at baroreceptor afferent nerve terminals within the nucleus tractus solitarius. On the other hand, aspartate appears to be possibly an inter-neuronal transmitter in this brain region.
The dorsal root ganglion-neuroblastoma cell line ND7-23 expresses low-voltage-activated calcium channel currents, and also expresses high-voltage-activated currents in about 50% of differentiated cells. Calcium channel currents were recorded with Ba2+ as the charge carrier. Low-voltage-activated currents were maximally activated at -30 mV and completely inactivated at holding potentials of -60 to -50 mV. omega-Conotoxin GVIA produced a reversible inhibition of low-voltage-activated currents, whereas the inhibition of high-voltage-activated current was largely irreversible. Dihydropyridine antagonists did not inhibit low-voltage-activated currents, whereas they inhibited a sustained, high-voltage-activated current. Low-voltage-activated currents were inhibited to a greater extent than high-voltage-activated currents by Ni2+ (100 microM) and by phenytoin (10 microM). Bradykinin (0.1 microM), baclofen (2 microM) and internal guanosine-5'-O-3-thiotriphosphate (100 microM) inhibited low-voltage-activated currents without affecting their kinetics of activation. Two classes of low-voltage-activated current were distinguished by their kinetics of inactivation. In the majority of cells, currents were slowly inactivating with a time-constant of inactivation of about 50 ms. They also exhibited a sustained component to the current, representing about 20% of the peak current. This component could be distinguished pharmacologically from high-voltage-activated current. The remainder of cells expressed a rapidly and completely inactivating current, with a time-constant of inactivation of about 20 ms. Two distinct single channel currents were observed in these cells, from cell-attached patch measurements, one had a single channel conductance of 7.9 pS, and the ensemble average current showed some inactivation. It is likely that this channel subtype underlies the low-voltage-activated current. The other showed long openings in the presence of a dihydropyridine agonist, had a conductance of 23.1 pS, and was non-inactivating.
Metabolites of arachidonic acid are known to be formed in the mammalian central nervous system. When intact hippocampal slices were incubated in artificial cerebrospinal fluid, 12-hydroxyeicosatetraenoic acid and two isomers of hepoxilin A3 (8R and 8S) were released as measured by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. These compounds were released in greater amounts in the presence of noradrenaline or when arachidonic acid was added to the slices. The neuronal actions of chemically derived preparations of 8R and 8S hepoxilins and the glutathione conjugate, hepoxilin A3-C, were examined using intracellular and whole-cell electrophysiological recordings in hippocampal CA1 neurons in vitro. All compounds had the excitatory effects of lowering spike threshold and decreasing spike frequency adaptation, and the inhibitory actions of membrane hyperpolarization, enhanced postspike train afterhyperpolarizations and increased inhibitory postsynaptic potentials or currents. A synthetic analog of hepoxilin A3-C, in which the glutathione moiety is placed at carbon position 9 instead of carbon position 11 as in hepoxilin A3-C, was inactive. The actions of the hepoxilins showed a sharp dose-response relationship, with minimal threshold or no effect at 3 nM (n = 21) and maximal effects at 10 nM (n = 33). There were no significant differences between the responses to either the 8R or 8S isomers, or between hepoxilin A3 and hepoxilin A3-C. These data suggest that hepoxilins formed by the brain have significant neuromodulatory actions.
Synapse development and injury-induced reorganization have been extensively characterized morphologically, yet relatively little is known about the underlying molecular and biochemical events. To examine molecular mechanisms of synaptic development and rearrangement, we looked at the developmental pattern of expression of the neuron-specific gene synapsin I in granule cell neurons of the dentate gyrus and their accompanying mossy fibers during the main period of synaptogenic differentiation in the rat hippocampus. We found a significant difference between the temporal expression of synapsin I messenger RNA in dentate granule somata and the appearance of protein in their mossy fiber terminals during the postnatal development of these neurons. Next, to investigate the regulation of neuron-specific gene expression during the restoration of synaptic contacts in the central nervous system, we examined the expression of the synapsin I gene following lesions of hippocampal circuitry. These studies show marked changes in the pattern and intensity of synapsin I immunoreactivity in the dendritic fields of dentate granule cell neurons following perforant pathway transection. In contrast, changes in synapsin I messenger RNA expression in target neurons, and in those neurons responsible for the reinnervation of this region of the hippocampus, were not found to accompany new synapse formation. On a molecular level, both developmental and lesion data suggest that the expression of the synapsin I gene is tightly regulated in the central nervous system, and that considerable changes in synapsin I protein may occur in neurons without concomitant changes in the levels of its messenger RNA. Finally, our results suggest that the appearance of detectable levels of synapsin I protein in in developing and sprouting synapses coincides with the acquisition of function by those central synapses.
The area postrema has been implicated as a major station for the processing of visceral sensory information, involved primarily in eliciting rapid homeostatic responses to fluid and nutrient imbalances. Yet the precise relationship of efferent projections from the area postrema to medullary motor and relay nuclei involved in such functions remains unclear. In this study, axonal transport and immunohistochemical techniques were used to investigate the relationship of efferent projections from the area postrema to vagal motor neurons and medullary catecholamine-containing cell groups in the rat. The results may be summarized as follows: (1) The area postrema gives rise to dense inputs to the commissural and medial parts of the nucleus of the solitary tract. Many of these projections are intimately associated with catecholamine-containing neurons in the A2 and C2 cell groups, including a particularly prominent input to a caudally placed cluster of adrenergic neurons (the C2d cell group) in the dorsal aspect of the medial part of the nucleus of the solitary tract. (2) The area postrema provides a dense input to the external lateral part of the parabrachial nucleus. (3) The area postrema does not project significantly to vagal motor neurons in either the dorsal motor nucleus or the nucleus ambiguus, although the possibility for inputs to distal dendrites of dorsal vagal motor neurons cannot be excluded. (4) En route to the parabrachial nucleus, axons of area postrema neurons traverse the regions of the A1, C1 and A5 cell groups, although these fibers make few arborizations, suggesting little functional contact. Together, these results suggest that sensory information received by the area postrema is dispatched to a restricted set of neurons in the commissural, medial, and dorsal parts of the nucleus of the solitary tract, most probably including catecholamine-containing cells in the A2, C2, and C2d cell groups, and to the external lateral portion of the parabrachial nucleus. The targets of area postrema projections are, in turn, in a position to effect adaptive changes in the activities of hypothalamic neurosecretory neurons, vagal motor neurons, and limbic forebrain regions in response to perturbations in fluid and nutrient homeostasis.
A combination of retrograde axonal tract tracing and choline acetyltransferase immunocytochemistry was used to determine the cells of origin of the cholinergic innervation of the rat cochlear nucleus. The results showed that the cochlear nucleus receives a major cholinergic input from a group of small cells found in the ventral trapezoid nucleus. Experiments using an anterograde tracer confirmed the presence of a neuronal pathway from the ventral trapezoid nucleus to the cochlear nucleus and showed that this pathway travels via the trapezoid body.
The anterograde and retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase was used to study the trigeminoperibrachial pathway in the muskrat after injections of tracer into either the medullary dorsal horn or the dorsolateral pons. After injections into the medullary dorsal horn, labeled fibers ascended into the ipsilateral dorsolateral pons via the spinal trigeminal tract, within the neuropil of the trigeminal sensory complex and within the reticular formation adjacent to the spinal trigeminal nucleus. At caudal levels of the ipsilateral peribrachial area, dense terminal-like label distributed in the Klliker-Fuse nucleus continued into the lateral parabrachial nucleus. At intermediate levels ipsilaterally, the Klliker-Fuse nucleus again was labeled densely, as were areas analogous to the external lateral and external medial subnuclei of the parabrachial nucleus in the rat. A thin band of label along the ventral spinocerebellar tract outlined an unlabeled area in the central portion of the lateral parabrachial nucleus. Rostrally near the pontomesencephalic junction, the area designated the superior lateral subnucleus in the hamster was labeled, while sparser label was present more dorsally. Contralateral to the injections, caudal and intermediate levels of the peribrachial area contained only scant reaction product. However, the rostral area of the superior lateral subnucleus was labeled densely via fibers ascending in the trigeminothalamic tract. Injections made just rostral to the obex and either centered in or including the dorsal or ventral paratrigeminal nuclei produced similar labeling at caudal and intermediate levels of the peribrachial area. An exception, however, was that the caudal medial parabrachial nucleus was also labeled after the dorsal paratrigeminal injection. Also, only scant label was found in the rostral third of the dorsolateral pons on either side after these injections. Both trigeminothalamic and trigeminolemniscal pathways were labeled contralaterally after these injections. These trigeminal projections to the dorsolateral pons were compared to the projections from the nucleus tractus solitarii and the ventrolateral medulla. Numerous trigeminal neurons were labeled retrogradely after injections of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase into the dorsolateral pons. In the medullary dorsal horn, they were found almost exclusively in laminae I and V. Labeled neurons in lamina I were especially prominent in rostral ventral levels of the medullary dorsal horn. Labeled cells in lamina I were continuous with others found in the displaced band of substantia gelatinosa at the interface of the subnucleus caudalis and subnucleus interpolaris, as well as with those found in the ventral and dorsal paratrigeminal nuclei.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neurons were acutely dissociated from the rat nucleus basalis, and membrane currents (whole-cell patch-clamp) and intracellular free Ca2+ concentrations (Fura-2) were measured simultaneously from large neurons (approximately 25 microns in diameter). A brief depolarization from -60 to 0 mV for 200 ms evoked an increase in intracellular free calcium and a slow outward tail current (72 +/- 8 pA, n = 30). The outward current reversed polarity at -75.5 +/- 2.7 mV (n = 14). The tail current declined and the intracellular calcium recovered its resting level exponentially with time-constants of 1.0 +/- 0.1 s and 2.5 +/- 0.2 s, respectively (n = 17). In neurons loaded with Cs-gluconate, a similar depolarizing pulse evoked a similar increase in intracellular free calcium, but this was now followed by an inward tail current (118 +/- 8 pA, n = 44). The inward tail current reversed polarity at -27.8 +/- 3.8 mV (n = 7), and was suppressed by removal of external sodium ions. Neither outward nor inward tail currents were observed, when the external solution was calcium-free or when the pipette solution contained EGTA (10 mM). These results indicate that a depolarization causes a calcium entry and that this consequently increases both K+ conductance and non-selective cation conductance.
Rat piriform cortex contains a subpopulation of presumed GABAergic interneurons located near the border of layers 2 and 3 that express excitatory serotonin2 receptors. These serotonin2-responsive interneurons send axons to layer 2 pyramidal cells. Using an in vitro brain slice preparation, serotonin2 receptor-mediated excitation can be assessed either by directly recording from the interneurons or by recording the increase in inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in the pyramidal cells. Intracellular recordings from the interneurons demonstrated that compared to pyramidal cells they had a more depolarized resting membrane potential, a higher input resistance and shorter action potential duration. The serotonin2 receptor-mediated excitation was associated with a strong depolarization (range 3-22 mV). We found that the atypical antipsychotic drugs, risperidone and clozapine, which have relatively high affinity for serotonin2 receptors, each dose-dependently inhibited the serotonin2-mediated excitation of the interneurons with IC50 values of 7 nM and 1.4 microM, respectively. This antagonism was specific to the extent that excitation mediated by agonists at excitatory amino acid receptors were not blocked at concentrations of risperidone and clozapine that completely antagonized the serotonin2 receptor-mediated excitation. The typical antipsychotic drug, chlorpromazine, inhibited the serotonin2-mediated excitation of the interneurons with an IC50 of 14 microM. Haloperidol, another typical antipsychotic drug, decreased the serotonin2 response to about half of baseline at a concentration of 10 microM (the exact IC50 could not be calculated because higher concentrations produced non-specific effects on cells). Both risperidone and clozapine blocked the serotonin-elicited inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in layer 2 pyramidal cells at concentrations that approximated the IC50 for antagonizing the serotonin2-mediated excitation of the interneurons. Chlorpromazine and haloperidol, in the concentration range that blocked serotonin2 receptor-mediated excitation of interneurons, also blocked the serotonin-elicited inhibitory postsynaptic potentials in the pyramidal cells. The IC50 values for risperidone and clozapine, but not for chlorpromazine or haloperidol, for blocking serotonin2 receptor-mediated actions in rodent piriform cortical slice are in the range of the plasma concentrations of the drug that are clinically efficacious. Our data suggest that a potential site of action of the atypical antipsychotic drugs risperidone and clozapine could be antagonism of serotonin acting through serotonin2 receptors on GABAergic interneurons in cerebral cortex.
Photoreceptors convert the elements of the visual image into the elements of a neural image. This process involves well-studied molecular events occurring at the outer segment, but also employs important molecular events in the proximal regions of the photoreceptor, including the synaptic terminal, encompassed here as the inner segment. Integral to neural processing at this level in the visual system, the inner segment mechanisms modify the visual signal before transmission to second order cells at the photoreceptor output synapse. This commentary, emphasizing the author's own work, discusses biophysical properties of the ensemble of ion channels in the photoreceptor inner segment that shape the light response and enable its transmission. Examples that illustrate ion channels whose biophysical properties seem well suited for their roles in photoreceptor function include: h channels, cation-selective channels activated by hyperpolarization, which carry current that counteracts the strong hyperpolarizing influence of cGMP-gated channel closure accompanying bright light; Kx channels, carrying potassium current which shares the kinetic properties of the M-current found in many other cell types, which shape responses to dim light and set the dark resting potential; and Ca channels that regulate calcium influx to control Ca-gated channel activity and synaptic output, &quot;re-transducing&quot; the neural signal now into a chemical one. The role of chloride current, carried in Ca-activated Cl channels dependent on the unknown chloride equilibrium potential in photoreceptors, is also discussed.
Thromboembolism is a common problem in neurosurgery and neurology patients. Within this diverse population are subpopulations of patients with varying degrees of thromboembolic risk: low, moderate, and high. Patients at substantial risk for deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism include those with spinal cord injury, brain tumor, subarachnoid hemorrhage, head trauma, stroke, and patients undergoing a neurosurgical operation. There are prophylactic strategies that can be applied to these various risk groups that will dramatically reduce the incidence of thromboembolism. The risk of pulmonary embolism or fatal pulmonary embolism typically exceeds the risk of severe or fatal bleeding from adequate prophylaxis, and these techniques should be applied on a routine basis. To adequately care for patients with deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, the physician requires a thorough understanding of the methods of diagnosis, the pharmacokinetics of heparin and warfarin, and a knowledge of their role in the treatment strategies that have proven efficacy and safety. In addition, an awareness of the low molecular weight heparins and heparinoids is becoming essential. These new agents have a potentially promising role in both the prophylaxis and treatment of patients with neurological disease. The principles concerning the prophylaxis, diagnosis, and clinical management of venous thromboembolic disease in neurosurgery and neurology patients are dealt with in this review.
The effects of chronic administration of clomipramine or citalopram (CMI or CIT, 20 mg/kg i.p. daily for 19 days) with/without short-term administration of lithium (Li, 2 mEq/kg i.p. daily for 5 days) on the concentration of monoamines and their metabolites and serotonergic receptors were studied in the rat cerebral cortex. Li or CMI by itself had no effects on the concentration of monoamines and their metabolites, but a combination of CMI and Li increased that of 5-HIAA. CIT alone increased that of 5-HIAA, and a combination of CIT and Li increased that of 5-HIAA more than CIT alone. There were no changes in 5-HT or 5-HIAA after acute administration of CMI or CIT with/without Li. For the serotonergic receptors, [3H] 8-OH-DPAT and [3H] paroxetine binding did not change in any of the treatments. CMI alone or a combination of CMI and Li reduced [3H] ketanserin binding, but Li did not potentiate this effect. It is speculated that the therapeutic action of Li when added to tricyclic antidepressants in the treatment of refractory depression may partly have its basis in potentiation of effects on the activation of presynaptic serotonergic system.
Oral administration of L-dopa is currently the most effective way to treat the cerebral dopamine deficiency which causes Parkinson's disease. Unfortunately, many patients with advanced Parkinson's disease develop an unstable pattern of response to L-dopa because of fluctuating delivery of the drug to the brain. Diet contributes to this problem through its adverse effects on L-dopa pharmacokinetics. This article reviews dietary strategies to improve responsiveness to pharmaceutical L-dopa treatment and the potential use of food as a source of L-dopa. Nutritional factors concerning weight loss and energy balance in Parkinson's disease are also discussed. A set of dietary guidelines is developed to assist clinical nutritionists and neurologists in the practical management of patients with Parkinson's disease.
A goal of the present study was to document the behavioral changes observed in a model of painful neuropathy in the primate (Macaca fascicularis). A neuropathic state was induced by tight ligation of the L7 spinal nerve, just distal to the L7 dorsal root ganglion. Sensory testing was done on the ventral surface of the foot, a region that includes the L7 dermatome. Within 1 week following surgery, all monkeys (n = 3) developed a marked sensitivity to mechanical stimulation (with a camel hair brush and von Frey hairs), indicating the presence of mechanical allodynia. In 2 animals, the increased sensitivity to mechanical stimulation was also observed on the contralateral side. The threshold for withdrawal to a heat stimulus decreased, indicating the presence of heat hyperalgesia. Presentation of various cooling stimuli, such as acetone and cold water baths, suggested that cold allodynia had also developed. These behavioral phenomena are similar to those seen in humans diagnosed with peripheral neuropathic pain. The behavioral abnormalities are discussed in relation to the responses of spinothalamic tract cells recorded from primates with the same peripheral nerve injury (Palecek et al. 1992).
Using the whole-cell recording technique, we have examined the slow Ca(2+)-activated afterhyperpolarization (AHP) and its underlying current (IAHP) in hippocampal CA1 neurones of brain slices obtained from mature rats. Specifically we have studied the effects of the anion component of various K+ salts commonly used to make the pipette filling solution that dialyses neurones during whole-cell recordings. Among the K+ salts examined which included potassium methylsulfate, potassium methanesulfonate, potassium gluconate, potassium chloride, potassium citrate and potassium glutamate, stable AHPs/IAHP and strong spike firing adaptation could only be observed in neurones recorded with the patch pipette solution containing potassium methylsulfate. These AHPs and firing patterns closely mimicked those recorded with sharp electrodes. Similarly, the sustained component of voltage-activated Ca2+ currents was more stable in neurones dialysed with cesium methanesulfonate than in those dialysed with cesium gluconate or cesium chloride. Although the mechanisms underlying the interaction(s) between internally applied anions and ionic channels need further investigation, the present experiments illustrate that in mammalian brain neurones at 33 degrees C, the Ca(2+)-activated IAHP is dramatically altered by internal anions. We suggest that among anions commonly used in electrode filling solutions for whole-cell recordings, methylsulfate is the least disruptive to intracellular structures or Ca2+ homeostasis and permits stable whole-cell recording of the IAHP and Ca2+ currents in mammalian CNS neurones.
The present experiments used a conditioned aversion to a novel saccharin taste to assess the aversive effects of deoxynivalenol (vomitoxin) administration, and to examine the putative mediating role of the chemosensitive area postrema (AP). In experiment 1 adult male rats drank a novel 0.15% saccharin solution followed by injection of deoxynivalenol (n = 7; 0.125 mg/kg, IP) or vehicle (n = 7; propylene glycol, 0.5 ml/kg). In subsequent two-bottle preference tests the rats conditioned with deoxynivalenol displayed significantly (p &lt; 0.01) lower absolute and relative saccharin intake levels in comparison to control rats which exhibited a strong preference for saccharin solution. In experiment 2 adult male rats received area postrema ablations (n = 6) or sham lesions (n = 6). On two conditioning days all rats drank a novel 0.15% saccharin solution followed by injections of deoxynivalenol (0.125 mg/kg, IP). In subsequent two-bottle preference tests the sham-lesioned rats displayed a significant (p &lt; 0.01) aversion to the saccharin stimulus, relative to the area postrema-ablated rats which exhibited a preference for the saccharin solution. Thus, systemic administration of deoxynivalenol, following a novel taste, induced conditioned taste aversions which were mediated by the area postrema.
The present study examined the effects of the opiate antagonist naloxone on spatial acquisition and retention in a water-maze task by adult, nonbreeding, male and female meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus). Voles were required to learn the position of a hidden, submerged platform using distal visual cues. There were four trials per day for 6 days. Daily pretraining (15 min before first trial) systemic administrations of naloxone (1.0 mg/kg, IP) significantly facilitated spatial acquisition in female, but not in male, voles in a water-maze task on days 2, 3, and 4. There were two probe tasks given 1 day and 1 week after the last training trial. All groups acquired the spatial task by the end of the fifth day with no significant effects of naloxone on retention of the spatial task. There were also no significant sex differences in acquisition of the spatial task and task retention in control, nonbreeding adult voles. It is suggested that the lack of sex differences in basal spatial performance may be related to the low levels of testosterone in male nonbreeding voles. The obtained sex differences in the effects of naloxone on spatial acquisition are considered in relation to sex differences in stress, opiate responses, and gonadal steroid levels.
The purpose of the study was to investigate clinical and pharmacokinetic parameters concerning perphenazine decanoate (PD) and haloperidol decanoate (HD) with an interval of 3 weeks during a study period of 51 weeks. This was done by using the available drug preparations in chronic schizophrenic patients in a randomised, double-blind, cross-over, multicentre study. In addition, an elimination phase of 6 weeks was added, when no IM injections of the depot drugs were given. Twenty-nine patients in a stable neuroleptic maintenance phase entered the study. The patients were rated during the trial according to the CPRS-SCHZ and CGI scales, the UKU side effect scale and serum concentrations of the drugs and prolactin were monitored. There was no significant difference between the drugs in antipsychotic efficacy or side effects. Thus, the doses were equipotent with regard to the CPRS-SCHZ scores. However, the patients' global improvement rating was higher for PD (52%) than for HD (39%) (P &gt; 0.05). The elimination of both drugs was very slow. No interaction effects between PD and HD were observed. The serum levels of HD were in most patients lower than those recommended for acute-subacute treatment. The mean doses were 117 mg (0.29 mmol), range 20-313 mg PD and 120 mg (0.32 mmol), range 20-350 mg HD. The serum concentrations in nmol/L of perphenazine and haloperidol (week 24) were 0.8-15.9 and 2.3-46.7, respectively.
The aim of the present study was to determine whether in a task with stimuli inducing frequent saccadic eye movements, ingestion of oxazepam impairs performance more than in a task in which the stimuli remained fixed at the same location, due to effects of oxazepam on the ocular system. Eighteen males performed a vigilance task with static and dynamic stimuli under the influence of oxazepam (20 and 40 mg) in a placebo-controlled, double blind, crossover design. Oxazepam (40 mg) had a larger effect on vigilance performance in the first part of the dynamic task, relative to its static counterpart. Oxazepam also had an effect on oculomotor behavior, but this effect was unrelated to impaired performance. There were dose-dependent effects of oxazepam on absolute, overall level of performance but not on the decrement with time. The non-dose-dependent aggravation of the decrement in correct detections, caused by the drug, could only partly be accounted for by pharmacokinetics and increased eyelid closures, and was also caused by pharmacodynamic effects of the drug, such as those on attention. Different effects were noted for the two signal detection measures of response behavior, B&quot; and RI.
There is rapidly accumulating evidence that generation of nitric oxide (NO) through a Ca2+ and calmodulin-dependent pathway plays various important roles in the central nervous system. In the present study, effects of several antipsychotics on the activity of NO synthase were investigated in rat cerebellum and neuroblastoma N1E-115 cells, due to the known ability of these agents to inhibit calmodulin. In cytosolic preparations of rat cerebellum, the antipsychotic drugs inhibited the conversion of [3H]L-arginine into [3H]L-citrulline by NO synthase in a concentration-dependent manner. This inhibition was noncompetitive in nature, and it exhibited an excellent correlation with blockade of calmodulin activity. Furthermore, these drugs attenuated cyclic GMP formation induced by a calcium ionophore in N1E-115 cells, a response which takes place as a consequence of NO generation. Taken together, our data demonstrate that antipsychotic drugs inhibit NO formation in vitro. It is unlikely, however, that these actions might contribute to their therapeutic and/or side effects, since they take place at relatively high concentrations.
The question of whether and to what extent poor performance on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test (WCST) in patients with schizophrenia can be improved with coaching has been controversial. We review relevant studies with particular reference to the following issues: (1) can improvement occur? (2) if improvement does occur, what is its significance? and (3) what is the association between performance and neurophysiology? The studies indicate that in patients with schizophrenia performance can frequently be improved, but usually remains in the abnormal range. Similar results for memory measures have been reported in patients with amnesias or dementias of known neurological origin. This suggests that simple dichotomies between neurologic and psychological explanations of cognitive impairment and potential amelioration of such impairment may be inadequate. Comparisons of the results of studies using the WCST as a clinical tool with binary cut-off scores to define normal and abnormal, as a measure of neuropsychological function along a continuum, and as an activation stimulus to probe neurophysiology suggest that absolute WCST scores may not always accurately gauge the functional integrity of neural systems dedicated to the task. This situation may arise because of individual differences in endowment and in the capacity for neuronal compensation, as well as measurement error. Given these issues, caution is advised in the interpretation of WCST scores, which are best understood as representing a final common cognitive pathway that can be the product of diverse psychological, physiological, and neuroanatomic mechanisms.
Reductions in the size of medial temporal lobe structures in schizophrenia have been demonstrated using magnetic resonance imaging. It is not clear whether these neuropathological changes are present premorbidly or if they reflect an adult-onset progressive process. In this study, quantitative measures were made of the lateral ventricles, third ventricle, amygdala, hippocampus, and cerebral hemispheres from coronal MRI images on 33 patients with schizophrenia and 41 normal controls. Images were selected a priori from the region of the temporal lobe in which we had previously demonstrated reduced volume of temporal lobe gray matter in a separate sample of patients. Results showed a decrease in amygdala, hippocampal, and amygdala-hippocampal size bilaterally and an increase in third and lateral ventricular volume. Advancing age in normals was associated with a decrease in the size of medial temporal structures and an increase in lateral ventricular size. In schizophrenia, there was a correlation between age and lateral ventricle size, but duration of illness was not associated with reductions in medial temporal tissue or ventricular enlargement. These results are consistent with prior evidence from neuroimaging and postmortem studies of medial temporal pathology in schizophrenia and support hypotheses that neuropathological changes in schizophrenia are not progressive.
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) oxytocin concentrations in 20 neuroleptic-treated schizophrenic patients, 31 neuroleptic-withdrawn schizophrenic patients, and 15 normal control subjects were compared. Neither within-subject comparisons of CSF oxytocin concentration measurements made during neuroleptic treatment and withdrawal (n = 11), nor comparison of the combined neuroleptic-withdrawn and neuroleptic-treated patient group (n = 40) with control subjects (n = 15) differed significantly, suggesting that CSF oxytocin concentration is not altered in schizophrenia.
Patients with schizophrenia appear to have abnormalities in both brain structures and information processing. Several recent reports have suggested that correlations exist between such measures. We examined the volume of several brain regions using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and also assessed both information processing, using brain event-related potentials (ERPs), and clinical symptomatology in sixteen medicated patients with schizophrenia. Subjects were tested using auditory and visual discrimination tasks. From the ERPs elicited by stimuli presented with relative probabilities of 0.1, the N100, N200, and P300 components were identified and measured. All subjects also had MRI scans that included 12 contiguous coronal sections, each 1 cm thick. From these scans, the following structures were identified and the volume or area quantified: third ventricle, lateral ventricles (partial), amygdala and hippocampus (one slice), partial brain volume (in one slice through the parietal lobe), and total prefrontal and temporal lobe gray and white matter in both cortical regions. Significant correlations were found between hippocampal area and the amplitude of the auditory and visual N200, and between the right hippocampus and the visual P300. Lower but significant correlations were seen between auditory P300 and measures of left temporal lobe structures. Auditory P300 amplitude correlated inversely with positive symptoms of schizophrenia. These preliminary results suggest that the ERP abnormalities in patients with schizophrenia are associated with temporal lobe pathology.
The olfactory system shares many principles of functional organization with other sensory systems, but differs in that the sensory input is in the form of molecular information carried in odor molecules. Current studies are providing new insights into how this information is processed. In analogy with the spatial receptive fields of visual neurons, the molecular receptive range of olfactory cells is defined as the range of odor molecules that will affect the firing of that cell. Olfactory receptor molecules belong to a large gene family; it is hypothesized that individual receptor molecules may have relatively broad molecular receptive ranges, and that an individual receptor cell need therefore express only one or a few different types of receptors to cover a broad range. Mitral/tufted cells have narrower molecular receptive ranges, comprising molecules with related structures (odotopes). This is believed to reflect processing through the olfactory glomeruli, each glomerulus acting as a convergence center for related inputs. Varying overlapping specificities of receptor cells, glomeruli and mitral/tufted cells appear to provide the basis for discrimination of odor molecules, in analogy with discrimination of color in the visual system.
We analyzed our Institutional Review Board's (IRB) critiques of neuroscience protocols to identify areas of difficulty for investigators. Minutes from IRB meetings were reviewed, and criticisms were collated under applicable Code of Federal Regulations sections, coalescing into four categories: procedural issues, protocol critique, consent critique, and patient rights. Better communication with research subjects would have avoided a majority (66%) of criticisms. Procedural criticisms could have been reduced by adherence to IRB technical requirements. The small number of protocol design criticisms suggests either a lack of rigor in committee analysis or reliance on prior reviewers; it may also reflect the ongoing debate about the role of the IRB in evaluating scientific merit.
Acute administration of morphine (10 mg/kg) to rats elicited an increase in locomotion that became sensitized upon repeated treatment over 14 days. Administration of the noncompetitive N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (NMDA) antagonist MK-801 (0.1 or 0.25 mg/kg) prior to each morphine injection prevented the development of behavioral sensitization to morphine, an effect that persisted even after a 7-day withdrawal from repeated treatment. Sensitization was also prevented by coadministration of the competitive NMDA receptor antagonist CGS 19755 (10 mg/kg). In contrast, acute pretreatment with MK-801 did not alter the response of sensitized rats to morphine challenge, indicating that MK-801 does not prevent the expression of sensitization. When administered alone, MK-801 produced stereotyped movements at moderate doses (0.25 mg/kg) and horizontal locomotion at higher doses (0.5 mg/kg). Repeated administration of 0.25 mg/kg MK-801 elicited sensitization to its own locomotor stimulatory effects, such that this dose became capable of eliciting horizontal locomotion. Sensitization was not seen during repeated administration of 0.1 mg/kg MK-801 or 10 mg/kg CGS 19755, although both of these pretreatments did produce a sensitized response to subsequent challenge with 0.25 mg/kg MK-801. This effect was enhanced by coadministration of morphine, even though repeated administration of morphine alone failed to sensitize rats to MK-801 challenge. These results suggest a complex interplay between NMDA and opioid receptors, such that NMDA antagonists prevent morphine sensitization while morphine enhances the ability of NMDA antagonists to elicit sensitization to their own locomotor stimulatory effects.
Muscarinic-type acetylcholine (ACh) receptor are involved in a variety of cortical functions. ACh &quot;activates&quot; neocortex; simultaneously modifying spontaneous subthreshold activity, intrinsic neuronal oscillations and spike discharge modes, and responsiveness to fast (putative glutamatergic) synaptic inputs. However, beyond the general involvement of muscarinic receptors, a mechanistic understanding of integrated cholinergic actions, and interactions with non-cholinergic transmission, is lacking. We have addressed this problem using intracellular recordings from the in vitro auditory neocortex. First, we investigated cholinergic modification of responses to the excitatory amino acid glutamate. ACh, or the muscarinic agonist methacholine, produced a lasting enhancement of glutamate-mediated membrane depolarizations. Muscarinic receptors of the M1 and/or M3 subtype, rather than M2 or nicotinic receptors, mediated this enhancement. Subsequently, we investigated whether second messenger systems contribute to observed muscarinic actions. Activation of protein kinase C with phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (4 beta-PDBu), enhanced neuronal responses to glutamate. The effect of 4 beta-PDBu was attenuated by the kinase antagonist H7. Finally, we attempted to identify postsynaptic actions of endogenous ACh. Tetanic stimulation of cholinergic afferents elicited voltage-dependent effects, including reduced spike frequency adaptation and reduced slow afterhyperpolarization (sAHP) elicited by transmembrane depolarizing stimuli. These effects were mimicked by methacholine, enhanced by eserine, and antagonized by muscarinic receptor antagonists. These data suggest that cholinergic modulation in neocortex likely involves the integrated actions of diverse mechanisms, primarily gated by muscarinic receptors, and at least partly involving second messenger systems.
The amygdala complex integrates stressful stimuli and is critical in transducing their aversive value into autonomic, endocrine and behavioural responses. Stimulation within the amygdala complex produces signs of fear without a relevant external object, while lesions in this region abolish normal fear responses. In a manner characteristic of phylogenetically old limbic brain areas, the complex neurochemical anatomy of the amygdala involves a large number of phylogenetically old peptide mediators. The distribution and connectivity of these peptide systems have been extensively studied, but less is known about their functional role. Recent evidence suggests that two neuropeptides, corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) exert a reciprocal regulation of responsiveness to stressful stimuli, possibly via an interaction of these two systems in the amygdala.
It might appear curious to read about yeast, slime molds and protozoa in a journal dedicated to neuroscience. However, despite their distinct lack of synapses, eukaryotic microorganisms hold a wealth of information relevant to the signal-transduction pathways that underly activity in neuronal receptor cells, particularly those subserving the chemical senses. Microorganisms are sensitive to chemical stimuli from their environment and thus have similarities to receptor neurons of the olfactory system and the taste bud. Here, we introduce receptors, second messengers and effectors responsible for chemosensory signal transduction in yeast mating, sea-urchin spermatozoan chemotaxis, slime-mold aggregation and development, and ciliate chemoresponses.
The midline and intralaminar thalamic nuclei have long been considered to be a 'nonspecific' nuclear complex that relays the activity of the brain-stem reticular formation to widespread cerebral-cortical areas. Over the past decade, it has become clear that individual midline and intralaminar nuclei each receive specific sets of afferents and project to specific parts of the cerebral cortex and striatum. Moreover, the targets of the thalamocortical and thalamostriatal projections of a given nucleus are interconnected through corticostriatal projections. Therefore, the midline and intralaminar nuclei might have a dual role in corticosubcortical interactions in the forebrain. Through distinct sets of inputs to individual midline or intralaminar thalamic nuclei, these nuclei are in a position to interact selectively with particular, functionally segregated basal-ganglia-thalamocortical circuits. By way of nonselective inputs, in particular from cholinergic brain-stem nuclei, the midline and intralaminar nuclei might act in concert to modify the level of activity of the entire basal-ganglia-thalamocortical system.

This study compared striate and extrastriate contributions to the surface-recorded flash VEP. Laminar visual evoked potential, current source density and multiunit activity profiles were obtained with multicontact electrodes from areas V1 and V4 in three awake macaques. As found earlier, the major striate contribution is to early (N40, P55-80) components. Major contributions to the later (N95, P120, Late Negativity) components arise from V4. Early, afferent-triggered inhibition in V4 also produces a small contribution to N40. Response latencies in V4 vs V1 suggest an input to V4, bypassing V1, emphasizing a parallel processing component of visual system organization.
Spatial learning in pre- and postweaning meadow voles, (Microtus pennsylvanicus) was examined in a Morris water-maze task. The learning performance of 10-day-old (preweaning) and 15-, 20- and 25-day-old (postweaning) male and female voles was assessed by measuring the latency to reach a hidden platform by each animal twice a day for 5 days. Voles of all age groups were able to learn the spatial task with Day 10 and Day 15 voles acquiring the task more slowly than did Day 20 and Day 25 voles. There were no significant sex differences in task acquisition in any of the four age groups. In addition, although swimming speed was related to age, with older animals swimming faster than younger ones, differences in swim speed did not account for the faster acquisition by the older animals. These results show that both preweaning and postweaning voles can successfully learn a spatial task. This is in contrast to preweaning laboratory rats which cannot successfully acquire a similar spatial task. These findings indicate that there are species differences in the ontogeny of spatial learning, which are likely related to the ecological and behavioural developmental characteristics of the species. Furthermore, in contrast to the sex difference in water-maze performance obtained in adult, breeding meadow voles who demonstrate a sex difference, there were no significant sex differences in the spatial performance of the juvenile voles. This suggests that sex differences in spatial learning in the meadow vole do not appear until voles reach reproductive adulthood.
The neuropeptide corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) is thought to mediate the induction of a constellation of behavioral, endocrine, and autonomic responses which are important for an animal's adaptation to stressful events. We have found that the anteroventral periventricular preoptic nucleus (AVPv) and medial preoptic nucleus (MPN) of colchicine-injected female rats contained numerous intensely stained CRF-immunoreactive neurons. The AVPv/MPN in males contained very few CRF-immunoreactive neurons per section, even in colchicine-injected animals. This sexually dimorphic population of CRF-immunoreactive neurons in the AVPv may play some role in the sex-related differences in hormonal responses to stress and/or in the control of female reproductive events.
Guam is one of three endemic foci whose indigenous (Chamorro) people have an unusually high incidence of fatal neurodegenerative disorders, amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Parkinsonism-dementia (PD). Recently, mutations in the Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD-1) gene have been identified in some familial cases of ALS. To investigate if mutations in the SOD-1 gene are also involved in the pathogenesis of ALS and PD of Guam, we analyzed the SOD-1 gene in Chamorros. No mutations were found in Chamorros with ALS or PD, indicating that mutations in the SOD-1 gene do not underlie the high-incidence neurodegenerative disorders of Guam.
The intravenous administration to pentobarbitone-anaesthetized cats of the GABA-B antagonists CGP 46381 and CGP 35348 blocks the longer duration component of the inhibition of lumbar extensor monosynaptic reflexes by tetanic stimulation of low threshold flexor primary afferent fibres. GABA-B receptors thus appear to be associated with this inhibitory process, in addition to bicuculline-sensitive GABA-A receptors associated with shorter duration 'presynaptic' inhibition of reflexes and the depolarization of the terminals of primary afferent fibres.
Monoclonal antibodies against ryanodine receptor (5C3) and calcium ATPase (D12) of skeletal muscle sarcoplasmic reticulum were used in an immunoelectron microscopic study of cerebellar Purkinje cells and neurons of the hypoglossal and dorsal motor nuclei of the vagus (DMV) from rat and guinea-pig. All neurones were labelled with D12 and all, except rat DMV, labelled with 5C3. Most labelling was on smooth endoplasmic reticulum within 500 nm of the plasmalemma where Ca(2+)-activated Ca2+ release would rapidly increase cytosolic calcium following a small Ca2+ influx across the plasmalemma.
The effect of conditioned medium from astroglia or microglia cultures on the mRNA expression of amyloid precursor protein (APP) in SH-SY5Y human neuroblastoma cells was examined. When incubated with conditioned medium of glial cells, SH-SY5Y cells expressed a larger amount of APP mRNA than the control cells. Reverse transcription followed by the polymerase chain reaction showed marked induction of expression of APP isoforms containing a Kunitz-type protease inhibitor domain. Our results suggest that glial cells may contribute to the regulation of expression of APP in neurons.
Amyloid beta-protein is the major component of senile plaques in the brains of Alzheimer's disease and has an intrinsic tendency to form insoluble aggregates. The aggregation of amyloid beta-protein has been suggested to enhance its neurotoxicity and to play a key role in the amyloid deposition. Here we show, using gel-electrophoresis and immunoblotting, that the aggregation of synthetic amyloid beta-protein (beta 1-40) is promoted by aluminum, a suspected risk factor in Alzheimer's disease. High molecular weight aggregates were observed, and the amount of precipitated protein was estimated using high performance liquid chromatography. The results suggest the possibility that aluminum directly influences the process of aggregation and the deposition of senile plaques.
In the homozygous Brattleboro rat (di/di) a single base deletion in the vasopressin (VP) gene causes diabetes insipidus, resulting in the synthesis of a VP precursor with a different C-terminus. We reported previously that a small number of post-mitotic VP neurons in di/di rats undergo a switch to a heterozygous phenotype, suggesting the existence of VP mRNAs with a restored reading frame coding for a normal VP precursor. In the present study we report that the increase in the number of these revertant cells declines after 79 weeks of age. Furthermore, we provide evidence that the neurophysin (NP) moiety in solitary neurons is different from normal NP. Comparing the immunoreactivities of two different NP antibodies we deduced that the restoration of the reading frame may take place downstream of the deletion between amino acids 75 and 93 of the VP-NP.
This study utilizes a mutant mouse line (Hp) in which an established essential trophic factor, transferrin (Tf), is deficient due to a splicing defect in the processing of Tf precursor mRNA. As this mouse mutant is new to neurological research, the initial stage of the investigation, histological analysis of the brain and spinal cord, is reported here. Using a number of standard histological stains, such as hematoxylin and eosin, luxol fast blue/cresyl violet and silver staining, we see a decrease in the amount of white matter and neurofilament staining and altered neuronal morphology throughout the brain and spinal cord. Regions in which postnatal development is significant such as the hippocampus and cerebellum are particularly affected in this mutant. The cells of the dentate gyrus and Ammon's horn of the hippocampus are smaller, more densely packed and the normal orderly appearance of the CA3 and CA4 regions of Ammon's horn is disrupted. The cerebellum has a decrease in white matter and the molecular, Purkinje cell and granule cell layers all show decreased silver staining for neurofilament and appear less ordered than normal. The results demonstrate that neurohistological alterations exist in the adult hypotransferrinemic mice despite systemic replacement of transferrin. Furthermore, these data suggest certain brain regions are particularly sensitive to disruption in iron delivery. The results of this initial study indicate the Hp animal may be an interesting model for investigating specific aspects of neural development and has considerable potential for examining the importance of iron regulation in the brain.
Microdialysis was used to determine extracellular levels of both noradrenaline and its metabolites in several brain regions of rats under basal conditions and in response to drugs selective for the alpha 2-adrenoceptor to study regional differences in the regulation of noradrenaline overflow. Basal overflow of noradrenaline was about 1.3 fmol/min in frontoparietal cortex, amygdala and hippocampus and in the medial prefrontal cortex 2.4 fmol/min was measured, whereas the overflow of the noradrenaline metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol was 10-fold higher. After correction for recovery and membrane length no regional differences in the basal overflow of noradrenaline (NA) were found. There were, however, regional differences in the drug-induced effects: locally applied moxonidine decreased extracellular noradrenaline stronger in the frontoparietal cortex than in the medial prefrontal cortex. The increase in noradrenaline overflow caused by idazoxan (10(-4) M) was stronger in frontoparietal cortex than in amygdala and hippocampus. The metabolites were also generally decreased by moxonidine and increased by idazoxan, although less markedly. The present study shows that the regulation of noradrenaline overflow by the presynaptic alpha 2-autoreceptor was stronger in cortical regions than in amygdala and hippocampus. In those latter regions the uptake mechanism probably plays a relatively more important role in the regulation of noradrenaline overflow.
The present study tested the hypotheses that: (1) defensive rage behavior elicited from the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) in the cat is facilitated from the basal complex of amygdala; and (2) such facilitation from this region of amygdala is mediated via a pathway in which excitatory amino acids acting upon NMDA receptors within the PAG are utilized as a neurotransmitter. In the first phase of this study, cannula electrodes were implanted into PAG sites for the elicitation of defensive rage behavior as well as for drug delivery. Then, a second monopolar electrode was implanted into the basal nucleus of amygdala from which facilitation of defensive rage could be obtained. As a result of dual stimulation of the basal amygdala and PAG, response latencies for defensive rage were significantly lowered relative to PAG stimulation alone (P &lt; 0.01). In the second phase of this experiment, 3 doses of a selective NMDA receptor antagonist, AP-7 (0.1, 0.5, 1.0 mg/kg), were peripherally (i.p.) administered in 5 animals. The results indicated a significant decrease in the facilitatory effects of amygdaloid stimulation in a dose and time dependent manner (P &lt; 0.001). In the third phase, AP-7 was administered intracerebrally into PAG defensive rage sites in doses of 0.2 and 2.0 nmol. It was noted that intracerebral microinjections of AP-7 at the higher dose (2.0 nmol) also significantly suppressed the facilitatory effects of amygdaloid stimulation (P &lt; 0.01); however, these effects were somewhat less potent then those observed following peripheral drug administration. A fourth phase of the study was conducted at the completion of the pharmacological experiments.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
As changes in synaptic strength are thought to be critical for learning and memory, it would be useful to monitor the activity of individual identified synapses on mammalian central neurons. Calcium imaging of cortical neurons grown in primary culture was used to visualize the activation of individual postsynaptic elements by miniature excitatory synaptic currents elicited by spontaneous quantal release. This approach revealed that the probability of spontaneous activity differed among synapses on the same dendrite. Furthermore, synapses that undergo changes in activity induced by glutamate or phorbol ester treatment were identified.
In elasmobranch fishes, including the Atlantic stingray, the medial rectus muscle is innervated by the contralateral oculomotor nucleus. This is different from most vertebrates, in which the medial rectus is innervated by the ipsilateral oculomotor nucleus. This observation led to the prediction that the excitatory vestibulo-extraocular motoneuron projections connecting each semicircular canal to the appropriate muscle should use a contralateral projection from the vestibular nuclei to the motoneurons. This hypothesis was examined in the Atlantic stingray by injecting horseradish peroxidase unilaterally into the oculomotor nucleus. It was found that vestibulo-oculomotor projections arise from the ipsilateral anterior octaval nucleus and the contralateral descending octaval nucleus. The same pattern was observed when the trochlear nucleus was involved in the injection. There were no cells labeled in the region of the abducens nucleus, and no candidate for a nucleus prepositus hypoglossus was identified. The presence of compensatory eye movements, the directional sensitivity of the semicircular canals, the location of the motoneurons innervating each eye muscle, and our results indicate that the excitatory input to the extraocular motoneurons is derived from the contralateral descending octaval nucleus, and the inhibitory input is derived from the ipsilateral anterior octaval nucleus. The absence of both abducens internuclear interneurons and a nucleus prepositus hypoglossus suggests that eye movements, particularly those in the horizontal plane, are controlled differently in elasmobranchs than in other vertebrates examined to date.
Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) consisting of alpha and beta isoforms is highly expressed in the central nervous system and is implicated in the regulation of various Ca(2+)-dependent physiological processes. We investigated the immunohistochemical distribution of the alpha and beta isoforms of this enzyme in the rat retina, using highly specific monoclonal antibodies which recognize each isoform. Immunoblotting revealed that not only the alpha but also the beta isoform of CaM kinase II were expressed in the retina. The immunohistochemical study showed that highly alpha-immunoreactive products were localized in amacrine cells in the inner nuclear layer and displaced amacrine cells and ganglion cells in the ganglion cell layer. In addition, two well-defined bands within the inner plexiform layer were densely stained with the anti-alpha antibody. By contrast, immunoreactivity against the anti-beta antibody was very weak in the same neuronal components of the retina. beta-Immunoreactive products were homogeneously distributed throughout the inner plexiform layer and no well-defined bands were detected in this layer. Glial cells such as Mller cells were immunoreactive neither to alpha nor beta antibody. A possible co-existence of choline acetyl transferase (ChAT) within CaM kinase II alpha-immunopositive neurons was examined by evaluating adjacent sections stained with anti-CaM kinase II alpha antibody and anti-ChAT antibody, respectively. The distribution of CaM kinase II alpha immunoreactivity in the rat retina was remarkably similar to that of ChAT immunoreactivity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In an attempt to study the effects of piriform cortex damage on kindled seizure propagation, we administered kainic acid (12 mg/kg; i.p.) to rats previously kindled from the dorsal hippocampus. Unexpectedly, the ensuing status epilepticus (SE) in the kindled rats did not result in the piriform cortex damage normally observed in naive rats. As a result of this surprising finding, a more comprehensive investigation was undertaken to compare dorsal hippocampal kindled and control rats on their electrographic and behavioral SE development and subsequent brain damage. The SE induction profile and the pattern of brain damage observed in our control rats was similar to previous reports [Neuroscience, 14 (1985) 375-403; Brain Res., 218 (1981) 299-318]. By contrast, although fewer kindled rats than controls responded to the initial dose of kainic acid with electrographic and behavioral seizures, those many kindled rats that did respond, showed a pattern of SE induction that was different from controls. Kindled rats manifested fewer 'wet dog shakes', more generalized convulsions and a faster development of severe limbic status (SLS) than controls. In addition, without pharmacological intervention, the SLS continued longer in kindled rats than in controls. Histological examination revealed brain damage in kindled rats that was markedly different from controls. Unlike controls, kindled rats had no damage in the piriform cortex or substantia nigra reticulata and minimal hippocampal damage, yet showed midline thalamic and anterior olfactory nuclei damage similar to controls. These differences were observed from 1 to 28 days after kindling. Although the mechanism(s) of this kindling-based neuroprotection is not known, its discovery should add importantly to our understanding of epilepsy-induced alterations of subsequent neuronal function.
Diarylguanidines, acting as NMDA receptor ion channel site ligands, represent a new class of potential neuroprotective drugs. Several diarylguanidines structurally related to N,N'-di-o-tolylguanidine (DTG), a known selective sigma receptor ligand, were synthesized and evaluated in in vitro radioligand displacement assays, with rat or guinea pig brain membrane homogenates, using the NMDA receptor ion channel site specific radioligand [3H]-(+)-5(S)-methyl-10(R),11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5 ,10- imine (MK-801, 3), and the sigma receptor-specific radioligand [3H]-di-o-tolylguanidine (DTG, 5). This paper presents the structure-activity relationships leading to novel tri- and tetrasubstituted guanidines, which exhibit high selectivity for NMDA receptor ion channel sites and weak or negligible affinity for sigma receptors. The in vitro binding results from symmetrically substituted diphenylguanidines indicated that compounds having ortho or meta substituents (with respect to the position of the guanidine nitrogen) on the phenyl rings showed greater affinity for the NMDA receptor ion channel site compared with para-substituted derivatives. Among the group of ring substituents studied for symmetrical diarylguanidines, an isopropyl group was preferred at the ortho position and an ethyl group was preferred at the meta position. Several unsymmetrical guanidines containing a naphthalene ring on one nitrogen atom and an ortho- or a meta-substituted phenyl ring on the second nitrogen atom, e.g., N-1-naphthyl-N'-(3-ethylphenyl)guanidine (36), showed a 3-5-fold increase in affinity for the NMDA receptor ion channel site and no change in sigma receptor affinity compared to the respective symmetrical counterparts. Additional small substituents on the guanidine nitrogen atoms bearing the aryl rings resulted in tri- and tetrasubstituted guanidine derivatives which retained affinity for NMDA receptor ion channel sites but exhibited a significant reduction in their affinities for sigma receptors. For example, N-1-naphthyl-N'-(3-ethylphenyl)-N'-methylguanidine (40) showed high affinity for the NMDA receptor ion channel site (IC50 = 36 nM vs [3H]-3) and low affinity for sigma receptors (IC50 = 2540 nM vs [3H]-5). Selectivity for the NMDA receptor ion channel sites over sigma receptors appears to be dependent upon the structure of the additional substituents on the guanidine nitrogen atoms bearing the aryl groups. Methyl and ethyl substituents are most preferred in the tri- and tetrasubstituted diarylguanidines. The trisubstituted guanidine, N-1-naphthyl-N'-(3-ethylphenyl)-N'-methylguanidine (40) and its close analogues showed good in vivo neuroprotection and are potential neuroprotective drug candidates for the treatment of stroke and other neurodegenerative disorders.
Loss of cellular calcium homeostasis or the production of nitric oxide (NO) have been cited as possible mechanisms that may contribute to neuronal degeneration during ischemia. We therefore examined whether cellular calcium blockade, using the agent HA1077, was protective during anoxia in hippocampal neuronal cell cultures, and whether the in vitro effects of this drug were linked to the NO pathway. Administration of the agent during anoxia was neuroprotective in neuronal cell culture. In contrast, HA1077 did not protect hippocampal neurons during NO exposure. In addition, inhibition of NO synthesis in conjunction with HA1077 application during anoxia did not significantly increase survival beyond the maximum protection afforded by HA1077 alone. These results suggest that calcium may be an initial messenger in the ischemic cascade, but that subsequent neuronal degeneration is dependent upon the NO pathway.
Strychnine-insensitive glycine binding sites, an absolute requirement of the responses mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors, were measured in the postmortem brains of 13 chronic schizophrenics and 10 controls, using a radiolabeled receptor assay. Specific [3H]glycine binding was significantly increased in six of the 16 areas of the cerebral cortex that were investigated. Scatchard analysis performed in these areas showed a significant increase in the maximum number of binding sites, with no change in the affinity of binding. Multiple regression analysis confirmed that the increase was not due to age at death or interval from death to freezing. The increase was also observed in the off-drug cases of schizophrenics who had not taken antipsychotics for more than 40 days before death. These results suggest that the increases in NMDA-associated glycine binding sites, possibly ascribed to the postsynaptic compensation for impaired glutamatergic neurotransmission, might be implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia.

Important interactions between the immune system and the nervous and endocrine systems have become increasingly accepted. The present results demonstrate that the cholinergic agonist carbacholine greatly increased the number of granulocytes and lymphocytes in the splenic venous blood, but not arterial blood, shortly after administration to guinea pigs. The effect was largely blocked by pretreatment with atropine. In contrast, animals treated with indomethacin had a decreased number of leukocytes in both splenic venous and arterial blood. A decrease in relative splenic weight due to carbacholine treatment was also blocked by atropine. However, cholinergic leukocyte mobilization, or that previously observed after adrenergic stimulation, may not be caused by capsule contraction since it is not accompanied by mobilization of erythrocytes. Furthermore, indomethacin, which potentiates the response of splenic smooth muscle to adrenergic stimuli, blocked the effect of noradrenaline (NA) on leukocyte mobilization.
It has been hypothesized that the corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) neurons of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) become hyperactive with age, and even more so in Alzheimer's disease. This hyperactivity could be due to an increased production of CRH per neuron, or an increased number of PVN neurons producing CRH, or both. As a first step in elucidating which of these biological mechanisms might be operative, we have estimated the absolute number of CRH immunoreactive neurons in the PVN of 10 human control subjects between 36 and 91 years of age and 10 Alzheimer patients between 40 and 97 years of age. CRH neurons were immunocytochemically detected in 6 microns paraffin sections with the aid of a highly specific monoclonal antibody to CRH. The antibody signal was amplified by the biotin-streptavidin and alkaline phosphatase methods. The absolute number of CRH neurons in the PVN was obtained by multiplying the number of CRH neurons in a unit volume (NV) by the total volume of the PVN. Two different methods were used to estimate the NV: an unfolding method and a disector method (about three times more time-consuming). Compared to the disector, the unfolding method consistently yielded a lower cell number for all patients by 38% (+/- 2.8%; mean +/- SEM). However, both methods yielded an increase in the absolute number of CRH neurons in control and Alzheimer patients with age. No statistically significant difference in the absolute number of CRH neurons was found between control and Alzheimer patients with both methods. The age-dependent increase in the absolute number of CRH neurons within the PVN of both control and Alzheimer patients is interpreted as a sign of activation of the CRH neurons with age.
The aim of this study is to describe the postnatal change in dendritic morphology of those motoneurons in the hypoglossal nucleus that innervate the genioglossus muscle. Forty genioglossal (GG) motoneurons from four age groups (1-2, 5-6, 13-15, and 19-30 postnatal days) were labeled by intracellular injection of neurobiotin in an in vitro slice preparation of the rat brainstem and were reconstructed in three-dimensional space. The number of primary dendrites per GG motoneuron was approximately 6 and remained unchanged with age. The development of these motoneurons from birth to 13-15 days was characterized by a simplification of the dendritic tree involving a decrease in the number of terminal endings and dendritic branches. Motoneurons lost their 6th-8th order branches, in parallel with an elongation of their terminal dendritic branches maintaining the same combined dendritic length. The elongation of terminal branches was attributed to both longitudinal growth and the apparent lengthening caused by resorption of distal branches. The elimination of dendritic branches tended to increase the symmetry of the tree, as revealed by topological analysis. Later, between 13-15 days and 19-30 days, there was a reelaboration of the dendritic arborization returning to a configuration similar to that found in the newborn. The length of terminal branches was shorter at 19-30 days, while the length of preterminal branches did not change, suggesting that the proliferation of branches at 19-30 days takes place in the intermediate parts of terminal branches. The three-dimensional distribution of dendrites was analyzed by dividing space into six equal volumes (hexants). This analysis revealed that GG motoneurons have major components of their dendritic tree oriented in the lateral, medial, and dorsal hexants. Further two-dimensional polar analysis (consisting of eight sectors) revealed a reconfiguration of the tree from birth up to 5-6 days involving resorption of dendrites in the dorsal, dorsomedial, and medial sectors and growth in the lateral sector. Later in development (between 13-15 days and 19-30 days), there was growth in all sectors, but of a greater magnitude in the dorsomedial, medial, and dorsolateral sectors.
The spinal pia mater receives a rich innervation of small sensory axons via the ventral roots. Other sensory axons enter the ventral roots but end blindly or turn abruptly in hairpin loop-like formations and continue in a distal direction. In the present study, the content of substance P (SP)-, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-, growth-associated protein (GAP-43)-, and low-affinity neurotrophin receptor protein (p75NGFr)-like immunoreactivity (-LI) associated with these different types of sensory axons was assessed with light and electron microscopic immunohistochemical techniques. In addition, the binding of antibodies against synthetic peptides representing unique sequences of residues in the products of the trk and trkB protooncogenes was analyzed. These genes encode membrane spanning proteins, which have been shown to constitute specific high affinity binding sites for several members of the nerve growth factor family of neurotrophic factors. The results of the present study imply that the ventral root afferents comprise several different types of sensory axons, which all contain SP-, CGRP-, GAP-43-, and p75NGFr-like immunoreactivities. In addition, at least some of the presumed sensory fiber bundles in ventral roots and the pia mater were immunoreactive for the trkB gene product. Moreover, leptomeningeal cells and nonneuronal cells of the ventral roots were shown to bind antibodies to both the trk and trkB gene products. The ventral root afferents seem to share their immunohistochemical pattern with pain-transducing axons at some other locations, such as the tooth pulp. The contents of SP- and CGRP-LI in sensory axons that reach the central nervous system (CNS) through the ventral root indicate that ventral root afferents may be involved in sensory mechanisms, such as the ventral root pain reaction, as well as in the control of the pial blood vessels. The demonstration of GAP-43 and neurotrophin receptor-immunoreactivities associated with unmyelinated fibers in ventral roots and the pia mater is discussed in relation to previous reports on postnatal plasticity in these axonal populations.
The effects of dopamine D1 and D2 selective drugs on the responses evoked in accumbens neurons by stimulation of cortical afferents were studied in an in vitro brain slice preparation. The D2-specific antagonist sulpiride (1-10 microM) increased, whereas the D2 agonist quinpirole (1-20 microM) occasionally attenuated the amplitude of stimulation-evoked EPSPs recorded in accumbens neurons. Administration of the D1 agonist SKF 38393 (3-10 microM) or the D1 antagonist SCH 23390 (10 microM) did not alter the EPSP amplitude, although an apparent change in the time course of the EPSP was often observed. In slices obtained from dopamine (DA)-depleted animals, sulpiride failed to induce changes in the amplitude of the EPSPs, whereas quinpirole produced a highly significant suppression of EPSP amplitude that was only occasionally observed in control slices. These results indicate that DA modulates the response of accumbens neurons to cortico-accumbens fiber stimulation via D2 receptors. Furthermore, these D2 receptors appear to be located presynaptically on the cortical afferent terminals, since this action of DA was not accompanied by changes in membrane potential, input resistance, or time constant, and was not modified by changes in the membrane potential. These data provide evidence for a tonic basal level of D2 receptor stimulation in the accumbens slice preparation.
The aim of the present study was to evaluate whether galanin-(1-29) and galanin-(1-15) can modulate the 5-hydroxytryptamine1A (5-HT1A) receptors using [3H]8-OH-2-(di-n-propylamino)-tetralin ([3H]8-OH-DPAT) as a radioligand. Membrane preparations of the dorsal hippocampus, an area having the recently described [125I]galanin-(1-15) fragment binding sites, but having very few porcine [125I]galanin-(1-29) binding sites, were used. Galanin-(1-15) produced a concentration-dependent increase in the Kd value of [3H]8-OH-DPAT with a maximum effect of approximately 65% at 3 nM of galanin-(1-15), whereas galanin-(1-29) had no effect. This increase of the Kd value of [3H]8-OH-DPAT could be completely counteracted by the putative galanin antagonist M35 (1 nM). The Bmax values of [3H]8-OH-DPAT were not affected in any experiment. In conclusion, the present results give further evidence for the existence of a galanin receptor subtype mainly recognizing N-terminal galanin fragments, also having the ability to reduce the affinity of 5-HT1A receptors.
The central distribution of neurons activated to express cFos immunoreactivity in response to peripheral administration of cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK) was examined in 2-day-old rats. Similar to previous results in adult rats, neurons in specific subregions of the area postrema and nucleus of the solitary tract (NST) expressed cFos after CCK treatment. However, in marked contrast to results in adult rats, CCK treatment in neonates did not stimulate cFos expression in hypothalamic neurons or in other forebrain areas, and did not increase plasma oxytocin levels. These results suggest that vagal sensory activation of intrinsic brainstem circuits may be sufficient for the known inhibitory effects of exogenous CCK on gastric motility and feeding in neonatal rats. The prominent forebrain activation produced by CCK administration in adult rats likely reflects later maturation of direct and relayed ascending neural projections from the NST.
The role of dopamine transmission on striatal acetylcholine release was investigated by using brain microdialysis. Blockade of dopamine D2 receptors with (-)-sulpiride or haloperidol increased acetylcholine release to a maximum of 80% (after 50 and 0.5 mg/kg, respectively). This effect was prevented by blockade of dopamine D1 receptors with 0.5 mg/kg SCH 39166 or 0.1 mg/kg SCH 23390, or by depletion of dopamine stores after 5 mg/kg reserpine + 150 mg/kg alpha-methyltyrosine. Treatment with SCH 39166, SCH 23390 or reserpine + alpha-methyltyrosine reduced acetylcholine release by about a maximum of 30%. Stimulation of dopamine D2 receptors with LY 171555 (quinpirole) at a low, sedative dose (0.05 mg/kg) reduced acetylcholine release by about 30% with no further reduction at higher doses up to 1 mg/kg. Moreover, LY 171555 (0.1 mg/kg) given to SCH 39166 (0.5 mg/kg)- or SKF 38393 (20 mg/kg)-pretreated rats did not decrease acetylcholine release, suggesting that its effect is through a dopamine D1 receptor-mediated mechanism. In contrast, in dopamine-depleted rats, LY 171555 0.1 mg/kg became more effective in decreasing acetylcholine release (about 70%) also after SCH 39166 (0.5 mg/kg) pretreatment (about 80%), thus acting independently of dopamine D1 receptor mechanisms. These results indicate that, in normal circumstances, endogenous dopamine facilitates striatal acetylcholine release through dopamine D1 receptors. The results argue against the commonly accepted view that dopamine D2 receptors exert a tonic inhibitory control on acetylcholine release. Moreover, they suggest that dopamine D2 receptors, in circumstances of dopamine depletion, may exert an inhibitory control on acetylcholine release independent of dopamine D1 receptor mechanisms.
Four forms of the Drosophila Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II are generated from a single gene by alternative splicing (Ohsako et al. (1993) J. Biol. Chem. 268, 2052-2062). We identified a fifth form of the cDNA encoding the enzyme expressed in the ovary, unfertilized egg and early embryos by reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction, which suggests that it is maternally derived. The fifth form was also generated from the gene by alternative splicing and was identical to the cDNA encoding the 530-amino-acid polypeptide, the longest of the four forms previously identified, except that it lacked exon 11. Three splicing derivatives which lost one amino acid from the 509- and 530-amino-acid polypeptides were also found in 4 to 10 h embryos.
This study has begun to investigate some functional implications of the differential localization of neuropeptide Y (NPY) in sympathetic neurons supplying different arterial segments in the cutaneous circulation of the guinea-pig ear. Responses of the main ear artery to exogenous NPY and norepinephrine (NE) were examined in vitro by measuring isometric tension. Responses of smaller arterial vessels to application of exogenous NPY or NE to the adventitial surface were examined in anaesthetized, ventilated guinea-pigs, by measuring changes in internal vessel diameter using video microscopy. Some arterial segments subsequently were examined for the presence of immunoreactivity (IR) to tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and NPY. NPY (1 nM-10 microM) contracted the main ear artery (EC50 = 10 nM; max. contraction = 30% KCl), and 1 nM NPY produced slight potentiation of contractions produced by NE. In vivo, local applications of NPY (1-10 microM) constricted only a subpopulation of arterial vessels (23 of 41). All vessels constricted by NPY were innervated by axons containing IR to both TH and NPY, and as a population, were more proximal in the arterial tree (branch orders 3 to 6) than were vessels insensitive to NPY (branch orders 4 to 8). Most vessels insensitive to NPY were arterioles and arterio-venous anastomoses &lt; 40 microns in diameter, which were innervated by axons containing TH-IR but not NPY-IR. In contrast, local application of NE (1-30 microM) constricted all vessels examined in vivo. When present, NPY constrictions had a longer latency (15-45 s) and duration (3-4 min) than NE constrictions of the same vessel segments. In vivo, NPY sometimes potentiated the peak amplitude of NE constrictions (2 of 7 vessels), but only in vessels where NPY also produced direct constriction. These results reveal an excellent correlation between the localization of NPY in sympathetic axons, and the location of postsynaptic NPY receptors throughout the cutaneous arterial system. Any NPY released in response to strong activation of cutaneous sympathetic neurons is likely to act preferentially on the proximal cutaneous arteries, and to lead to a more prolonged constriction of these arteries than of more distal arterioles and arterio-venous anastomoses.
The intrahippocampal distribution of axon collaterals of individual CA3 pyramidal cells was investigated in the rat. Pyramidal cells in the CA3 region of the hippocampus were physiologically characterized and filled with biocytin in anesthetized animals. Their axonal trees were reconstructed with the aid of a drawing tube. Single CA3 pyramidal cells arborized most extensively in the CA1 region, covering approximately two-thirds of the longitudinal axis of the hippocampus. The total length of axon collaterals in the CA3 region was less than in CA1 and the axon branches tended to cluster in narrow bands (200-800 microns), usually several hundred microns anterior or posterior to the cell body. The majority of the recurrent collaterals of a given neuron remained in the same subfield (CA3a, b, or c) as the parent cell. CA3a neurons innervated predominantly the basal dendrites, whereas neurons located proximal to the hilus (CA3c) terminated predominantly on the apical dendrites of both CA1 and CA3 cells. Two cells, with horizontal dendrites and numerous thorny excrescences at the CA3c-hilus transitional zone, were also labeled and projected to both CA3 and CA1 regions. All CA3 neurons projected some collaterals to the hilar region. Proximal (CA3c) neurons had numerous collaterals in the hilus proper. One CA3c pyramidal cell in the dorsal hippocampus sent an axon collaterals to the inner third of the molecular layer. CA3c pyramidal cells in the ventral hippocampus had extensive projections to the inner third of the dentate molecular layer, as well as numerous collaterals in the hilus, CA3, and CA1 areas, and several axon collaterals penetrated the subiculum. The total projected axon length of a single neuron ranged from 150 to 300 mm. On the basis of the projected axon length and bouton density (mean interbouton distance: 4.7 microns), we estimate that a single CA3 pyramidal cell can make synapses with 30,000-60,000 neurons in the ipsilateral hippocampus. The concentrated distribution of the axon collaterals (&quot;patches&quot;) indicates that subpopulations of neurons may receive disproportionately denser innervation, whereas innervation in the rest of the target zones is rather sparse. These observations offer new insights into the physiological organization of the CA3 pyramidal cell network.
The influence of transient cerebral ischemia on blood-brain and blood-cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) barrier permeability was studied sequentially by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) contrast enhancement using gadolinium-diethylene triamine pentaacetic acid (Gd-DTPA) in rats. The unilateral internal carotid and middle cerebral arteries were transiently occluded by inserting a nylon thread into the carotid artery and removing it following a variable interval of 5 to 60 min. Contrast enhancement of the lateral ventricle on the affected side was seen in the enhanced T1-weighted image at the early stage of reperfusion 6 h after the start of ischemia in most of the rats subjected to 30- and 60-min ischemia, and in 3 of 6 rats in the 15-min ischemia group. Autoradiograms of Gd-[14C]DTPA in rats subjected to 60-min ischemia demonstrated that the tracer strongly accumulated in the choroid plexus, the wall of the lateral ventricle and its surrounding brain tissue. On the other hand, parenchymal enhancement of the striatum was seen only in the 60-min ischemia group and appeared later on Day 1 or Day 7. These results indicate that ventricular enhancement on MRI in this model is caused by disruption of the blood-CSF barrier at the choroid plexus of the lateral ventricle. This is the first reported study to demonstrate blood-CSF barrier disruption by transient ischemia.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) injected intraperitoneally at doses of 10 mg/kg and 20 mg/kg induced marked hyperactivity in rats. Although regional levels of brain dopamine and its metabolites (DOPAC and HVA) in vagotomized rats did not differ from those in sham-operated controls, the (DOPAC + HVA)/dopamine ratio, an indicator of dopamine turnover, was significantly higher in the nucleus accumbens of TRH-treated sham-operated rats than that in untreated sham-operated controls. TRH injection induced hyperactivity only in sham-operated rats and not in subdiaphragmatic bilaterally vagotomized rats. Similarly, bilateral vagotomy completely abolished the TRH-induced increases in dopaminergic turnover in the nucleus accumbens. These results suggest that the dopaminergic system in the nucleus accumbens is involved in hyperactivity induced by TRH, and that TRH mainly affects peripheral receptors. The vagal nerve may be the major pathway from the visceral organs to the brain involved in the etiology of hyperactivity.
The distribution of dopaminergic fibers in the principal components of the central extended amygdala (central amygdaloid nucleus (Ce), substantia innominata, and bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST)), was studied using immunocytochemistry against tyrosine hydroxylase, dopamine beta-hydroxylase and dopamine. Dopamine fibers were found most densely distributed in the dorsolateral subdivision of the BNST and the lateral part of the Ce. Smaller numbers of dopaminergic fibers were found in the rest of the central extended amygdala. In contrast, dopamine beta-hydroxylase fibers were virtually absent from the dorsolateral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis and lateral part of the central amygdaloid nucleus, but were distributed in a moderate density in the medial part of Ce, dorsal substantia innominata and posterolateral BNST. Our results show that dopamine fibers are most concentration over those regions of the central extended amygdala with large numbers of GABAergic neurons whose projections remain within the central extended amygdala, while noradrenergic fibers are most heavily concentrated over those regions containing a large proportion of brainstem projection neurons. That dopamine fibers are concentrated over regions with GABAergic medium spiny neurons suggests that those regions might be organized as a striatal parallel.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) treatment of PC12 cells activates a protein kinase that phosphorylates c-Fos protein at a site near its C terminus, as well as a peptide corresponding to a C-terminal region of c-Fos (Taylor, L. K., Marshak, D. R., and Landreth, G. E. (1993) Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. U. S. A. 90, 368-372). This serine/threonine kinase, termed Fos kinase, has been purified &gt; 24,000-fold through five column steps to near homogeneity and is shown to be a 37-kDa protein as determined by SDS-polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (PAGE) with a pI = 6.0. Fos kinase is distinguishable from previously characterized NGF-regulated kinases by its chromatographic behavior, its response to specific kinase inhibitors, and its substrate specificity. The concentration of NGF required to activate Fos kinase is consistent with signaling from the high affinity NGF receptor. Fos kinase phosphorylates c-Fos at its C terminus as indicated by competitive inhibition with a peptide corresponding to C-terminal phosphorylation sites and lack of phosphorylation of a C-terminal deletion mutant of c-Fos. Hyperphosphorylation of c-Fos in vivo, as detected by reduced electrophoretic mobility of c-Fos, is induced by the same ligands which activate Fos kinase. Moreover, Fos kinase phosphorylation of c-Fos in vitro results in a similar electrophoretic mobility shift, demonstrating that Fos kinase may be responsible for growth factor-stimulated alterations in mobility on SDS-PAGE and phosphorylation of this transcription factor. The ability of this unique growth factor-responsive kinase to phosphorylate c-Fos at its C terminus, a region essential for the transrepressive properties of c-Fos, suggests that Fos kinase may play a role in the regulation of the transcriptional repressive activity of c-Fos.
The effect of acute administration of ethanol on the release of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the frontal cortex of &quot;Sardinian alcohol preferring&quot; rats, &quot;Sardinian non-preferring&quot; rats and control rats was investigated using in vivo microdialysis. At the dosage of 2.5 g/kg i.p. ethanol increased the level of 5-HT in the dialysate by approximately 80 +/- 20% of basal values in the Sardinian alcohol preferring rats whereas no effect was observed in Sardinian non-preferring and control rats.
Effects of voluntary rapid head rotation movement in horizontal plane on EMG activities of tonically contracting elbow extensor and flexor muscles were studied in five healthy subjects. Arm EMGs were averaged in relation to the EMG onset of the prime mover. M. sterno-cleidomastoideus (SCM). EMG variations could occur before SCM-EMG onset. Facilitatory and inhibitory effects were observed. They were not necessarily organized in reciprocal fashion but varied in every subject. We interpret the present findings as resulted from an incorporated part of the central motor program for head rotation which was specific to each subject.
Repeated treatment with dl-pentazocine (5-10 mg/kg i.p.), but not d-methamphetamine (4.8 mg/kg i.p.), twice daily for 8 days diminished the specific [3H]1,3-di-o-tolylguanidine (DTG) binding to the haloperidol-sensitive sigma sites in rat striatum and hippocampus. Either drug failed to cause any changes in the binding to the hypothalamus and prefrontal cortex. The pentazocine-induced diminution in the striatum was accompanied by a decrease in the density with an increase in the affinity of the [3H]DTG binding. These data suggest that repetitive use of dl-pentazocine may influence the regulation systems of the sigma site in specific brain regions.
The embryonic neural crest is the source of progenitor cells for a wide variety of adult cell types including several populations of neurons and neuroendocrine cells. We have investigated the effect of ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) on the development of quail trunk neural crest cultures. We found that at low doses CNTF promoted the development of increased numbers of adrenergic cells, but higher doses resulted in a decreased number of adrenergic cells relative to controls. Total and melanocyte cell number were unaffected over the range of CNTF concentrations tested. These results indicate that CNTF can affect adrenergic development in neural crest cultures in a dose-dependent biphasic manner.
The cerebellum is subdivided into hundreds of discrete modules defined by their connectivity and molecular signatures. Cerebellar compartmentation arises very early in development through the formation of multiple populations of chemically distinct Purkinje cells that migrate in a coordinated fashion to form parasagittal bands of cells. Different Purkinje cell bands are then innervated by discrete subpopulations of cerebellar afferents. Because of its stereotyped and strikingly beautiful organization the cerebellum is an excellent model in which to explore genetic/epigenetic aspects of pattern formation in the central nervous system.


A follow-up study is presented of the initial neurosurgical treatment of 20 patients who sustained penetrating craniocerebral injuries during &quot;Operation Desert Storm&quot;. Fifteen of these patients had received intracranial debridement through a craniectomy and five patients had received care of scalp wounds only. Following treatment and stabilisation in a frontline hospital, these patients were transferred to the Riyadh Armed Forces Hospital for further evaluation and management. On admission, all the patients received a computerised tomographic scan which revealed shrapnel fragments inside their brain. No attempt had been made to remove the metal fragments. A patient with an infected scalp wound was treated with a course of appropriate antibiotics and the wound dressed. Dexamethasone was not used. Anticonvulsants were used only in one patient who had been treated for a presumed cerebral abscess. The neurological status of the patients improved along with the reduction of oedema and the swelling of the brain as shown in the follow-up CT scans. No patient died or developed a seizure disorder. These results suggest that re-operation for removal of retained fragments is unnecessary. It is concluded that the initial treatment of shrapnel wounds of the brain should be to preserve maximal cerebral tissue and function either by limiting the wound debridement performed through a craniectomy or by care of scalp wounds only.
A group of 74 patients with head injury (54 severe, 17 moderate and 3 minor) had continuous monitoring of both arterial and intracranial pressure with computer-based registration of these pressures, cerebral perfusion pressure and other variables. In 60 patients cerebral perfusion pressure CPP fell below 60 mm Hg for periods of 5 minutes or longer. The distribution over time of these reductions in CPP during up to 12 days of monitoring was studied, and each episode of reduced CPP was attributed to a fall in arterial pressure, an increase in intracranial pressure, or both. Two clusters of reduced CPP were found, one during the first 24 hours of monitoring, when reduced CPP was mainly caused by a reduction in arterial pressure, and the other at 5 or 6 days after injury, when reduced CPP was due mainly to an increase in intracranial pressure. There was a significant correlation between low CPP due to reduced arterial pressure and the Injury Severity Score (p &lt; 0.001), suggesting that resuscitative measures may have been less than optimal in these cases. There was also significant correlation between the duration of low CPP and low arterial pressure and an adverse outcome from injury as assessed at 6, 12 and 24 months after injury (p &lt; 0.001).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The authors describe 10 patients who underwent stereotactic medial thalamotomy with the Leksell Gamma Knife for treatment of chronic intractable pain. The pain was related to structural spinal disorders (4), postherpetic neuralgia (2), spinal cord injury (1), thalamic syndrome (1), anesthesia dolorosa of the face (1), and brainstem infarction (1). All patients had undergone extensive treatment with a variety of modalities prior to gamma thalamotomy. Nine patients underwent unilateral and one patient bilateral lesions. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used for target localization and the lesions were directed toward the intralaminar nuclei, the lateral portion of the medial dorsal nucleus, the centrum medianum and parafascicular nuclei. The lesions were made with radiation doses of 160-180 Gy using a 4 mm beam collimator and either a single isocenter (1 patient) or two isocenters (9 patients). Follow-up MRI scans in all patients showed well localized lesions. Three patients experienced excellent pain relief, four had good pain relief and three were failures. No complications were seen in any of the patients. In the past gamma thalamotomy was used mainly for treatment of pain related to malignancies but our results indicate that it may also be a safe and effective treatment for pain of nonmalignant origin as well.
It has been reported that several uncompetitive NMDA receptor ion channel blocking agents (phencyclidine, ketamine, dizocilpine, dextrorphan) cause transient reversible vacuolation in neurons in the posterior cingulate cortex of rats. Similar effects have also been observed with competitive glutamate antagonists such as CPP, CGS 19755 and CGP 37849. This transient morphological change has been noted to be coincident anatomically with brain regions showing hypermetabolism after administration of uncompetitive NMDA receptor ion channel blockers and competitive glutamate antagonists. These results therefore indicate that the functional consequences of NMDA receptor blockade with competitive glutamate and uncompetitive channel antagonists are ultimately the same. These changes do not appear to be a prelude to irreversible damage except after relatively high doses of the receptor ion channel antagonists but they have given rise to concern over the safety in use of NMDA antagonists as neuroprotective agents. In contrast, vacuolation has not yet been demonstrated with agents acting at the glycine (L-687,414) or polyamine (eliprodil) modulatory sites of the NMDA receptor complex suggesting that agents acting at these sites may have a greater potential therapeutic window.
Autologous serum proteins have proved to be suitable tracer to evaluate vascular permeability. The dynamic behaviour of anti-HRP immunoglobulins was studied in ultraviolet (UV) irradiation induced brain edema. Cerebral cortex of 36 anaesthetized adult rats was irradiated following a 2 x 2 mm parietal craniotomy. Immunization was carried out by 3 subcutaneous injections of 10 mg HRP in 0.5 ml complete freund adjuvant (CFA), 6, 4 and 2 weeks before the injury. Control animals were immunized only with CFA; further control animals were operated and irradiated without any previous immunization. After survival times ranging from 30 min to 24 hours, postoperation animals were transcardially perfused with 4% fresh paraformaldehyde solution in phosphate buffered saline. After postfixation at 4 degrees C, 20 microns vibratome sections were prepared for incubation with a solution of 0.05% HRP, washed and developed by the DAB reaction. The reactions showed a remarkable exsudation and spreading of anti-HRP antibodies in the edematous brain. The antigen-antibody reaction was conspicuous in animals with shorter survival periods in the necrotic area and near the lesion (1-2 mm). After a longer survival time extravasation involved the whole hemisphere. In animals with the longest survival period labeled serum proteins were found even in the white matter of the hemisphere contralateral to the injury. Endogenous tracer of BBB function is useful to study the spreading of brain edema in a delayed time after the edematous lesion.
Since January 1990, 70 patients with medically intractable partial epilepsy underwent a stereo-EEG investigation in our center. We first described technical requirements, and gave an overview of the variety of the explored cerebral regions and implantation patterns realized, pointing out the low rate of morbidity (1.4%). The three-dimensional epileptogenic zone thus defined led to a tailored individualized surgical excision in 60 patients, while 9 are waiting for surgery and the remaining 1 has been excluded (1.4%). Conceptual and technical aspects of the stereo-EEG methodology were discussed in order to underline its peculiarities in the field of &quot;depth recordings&quot;, and more generally among the broader group of &quot;invasive&quot; procedures.
A new functional imaging technique, &quot;FOCUS&quot;, has been developed to transform the traditional scalp EEG into an image of source activities. The image is based on multiple spatio-temporal dipole models and consists of gross spatial patterns and source waveforms reflecting the estimated activities of the different brain regions. The application of the 'FOCUS' technique to the EEG in temporal lobe epilepsy revealed the presence of different activities at the basal and lateral aspects of the temporal lobe. The source waveforms showed propagation patterns consistent with subdural recordings which were not recognizable in the scalp EEG.

Studies of the molecular composition of the abnormal neuritic processes of the plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD) have shown that these structures are immunoreactive with antibodies against growth-related molecules, synaptic/axonal proteins, and cytoskeletal proteins. These studies suggest that a subpopulation of abnormal neurites in the plaque are sprouting axons that eventually degenerate. To test this hypothesis further we studied the regional distribution of plaques in the hippocampus using a panel of monoclonal antibodies against synaptic proteins. With these antibodies we found a greater proportion of immunoreactive plaques compared to previous studies where a monoclonal antibody against synaptophysin was used. The most sensitive antibodies to detect neuritic plaques were SP11 and anti-p65, and the largest number of positive plaques was found in the entorhinal cortex and CA1 region. These results further support the theory that synaptic and axonal damage are involved in plaque formation in AD.
Immunofluorescence and immunogold labelling were used to localise the 43-kDa dystrophin-associated glycoprotein (43DAG) of the dystrophin-glycoprotein complex in control and Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) biopsies. In control muscle 43DAG was localised by immunofluorescence to the periphery of the fibre and, by immunogold, was further delimited to the plasma membrane. The labelling was indistinguishable from that previously reported for the dystrophin C terminus. Moreover, the distance separating adjacent 43DAG labelling sites (120 nm mode) closely matched that separating dystrophin C-terminal sites. This is strong evidence supporting Ervasti &amp; Campbell's model in which the DAG complex is bound close to the C terminus of dystrophin and in which the DAG complexes are separated by approximately the length of the dystrophin rod. In DMD, where there is a 80-90% reduction in the glycoprotein complex, a faint or locally patchy distribution of 43DAG was seen by immunofluorescence. Measurement of nearest-neighbour distances after immunogold labelling showed that in DMD the 43DAG was more dispersed, which is further evidence that dystrophin is normally involved in anchoring the DAGs in the plasma membrane. This is significant because the potential success of dystrophin gene therapy could depend not only on restoring dystrophin but also on restoring the lost DAGs.
Tau accumulating as paired helical filaments (PHF) in Alzheimer's disease brain is considered to be abnormally phosphorylated on distinct sites. To compare the phosphorylation state of tau-positive neuronal inclusions among diverse neurologic diseases, we have probed these lesions with three well-defined PHF/tau monoclonals, C5, M4 and tau 1, that most likely recognize three proline-directed phosphorylation sites in PHF-tau. In Alzheimer's disease brain all three monoclonals intensely immunostained intracellular neurofibrillary tangles, neuropil threads, senile plaque neurites, and &quot;pretangle neurons&quot; in a phosphorylation-dependent manner. They also stained, in the same manner, Pick bodies in Pick's disease, and neurofibrillary tangles and neuropil threads in various tangle-forming neurologic diseases. In most of these diseases (including Pick's disease, progressive supranuclear palsy, subacute sclerosing panencephalitis, and Alzheimer's disease) astrocytes and oligodendrocytes were found to contain tau-positive inclusions which showed the same immunocytochemical characteristics. Thus, the widely occurring tau-positive inclusions share common phosphorylation characteristics irrespective of underlying diseases or cell types.
This report concerns an immunohistochemical and ultrastructural study of cerebral astrocytes in a patient with Pick's disease of 20 years' duration. The autopsied brain was prominently small (710 g) with marked fronto-temporal lobar atrophy. Histological examination demonstrated profound neuronal loss and spongy changes with tau-positive Pick bodies in the frontal and temporal cortex. In addition, many glial cells in the temporal lobe white matter contained round to oval, argentophilic and slightly hematoxinophilic cytoplasmic inclusions that were also immunolabeled with the anti-tau antibody. On electron microscopy, the glial inclusions were observed in the perikarya of astrocytes that were recognized as such from intracytoplasmic glial filaments and the presence of gap junctions. The inclusions were free in the cytoplasm, without a limiting membrane, and mainly comprised irregular aggregations of bundles of about 15-nm straight tubules, which were indistinguishable from those of intraneuronal Pick bodies. Furthermore, various patterns of accumulation of the same straight tubules were frequently noted in perivascular astrocytic processes carrying a basal lamina. These findings indicate that in Pick's disease astrocytes are also affected by a similar insult to that which affects neurons.
Measurements were made of the thickness of the basal lamina of perineurial cells in the sural nerve in a series of patients with diabetic neuropathy and compared with a group of patients with type I hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy (HMSN) and with organ donor control cases. The thickness was significantly greater in the diabetic patients as compared both with the HMSN cases and the organ donor controls. This was most obvious for the intermediate layers of the perineurium. Perineurial basal laminal thickness was only slightly greater in the HMSN cases than in the organ donor controls and the difference was not statistically significant. The thickening of the perineurial cell basal laminae was compared with the thickening of the basal laminal zone around the endoneurial microvessels. No significant correlation was found either for the diabetic neuropathy or HMSN cases or for the organ donor controls. As had been observed previously, the basal laminal zone around the endoneurial capillaries was of increased thickness both in the diabetic neuropathy and the HMSN cases and, although it was greater for the diabetic neuropathy patients, the difference was not statistically significant. Taken together, these findings indicate that the thickening of the basal lamina of the perineurial cells is a more characteristic feature of diabetic neuropathy than is thickening of the basal laminal zone around the endoneurial capillaries. The results suggest that the causative mechanisms are likely to differ, a conclusion supported by the morphological appearances: the basal laminal thickening around the perineurial cells is uniform, whereas that around the capillaries consists of basal laminal reduplication.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
To determine how and when the satellite cells are stimulated to replicate in muscle regeneration, the rat soleus muscle was examined chronologically after bupivacaine-induced myonecrosis. Bromodeoxyuridine and desmin-positive mononuclear cells, indicating the start of satellite cell replication, were seen 25 h after bupivacaine treatment when macrophages had already invaded the sarcoplasm of necrotic fiber. These findings suggest that muscle regeneration starts as early as the time at which macrophages begin to scavenge necrotic material. Proliferating myoblasts increased in number, reaching a maximum at 49 h after myonecrosis, and decreased in number 3 days after the myoblasts fused with each other form myotubes. The satellite cell proliferation after bupivacaine-induced myonecrosis began at almost the same time as in crush injury, and earlier than after muscle transplantation using whole intact or minced muscle fragments. The earlier beginning and more rapid regenerating process probably resulted from the preservation of intact satellite cells, blood vessels and peripheral nerves in the bupivacaine-induced myonecrosis.
A former study indicated that hypoxic-ischemic encephalopathy in rat sustained during early postnatal life may result in permanent epileptic activity in the baseline electroencephalogram. We, therefore, investigated whether the presumed higher firing frequency and metabolic activity of neurons in such hypoxia-damaged cortical areas would be reflected by an enhanced light microscopic immunoreactivity of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), the two isoforms of glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD67 and GAD65), the mitochondrial enzymes cytochrome c oxidase and ATP synthase, and/or glial fibrillary acidic, protein (GFAP). To that end rat pups, 12-13 days of age, were unilaterally exposed to hypoxic-ischemic conditions and, after a survival period of 2 and 6 1/2 months, respectively, killed by perfusion fixation. After dissection of the brain, coronal vibratome sections of animals showing cortical damage were immunostained for the presence of the above-mentioned antigens. Subsequent qualitative analysis revealed that the surroundings of cortical infarctions were unambiguously characterized by a disordered neural network containing numerous nerve cells, fibers and/or endings showing an enhanced immunoreactivity for GABA, both isoforms of glutamic acid decarboxylase, and cytochrome c oxidase and ATP synthase, while the astrocytes showed an enhanced immunoreactivity for GFAP. The diverse patterns of enhanced immunoreactivity suggested, furthermore, a wider low-to-high range of metabolic activities in both excitatory and inhibitory neurons.
Self-assessment scales have long been used in psychiatric research even if their validity has often been questioned, one reason being poor the concordance of expert ratings. In clinical practice the use of rating scales is restricted, since they are considered to be time-consuming and perhaps even to disrupt the clinician's rapport with the patient. In the present study, a self-assessment scale, the CPRS Self-rating Scale for Affective Syndromes (CPRS-S-A), was constructed by re-phrasing in a self-rating format 19 items from the original Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale (CPRS) and covering depression, anxiety and obsessional symptoms. In a group of 30 patients with depression syndromes and anxiety syndromes, the CPRS-S-A and the original CPRS were both used on 2 occasions. The patient's Global Assessment of Functioning scores ranged from 30 to 76 (mean 58), which suggests a moderate severity of illness, as does the fact that the majority were outpatients. There was a high degree of concordance between the instruments for most items and for the scores on the subscales for both diagnostic groups (i.e., the Montgomery-Asberg Depression Rating Scale and the Brief Anxiety Scale, which are both subscales drawn from the CPRS). The time taken to complete the CPRS-S-A varied from 5 to 30 min (mean 19 min for depressive and 16 min for anxiety patients on the first occasion, 13 min for both groups on the second), and the self-rating procedure was readily accepted by both groups of patients. The CPRS-S-A would thus seem to be a promising instrument for quantitative rating of symptoms in ambulatory patients, both in clinical practice and in research.
For schizophrenics, the closing down of the old traditional hospital has in many places ended up in a scenario characterized by homelessness, relapse, patients overcrowding acute psychiatric but also somatic hospital wards, increased suicide figures, low living standards--and an increased burden on the family. The beds for schizophrenics have been considerably reduced in many countries. For schizophrenia the critical low number of institution beds--hospital as well as nursing home--seems to be 0.07% of the general population. Schizophrenia in all phases must be treated as the disease it is, not as a social problem.
The question of the existence of rational drug treatment of borderline personality disorder is discussed from two different positions. To the empiricists, the answer must rely on rigorous analysis of controlled drug trials, while to the realists theoretical conceptions of borderline personality disorder must also be seriously addressed. A rational pharmacotherapy can be claimed even when the nosological status of the disorder is not clarified but must be based on a dimensional analysis of psychopathology. Current psychotropic drugs have some but not any too impressive efficacy in the treatment of borderline personality disorder. It is argued that future drug treatment may benefit from the progress in neuroscience, especially within the area of psychobiology of personality.
Despite extensive use of the term mechanism in developmental psychology, and in theories of cognitive development in particular, scant attention has been given to specification of what the concept entails. The principal aim of this paper, by focusing on its implicit assumptions, has been to detail at least one view of how mechanism should be conceptualized. As with any general concept, the illustrations of its use in selected developmental theories point to differences in the ways aspects of the concept are treated. They suggest, too, why consensus in arriving at a unified concept of mechanism has been and will continue to be difficult. Nevertheless, the following conclusions can be drawn from the foregoing conceptual analysis and the analysis of selected applications. In the explanation of the operation of a mechanism, one must assume a temporal (asymmetrical) relation of either a single set or a series of initial conditions to an event, condition, or structure denoted as an effect. The relation of the antecedent to the consequent event(s) is describable by some theory of causal explanation. Implicit in any description of mechanism, then, is a theory of causal explanation. However, a strict account of causal relations, in which necessary and sufficient conditions of causal explanation are met, is not possible in any of the sciences. In addition, adequate reference to mechanisms requires the specification of structures, whether material or immaterial, and their constituent parts, with the parts related to each other in a systematic way. Such systems of structural components are operated upon by some process or set of processes that produces particular effects. Hence, mechanism and process are not interchangeable terms, nor does mechanism underlie process. Instead, in a mechanism, structure and process are complements of each other. Among the specific models of development mechanisms examined, all provide varying notions of process, but only some are directly concerned with the specification of structure. To the extent that they omit structures they are limited in their accounts of the mechanisms they are purported to describe and explain. Neuroscience accounts of developmental change most directly confront structure-function relations. In being closely allied to biological theories, they forthrightly acknowledge structural and functional forms of causal explanation. Dynamic system theories, in contrast, in emphasizing the dynamics of change, appear to place their primary, if not sole emphasis on the functional aspects of development. Nevertheless, implicit in their accounts are references to structure, often couched in the language of organization.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)









Prior to the onset of immunodeficiency disease, neurochemical and neuropathological events associated with motor and/or cognitive impairment can be identified in rhesus monkeys infected with simian immunodeficiency virus (SIV). These are astrocytosis, up-regulation of mRNA encoding the neuropeptide somatostatin (SRIF) and an increased expression of MHC Class II antigen. End-stage immunodeficiency disease has been associated with robust viral expression in the CNS frequently observed as multinucleated giant cell formation. SIV encephalitis has not been observed in animals whose only clinical signs of SIV disease were motor and/or cognitive impairment. These data suggest that neuronal dysfunction discernable as altered neuropeptide expression in cortical neurons precedes frank structural damage to the CNS in SIV encephalopathy. This model is consistent with the mechanism of neuropathogenesis in human HIV encephalopathy that can be partially inferred from neurochemical and neuropathological examination of autopsy material in HIV disease.
Continuous intravenous administration of zidovudine (AZT) has been reported to improve cognitive function in HIV-infected pediatric patients (Pizzo et al., 1988). The effects of long-term zidovudine treatment in the perinatally infected pediatric population, including antiviral efficacy and effects on cognitive and motor function has not been systematically examined. These questions were addressed in rhesus macaque infants infected at birth with SIVSMM/B670, a primate model for infantile HIV infection and disease (Eiden et al., 1993a). Continuous or intermittent administration of AZT during the first 6 months following infection resulted in about a doubling of lifespan, a delay in the occurrence of motor impairment, and lower virus burden and quinolinic acid levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) following administration of the antiviral drug.





Pre-mated adult female newts and fertilized eggs will be flown on the International Microgravity Laboratory-2 flight, in 1994. One objective of the flight will be to observe the influence of microgravity on the development of the gravity-sensing organs in the inner ear. These organs contain sensory hair cells covered by a layer of dense stones (otoconia). Gravity and linear acceleration exert forces on these masses, leading to excitation of the nerve fibers innervating the hair cells. If the production of the otoliths is regulated to reach an optimal weight, their development might be abnormal in microgravity. Ground-based control experiments are reported describing the developmental sequence in which both the otoliths and their associated sensory epithelium and the semicircular canals appear and develop. Three-dimensional reconstruction of serial sections through the otic vesicle of newt embryos at stages 31 through 58 demonstrate the first appearance, relative position and growth of the otoliths. Reports of experiments in which fertilized frog eggs were flown on a Russian Cosmos mission conclude that the utricular otolith is increased in volume, whereas the saccular otolith maintains normal size, suggesting that at least in the utricle, the weight of the otolith might be regulated.

5-Hydroxytryptophol (5HTOL) occurs naturally in animals as a metabolite of serotonin. Ethanol interacts with serotonin metabolism to increase the production of 5HTOL at the expense of 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5HIAA). This can be used clinically in the treatment of alcohol dependence to improve the detection of relapse in alcohol drinking, by monitoring daily the urinary 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio. In one experiment the sensitivity of this marker in detecting alcohol drinking the previous day was more than 10-fold greater than measuring urinary ethanol. Genetic polymorphism in alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenases, which is known to influence the ethanol metabolism, does not confound the clinical use of 5HTOL as a marker. Disulfiram and cyanamide, however, will elevate urinary 5HTOL/5HIAA ratio.
Alcohol dependent male outpatients were monitored for a period of six months. Indicators of alcohol consumption were compared using clinical information three times per week, serum levels of carbohydrate deficient transferrin (CDT) weekly and urine samples of 5-hydroxytryptophol daily. Individualized reference values of CDT were calculated by using an increase of three times the lowest coefficient of variation in the group, which meant that an increase of &lt; or = 30% from the lowest value of each individual was considered a significant increase, and therefore an indication of alcohol consumption. By this approach, it was possible to improve the ability to detect relapses in alcohol dependent patients using serum CDT once a week compared to CDT using reference values recommended by the manufacturer.
The ability to make use of reflective cognitive operations in monitoring and evaluating remembered events is impaired in subgroups of nominally cognitively unimpaired, detoxified alcoholics. Alcoholics, relative to controls, make more errors in identifying the source of remembered information (i.e. whether a remembered word was self-generated or was a stimulus word presented by the experimenter), and are impaired in their ability to inhibit confabulatory errors (intrusions). The cognitive-memory impairment expressed in benzodiazepine-treated normal volunteers mimics this impairment in alcoholics. Disturbances in prefrontal and frontal lobe functions may be involved in this selective impairment in cognition in many alcoholics and may also contribute to what accounts for the failures in reflective cognitive operations observed in amnestic patients.
Evidence suggests that liver disease per se may contribute to the cognitive and motor impairments encountered in chronic alcoholics. Neuropathologic studies reveal astrocytic changes (Alzheimer type II astrocytosis) in the brains of alcoholic cirrhotic patients who died in hepatic coma. Pathophysiologic mechanisms responsible for hepatic (portal-systemic) encephalopathy in alcoholics include the loss of neuron-astrocytic metabolic trafficking as well as selective alterations of serotoninergic and dopaminergic function. In addition, there is evidence to suggest that endogenous ligands for both central-type (GABA-related) and &quot;peripheral-type&quot; (astrocytic) benzodiazepine receptors are implicated in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy in these patients. Chronic liver disease may also interfere with brain thiamine homeostasis and thus contribute to the pathogenesis of the Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome in chronic alcoholism.

Fourteen families of children with infantile nephropathic cystinosis were evaluated using the Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale, Fourth Edition [Thorndike et al., 1986: Stanford-Binet Intelligence Scale, Fourth Ed.]. The IQs of 15 children with cystinosis, their 23 sibs and 24 parents were compared in order to evaluate a potential effect of cystinosis on intelligence. Children with cystinosis had a significantly lower mean IQ than their sibs and their parents (P = .001). Thus, even though the mean IQ of the children with cystinosis (94.4 +/- 10) was within the average range, there is evidence that these children have a mild global intellectual deficit relative to their expected IQ based upon the IQs of other relatives. In addition, to a subset of the subjects we administered a measure of scholastic ability, the Wide Range Achievement Test-Revised [Jastak and Wilkinson, 1984: The Wide Range Achievement Test-Revised], which consists of spelling, reading, and arithmetic subtests. The 11 cystinosis subjects scored significantly lower (P = .01) than their 16 sibs and their 14 parents in the area of spelling, whereas they did not significantly differ in their performance in the areas of reading and arithmetic.
Systemic hypoxia [PaO2 27.3 +/- 1.8 (SE) mmHg] in anesthetized paralyzed rats reversibly increased within seconds the arterial pressure and activities of the sympathetic nerves and the reticulospinal vasomotor neurons of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL). After peripheral chemodenervation, hypoxia also increased activity of the sympathetic nerves and doubled discharges of the vasomotor neurons while inhibiting a majority of the RVL respiratory neurons. Systemic hypercapnia was not effective in eliciting sympathoexcitatory responses. Iontophoresis of sodium cyanide stimulated the vasomotor and inhibited the respiratory neurons. In contrast, iontophoreses of H+, HCO3-, and lactate were without effects on activity of the vasomotor neurons. We conclude 1) hypoxia excites the vasomotor neurons by activating the arterial chemoreceptors and by activating intrinsic cellular mechanisms probably unrelated to accumulation of metabolic byproducts; 2) hypoxia may be the adequate stimulus exciting the RVL-spinal vasomotor and inhibiting the respiratory neurons during the cerebral ischemic response; and 3) these vasomotor neurons may be central oxygen detectors.
We examined the relationship between spontaneous changes in regional cerebral blood flow and electrocortical (ECoG) activity in spinalized rats anesthetized with 1.5% isoflurane. Regional cerebral blood flow, measured by laser-Doppler flowmetry, and ECoG activity were measured bilaterally in frontal and parietal cortex. Spontaneous cerebrovascular waves (SCWs) were seen in all (n = 80) rats and consisted of sawtoothed waves with an average amplitude of 20.1 +/- 0.78%, a duration of 11.7 +/- 0.6 s, and a frequency of 6.3 +/- 0.2 min-1. SCWs were always preceded by a high-amplitude burst of ECoG activity (averaging 752.0 +/- 41.8 microV at 5.6 +/- 0.2 Hz) and comparable to the well-recognized burst-suppression/barbiturate-spindle patterns of ECoG activity. The latency between bursts and SCWs averaged 1.71 +/- 0.05 s. The frequency of bursts and SCWs was highly correlated within and between cortical areas bilaterally (r &gt; 0.9) and appeared synchronously across brain. Deepening anesthesia (to 1.75% isoflurane) reduced the frequency of bursts and SCWs by &gt; 30% but not their correlation (r &gt; 0.9) and minimally increased burst-SCW latency. SCWs differed from an uncommon sinusoidal oscillation regional cerebral blood flow triggered by changes in arterial pressure and independent of the ECoG. Bursts and SCWs were not affected by inhibition of nitric oxide synthase. The results indicate that a population of local cortical neurons, probably driven from subcortical pacemakers, when excited, elicits local cerebrovascular vasodilation.
Neuroscience is conceptually founded on a philosophy of mind known as identity theory. This theory claims that mental phenomena are reducible to the physical organ of the brain. But identity theory, and consequentially neuroscience, is unable to address essential human features of intentionality, consciousness, and autonomy, i.e., free will. Intentionally is the quality of having content or &quot;aboutness,&quot; consciousness is quality of self-awareness, and autonomy is the ability to make undetermined choices. These essential human features make up our common sense and our psychodynamic understanding of ourselves. Without these features we would have to change our entire way of seeing ourselves and our dynamic psychotherapy would be impossible. We need intentionality in psychotherapy because it is only through the content of our patients' thoughts and feelings that we can help them derive meaning; we need consciousness because it is primarily through introspection that we get access to our patients' inner world; and we need autonomy because unless our patients have the option of doing things differently there is no point to the therapeutic endeavor. Consequently, psychiatry cannot rely solely on neuroscience as its basic science without creating a conception of people devoid of essential human features and without eviscerating its psychotherapeutic capacity.
A variety of investigators in recent years have proposed models of psychological systems based on the concepts of chaos, nonlinear dynamics, and self-organization. Unfortunately, psychologists in general have little understanding of these important ideas. These terms are defined, and their relationships are discussed. The value of applying these concepts to psychological systems is demonstrated by exploring their utility in areas ranging from neuroscience to clinical psychology. Some of the difficulties in using nonlinear concepts and methodologies in empirical investigations are also discussed.
All known bone-derived osteoinductive factors have been isolated from endochondral (EC) bones and all initiate bone induction via EC ossification. However, to date no attempt has been made to isolate comparable factors from bones which form initially and completely via intramembranous (IM) ossification. The purpose of this work was to isolate osteoinductive proteins from IM bones. To accomplish this, we extracted proteins from bovine frontal bone matrix (intramembranous origin) using methods previously described for endochondral (EC) bone matrix (i.e., femur). Bone powder (&lt; 1 mm) was decalcified and proteins extracted with 4 M guanidine hydrochloride. Ultrafiltration was used to isolate and concentrate a 10-100 kilodalton (kDa) fraction, upon which heparin-Sepharose (HS) affinity chromatography was performed. HS-binding (HS-B) and non-binding proteins (HS-NB) were lyophilized with bovine type I collagen (Vitrogen) to form pellets which were implanted subcutaneously in rats. Radiology as well as brightfield, fluorescent, and polarizing microscopy were used to assess the formation of ectopic bone at the site of pellet implantation. In this report we demonstrate that a heparin-Sepharose binding, osteoinductive factor can be extracted and partially purified from bovine intramembranous bone matrix. This factor has a different sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE) banding pattern than a comparable osteoinductive/chondroinductive factor isolated from EC bone.


Since its introduction 40 years ago, the value of carotid endarterectomy has been controversial. In the early 1980s, several clinical trials were initiated to determine the efficacy of this operation in patients with carotid stenoses who were either symptomatic or asymptomatic for retinal or hemispheric ischemia. In 1991, interim results were published for the North American Symptomatic Carotid Endarterectomy Trial (NASCET) and the European Carotid Surgery Trial (ECST), both reporting efficacy for surgery in patients with symptomatic carotid artery stenosis of greater than 70%. Subgroup analyses revealed variable risk groups. The Veterans Administration (VA) Symptomatic Trial (Cooperative Studies Program 309 of the Department of Veterans Affairs) terminated early because of these results and its findings were consistent with the results of the larger trials. NASCET and ECST continue for symptomatic patients with carotid stenoses between 30% and 69%. The results of three trials in asymptomatic patients, the Mayo asymptomatic trial, the Carotid Artery Stenosis with Asymptomatic Narrowing: Operation Versus Aspirin trial, and the VA Asymptomatic Trial (Cooperative Studies Protocol 167 of the Department of Veterans Affairs), have been reported. None showed a statistically significant benefit for surgery in the prevention of stroke or death. However, none was sufficiently large to exclude such a benefit. The large Asymptomatic Carotid Atherosclerosis Study is in progress. Differences in the results and design of these trials are discussed as are restrictions in the applicability of their results.
Neuronal degeneration and death occur in mammals in the course of nervous system development, during senescence, and as a consequence of pathological events throughout life. Neurotrophic factors are natural target-derived molecules that prevent neuronal degeneration and death during development and promote neuronal recovery from injury and age-related atrophy. One neurotrophic factor--nerve growth factor-prevents the death of cells that are a target of varicella-zoster virus: dorsal root sensory neurons. Delivery of neurotrophic factors to dysfunctional neurons may be a useful therapeutic strategy for promoting neuronal recovery in a number of diseases, including varicella-zoster virus infection.
About 65% of cerebral vascular accidents are due to occlusion of a large calibre artery, which spontaneously resolves during the hours or days following occlusion. Experimental studies have shown that neuronal death does not occur immediately. The hypothesis of thrombolysis is based on early restoration of cerebral blood flow by administration of a thrombolytic, which would facilitate neuronal recovery and reduce mortality and sequelae (efficacy hypothesis). Such early thrombolysis would not carry an excessive risk of symptomatic haemorrhage (safety hypothesis). The feasibility of thrombolysis in cerebral ischaemia is now established, but its efficacy and safety remain to be evaluated by randomised controlled clinical trials.
The first cerebrovascular emergency units were created at the end of the 1970s. Their organisation now varies greatly from one hospital to another, ranging from units equipped with intensive care facilities to the simple distinction of a team devoted to the management of this disease. Their objective is to reduce the mortality and residual handicap. They appear to achieve this objective, probably essentially because of the prevention and treatment of complications. They also have other advantages, more difficult to evaluate, attributable to the skills of the multidisciplinary team: better diagnosis, prognosis, better medical and social organisation of the patient's future in collaboration with his or her family. These centres improve the efficacy of health care systems, probably without any major increase in costs. These centres are therefore a special site for clinical research into the pathophysiology and hospital epidemiology, but especially for therapeutic trials in acute cerebral vascular accident, as a number of potentially effective molecules are available whose efficacy needs to be evaluated.




We analyzed questionnaire survey responses in a cohort of 30,344 twins in Sweden, 280 of whom became inpatients due to neurosis within the subsequent 10 years. As a group, they differed substantially in their reported health profile from the survey responders who were not admitted for psychiatric treatment. When subclassified into anxiety, depressive, and other neuroses, these were indistinguishable from each other regarding self-perceived health and personality traits. Women were more likely to be hospitalized for neurosis. These mental and social antecedents for both anxiety and depression are in keeping with the concept of a shared diathesis which is supported by neurophysiological, treatment and genetic epidemiological studies.
In the management of both anxiety and depression, agents such as imipramine (IMI) are noted for their 3-5 week delay to onset of clinical effect. A similar delay to onset has been reported for the anxiolytic-like (i.e., anticonflict) effect of chronic IMI treatment (2.5 mg/kg, BID for 5 weeks) in the Conditioned Suppression of Drinking (CSD) conflict paradigm; similar effects have been reported with other antidepressants and in other conflict procedures. In contrast, in the Forced Swim Test (FST) model of depression, antidepressant-like effects are reported immediately following subchronic treatment with relatively high doses of these agents (e.g., 30 mg/kg IMI, 3 times in 24 hr). The present study examined the effects of this high-dose, subchronic treatment with IMI on CSD conflict behavior. Conflict-trained female Sprague Dawley rats were divided into three groups with comparable pretreatment baselines for shocks received. Treatments (0, 15, and 30 mg/kg IMI) were administered intraperitoneally (IP) at 23, 5, and 1 hr prior to CSD conflict testing on day 1; CSD conflict behavior was then monitored daily (Mon-Fri) for 5 weeks following treatment. IMI treatment (30 and, to a lesser extent, 15 mg/kg) significantly reduced shocks received (punished responding) and water intake (unpunished responding) on day 1; although water intake was also slightly reduced in both IMI treatment groups for the remainder of test week 1, there was no difference in shocks received between the various treatments for this period. Subjects receiving 30 mg/kg IMI (but not those receiving 15 mg/kg IMI or vehicle) accepted significantly more shocks than controls on weeks 2-4 (maximal increase at week 3) and returned to pretreatment baseline levels by week 5. Thus, subchronic high-dose treatment with IMI (and perhaps other antidepressants) produces anxiolytic-like effects which are delayed in nature and persist for several weeks after treatment.
To examine the effect of treatment on lactate-induced anxiety in a controlled study, we infused 44 panic disorder patients with lactate and placebo before and after eight weeks of double-blind treatment with imipramine, diazepam, or placebo. During treatment, both imipramine and diazepam groups improved more than the placebo group. After treatment, patients in both the imipramine and diazepam groups had significantly less anxiety than the placebo patients when reinfused with lactate. In addition, imipramine decreased posttreatment panic attack frequency and diazepam decreased the perceived severity of posttreatment lactate-induced panic attacks. This study demonstrates that diazepam, like imipramine, is an effective treatment for panic disorder, and that both imipramine and diazepam blunt lactate-induced anxiety in a placebo controlled study.
The susceptibility of fourteen established cell lines to infection with Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV) was assayed using an indirect fluorescent antibody technique. In kinetic studies, the degree of binding and internalization of JEV allowed the identification of high susceptibility and low-susceptibility cells. Scatchard analysis showed that JEV specifically bound to high-susceptibility Vero cells with greater affinity than to low-susceptibility NRK cells. Microinjection of viral genomic RNA into NRK cells induced highly efficient production of viral antigen and infectious virions. A hemagglutinin-inhibiting monoclonal antibody against JEV (MAb 301) inhibited the binding of JEV to the Vero and NRK cells. JEV was found to bind to a 74K molecule present in the membrane fraction of Vero cells and this binding was inhibited by MAb 301. Importantly, the 74K molecule was not detected in the membrane faction of NRK cells. These results suggest that early events in the JEV-cell interaction influence the susceptibility of cells to infection, and in particular suggests that the 74K molecule may be a possible candidate or component of the cellular receptor for JEV.
To study the role of HIV-1 gp120 in loss of myelin in HIV encephalopathy, the binding of gp120 to various types of neural cells and its effects on myelination were examined in rat primary brain culture. Double-staining of cultured cells with gp120 and specific antibodies for different neural cell types showed that gp120 bound to most of the galactocerebroside (GalC)-positive oligodendrocytes, a small population of type-2-like astrocytes and a few small neurons. Gp120 did not bind to type-1-like astrocytes, most neurons, or to macrophage/microglia. To assay myelination, cells were bathed in a myelination medium containing chick embryo extract and high glucose, with or without gp120. Seven days after the application, myelination in the culture was observed morphologically and by staining with anti-myelin basic protein (MBP) antibody, and was found to be significantly inhibited by the addition of gp120 (50-100 nM). The processes of oligodendrocytes were reduced in length and arborization relative to the control, but MBP production by oligodendrocytes was unaffected. These results show that gp120 can cause a functional disorder of oligodendrocytes and thus could underlie the diffuse loss of myelin sheaths of HIV encephalopathy.
In mysathenia gravis (MG) autoantibodies directed against acetylcholine receptors (AChR), at the neuromuscular junction lead to muscle weakness. These antibodies are directed against extracellular determinants, predominantly on the AChR alpha subunits. Similar antibodies can be induced in animals by immunisation with purified AChR, but immunisation of mice with recombinant human alpha subunit or its extracellular domain has produced conflicting results. To study further the immunogenicity of the human alpha subunit we immunised four inbred stains (C57B1/6, SJL, BALB/c, SWR) with almost full-length recombinant alpha subunit, r37-429, and looked at B cell epitopes by mapping with smaller recombinant fragments and synthetic peptides. The majority of anti-r37-429 antibodies bound to sequences within a region thought to be cytoplasmic, alpha 325-368, and reacted with human AChR. In two C57B1/6 sera, only, most antibodies were directed against an extracellular region, alpha 138-167, but the r37-429 used for immunisation of these two mice appeared to have lost the integrity of its cytoplasmic domain during preparation. Our results suggest that the antigenicity of the cytoplasmic region of the recombinant alpha subunit dominates the immune response in each of the four strains, and may even suppress the formation of antibodies to the extracellular domain. Moreover, although C57B1/6 and SJL mice were able to produce antibodies to alpha 138-167, these antibodies did not react with intact AChR, and none of the mice became weak.
Aphasia is a common manifestation of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD), and investigation of the linguistic disorders of CJD patients may provide insights into the neurobiological mechanisms of language and aphasia. We report an autopsy-confirmed case of CJD in which the presenting symptom was change in language abilities. The patient ultimately evidenced mixed transcortical aphasia (MTA) with echolalia. Disruption of frontal-subcortical circuits with environmental dependency accounts for the symptoms in MTA, including intact repetition and echolalia. Observation in this patient and a review of the literature suggest that frontal-subcortical circuit dysfunction may contribute to the syndrome of echolalia. This hypothesis offers an alternative explanation to &quot;isolation&quot; of the speech area as the cause of MTA.
Investigation of P.T., a man who experienced reduplicative delusions, revealed significant impairments on tests of recognition memory for faces and understanding of emotional facial expressions. On formal tests of his recognition abilities, P.T. showed reduplication to familiar faces, buildings, and written names, but not to familiar voices. Reduplication may therefore have been a genuinely visual problem in P.T.'s case, since it was not found to auditory stimuli. This is consistent with hypotheses which propose that the basis of reduplication can lie in part in malfunction of the visual system.
A polypeptide of high molecular mass has been detected in mammalian brain by a monoclonal antibody, 5C3, raised against skeletal muscle ryanodine receptor. 5C3 does not crossreact with the cardiac ryanodine receptor, the isoform which is believed to be located in many regions of the brain. Endogenous proteases in brain formed a prominent immunogenic fragment of 116 kDa whereas five immunostaining polypeptides greater than 200 kDa were observed in skeletal muscle. Mild trypsin digestion of brain microsomes resulted in fragments of approximately 400 and approximately 280 kDa, of similar mass to two peptides formed from the skeletal muscle ryanodine receptor. However a peptide of 28 kDa, resistant to trypsin, was observed in muscle but not in brain. The brain polypeptide recognised by 5C3 is therefore not identical to the skeletal muscle ryanodine receptor.
The relative utilization of alternative processing pathways for APP can be regulated by the activation state of certain protein phosphorylation signal transduction pathways. For example, activation of protein kinase C (PKC), or inactivation of protein phosphatases 1 and 2A, leads to a relative increase in utilization of the nonamyloidogenic, 'alpha-secretase' cleavage pathway for APP processing at the expense of other pathways. The molecular and cellular basis for this regulatory event is unknown. The possible mechanisms of regulated APP cleavage include (either singly or in combination): 1) substrate (ie APP) activation; 2) substrate redistribution; 3) enzyme (ie alpha-secretase) activation; or 4) enzyme redistribution. APP is a phosphoprotein; however, recent evidence from studies of the metabolism of mutant APP molecules suggests that changes in the APP cytoplasmic tail phosphorylation state may not be necessary for the phosphorylation-dependent activation of 'alpha-secretase' cleavage. Further, indirect immunofluorescent studies of the subcellular distribution of APP in the absence or presence of phorbol esters (PKC activators) fail to disclose obvious phorbol-induced redistribution of APP immunoreactivity. Taken together, current data suggest that major candidate phosphorylation-state sensitive targets relevant to the molecular basis of PKC-activated processing (or 'regulated cleavage') of APP include the APP ectodomain as well as secretase enzymes and/or other components of the APP trafficking/processing apparatus. Progress in distinguishing among these possibilities is discussed.
Thirty-two frog hearts were divided into four groups and placed individually in temperature-controlled waveguides filled with Ringer's solution. The pacemaker was removed, and stimulation was provided at 0.3 Hz by three carbon-loaded Teflon electrodes located on the aorta and the ventricular muscle. Conduction velocity was measured from the difference between two action potentials. One group served as control; the three other groups were exposed for 2 h to pulsed 2,450 MHz microwave fields (10 microseconds, 0.001 duty cycle, 16 Hz modulation) at specific absorption rates (SARs) of 0.003, 2, and 6 W/kg, respectively. No significant difference in conduction velocity was found between the control and the exposed groups.
An important step in visual processing is the segregation of objects in a visual scene from one another and from the embedding background. According to current theories of visual neuroscience, the different features of a particular object are represented by cells which are spatially distributed across multiple visual areas in the brain. The segregation of an object therefore requires the unique identification and integration of the pertaining cells which have to be &quot;bound&quot; into one assembly coding for the object in question. Several authors have suggested that such a binding of cells could be achieved by the selective synchronization of temporally structured responses of the neurons activated by features of the same stimulus. This concept has recently gained support by the observation of stimulus-dependent oscillatory activity in the visual system of the cat, pigeon and monkey. Furthermore, experimental evidence has been found for the formation and segregation of synchronously active cell assemblies representing different stimuli in the visual field. In this study, we investigate temporally structured activity in networks with single and multiple feature domains. As a first step, we examine the formation and segregation of cell assemblies by synchronizing and desynchronizing connections within a single feature module. We then demonstrate that distributed assemblies can be appropriately bound in a network comprising three modules selective for stimulus disparity, orientation and colour, respectively. In this context, we address the principal problem of segregating assemblies representing spatially overlapping stimuli in a distributed architecture. Using synchronizing as well as desynchronizing mechanisms, our simulations demonstrate that the binding problem can be solved by temporally correlated responses of cells which are distributed across multiple feature modules.
We investigated the normalized autocovariance (correlation coefficient) function of the output of an erf() function nonlinearity subject to non-zero mean Gaussian noise input. When the sigmoid is wide compared to the input, or the input mean is close to the midpoint of the sigmoid, the output correlation coefficient function is very close to the input correlation coefficient function. When the noise mean and variance are such that there is a significant probability of operating in the saturation region and the sigmoid is not too flat, the correlation coefficient of the output function is less than that of the input. This difference is much greater when the correlation coefficient is negative than when it is positive. The sigmoid partially rectifies the correlation coefficient function. The analysis does not depend on the spectral properties of the input noise. All that is required is that the input at times t and (t + tau) be jointly gaussian with the same mean and autocovariance. The analysis therefore applies equally well to the case of two identical sigmoids with jointly gaussian inputs. This correlational rectification could help explain the parameter sensitivity of &quot;neural network&quot; models. If biological neurons share this property it could explain why few negative correlations between spike trains have been observed.
The purpose of this report is to examine the biological sciences in Chile and South America in bibliographic terms -the number of papers each nation published from 1981-1991 and the number of citations to them in the international research literature. The database consists of 34,600 biological science papers from Argentina, Brazil, Chile, and Venezuela in the 1981-1991 Science Citation Index files of the Institute for Scientific Information. Twelve specialty areas were selected to represent the biological sciences of special interest to Chile: animal sciences, biochemistry/biophysics, environmental sciences, experimental biology/medicine, immunology, microbiology/cell biology, molecular biology/genetics, neurosciences, pharmacology, physiology, plant sciences, and reproductive sciences. Data are reported on the number of papers in these fields, combined, by authors based in Chile and other South American nations. In addition, time-series trends in the impact (average citations per paper) of Chilean research relative to South America as a whole, overall and in each specialty, are presented and discussed.
A sample of rhodopsin that is exposed to a series of small light flashes of equal intensity is expected to bleach in successively smaller decrements in proportion to the remaining unbleached rhodopsin. The exponential depletion law describing this effect has been used as a rapid, convenient, and intuitive method for determining the fraction of rhodopsin bleached per flash. This method is commonly assumed to be free of error provided the amount bleached is small, so that there is no significant photoregeneration. We show here, however, that if there is any photoregeneration, the bleach fraction calculated in this manner can be in error by a factor of two or more, no matter how little rhodopsin is bleached. This flaw occurs insidiously, without perturbing the expected exponentiality of the bleaching decrements, thereby escaping ready notice. The erroneous bleach values readily propagate as underestimates of metarhodopsin and accompanying G-protein equilibrium and kinetic constants. We derive equations for correcting such errors and illustrate how empirical constants can be obtained from experiments that permit the true fraction bleached to be determined.
We describe our experience of 600 patients with progressive post-traumatic myelopathy, predominantly of the cystic type. The aetiology, clinical and radiological features and treatment are described and discussed.
An experimental study was undertaken to evaluate the accuracy with which the intercommissural line (IL) length and anterior-posterior commissural (AC-PC) plane could be selected using unreformatted axial CT8800 imaging. Using these reference points, the Schaltenbrandt and Bailey stereotactic atlas and the Brown-Roberts-Wells (BRW) stereotactic system 1.82 mm ball bearings were deposited at selected diencephalic and pallidal targets in cadaver brains. There were errors in both IL length (median 1.5 mm) and AC-PC plane (median forward angulation of 9 degrees) estimation. Ball bearing deposition into large nuclei such as the pulvinar and globus pallidus and those in proximity to the mid IL such as the nuclei ventro oralis anterior (Voa), ventro oralis posterior (Vop) and ventro intermedius (Vim) was generally good; however, localization of the relatively small intralaminar nucleus was poor. This study suggests that when the AC and PC are not well imaged on sagittal reformations of axial diencephalic CT scans estimation of the AC-PC plane and IL from axial CT scans may be accurate enough for anatomical localization of certain functional stereotactic targets. The implications of this experimental study to operative functional stereotaxy are discussed.
To address the question of managing subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) in the older patient, the management and outcome of 199 consecutive patients aged &gt; or = 60 years with a confirmed diagnosis of subarachnoid haemorrhage (n = 186) or an unruptured intracranial aneurysm (n = 13) were reviewed. In seven patients, the cause of the SAH was an arterio-venous malformation and these were excluded from further analysis. Angiography was performed in 141 patients with a complication rate of 2.1%. Angiography was not performed in 51 patients and, in this cohort, the in-patient mortality rate was 68.6% and only 27.5% had a favourable outcome at discharge. Operation was not performed in 21 patients with demonstrated aneurysms for a variety of reasons. In this group, the in-patient mortality rate was 47.6% and 38.1% had a favourable outcome at discharge. Eighty-one patients in good neurological grade underwent surgery for a ruptured aneurysm and six patients underwent surgery for a symptomatic unruptured aneurysm. The surgical mortality was 1.1% and a favourable outcome at discharge was achieved in 83.9% of patients. Thirty-three patients were angiographic negative and there was a favourable outcome in 97% of this group. The management mortality in these selected patients admitted to the Department of Clinical Neurosciences was 24.4% and a favourable outcome was recorded in 66.2% of patients. Long-term follow-up (median 40 months, range 3-120 months) was obtained in 97% of discharged patients. The probability of survival at 60 months for patients in good condition at discharge was 0.826 (95% confidence interval 0.722-0.894).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The authors analysed all cases of brain biopsy done in AIDS or HIV+patients at the Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, during the period 1989-92 to determine the clinical utility of the procedure. Thirteen lesions were biopsied revealing toxoplasmosis in five, lymphoma in four, progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy in three, HIV encephalitis in two and encephalitis of unknown aetiology in one. One biopsy specimen contained abnormal tissue but was non-diagnostic. The median survival after biopsy was only 7 weeks, but preoperative immunological (median CD4 count 45) and clinical status of the patients were poor. Although the impact of tissue diagnosis on patient survival was minimal it did enable modification of drug therapy. The authors preliminary experience with biopsy in AIDS patients suggests that the diagnostic information obtained is of limited value in prolonging the lives of patients in poor immunological status, but may be useful in refining medical therapies for toxoplasmosis and progressive multifocal leucoencephalopathy. Whether biopsy should be performed earlier in the course of cerebral disease in an effort to prolong survival time remains unclear.
A leading proponent of neurological surgery at the onset of World War I, Victor Horsley's uncompromising liberalism was unpopular among the medical hierarchy. Assigned to the Mediterranean Expeditionary Force (MEF) his political activism proved more valuable than his surgical talent. This report will outline his military career and death in 1916. As a member of the local Territorial Force at the outbreak of the war, Horsley requested active duty on the Western Front. He was eventually posted as Director of Surgery of the 21st General Hospital and sent to Egypt for the Dardanelles Campaign in May 1915. Several months later he was promoted to colonel and appointed surgical consultant of the Army Medical Service. Although he operated electively and lectured to medical officers on Gallipoli, the chaotic medical conditions promoted him (and others) to push for re-organization of the medical services; public outcry succeeded in effecting a change. At the end of this campaign, Horsley volunteered for duty in Mesopotamia. The appalling medical conditions prevented adequate surgery and for the next 4 months he devoted his attention to transport, equipment and ancillary care for the diseased troops. His death was sudden and controversial. A vehement opponent of alcohol and the 'rum ration', he publicly testified to his own good health in the tropics as an example of the benefit of abstinence. In mid-July, 1916, he developed severe hyperpyrexia and died within 36 h. Detractors pointed to the uselessness of abstinence while proponents described his death as the unavoidable result of epidemic paratyphoid. In summary, Horsley's political activism was partially successful in medical reorganization, but his surgical abilities could not be used appropriately in a theatre of operations where infectious disease played a major role. His early death mirrored the waste and tragedy of the Great War.
A case of intramedullary neuroschistosomal granuloma in a 15-year-old girl is reported. Despite the fact that Saudi Arabia is endemic for schistosomiasis, neuroschistosomiasis has rarely been reported from that country. A review of the literature on the incidence, pathogenesis, clinical patterns and management of neuroschistosomiasis, particularly myelopathy, is given.
A middle-aged man re-presented with a Broca's aphasia due to a recurrent fronto-cingulate anaplastic astrocytoma. Although the language disturbance did not improve with dexamethasone therapy, within 4 weeks of treatment with procarbazine, CCNU and vincristine, the dysphasia had almost completely resolved. The anatomico-functional aspects and possible mechanisms of production and resolution of the aphasia are discussed. Assessment of dysphasias in patients undergoing intensive therapy for brain neoplasms is often neglected, but it can provide good objective information about the efficacy of therapy.
A simple and cheap model that enables on site, ex vivo, but very practical, learning of frame-based image-guided stereotactic technique and methodology, and the functional anatomy of the pallidum and thalamus is described. Using a cadaver skull, a specially prepared, formalin-fixed cadaver brain, and a modified stereotactic probe application of a stereotactic frame to the cranium, fiducial point acquisition, target point acquisition, computation of both arc and probe depth settings, and verification of target point accuracy can all be practiced. If diencephalic targets are selected for targeting with ball bearings then section of the cadaver brains, and study of a human thalamic stereotactic atlas provides an excellent and clinically relevant method of learning functionally important thalamic and pallidal anatomy. The method and techniques are described for CT imaging using the Brown-Roberts-Wells frame, but they are equally applicable to other frame types.
Acute subdural haematoma secondary to a ruptured intracranial aneurysm may lead to coma or sudden death. We describe five cases encountered in our department over the last 3 years emphasizing the differential diagnosis and approaches to management.
Eleven patients with primary lymphoma of the central nervous system were seen in the King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Centre, Saudi Arabia, between 1986 and 1992. None had previously received immunosuppressive therapy. All cases were confirmed by biopsy and histopathological studies. Of the eleven patients, six had debulking of the tumour, seven received radiation therapy and six received chemotherapy. This report confirms the very poor prognosis for patients with primary lymphoma of the central nervous system, with only a few long-term survivors.
1. An investigation has been made in rats into the neurotoxic effect of the relatively selective 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) neurotoxin, 3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or 'Ecstasy') using chlormethiazole and dizocilpine, both known neuroprotective compounds and also gamma-butyrolactone, ondansetron and pentobarbitone. 2. Administration of MDMA (20 mg kg-1, i.p.) resulted in a 50% loss of cortical and hippocampal 5-HT and 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) 4 days later. This reflects the long term neurotoxic loss of 5-HT that occurs. Injection of gamma-butyrolactone (GBL; 400 mg kg-1, i.p.) 5 min before and 55 min after the MDMA provided substantial protection. Pentobarbitone (25 mg kg-1, i.p.) using the same dose regime was also protective, but ondansetron (0.5 mg kg-1 or 0.1 mg kg-1, i.p.) was without effect. 3. MDMA (20 mg kg-1) had no significant effect on striatal dopamine concentration 4 days later but did produce a small decrease in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) content. There were few significant changes in rats given MDMA plus GBL, ondansetron or pentobarbitone. 4. A single injection of MDMA (20 mg kg-1, i.p.) resulted in a greater than 80% depletion of 5-HT in hippocampus and cortex 4 h later, reflecting the initial rapid release that had occurred. None of the neuroprotective compounds (chlormethiazole, 50 mg kg-1; dizocilpine, 1 mg kg-1; GBL, 400 mg kg-1; pentobarbitone, 25 mg kg-1) given 5 min before and 55 min after the MDMA injection, altered the degree of 5-HT loss. 5. Acute MDMA injection increased striatal dopamine content (28%) and decreased the DOPAC content. In general, administration of the drugs under investigation did not significantly alter these MDMA-induced changes. Both chlormethiazole and GBL produced a greater increase in dopamine than MDMA alone, but this was apparently an additive effect to the action of either drug alone. 6. The 5-HT loss 4 h following administration of the neurotoxin p-chloroamphetamine (2.5 mg kg-1,i.p.) was not affected by chlormethiazole or dizocilpine. p-Chloroamphetamine did not appear to alter striatal dopamine metabolism.7. None of the protective drugs inhibited the initial 5-HT loss following MDMA, rendering unlikely any proposal that they are protective because they inhibit 5-HT release and the subsequent formation ofa toxic indole derivative. All the protective compounds (unlike ondansetron) probably inhibit dopamine release in the striatum. Since the neurotoxic action of some substituted amphetamines is dependent on the integrity of nigro-striatal neurones, this fact may go some way to explain the protective action of this diverse group of compounds.
The retinofugal projections of the chameleon were investigated by means of autoradiography, horseradish peroxidase and fluorescent techniques after intraocular injection of tracers. An ipsilateral contingent of visual fibers and projections is absent. The retinal fibers decussate completely in alternating fascicles at the optic chiasma and course to terminate in two hypothalamic nuclei (nucleus suprachiasmaticus and nucleus opticus periventricularis hypothalami posterior), six thalamic nuclei (nucleus ovalis, nucleus geniculatus lateralis dorsalis partes lateralis and medialis, nucleus geniculatus lateralis ventralis, lateral part of nucleus dorsolateralis anterior, and nucleus ventrobasalis), four pretectal nuclei (nucleus griseus tectalis, nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, nucleus geniculatus pretectalis and nucleus posterodorsalis), the optic tectum (stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale) and the tegmental nucleus opticus tegmenti. Our findings are, in general, compatible with previous descriptions of the primary visual system in other species of lizards. However, they indicate three features particular to chameleons: first, the total absence of an ipsilateral retinofugal projection; second, the existence of an additional hypothalamic visual center located in the posterior mediodorsal hypothalamus; and third, the large size of nucleus opticus tegmenti. These features are discussed in terms of the taxonomic position of chameleons with respect to other lizards.
Julia Barlow Platt was a comparative embryologist and neurobiologist who was primarily interested in segmentation of the head in vertebrates. She was born on September 14, 1857 in San Francisco, California. Platt grew up in Burlington, Vermont, attended the University of Vermont and began graduate studies at Harvard University. Her nine years as a graduate student were spent on two continents with some of the most influential comparative zoologists of the time. Platt's remarkable scientific accomplishments over a ten year period include a description of axial segmentation currently used in the staging of chick embryos and the first description of a separate anterior head segment in Squalus embryos. Her most controversial study identified ectodermal cells in Necturus embryos that gave rise to head cartilage and dentine, a discovery which was the impetus for the reassessment and modification of the germ layer concept. She was one of the first women to 'matriculate' at a German university and receive a Ph.D. degree. Platt played a pioneer role in opening opportunities for other women who followed her. Platt was one of the first women neuroscientists. Among her contributions, she distinguished dorsolateral placodes, epibranchial placodes, and the first stages of lateral line organs in Necturus, and she described nerve fibers originating in the spinal cord and extending to the notochord in Branchiostoma (= Amphioxus). After receiving a Ph.D. degree in Freiburg, Germany in 1898, Platt was unable to secure a suitable teaching position and, as a result, her scientific career came to an end. She retired to Pacific Grove, California, where she pursued civic duty with the same vigor and energy she had dedicated to scientific research. We provide a sketch of her remarkable life and work as a comparative embryologist, neuroscientist and civic leader.
Cells in the auditory cortex of the mustached bat were studied with Golgi stains. No cell types appeared to be unique to the mustached bat auditory cortex or to specialized functional areas, but the laminar proportions and distributions of cell types were somewhat different from that reported for primary sensory cortex of other species. Two major cell types were distinguished, those with dendritic spines and those without spines. Non-spiny neurons were concentrated deep in layer III/IV and in layer V, and had three types of dendritic patterns, multipolar, bitufted and bipolar. Many of the non-spiny neurons were large; some nearly equaled the largest pyramidal neurons in size. Five types of spiny neurons were identified, pyramidal cells, extraverted pyramidal cells, 'spiny stellate-like' neurons, and multiform cells. In the narrow, densely packed, 'accentuated' layer II, slightly more than half of the spiny neurons were extraverted pyramidal cells, which are characterized by multiple, widely diverging apical dendrites. The high concentration of layer II extraverted pyramidal neurons is consistent with descriptions of the 'accentuated' layer II previously reported in other bat species and 'basal' insectivores. The remaining spiny neurons in layer II, and the preponderance of spiny neurons in layers III-VI, were typical pyramidal neurons that had single apical dendrites and tufts of basal dendrites. The thalamic recipient zone (deep layer III/IV) contained few candidates for spiny stellate cells, so a major constituent of the thalamic recipient zone in primary sensory cortex of many species is only a minor cellular component in the mustached bat auditory cortex.
Spinal somatosensory evoked potentials (SEP) were recorded in 58 normal mice (C3H strain) divided into 4 groups according to age (3-, 6-, 9- and 12 weeks). Monopolar recordings of spinal SEP were made by subdermal needle electrodes from 3 vertebral levels, &quot;low-lumbar&quot;, &quot;high-lumbar&quot; and &quot;mid-thoracic&quot;, by stimulating the tibial nerve bilaterally at the ankle. Three negative peaks, NI, NII and NIII, presumably due to conduction through muscle afferents, cutaneous afferents (in the dorsal root or dorsal white column) and spinocerebellar tract, respectively, were recorded at the high-lumbar level in the 12-week-old mouse. Besides the NI and NII peaks, a small ventral root potential was also occasionally recorded at the low-lumbar level. At the mid-thoracic level, only NI and NIII were recordable. At both the high-lumbar and mid-thoracic levels, the negative peaks were superimposed over long duration &quot;summation potentials&quot; of opposite polarities. Well-defined standing potentials were also recorded at these two levels. The standing potentials could be the &quot;entry potential&quot; due to the entry of S1 root into the spinal cord at the T13 vertebral level. The summation potential presumably is due to a fixed generator located between the T7 and T12 vertebral levels resulting from intense synaptic activity at this level. In 3- and 6-week-old mice, the entry point potential was recorded in the low-lumbar SEP also, possibly due to less axial growth of the vertebral column at this stage of development.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Correlational and discriminant analyses were applied to &quot;resting&quot; state (eyes covered, ears plugged) regional cerebral glucose metabolic data, obtained with positron emission tomography (PET) and [18F] fluorodeoxyglucose in 14 retarded adults with Down syndrome (10 men, 4 women; age 26-38 years) and 17 age- and sex-matched controls. Down and control subjects showed no differences in the pattern of correlations. However, a discriminant function, reflecting regional interactions involving primary language areas, successfully classified the Down (100%) and control (88%) subjects. The results are consistent with a disruption of brain regional interactions involving language areas in adults with Down syndrome.
Patrick Sourander was the Professor of Neuropathology at the University of Gteborg, Sweden, who died on September 28, 1993. His scientific interests focused on metabolic disturbances, in particular leucodystrophies, lipidosis and the consequences of malnutrition. He was the co-discoverer of an inherited cerebrovascular disease now termed CADASIL (cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leuokoencephalopathy). Earlier than many contemporary neuropathologists, Patrick Sourander realized the potential of a close cooperation between basic neurobiology and clinical investigations. As a founding member of the International Society of Neuropathology, Patrick held the office of Vice-President during 1974-1978 and was the President of the Xth International Congress of Neuropathology held in Stockholm, in 1986.
EEG was recorded from rats of three age groups, and high voltage spindles (HVS) were measured during waking immobility. Total mean spindling times in 4- (young), 10- (mature) and 22- (aged) month-old rats were 0.3 +/- 0.1, 20.4 +/- 7.4 and 33.4 +/- 14.9 s, respectively. Spatial memory was assessed in these rats using a discrimination version of the Morris water maze. Performance (as measured by number of choice errors) was compared with the extent of HVS activity by characterizing rats as &quot;spindling&quot; if the total average duration of HVS discharges exceeded 5 s, and &quot;non-spindling&quot; if these discharges averaged less than 5 s. Spindling and nonspindling rats had similar performance during training; however, on a 14-day retention trial, spindling rats had a significantly higher mean error score of 2.8 +/- 0.5 compared with 1.2 +/- 0.3 for nonspindling rats (p = 0.011). These results show that spindling activity increases in mature and aged rats, and that HVS discharges may be an electrophysiological change that parallels the progression of brain dysfunction associated with memory impairment.
The effects of the selective kappa-opioid, PD117302 ((+/-)-trans-N-methyl-N-[2-(1-pyrrolidinyl) cyclohexyl]benzo[b]thiophene-4-acetamide), on transient (15 min) global forebrain ischemia, induced by four-vessel occlusion, was evaluated using a multiple fixed-ratio, fixed-interval schedule of food presentation in rats. The schedule produced distinctive patterns of responding in the fixed-ratio and fixed-interval components. Ischemia produced CA1 hippocampal necrosis and prolonged suppression of responding under both schedule components. When responding resumed, the pattern of responding rapidly returned. Response disruption and CA1 hippocampal necrosis were minimal or nonexistent in sham-occluded rats. Behavioral recovery time under both components of the schedule of reinforcement correlated with CA1 necrosis. On average, CA1 necrosis was less, and behavioral recovery time was shorter, in rats treated with PD117302 postocclusion as compared with vehicle-treated rats. The difference, however, did not reach statistical significance. These results demonstrate the utility of schedule-controlled responding for evaluating potentially therapeutic compounds for the treatment of ischemic injury. These results also further characterize the neuroprotective actions of kappa opioids.
Glutamate (Glu) and the tachykinin substance P (SP) have been proposed as neurotransmitters or neuromodulators of the retinal projection to the brain. In the present study, we demonstrate that tachykinin-like (TK) immunoreactivity (IR) accumulates in rat retinal axons following electrical lesions to the optic tract, indicating that SP is conveyed in the optic nerve to its central targets. In addition, we show that eye enucleation causes a dramatic decrease in TK-IR fibers in the pretectal olivary nucleus (PON), but not in other retinorecipient nuclei of the thalamus and the midbrain, and that Fluorogold injected into the pretectum is retrogradely transported to the somata of TK-IR retinal ganglion cells (RGCs), indicating an important projection of TK-IR RGCs to the PON. We also show that most rat RGCs are labeled with antibodies against phosphate-activated glutaminase, an enzyme considered to generate the transmitter pool of glutamate. Unlike TK-IR fibers, phosphate-activated glutaminase-IR structures disappear in most retinorecipient nuclei following eye enucleation. The present results give neuroanatomical support to the idea that glutamate is a neurotransmitter in the retinal projection and suggest an important role for TK-IR RGCs in the relay of visual information to the PON.
In chronically prepared rats, unilateral single pulse stimulation (35-80 microA) of the deep neocortex produced an evoked potential in the contralateral hemisphere. The evoked potential consisted of an initial negative component associated with multiunit discharge, and a subsequent positive component associated with multiunit suppression. Duration and amplitude of both evoked potential components were suppressed during movement relative to immobility. Scopolamine enhanced both evoked potential components, but the effect on the late component was apparent only during movement and not immobility. Ketanserin prolonged the duration of the late potential component during immobility but not movement. Methiothepin enhanced the duration and amplitude of both components, but these effects were largely dependent on the concurrent background neocortical slow wave activity. Urethane anesthesia enhanced the early and abolished the late potential components. Tail pinching reversed this effect of urethane. Muscarinic and serotonergic receptors may modulate both the excitatory and inhibitory responses of neocortical neurons to inputs from the contralateral neocortex.
Neuromodulatory properties of noradrenaline (NA) suggest that the coreruleo-cortical NA projection should play an important role in attention and memory processes. Our research is aimed at providing some behavioral evidence. Single units of the locus coeruleus (LC) are recorded during controlled behavioral situations, in order to relate LC activation to specific behavioral contexts. LC cells respond in burst to imposed novel sensory stimuli or to novel objects encountered during free exploration. When there is no predictive value of the stimulus or no behavioral response required, there is rapid habituation of the LC response. When a stimulus is then associated with reinforcement, there is a renewed response, which is transient. During extinction, LC neuronal responses reappear. Thus, LC cells respond to novelty or change in incoming information, but do not have a sustained response to stimuli, even when they have a high level of biological significance. The gating and tuning action of NA released in target sensory systems would promote selective attention to relevant stimuli at the critical moment of change. The adaptive behavioral outcome would result from the integration of retrieved memory with the sensory information selected from the environment.
The distribution of substance P-like immunoreactivity in the chameleon brain and spinal cord was studied with immunohistochemical methods using polyclonal antibodies against substance P. In the telencephalon, immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers were located primarily in the striatum and in the globus pallidus. In addition, few substance P-like fibers were observed in the cortical areas, in the septum, and in the amygdala. In the diencephalon, a high density of immunostained neurons and fibers were seen in the periventricular and ventrolateral hypothalamus. Another group of cell bodies was located in the optic tectum and particularly in the stratum griseum central. A large number of immunoreactive fibers were also detected in the thalamic nuclei and in the median eminence. In the mesencephalon, few immunoreactive neurons were observed in the ventral tegmental area, in the substantia nigra, and in the nucleus reticularis isthmi. These latter nuclei, the periventricular area, the posterior commissure, the nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, the oculomotor nucleus, and the raphe nuclei contained a dense plexus of substance P immunoreactive fibers. No immunoreactive cell bodies were observed in raphe nuclei. In the spinal cord, no substance P-like immunoreactive neurons were observed, but a large number of substance P immunostained fibers were seen in the dorsal and lateral part of the dorsal horn and surrounding the dorsal parts of the central canal. The results of the present study are discussed with respect to those obtained in other species of reptiles, the main differences concerning the lateral septum, the habenula, the area of the paraventricular organ, and the raphe nuclei.
The suitability of the anterograde tracer neurobiotin to provide information about the morphology and projections of extracellularly or intracellularly recorded medial nucleus tractus solitarii (nTS) neurons was evaluated in horizontally oriented rat dorsal medulla in vitro slices. After responsiveness to angiotensin (Ang) II, substance P (SP), and L-glutamate was evaluated, neurons were labeled by electrophoresis of neurobiotin at the recording site. Extracellular application (2 microA for 2 min) produced discrete injection sites (40-70 microns) with a small group of labeled neurons. Ejections into the solitary tract documented that the tracer was not taken up by axons traversing the injection site. Neuronal perikarya, primary and secondary dendrites, and axons exhibited a dense Golgi-like appearance, with well-defined dendritic spines and axonal varicosities. Dendritic or axonal processes could be followed for more than 1 mm from the cell soma in a 50 microns thick section, documenting the horizontal architecture of the medial nTS. Intracellular electrophoresis filled the soma, primary and secondary dendrites, and axons of neurons characterized for responsiveness to peptides, L-glutamate and solitary tract stimulation. The location within the nTS and axonal projections of neurons responsive to Ang II and SP appeared to differ from those of cells responsive to Ang II and L-glutamate. Thus, either extracellular or intracellular application of neurobiotin in the in vitro slice can reveal differences in axonal or dendritic targets of neuronal subgroups responsive to different neurotransmitters or peptides and provide evidence for the likely autonomic significance of the neurons.
In the present study, we demonstrate the existence of numerous peptidergic afferents to the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNST) using the retrograde transport of gold-labeled wheat germ agglutinin-apo-peroxidase (G-WGA-HRP) combined with the indirect immunoperoxidase method after intraparenchymatous injections of colchicine. At first, we show that local injections of colchicine alone into the BNST are able to induce the retrograde accumulation of peptides until the nerve cell bodies of origin, probably because of the blockade of axonal transport in nerve terminal arborizations innervating this nucleus. The actual existence of putative peptidergic afferents to the BNST indicated by the local injections of colchicine was established using: a) the retrograde transport of G-WGA-HRP from the BNST combined with immunocytochemistry after administration of colchicine at the same place, b) the anterograde &quot;transport&quot; of the fluorescent tracer DiI from selected nuclei of the forebrain. We demonstrate that the neurons immunoreactive for enkephalins, neurotensin, or substance P that innervate the BNST are localized mainly in the central amygdaloid nucleus, the paraventricular thalamic nucleus, and the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus ipsilateral to the injection, as well as bilaterally in the magnocellular paraventricular and perifornical regions of the hypothalamus. From these results it may be concluded that intracerebral injections of colchicine constitute a powerful tool to search for multiple peptidergic afferents to a given brain nucleus using only immunohistochemistry. The existence of these pathways, however, must be verified by other neuroanatomical methods because of the problem of nerve fibers of passage.
In the present study, we describe the neurochemical effects of intranigral injections of colchicine in the rat forebrain using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization. The observations on the injected side are compared to the contralateral one and to the sham-operated rats. We demonstrate that such injections are able to strongly enhance the immunoreactivity for Met-enkephalin (ME), substance P (SP) and neuropeptide Y (NPY) in numerous nerve cell bodies of the limbic system (injected side), whereas the levels of the corresponding mRNAs are differently modified according to the region examined. A clear correlation between the enhancement of the immunostaining for ME and SP and that of the preproenkephalin (PPA) and preprotachychinin gene transcripts was observed in neuronal perikarya of the medial amygdaloid nucleus (SP), of the dorsolateral hypothalamus (ME) and of the ventromedial hypothalamic nucleus (SP). These observations are interpreted as an induction--or increased expression--of neuropeptide genes in neuronal perikarya postsynaptic to nerve fibers originating in the midbrain and brain stem. In this case, colchicine is thought to block the electrophysiological activity of ascending nerve fibers (anterograde and postsynaptic effect). In the case where the enhancement of the immunoreactivity for the studied neuropeptides was associated with no change or a decreased expression of the corresponding genes in the same brain areas, colchicine may have blocked the axoplasmic transport of peptides in nerve fibers projecting to the midbrain and/or brain stem (6). This may result in a retrograde accumulation of peptides in the nerve cell bodies of origin and, eventually, in a negative feedback regulation of the corresponding encoding genes in these perikarya (retrograde and presynaptic effect of colchicine). The drastic behavioral effects of bilateral intranigral injections of colchicine, on ingestive behavior in particular, have been studied in a following paper.
[Met5]-Enkephalin is derived from the protein precursor, proenkephalin A, which in turn is encoded by the preproenkephalin (PPE) gene. [Met5]-Enkephalin is not only a putative neuromodulatory substance, but also serves as a growth factor (= opioid growth factor, OGF). OGF exerts an inhibitory influence on the developing nervous system and is especially targeted to cell proliferative and differentiative events. This study examined the relationship of PPE mRNA expression to late prenatal and postnatal rat brain development. Northern blot analysis of the whole brain and cerebellum showed that message is present in the fetal nervous system on prenatal day 15 (the earliest timepoint examined), is expressed at relatively similar levels within each tissue during the first 2 postnatal weeks, and reaches adult levels by the beginning of the 3rd postnatal week. In situ hybridization methodology revealed that PPE mRNA was prominent in areas associated with cell generation. Message was found in sites of primary (i.e., ventricular region) and secondary (e.g., external germinal layer of the cerebellum) cellular replication, as well as in discrete foci of cell proliferation (e.g., medullary layer of the cerebellum). PPE mRNA was also present for varying periods of time in postmitotic cells. During development, a number of patterns (decrease, increase, and no perceptible change) of PPE mRNA could be detected in relationship to the fetal/neonatal period. Given the strong evidence (e.g., regulation of cell proliferation and differentiation, temporal and spatial patterns of peptide and zeta opioid receptor) that enkephalin immunoreactivity is associated with proliferating and differentiating neurons and glia, these results suggest that the source of [Met5]-enkephalin is both autocrine and paracrine in nature.
Protein F1/GAP43 is neuron-specific, associated with neurite outgrowth during development and a substrate for PKC. This protein is present in high levels in serotonergic neurons which in culture sprout in response to the glial-derived S100b, the beta-beta homodimer. As an initial step in determining whether S100b acts on F1/GAP43 we studied the regulation by S100b of PKC phosphorylation of F1/GAP43. Either the S100b or a mixture of S100a and S100b, both from a brain glial cell source, inhibited in vitro phosphorylation of purified F1/GAP43 by purified PKC in a dose-dependent manner. Using recombinant PKC subtypes, purified S100b preferentially inhibited the F1/GAP43 phosphorylation by the beta subtype. The IC50 of S100b for beta I and beta II PKC was 8 microM while for alpha and gamma PKC it was 64 microM. S100b inhibition was thus subtype-selective. Histone III-S phosphorylation by the four PKC subtypes was not inhibited by S100b. S100b inhibition was thus substrate-selective. Moreover, the effect of S100b on phosphorylation could not be explained by a direct inhibition of kinase activity. Together with earlier studies implicating a role for S100 in synaptic plasticity and neurite outgrowth, the present results suggest that S100b may regulate such functions through its inhibition of neuron-specific PKC substrate (F1/GAP43) phosphorylation. The regulation of this neuron-specific substrate phosphorylation by glial S100 suggests the potential for a novel neuro-glial interaction. Finally, the location of S100 gene on chromosome 21, trisomic in Down's syndrome, and over-expressed in this disorder, as well as in Alzheimer's disease, suggests a link to cognitive impairments in human.
From Trypanosoma brucei brucei, a molecule has been isolated which triggers the production of IFN-gamma by CD8+ T-cells. IFN-gamma modulates events in the hosts immune- and nervous system and provides a growth stimulus for the parasites. Furthermore, a molecule with IFN-gamma-like immunoreactivity has been detected in rat dorsal root ganglion cells and certain neurons in the brain. This neuron-derived IFN-gamma-like molecule differs in molecular weight from lymphocyte-derived IFN-gamma but shares important biological activities with the latter, which includes a growth stimulus for trypanosomes. Trypanosomes localized to sensory ganglia and infected rats develop a severe thermal hyperalgesia. Intrathecal injection of IFN-gamma causes in rats a sustained phase of nociceptive flexor reflex facilitation, which can be partially blocked by nitro-L-arginin-ester, an inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, indicating that nociceptive effects of the IFN-gamma is mediated by activation of the L-arginin-nitric oxide pathway.
Most of the current theories assume that there are multiple forms of memory that are supported by separate brain systems and have different characteristics. Animals studies on the various dual-memory theories have been carried out mainly on the basis of hippocampal system function. Specifically, they have focused on aspects of learning and memory that are impaired (vs. spared) by lesions of the hippocampal formation. However, there are several instances in the animal literature showing that hippocampal lesions actually produced enhanced learning and memory function. Moreover, the acquisition of tasks that are facilitated by hippocampal lesions (or dysfunction) is nevertheless associated, in intact subjects, with specific neurobiological alterations in the hippocampus. This problem has been analysed using two different tasks in mice: a bar-press conditioning and a spatial discrimination task. Results showed that, depending on the task considered, the same pharmacological treatment produced either a facilitation or an impairment of acquisition. Moreover, each task induced significant alterations in hippocampal adenylate cyclase activity but in opposite directions. Together with previous findings, these results suggest that the hippocampus is involved in both the so-called &quot;hippocampal-dependent&quot; and &quot;hippocampal-independent&quot; forms of memory. It is postulated that some of the observed training-induced neurobiological alterations might reflect the interaction between two (or more) competing memory systems at the hippocampal level. Thus, in addition to its proposed specific information processing functions (i.e., relational), the hippocampus would play a role in addressing information to the brain memory system that, in a given situation, has the best adaptive value.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
This review has covered the five potential causes for opioid poorly responsive pain, namely (a) a loss of opioid receptors on the spinal terminals of C-fibres as a result of peripheral nerve damage, (b) an accumulation of morphine-3-glucuronide, (c) changes in the non-opioid peptides, F8Fa or CCK, either spinally or supraspinally, (d) actions of the opioid peptide dynorphin and (e) spinally generated hypersensitive states via activation of the NMDA receptor. The loss of opioid receptors is likely to be important where peripheral nerve pathology or compression occurs, but the evidence suggests that increasing the dose will overcome the reduced opioid response. Morphine-3-glucuronide is unlikely to be a factor, nor is dynorphin, but the endogenous peptides CCK and F8Fa may be important. Finally, there is an association between the NMDA receptor and hyperalgesia/allodynia and reduced opioid sensitivity. Dextrorphan and ketamine reduce NMDA mediated events and so are available to test this hypothesis.
Protein kinase CK2 is very abundant in rat brain when compared with other rat tissues. The enzyme is an oligomeric protein with the structures alpha 2 beta 2, alpha alpha'beta 2 and alpha'2 beta 2. The alpha and alpha' subunits are catalytic and have a high degree of homology, whereas the beta subunit seems regulatory. Using specific antibodies to synthetic peptide antigens that discriminate among the alpha, alpha', and beta subunits of CK2, we have observed a significant increase in the amount of alpha' subunit during the late postnatal neocortical maturation period. The increased alpha' expression occurs at a parallel time to synaptogenesis. As for its distribution, the alpha' subunit of CK2 is much more abundant in neurons (particularly in large size neurons) than it is in glia. These results are consistent with a hypothetical role for CK2 isoforms containing alpha' subunits in the regulation of specific functions in fully differentiated neurons.
Much recent research on families bringing up a disabled child has explored their coping strategies to deal with stress. The major findings are reviewed, and possible implications for the structure and content of service delivery suggested. The paper emphasizes the importance of social support networks, including the relationship between the mother and father, and of quality services in enhancing parental adaptation.
Thirty-two patients with spinally originated muscle spasticity were treated with a transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulator, the Han's acupoint nerve stimulator (HANS) via skin electrodes placed over the acupoints on the hand and leg. High frequency (100 Hz), but not the low frequency (2 Hz), stimulation was effective in ameliorating muscle spasticity. While the therapeutic effect lasted for only 10 minutes in the first treatment, it became consolidated after consecutive daily treatment for 3 months. The anti-spastic effect induced by high frequency electrical stimulation can be partially reversed by a high dose of naloxone. The results suggest that the anti-spastic effect elicited by peripheral electrical stimulation is mediated, at least in part, by the endogenous opioid ligand interacting with the kappa opiate receptors, most probably dynorphin, in the central nervous system.
Two cases of rhinocerebral mucormycosis in elderly, non-ketotic diabetics who were initially diagnosed and treated for bacterial periorbital cellulitis are reported. Both presented with a short history of periorbital pain and swelling followed rapidly by complete ophthalmoplegia and blindness. By the time of correct diagnosis, both cases were advanced with lower cranial nerve involvement, CT evidence of ophthalmic artery and cavernous sinus thrombosis and, in one, internal carotid artery invasion (demonstrated on MR angiography) with resultant cerebral infarction. One patient was treated with intravenous amphotericin B but died within a few days. The second patient had aggressive surgical resection and survived with significant residual morbidity. These cases illustrate that mucormycosis should be excluded in any diabetic patient presenting with orbital cellulitis, especially when there is early visual loss. Early aggressive treatment with surgery and antifungal agents is often successful whereas the outcome is almost universally fatal when the diagnosis is delayed.
Isaac's syndrome is an uncommon, but distressing, condition of spontaneous abnormal muscle activity caused by neuronal hyperexcitability possibly due to damage to slow potassium channels. The underlying aetiology may be peripheral nerve damage from a wide variety of causes, including autoimmune disease. We report a case that failed to respond to carbamazepine or phenytoin but responded dramatically to valproic acid. Thus, valproic acid may be an effective treatment for Isaac's syndrome where these other drugs have failed.
Twenty patients with Parkinson's disease were studied during the early phase of L-dopa treatment to clarify the development and progression of Parkinsonian motor fluctuations. Two patients had developed symptomatic motor fluctuations of moderate severity and another 3 had mild fluctuations. Both the initial response to L-dopa and the amplitude of response to a L-dopa test dose after a mean follow up period of 30 months were significantly greater for the fluctuating patients compared with those without fluctuation (p &lt; 0.05). Although severe motor fluctuations do not usually develop until a number of years of L-dopa treatment have elapsed, this study shows that motor fluctuations can be detected quite early in the disease course and tend to appear in those patients who respond best to L-dopa.
Fluctuations in motor performance are the major problems in chronic management of Parkinson's disease. Most of these fluctuations reflect the decline of levodopa availability. As a consequence, levodopa dosage might be increased and the interdose interval progressively shortened. The postsynaptic dopamine receptors at this point are exposed to a nonphysiologic shift in dopamine level, which may induce changes at the receptor site and contribute to the appearance of &quot;on-off&quot; phenomena and dyskinesias. We compared a group of 18 patients treated for 60 consecutive months with continuous subcutaneous lisuride infusion with a group of 20 patients treated with conventional oral levodopa treatment. The clinical evaluations performed during the study showed in the lisuride group only a worsening of dyskinesias, whereas the other symptoms remained unchanged. In the other group the evaluation scores showed a significant worsening of all long-term treatment complications. The slow-release preparations of levodopa may ensure a more continuous dopaminergic stimulation than standard formulations. However, the use of these compounds is difficult in severely fluctuating patients because the lack of a plasma peak level usually leads to a very long delay before patients turn &quot;on.&quot; We studied the pharmacokinetic and clinical effects of the two slow-release preparations of levodopa [Madopar HBS and Sinemet controlled-release (CR)] and a combination of Sinemet CR plus standard Sinemet in 13 fluctuating parkinsonian patients. The results of this study show that the combination of standard Sinemet and Sinemet CR ensures a more prolonged clinical effect with a very short latency to the &quot;on&quot; phase.
Propentofylline and pentoxifylline were administered to patients age 65 years or older who were suffering from chronic cerebrocirculatory insufficiency. Changes in clinical symptoms and the level of cerebral blood flow before and after drug administration were compared. 123I-IMP single photon emission computed tomography was used to compare cerebral blood flow before treatment with that 3 months after initiation of therapy. Focal regions of interest were established in the cerebellum, the frontal, temporal, parietal, and occipital lobes, and the thalamus. Comparisons were made between patients age 75 years or older (very old age group) (n = 5) and those age 65 to 74 years (old age group) (n = 7). Complaints of dizziness and slight headache disappeared by the eighth week after the start of therapy in both age groups. Two of the five patients in the very old age group showed elimination of memory disturbance symptoms at the 12th week of treatment. Six of the seven patients in the old age group had no memory disturbance symptoms by the eighth week of treatment, which indicates a high therapeutic effect in this group. In the cerebral blood flow studies, no increases in blood flow after drug administration were observed in the very old age group. This finding is probably related to the poor level of recovery achieved in disturbances in memory in this group. In contrast, improvements in blood flow were observed for all regions of the brain monitored in the old age group, which is consistent with the amelioration of clinical symptoms observed in these patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)

This report of the proceedings of a workshop on monosodium glutamate (MSG) represents the output of an exchange of scientific information, discussed and debated, by a group of experts representing a variety of disciplines. Experts in the areas of food science, potential adverse reactions to foods, pharmacology, neuroscience, biochemistry, nutrition, pediatrics, and anatomy reviewed the current scientific literature relative to the safe use of MSG in foods. These proceedings supplement the extensive literature compiled by various prestigious international expert committees since the flavor-enhancing properties of MSG were identified around the turn of the century,
Protein tyrosine phosphorylation is involved in the regulation of every facet of biological phenomena. Signal transduction mechanisms operative in lymphocyte development, activation, and differentiation have been studied intensively, and are also found to support this premise. In this review, I focus on the crucial problems surrounding CD45, a prototypic receptor-type protein tyrosine phosphatase (RPTP) of the immune system: (1) the role of CD45 for antigen receptor-initiated signaling in T and B cells, (2) the physiological relevance of CD45 isoforms, (3) potential regulatory mechanisms of CD45 PTP activity, and (4) the clinical significance of structural abnormalities in PTP. Furthermore, other PTPs that may be important to the exquisite functioning of the immune system are reviewed.
Cultured glial cells synthesize a number of neuropeptides, growth factors, cytokines, and other factors that are not detectable in resting glia in the adult brain but that appear in response to brain injury. Enkephalin-containing peptides are produced and released by cultured astrocytes and glioma cell lines, which have provided convenient model systems to study the regulation of the preproenkephalin gene. The purpose of this review is to examine data suggesting that reactive astrocytes produce enkephalin-containing peptides, the regulatory processes that may be involved, and possible functions of glia-derived peptides in reactive gliosis.
A substantial amount of research has focused on determining the factors that alter the activity of substantia nigra dopamine neurons. Much of this research has indicated that several mechanisms that regulate dopamine neuron activity have the capability to maintain the baseline activity of dopamine cells at a fairly constant rate. For example, the intrinsic membrane conductances present on dopamine neurons, which generate the spike activity of these cells, appear to maintain the activity of spontaneously active neurons and suppress the induction of activity in quiescent cells. In addition, dopamine cell activity can be regulated by afferent systems that appear to be capable of preventing dopamine neurons from displaying sustained variations in electrophysiological activity. Specifically, inputs from the striatum or from the subthalamic nucleus may each exert opposing influences on dopamine cell activity via direct vs. indirect afferent projection pathways. In addition, the dendritic release of dopamine may provide negative feedback; dopamine cell firing may increase the dendritic release of dopamine within the substantia nigra, providing a local feedback inhibition of dopamine neuron activity. Factors such as the intrinsic membrane properties, afferent input, and the dendritic release of dopamine all work together in a complex manner to regulate the activity level of dopamine neurons.

The nic1b107 (nic1) mutation blocks expression of both functional and clustered acetylcholine receptors (AChRs) in zebrafish muscle. Normally, signaling between motoneurons and muscles regulates AChR clustering. To learn if signaling is affected and to identify the primary cellular target of the nic1 mutation, we made mosaic embryos by transplanting motoneurons and muscle precursors from wild-type to mutant embryos. Genotypically mutant muscle cells fail to cluster AChRs even when contacted by wild-type motoneurons, whereas genotypically mutant motoneurons induce AChR clustering on wild-type muscle cells. Moreover, mutant muscle cells fail to cluster AChRs under culture conditions that induce AChR clustering on wild-type cells. We conclude that the nic1 mutation acts autonomously in muscle cells rather than by affecting signaling between motoneurons and muscle. The wild-type nic1 gene is necessary in muscle for expression and clustering of AChRs.
The neural crest produces both neuronal and nonneuronal derivatives in response to a variety of environmental cues. Here, we have analyzed the effects of retinoic acid on the differentiative behavior of quail trunk neural crest cells in vitro. We show that retinoic acid selectively increases neurogenesis in cultured neural crest cell populations, probably by promoting the survival and stimulating the proliferation of neuronal precursors. Our results suggest that neural crest-derived neurogenic precursors are specific targets for retinoic acid in vitro and raise the possibility that retinoic acid promotes the generation of peripheral neurons in vivo.
The World Health Organization considers iron deficiency the number one nutritional disorder in the world. In this review, the normal pattern for iron accumulation and expression of iron regulatory proteins (transferrin and its receptor, and ferritin) in brain during development are examined biochemically and at the cellular and molecular levels. Iron and the iron-regulatory proteins are at their highest postnatal concentration in the brain at birth, decline over the preweaning period and then increase to adult levels. Evidence is presented that in utero exposure to alcohol, iron-deficient diets, and dysfunctional oligodendrocytes can influence the normal pattern for iron accumulation in the brain which sets off a cascade of events that results in loss of regulatory control of iron. Because iron is an essential cofactor in neurotransmitter synthesis and myelination altering iron availability during vulnerable periods of development may have a permanent influence both on iron homeostasis in the brain and motor and cognitive function. At the cellular level, iron-positive cells in the subventricular zone and myelinogenic foci are present as early as postnatal day 3. Disruption of oligodendrocyte maturation is associated with altered expression and cellular accumulation of iron, transferrin and the transferrin receptor in brain. These data indicate that iron delivered via transferrin and its receptor is intrinsically involved in oligodendrocyte maturation and thus plays a critical role in the onset of myelination. In the adult, oligodendrocytes are the predominant iron-regulatory cell in the brain by virtue of their high content of iron, transferrin and ferritin. From these studies we conclude oligodendrocytes may be responsible for iron regulation in the brain at the cellular level and that brain iron regulatory mechanisms are vulnerable to manipulation during postnatal development.
We report that two molecular markers correlate with a transient inhibition of neural crest cell entry into the dorsolateral path between the ectoderm and the somite in the avian embryo. During the period when neural crest cells are excluded from the dorsolateral path, both peanut agglutinin lectin (PNA)-binding activity and chondroitin-6-sulfate (C6S) immunoreactivity are expressed within this path. Both markers decline as neural crest cells enter. Moreover, both markers are absent after an experimental manipulation that accelerates neural crest entry into this path. Specifically, dermamyotome deletions abolish expression of both markers and allow neural crest cells to enter the dorsolateral path precociously. After partial deletions, dermatome remnants remain. These remnants retain PNA and C6S labeling and impede migration locally. Local glycoconjugate expression thus correlates directly with avoidance responses. Since both PNA-binding activity and C6S expression also typify inhibitory somitic tissues, molecules indicated by these markers (or co-regulated molecules) are likely to inhibit both neural crest and axon advance.
We have cloned the gene for the rhesus macaque beta 1-adrenergic receptor. In addition to the protein coding block, we have sequenced its 5' (1424 bp) and 3' (1534 bp) flanking regions and aligned them with comparable sections of the rat beta 1-adrenergic receptor gene. The rhesus macaque gene contains a 1440 bp open reading frame which codes for a deduced protein of 480 amino acids that is 95% and 89% similar to the human and rat beta 1-adrenergic receptors, respectively. The rhesus macaque beta 1-adrenergic receptor contains conserved sites for potential N-linked glycosylation and cAMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylation identified within the human and rat receptors, but differs in the structure and length of the third cytoplasmic loop. The 400 bases of 5' flanking sequence proximal to the protein coding block are highly conserved (84% similarity) between the rat and rhesus macaque genes. The entire 3' flanking sequence, which extends beyond two potential polyadenylation sites at 1050 and 1337 bp relative to the translation termination codon, is also highly conserved between the two species. Comparison of the flanking sequences of the two species reveals conserved regulatory sequences which may be important for beta 1-adrenergic receptor expression and transcriptional modulation.
beta 3-adrenergic receptor mRNAs exhibit species-specific expression (human vs. rodent) in distinct anatomical regions and appear to be expressed abundantly within rodent adipose tissue, but only at low levels within corresponding human tissues. In order to determine the genetic basis of the differential expression of the rat and human beta 3-adrenergic receptor genes, we cloned and sequence the rat gene and compared the 5' flanking regions of the two genes to identify potential discriminators in transcriptional regulation. We have found that the rat and human beta 3-adrenergic receptor 5' flanking regions are only 67% similar, unlike the close sequence similarity observed between the coding blocks (&gt; 90%) and also observed between species for the 5' flanking regions of other beta-adrenergic receptor subtype genes (&gt; 90%). In addition, the rat beta 3-adrenergic receptor gene lacks the four potential cAMP responsive elements identified within the 5' flanking region of the human receptor gene. The striking divergence in regulatory sequences between the rat and human beta 3-adrenergic receptor genes may potentially explain the differences in species-specific expression and tissue localization of the rat and human receptor mRNAs.
The checkerboard-onset evoked potential does not obtain its adult waveform until late puberty. The changing waveform results from the development of the underlying sources originating in distinct areas of the visual cortex. Since the waveform of checkerboard-onset evoked potential also varies with check size, we studied the dependency of the activity of these sources on check size. A dipole source localization procedure yielded the position and orientation of the equivalent dipoles and the constituent components of the pattern-onset evoked potential, each corresponding to one of these dipoles. For every check size used, the checkerboard-onset evoked potential could be described by a summation of the relative amplitudes of these components. Since the relative amplitude versus check size curves showed a different behavior for each source, they provided evidence of functionally distinct cortical generators. The strength of the striate source was especially sensitive to the fine structure of a pattern, whereas the extrastriate sources contributed mainly for coarse pattern elements.
Neurological function in 159 subjects infected by the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) who had no neurological symptoms or signs (129 asymptomatic, 30 with ARC/AIDS) was compared to that of 62 controls by means of pattern-reversal evoked potentials (PREPs), brain-stem auditory evoked potentials (BAEPs), median nerve somatosensory evoked potentials (MSEPs), tibial nerve somatosensory evoked potentials (TSEPs) and nerve conduction studies (NCSs). Central nervous system somatosensory conduction from lumbar cord to cortex was prolonged in both asymptomatic seropositive and ARC/AIDS groups, while peripheral somatosensory conduction, NCSs and PREP delays occurred only in the ARC/AIDS group. BAEPs did not show significant differences among groups. TSEPs were abnormal in 8% of asymptomatic carriers and 43% of patients with ARC/AIDS, MSEPs in 7% and 20%, PREPs in 4% and 0%, and BAEPs in 1% and 0% respectively. One or more evoked potentials were abnormal in 18 of 129 (14%) asymptomatic carriers and 13 of 30 (43%) subjects with ARC/AIDS as compared with 1 of 62 (2%) seronegative controls. We conclude that asymptomatic HIV carriers have subclinical neurological impairment of central somatosensory function and that the neurological impairment increases with disease progression to involve peripheral nerves and visual system.
Discovery of P300 was preceded by a number of EEG findings related to expectancy of a stimulus, starting with a classical paper of Adrian and including the well known publication of Grey Walter. Our own studies published with Ellen in 1960 demonstrated the occurrence of positive waves occurring in the hippocampus at the time of expected but non-existing stimuli.
The presence of an earlier latency of 12 msec of a somato-sensory evoked potential elicited by the stimulation of the median nerve at the wrist was discovered in 1963 by Liberson and Kim. They suggested its origin in the cervical spine or in the brain stem and possibly the cerebellum. Liberson, Voris and Uematsu recorded directly these potentials from the cervical spine and from the mesencephalon during surgery for pain in 1969 and published some of the findings in 1970. Cracco and Bickford confirmed in 1968 the findings of Liberson and Kim.

Previous experiments have shown that chronic ethanol consumption in mice for 12 months produced memory deficits associated with both alterations in diencephalic structures (ie, cellular loss, hypometabolism, particularly in mamillary bodies) and with hippocampal and cortical cholinergic hypofunction (Bracocha et al., Pharmacol Biochem Behav 1992; 42: 749-53). The present study was aimed at comparing the effects of tianeptine and paroxetine (10 mg.kg-1, i.p.), that have opposite properties on serotoninergic transmission, on this alcohol-induced memory deficits. For this purpose, animals were submitted to a T-maze sequential alternation task in which they were given daily series of 6 successive trials separated by a 30-second interval. Behavioural testing began following a 4-week complete withdrawal period. The experiment was conducted in two steps. In the first part, animals received no treatment. Results showed that, as compared to the control group (pair-fed, n = 7), alcohol-treated mice (n = 20) displayed a trial-specific impairment of alternation rates. Specifically, they were impaired on the last three trials (4-6) of the series (52.2 vs 81.0%, p &lt; 0.001), but performed normally on the first ones (2-3), suggesting thereby an increased sensitivity to proactive interference (Bracocha et al., Behav Brain Res 1987; 25: 63-74). In the second part of the experiment the alcohol group was divided into three homogeneous groups according to the treatment they received 30 minutes before each daily session (ie, placebo, tianeptine, paroxetine).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
17 beta-Estradiol (E2) has been shown to up-regulate the binding activity of the TRH receptor in rat pituitary cells. In this report, we investigated whether and how E2 alters TRH receptor expression at the mRNA level using the oocyte mRNA expression system, Northern blot analysis, and nuclear run-on assay. In oocytes injected with mRNA from the anterior pituitaries or GH3 cells, a TRH-induced 45Ca2+ efflux appeared. This efflux was dependent on the amount of TRH and injected RNA, and was inhibited by simultaneous addition of chloridazepoxide, an antagonist of the TRH receptor. Treatment of GH3 cells with E2 increased TRH receptor mRNA activity, as assessed in the oocyte expression system; the E2 effect became apparent after 3 h of treatment and reached a maximum (3- to 4-fold) between 6-72 h after addition. Northern blot analysis with a 412-basepair cDNA fragment or 3.7-kilobasepair full-length cDNA of the TRH receptor as a probe showed that E2 maximally (5-fold) increased the TRH receptor mRNA level of GH3 cells, with a half-maximal concentration of 0.1 nM after 6 h of treatment. The elevated level of mRNA induced by E2 was augmented, rather than impeded, by cycloheximide, indicating that ongoing protein synthesis was not required for the induction. The rate of transcription of the TRH receptor gene in isolated nuclei taken from GH3 cells was increased 3-fold by 2 h of treatment with E2. Furthermore, the half-life of the TRH receptor mRNA in GH3 cells was prolonged by E2 (from 2.3 to 4.4 h). These results demonstrate that E2 up-regulates the TRH receptors of the pituitary cells at the mRNA level by increasing both the transcription rate and stability.
To evaluate changes in the spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity for heart rate and for muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) during sleep, we simultaneously recorded MSNA from the tibial nerve and monitored ECG, EEG, EOG, EMG and blood pressure during the resting awake stage and sleep. Blood pressure, ECG and MSNA waves were changed to equidistant time series data of each second by cubic spline interpolation. Cross correlations between the MSNA and diastolic blood pressure and between the instantaneous heart rate and systolic blood pressure were analyzed. Spontaneous baroreflex sensitivities for MSNA and for heart rate were assessed from the slope of the regression lines for each. During sleep, the spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity for MSNA gradually decreased as the non-REM sleep stages advanced. Spontaneous baroreflex sensitivity for heart rate did not show any apparent changes. These results suggest that baroreflex modulations for heart rate and for MSNA differ during sleep.
In order to characterize the variability of muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA), resting MSNA was recorded for over 30 min in 4 healthy young subjects in the supine position in a thermoneutral environment. Spectral analysis was applied to the integrated traces of MSNA and to the heart rate using maximum entropy method. Both MSNA and the heart rate spectra exhibited periodic peaks, which were superimposed on the general 1/f-like structure, at around 0.02 Hz, 0.1 Hz, 0.25 Hz and 1.0 Hz. However, the periodic peak at 0.1 Hz in the MSNA spectra was more prominent than in the heart rate spectra at the same frequency. These findings suggest that MSNA variability may have a closer causal relationship with Mayer's rhythm than with heart rate fluctuations.
To determine how arterial baroreflex gains for sympathetic nerve activity are affected by aging, muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) from the tibial nerve was monitored by microneurography, and heart rate and blood pressure were recorded for the pressor or depressor responses to intravenous injections of phenylephrine or nitroglycerin in 22 healthy humans, aged 16 to 57 years old. Although the arterial baroreflex gain for the heart rate showed attenuation by aging, the gain for MSNA was not affected by aging. These data suggest a preservation of the arterial baroreflex control of sympathetic nerve activity despite attenuation of the arterial baroreflex control of the heart rate with aging in humans.
This study was designed to determine human cardiovascular responses to a 60-min bath at 40 degrees C compared with a thermoneutral bath at 34.5 degrees C. We measured mean blood pressure (MBP), heart rate (HR), skin blood flow (SBF) and core temperature in 8 healthy young males bathing at two different temperatures, 34.5 degrees C and 40 degrees C. During the thermoneutral bath (34.5 degrees C), heart rate tended to decrease, but all other variables showed no significant change. Ten min after entering the 40 degrees C bath, MBP decreased while HR and SBF increased. At the same time core temperature increased. We conclude that bathing at 40 degrees C may induce remarkable changes in the cardiovascular system by increasing core temperature when immersion in a hot bath for more than 10 min.
There are types of deafness and tinnitus in which ruptures or massive changes in the ionic permeability of the membranes lining the endolymphatic space [e.g., of the reticular lamina (RL)] are believed to allow potassium-rich endolymph to deluge the low [K+] perilymphatic fluid (e.g., in the small spaces of Nuel). This would result in a K+ intoxication of sensory and neural structures. Acute attacks of Mnire's disease have been suggested to be an important example for this event. The present study investigated the effects of transiently elevated [K+] due to the addition of artificial endolymph to the basolateral cell surface of outer hair cells (OHC) in replicating endolymph-induced K+ intoxication of the perilymph in the small spaces of Nuel. The influence of K+ intoxication of the basolateral OHC cell surface on the transduction was then examined. Intoxication resulted in an inhibition of the physiological repolarizing K+ efflux from hair cells. This induced unwanted depolarizations of the hair cells, interfering with mechanoelectrical transduction. A pathological longitudinal OHC shortening was also found, with subsequent compression of the organ of Corti possibly influencing the micromechanics of the mechanically active OHC. Both micromechanical and electrophysiological alterations are proposed to contribute to endolymph leakage induced attacks of deafness and possibly also to tinnitus. Moreover, repeated or long-lasting K+ intoxications of OHC resulted in a chronic and complete loss of OHC motility. This is suggested to be a pathophysiological basis in some patients with chronic hearing loss resulting from Mnire's syndrome.
D1-dopamine receptor binding in the brain was determined by positron emission tomography (PET) in five patients with Huntington's disease, in one asymptomatic gene carrier and in five control subjects. [11C] SCH 23390 was used as the radioligand. Brain morphology was recorded by MRI. The patients who all had a mild to moderate functional impairment showed an almost 50% reduction of putamen volume as well as D1-dopamine receptor density as compared to the controls. The total D1-dopamine receptor number in the putamen was reduced by 75% in the patient group. A similar reduction was found for the caudate nucleus. The asymptomatic gene carrier had volume and density values in the lower range of the control subjects. In the frontal neocortex there also tended to be a reduced D1-dopamine receptor binding in the symptomatic patients. The results indicate that [11C] SCH 23390 binding in combination with MRI can be used as a sensitive marker for early brain degeneration in Huntington's disease. This marker may be useful to monitor the pathophysiological effect of the disease gene and also to follow therapeutic interventions aiming at preventing the degenerative process.
Alterations in the dopamine system have been hypothesized as a predisposing factor in alcoholism. The presence of the TaqI A1 and B1 alleles adjacent to the dopamine D 2-receptor gene (DRD2) was studied in Scandinavian alcoholic inpatients (n = 74), alcoholics autopsied at a forensic clinic (n = 19) and controls (n = 81). There were no significant differences between controls and the alcoholics, but a tendency of increased DRD2 TaqI A1 or B1 allele frequencies in alcoholic groups selected for severity (i.e. severity according to DSM-III-R criteria, early onset or severe medical complications due to alcohol abuse) and decreased frequencies in the corresponding less severe alcoholic group. The present study does not yield evidence for the hypothesis of an association between the DRD2 TaqI A1 or B1 alleles and alcoholism.
The aim of this study was to determine the power output and work done by different muscle groups at the hip and knee joints during a rising movement, to be able to tell the degree of activation of the muscle groups and the relationship between concentric and eccentric work. Nine healthy male subjects rose from a chair with the seat at knee level. The moments of force about the hip and knee joints were calculated semidynamically. The power output (P) and work in the different muscle groups surrounding the joints was calculated as moment of force times joint angular velocity. Work was calculated as: work = integral of P dt. The mean peak concentric power output was for the hip extensors 49.9 W, hip flexors 7.9 W and knee extensor 89.5 W. This power output corresponded to a net concentric work of 20.7 J, 1.0 J and 55.6 J, respectively. There was no concentric power output from the knee flexor muscles. Energy absorption through eccentric muscle action was produced by the hip extensors and hip flexors with a mean peak power output of 4.8 W and 7.4 W, respectively. It was concluded that during rising, the hip and knee muscles mainly worked concentrically and that the greatest power output and work were produced during concentric contraction of the knee and hip extensor muscles. There was however also a demand for eccentric work by the hip extensors as well as both concentric and eccentric work by the hip flexors. The knee flexor muscles were unloaded.
Intra-abdominal pressure (IAP), force and electromyographic (EMG) activity from the abdominal (intra-muscular) and trunk extensor (surface) muscles were measured in seven male subjects during maximal and sub-maximal sagittal lifting and lowering with straight arms and legs. An isokinetic dynamometer was used to provide five constant velocities (0.12-0.96 m.s-1) of lifting (pulling against the resistance of the motor) and lowering (resisting the downward pull of the motor). For the maximal efforts, position-specific lowering force was greater than lifting force at each respective velocity. In contrast, corresponding IAPs during lowering were less than those during lifting. Highest mean force occurred during slow lowering (1547 N at 0.24 m.s-1) while highest IAP occurred during the fastest lifts (17.8 kPa at 0.48-0.96 m.s-1). Among the abdominal muscles, the highest level of activity and the best correlation to variations in IAP (r = 0.970 over velocities) was demonstrated by the transversus abdominis muscle. At each velocity the EMG activity of the primary trunk and hip extensors was less during lowering (eccentric muscle action) than lifting (concentric muscle action) despite higher levels of force (r between -0.896 and -0.851). Sub-maximal efforts resulted in IAP increasing linearly with increasing lifting or lowering force (r = 0.918 and 0.882, respectively). However, at any given force IAP was less during lowering than lifting. This difference was negated if force and IAP were expressed relative to their respective lifting and lowering maxima.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The purpose of this investigation was to compare children and adults of both genders with respect to torque-velocity, electromyogram (EMG)-velocity and torque-EMG relationships during maximal voluntary knee extensor muscle actions. Four groups of ten subjects each were studied comprising 11-year-old girls and boys and female and male physical education students (22-35 years). Maximal voluntary eccentric (lengthening) and concentric (shortening) actions of the knee extensors were performed at the constant velocities of 45, 90 and 180 degrees.s-1. Average values for torque and EMG activity, recorded by surface electrodes from the quadriceps muscle, were taken for the mid 40 degrees of the 80 degrees range of motion. The overall shapes of the torque- and EMG-velocity relationships were similar for all four groups, showing effects of velocity under concentric (torque decrease and EMG increase) but not under eccentric conditions. Eccentric torques were always greater than velocity-matched concentric ones, whereas the eccentric EMG values were lower than the concentric ones at corresponding velocities. Torque output per unit EMG activity was clearly higher for eccentric than for concentric conditions and the difference was of similar magnitude for all groups. Thus, the torque-EMG-velocity relationships would appear to have been largely independent of gender and to be fully developed at a prepubertal age.
We investigated the effects of ambient temperature on the sudomotor and vasoconstrictor components of skin sympathetic nerve activity (SSNA). The sympathetic traffic was measured by simultaneous microneurographic recording from post-ganglionic nerve fibres in the tibial and the peroneal nerves. When the ambient temperature was raised from 25 degrees C to 34 degrees C, both sudomotor and vasoconstrictor components of SSNA were enhanced in the peroneal nerve but were suppressed in the tibial nerve. The sudomotor and vasoconstrictor sympathetic outflows were elevated in both nerves when the temperature was lowered from 34 degrees C to 18 degrees C. Our results suggested that the sudomotor and the vasoconstrictor components of SSNA are differently modulated by ambient temperature. The difference in sudomotor and vasoconstrictor components of SSNA in the tibial and the peroneal nerves at different ambient temperature may have been responsible for the differences observed in sweating and vasoconstriction in glabrous and hairy skin.
Neurological impairment may occur following cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) and the effect of CPB on cerebrovascular control may be important in the mechanism of cerebral injury. We have used near infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) to observe cerebral haemodynamics non-invasively before and during CPB. We measured the change in cerebral blood volume (CBV) associated with changing PaCO2 (CBVR). Patients (n = 19) were aged from 1 to 135 (median 14) months. The cerebral blood volume response was determined pre-operatively at normothermia under the influence of standardised anaesthesia employing isoflurane (up to ET conc 0.5%) and during steady-state hypothermic bypass (22-32 degrees C) at an arterial pump flow rate of 1.9-2.4 lm-2.min-1. Complete data was available for 10 patients. The relation between CBV, arterial carbon dioxide tension (PaCO2), mean arterial pressure (MAP) and central venous pressure (CVP) was examined using analysis of covariance (P &lt; or = 0.05) was accepted as significant). The change in CBV associated with changing PaCO2 was corrected for the effects of MAP and CVP. Preoperatively the median CBVR was 0.130 (25th-75th percentile 0.079-0.243) ml.100 g-1.kPa-1 and during hypothermic bypass the median CBVR was 0.093 (25th-75th percentile 0.026-0.255) ml.100 g-1.kPa-1. These values were compared with our reference range derived for normal conscious children using the Kruskal-Wallis test. There was not statistically significant difference between the three groups (P = 0.35). These results, indicating preservation of CBVR during the conditions of anaesthesia and bypass used, are consistent with the observations of previous authors who measured cerebral blood flow response to carbon dioxide by a variety of other methods. Near infrared spectroscopy is proving to be a reliable, non-invasive technique for the investigation of cerebral haemodynamics during CPB.
In the south west region of Stockholm a group of 125 general practitioners (GPs) at 27 health centres asked about the extent to which the drug formulary of the University Hospital was useful in their practices. To answer this question, the GPs asked their local pharmacies for prescribing data. When presented this started a process towards rational prescribing from within the group of GPs, including repeated prescribing surveys, starting with health centres as the unit of analysis and proceeding to individual prescribing analyses on request by the GPs. As the prescribing data revealed major differences between health centres, the GPs arranged two workshops on drug use in primary health care. They developed a list of 167 recommended drugs based on drug statistics and morbidity in general practice. Signs of increased cost cautiousness could be shown. There was a clear trend towards both smaller volumes and cost per prescription item for the health centres in the study area. Compared to the national prescribing pattern, prescribing practice in the study area represented a 20 per cent lower drug cost. Although the GPs decided on a drug list separate from that of the hospital, collaboration between the Drug and Therapeutic Committee at the hospital and the GPs increased as a result of their increased engagement in drug management, thereby also bridging the gap between primary health care and clinical pharmacology.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor complex possesses distinct recognition sites for glutamate, glycine and polyamines, which appear to be allosterically linked. We have investigated the effects of polyamines on the binding of the glycine site antagonist [3H](+/-)-4-(trans)-2-carboxy-5,7-dichloro-4-phenylaminocarbonylamino - 1,2,3,4-tetrahydroquinoline ([3H]L-689,560), using rat cortex/hippocampus P2 membranes. Spermine and spermidine partially inhibited [3H]L-689,560 binding under non-equilibrium conditions, with IC50 values of 25.9 and 106 microM, respectively. The putative polyamine site antagonists arcaine, 1,10-diaminodecane, diethylenetriamine and putrescine had no effect on [3H]L-689,560 binding per se at 1 mM. The inhibition of [3H]L-689,560 binding by spermine was antagonised by arcaine in a competitive manner, but not by 1,10-diaminodecane, diethylenetriamine or putrescine. Kinetic analysis revealed that spermine (100 microM) decreased the association and dissociation rates of [3H]L-689,560 binding. In saturation experiments 100 microM spermine increased the KD for [3H]L-689,560 binding from 1.99 nM to 4.03 nM, with no effect on the number of binding sites. Spermine increased the affinity of glycine site agonists in displacing [3H]L-689,560 binding, with no effect on inhibition by partial agonists or antagonists, suggesting that spermine promotes an 'agonist-preferring' state. Modulation of [3H]L-689,560 binding by agonists for the polyamine and glutamate sites on the NMDA receptor did not appear to be additive in nature.
Recent studies have suggested that free radicals play a key role in the progression of Parkinson's disease (PD). Although levodopa is the most effective therapeutic agent in the treatment of PD and has improved the quality of life and increased life expectancy, its beneficial effects are not permanent. Long-term treatment with levodopa produces a variety of side effects in patients with PD. We have previously reported that levodopa may accelerate the progression of PD in certain patients. To determine whether neuronal damage can be caused by levodopa overdoses, we estimated the effects of levodopa on free radical formation. Electron spin resonance spectrometry showed that levodopa oxidation produced levodopa radicals. Furthermore, chronic administration of levodopa increased thiobarbituric acid-reacting substances (TBARS) in various brain regions of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA; i.c.v.)-pretreated mice, although levodopa administration in control mice had no effect on TBARS. These results indicate that high dose levodopa accelerates neuronal degeneration in some parkinsonian brains. We then evaluated the protective effects of bromocriptine on striatal dopaminergic neurons, with determination of dopamine (DA) and its metabolites as markers. Pretreatment of bromocriptine completely protected mice against the decreases in striatal DA and its metabolites induced by intracerebroventricular injection of 6-OHDA, while levodopa/carbidopa had no protective effects. Furthermore, in an in vitro system that generated .OH from FeSO4-H2O2, bromocriptine dose-dependently scavenged .OH. These findings clearly indicate that bromocriptine has neuroprotective effects against neurotoxins such as 6-OHDA, probably due in part to its free redical scavenging activity.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Plasminogen (PGn), which was identified as a secretory product from microglia, increased dopamine uptake and the number of tyrosine-hydroxylase-expressing neurons in cultured rat mesencephalic neurons. 125I-PGn was found to bind specifically much more to mesencephalic neurons compared to other glial cells. The binding was also recognized in plasma membrane prepared from embryonic rat brain. Furthermore, ligand blotting analysis revealed that 125I-PGn binds to a 45-kD protein in plasma membrane. These results suggest that PGn-dependent neurotrophic effects may be induced through the specific binding of PGn to the 45-kD PGn-receptor-like protein in neurons.
In adult, lesion-impaired rat brain receiving embryonic day 15 (E15) fetal transplants, the level of expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) correlates positively with choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) levels and also with measurements of successful behavioural recovery. These results suggest that glial cells may play a pivotal role in the cognitive success of so-called cholinergic-rich transplants. The objective of this study was to investigate the association between GFAP- and ChAT-staining antigens in or around cholinergic-rich fetal grafts transplanted in adult cortex. An immunohistochemical fluorescent double-labelling technique was used to simultaneously identify GFAP- and ChAT-staining cells to assess whether there was a different type or distribution of cells present in these successful transplants. On brain sections of transplant area, GFAP-staining glial cells did not co-label with ChAT-staining cells. The transplant area, therefore, did not reveal a different type of cell from those seen in comparable normal cortical brain but rather a greater concentration of both GFAP- and ChAT-positive staining cells.
Unexpected ventral and dorsal perturbations and expected, self-induced ventral perturbations were delivered to the trunk by suddenly loading a vest strapped to the torso. Six male subjects were measured for intra-abdominal pressure (IAP) and intra-muscular electromyography of the transversus abdominis (TrA), obliquus internus abdominis (OI), obliquus externus abdominis (OE) and rectus abdominis (RA) muscles. Erector spinae (ES) activity was recorded using surface electromyography. Displacements of the trunk and head were registered using a video-based system. Unexpected ventral loading produced activity in TrA, OI, OE and RA, and an IAP increase well in advance of activity from ES. Expected ventral loading produced pre-activation of all muscles and an increased IAP prior to the perturbation. The TrA was always the first muscle active in both the unexpected and self-loading conditions. Of the two ventral loading conditions, forward displacement of the trunk was significantly reduced during the self-loading. Unexpected dorsal loading produced coincident activation of TrA, OI, OE, RA and ES. These results indicate a response of the trunk muscles to sudden expected and unexpected ventral loadings other than the anticipated immediate extensor torque production through ES activation. It is suggested that the increase in IAP is a mechanism designed to improve the stability of the trunk through a stiffening of the whole segment.
The prefrontal cortex, caudate nucleus, and their dopaminergic innervations have been implicated in complex information processing. The present study utilized the in vivo microdialysis technique to characterize the extracellular dopamine levels in the prefrontal cortex and the caudate nucleus in the rhesus monkey. Basal levels of dopamine were consistently found in the caudate nucleus, while levels in the prefrontal cortex were less reliably measured. Manipulation of dopamine levels using tetrodotoxin and high potassium demonstrated that dopamine measured was dependent on neuronal firing. Administration of indirect dopamine agonists d-amphetamine and cocaine into the prefrontal cortex and the caudate nucleus increased extracellular dopamine levels 250% and 5000%, respectively. Amphetamine and cocaine had greater effects on dopamine levels in the caudate than in the prefrontal cortex. Cocaine induced increases appeared to be less than that of amphetamine and the actions of cocaine lasted longer than amphetamine. This study demonstrates the feasibility of using in vivo microdialysis in monitoring neurochemicals in different regions of the rhesus monkey brain.
Width summation of complex neurones in cat striate cortex was assessed for moving sine-wave gratings. Summation was restricted in special complex neurones, approximately matched receptive field width in intermediate complex neurones and exceeded it in most standard complex neurones. Responses to preferred and opposite directions of motion were compared: 12 of 20 complex neurones showed similar directional bias for moving sinewave gratings and for single moving bars of either contrast polarity; 8 of 20 were similarly or more weakly direction-selective for bars than for grating patches, dependent on patch width. In two of these, this was despite the fact that the directional bias for gratings was invariant with patch width. In the remaining six, differences could be accounted for by progressive increase or decrease in directional bias for gratings, as grating patch width was systematically increased. In conclusion, directional bias of a substantial proportion of complex cells is determined by stimulus configuration.
Optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) was induced by having subjects watch a moving display in a binocular, head-fixed apparatus. The display was composed of 3.3 degrees stripes moving at 35 degrees/s for 45 s. It subtended 88 degrees horizontally by 72 degrees vertically of the central visual field and could be oriented to rotate about axes that were upright or tilted 45 degrees or 90 degrees. The head was held upright or was tilted 45 degrees left or right on the body during stimulation. Head-horizontal (yaw axis) and head-vertical (pitch axis) components of OKN were recorded with electro-oculography (EOG). Slow phase velocity vectors were determined and compared with the axis of stimulation and the spatial vertical (gravity axis). With the head upright, the axis of eye rotation during yaw axis OKN was coincident with the stimulus axis and the spatial vertical. With the head tilted, a significant vertical component of eye velocity appeared during yaw axis stimulation. As a result the axis of eye rotation shifted from the stimulus axis toward the spatial vertical. Vertical components developed within 1-2 s of stimulus onset and persisted until the end of stimulation. In the six subjects there was a mean shift of the axis of eye rotation during yaw axis stimulation of approximately 18 degrees with the head tilted 45 degrees on the body. Oblique optokinetic stimulation with the head upright was associated with a mean shift of the axis of eye rotation toward the spatial vertical of 9.2 degrees. When the head was tilted and the same oblique stimulation was given, the axis of eye rotation rotated to the other side of the spatial vertical by 5.4 degrees. This counterrotation of the axis of eye rotation is similar to the &quot;Mller (E) effect,&quot; in which the perception of the upright is counterrotated to the opposite side of the spatial vertical when subjects are tilted in darkness. The data were simulated by a model of OKN with a &quot;direct&quot; and &quot;indirect&quot; pathway. It was assumed that the direct visual pathway is oriented in a body, not a spatial frame of reference. Despite the short optokinetic after-nystagmus time constants, strong horizontal to vertical cross-coupling could be produced if the horizontal and vertical time constants were in proper ratio and there were no suppression of nystagmus in directions orthogonal to the stimulus direction. The model demonstrates that the spatial orientation of OKN can be achieved by restructuring the system matrix of velocity storage. We conclude that an important function of velocity storage is to orient slow-phase velocity toward the spatial vertical during movement in a terrestrial environment.
Previous studies have shown that, in addition to partial damage to the cholinergic system, partial fornix section causes changes in the noradrenergic (NA) system and an increase in NA activity in the dorsal hippocampus. Behaviorally, this NA hyperactivity contributes to the deficits observed in the radial arm maze, since a reduction of NA activity restores the performance of rats with a partial fornix lesion. The reorganization of the NA system after partial fornix section should modify its responsiveness, and the present series of experiments examines these changes. In the first experiment, sensitivity to the sedative effects of the alpha 2 agonist clonidine was evaluated by determining a dose-response curve to clonidine in a hole board. Rats with partial fornix lesion were resistant to the sedative effects of clonidine, suggesting differences in alpha 2-receptor sensitivity. In the second experiments, rats were submitted to a test for novelty-seeking behavior in the hole board with objects placed in some holes. Rats with fornix sections spent more time in contact with novel objects than the control rats, a behavior which has previously been observed in hyper-noradrenergic animals. Finally, single-unit recording of locus coeruleus (LC) cells in anesthetized rats showed there were no effects of the partial fornix lesion either on spontaneous firing rate of LC cells or on their responsiveness to clonidine. These last results suggest that the behavioral differences and differences in NA activity observed after partial denervation are a result of local regulation of release at the NA terminals and are not due to changes in the cell bodies within the LC.
Movement extent and movement force can be independently controlled in motor performance. Therefore, independent representations of extent and force should exist in the central nervous system (CNS). To test this hypothesis, microelectrode recordings were made in sensorimotor cortex of monkeys trained to perform visually cued wrist flexion movements of two extents, against two levels of frictional resistance. An initial preparatory signal (PS) provided complete, partial or no information about extent and/or force of the movement, which had to be performed in response to a second, response signal (RS). The activity of 511 neurons of the primary motor cortex (MI), the premotor cortex (PM), the postcentral cortex (PC), and the posterior parietal cortex (PA) was recorded in two monkeys. Both reaction time (RT) and neuronal data suggest that there exist independent neuronal mechanisms responsible for the programming of either parameter. On the one hand, partial information about either movement parameter shortened RT when compared with the condition of no prior information. On the other hand, there were, among others, two discrete populations of neurons, one related only to extent, the other only to force. Preparatory changes in activity related to either movement parameter were mainly located in the frontal cortex, especially in the PM. After occurrence of the RS, the percentage of selective changes in activity increased and tended to extend to the parietal cortex. In particular during the movement, force-related changes in activity have been encountered in PA. Furthermore, we conducted trial-by-trial correlation analyses between RT and preparatory neuronal activity for all conditions of prior information. The mean correlation coefficient was significantly higher in the condition of information about movement extent than of information about movement force and it was significantly higher in MI/PM than in PC/PA.
Excitatory receptive field (ERF) response profiles and length summation functions were derived from complex neurones in cat striate cortex. Measured length summation was compared with summation predicted from integration over ERF profiles. In a minority of neurones, measured and predicted summation were well matched. In the majority, whether end-stopped or not, responsiveness in length summation tests was appreciably greater than predicted for short stimuli, compared with ERF profiles. The mismatch was least in standard and greatest in special complex neurones; in the latter group, response levels to long stimuli fell well below predicted levels. In end-stopped neurones the decremental portion of length summation functions was not predicted by ERF profiles. These results implicate the involvement of non-linear mechanisms, whereby concomitant stimulation of central regions of the receptive field (RF) potentiate the efficacy of loci towards either end of the RF.
We have assessed the contribution made by retinal and extraretinal signals when subjects used their hand to track targets moving at constant velocities. Comparisons were made between responses produced under the following conditions: (1) with full vision of the hand and unrestricted movement of the eyes, (2) without vision of the hand or (3) while visually fixating a stationary LED. Target velocity was varied in a pseudo-random order across trials. In each condition response latency decreased as target velocity was increased. There was a approximately 24 ms increase in latency when vision of the hand was removed or eye movements were restricted. Under normal conditions, subjects were able to accurately catch up to and match target velocity with their hand. When vision of the hand was removed, subjects lagged behind the target but were able to match target velocity. This deficit was eliminated when vision of the hand was made available for the beginning of the response. When subjects were required to visually fixate they could catch up to the target with their hand, but subsequently produced a steady state hand velocity that was greater than target velocity. When the LED was positioned such that the target started in the peripheral visual field, the overestimation of target velocity was evident from the beginning of the response: subjects produced initial accelerations with their hand that were significantly greater than in normal conditions. Finally, normal responses were produced when subjects were required to visually pursue a second target that moved at the same speed and in the same direction as the main target.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In the context of an analysis concerning factors of importance for the relative contributions of recruitment and rate gradation of muscle force, the distribution of electrical excitability was analyzed for medial gastrocnemius (MG) motoneurones of rat and cat. The experimental data came from previously collected intracellular measurements in animals anaesthetized with pentobarbitone. Electrical excitability was measured as the threshold (nanoamperes) for single spike generation (rheobase) in rat and for maintained repetitive firing (rhythmic threshold) in cat. Furthermore, the data included measurements of axonal conduction velocity and of contractile properties of the muscle units innervated by the studied motoneurones. The units were categorized into types S (slow-twitch, fatigue-resistant), FR (fast-twitch, fatigue-resistant) and FF (fast-twitch, fatiguable) on the basis of the combined criteria of twitch-speed and sensitivity to fatigue. We confirmed that, in spite of the presence of normal-looking symmetrical distributions of axonal conduction velocity, there was a positive skew in the distribution of electrical excitability (relatively high numbers of cells with low thresholds, few with high ones). Within each unit category (S, FR, FF), we ranked the motoneurones according to their relative electrical excitability and calculated the threshold difference between consecutive cells (&quot;threshold spacing&quot;). In accordance with the skewed distribution of electrical excitability, we found that the mean threshold spacing was ranked in the same way as the mean thresholds, i.e. S &lt; FR &lt; FF; the statistical analysis showed that, for cats as well as rats, small threshold spacing steps were significantly more common for S than for FF motoneurones.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We recorded the horizontal (yaw), vertical (pitch), and torsional (roll) eye movements of two rhesus monkeys with scleral search coils before and after the COSMOS Biosatellite 2229 Flight. The aim was to determine effects of adaptation to microgravity on the vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR). The animals flew for 11 days. The first postflight tests were 22 h and 55 h after landing, and testing extended for 11 days after reentry. There were four significant effects of spaceflight on functions related to spatial orientation: (1) Compensatory ocular counterrolling (OCR) was reduced by about 70% for static and dynamic head tilts with regard to gravity. The reduction in OCR persisted in the two animals throughout postflight testing. (2) The gain of the torsional component of the angular VOR (roll VOR) was decreased by 15% and 50% in the two animals over the same period. (3) An up-down asymmetry of nystagmus, present in the two monkeys before flight was reduced after exposure to microgravity. (4) The spatial orientation of velocity storage was shifted in the one monkey that could be tested soon after flight. Before flight, the yaw axis eigenvector of optokinetic afternystagmus was close to gravity when the animal was upright or tilted. After flight, the yaw orientation vector was shifted toward the body yaw axis. By 7 days after recovery, it had reverted to a gravitational orientation. We postulate that spaceflight causes changes in the vestibular system which reflect adaptation of spatial orientation from a gravitational to a body frame of reference. These changes are likely to play a role in the postural, locomotor, and gaze instability demonstrated on reentry after spaceflight.
We examined the behavioral modulation of head-directional information processing in neurons of the rat posterior cortices, including the medial prestriate (area Oc2M) and retrosplenial cortex (areas RSA and RSG). Single neurons were recorded in freely moving rats which were trained to perform a spatial working memory task on a radial-arm maze in a cue-controlled room. A dual-light-emitting diode (dual-LED) recording headstage, mounted on the animals' heads, was used to track head position and orientation. Planar modes of motion, such as turns, straight motion, and nonlocomotive states, were categorized using an objective scheme based upon the differential contributions of movement parameters, including linear and angular velocity of the head. Of 662 neurons recorded from the posterior cortices, 41 head-direction (HD) cells were identified based on the criterion of maintained directional bias in the absence of visual cues or in the dark. HD cells constituted 7 of 257 (2.7%) cells recorded in Oc2M, 26 of 311 (8.4%) cells in RSA, and 8 of 94 (8.5%) cells in RSG. Spatial tuning of HD cell firing was modulated by the animal's behaviors in some neurons. The behavioral modulation occurred either at the preferred direction or at all directions. Moreover, the behavioral selectivity was more robust for turns than straight motions, suggesting that the angular movements may significantly contribute to the head-directional processing. These behaviorally selective HD cells were observed most frequently in Oc2M (4/7, 57%), as only 5 of 26 (19%) of RSA cells and none of the RSG cells showed behavioral modulation. These data, taken together with the anatomical evidence for a cascade of projections from Oc2M to RSA and thence to RSG, suggest that there may be a simple association between movement and head-directionality that serves to transform the egocentric movement representation in the neocortex into an allocentric directional representation in the periallocortex.
The ability of mature dopaminergic neurons derived from ventral mesencephalon to re-initiate growth after making contact with a non-innervated target was studied using the intra-ocular grafting model. Foetal ventral mesencephalic tissue or brain stem including the locus coeruleus area was grafted to the anterior chamber of the eye. Two weeks, 6 weeks or 1 year after the first implantation, foetal striatal tissue was placed in contact with the nigral graft or grafted alone. The size of the transplants was measured through the cornea. The final size of the striatal grafts was significantly larger when placed alone than when co-grafted with 1-year-old or 6-week-old dopaminergic grafts. Striatum grafted together with 2-week-old nigra was larger than when grafted adjacent to mature substantia nigra, but not significantly so. Nerve fibre outgrowth into the iris from the nigral transplants did not increase after maturation, but the re-innervated area of the host iris progressively increased around the locus coeruleus grafts. Ingrowth of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunoreactive nerve fibres into the striatal grafts was studied 6 weeks after the second implantation. TH immunohistochemistry revealed innervation of the striatal piece in all cases, except for the group where striatum alone was grafted. With the short survival time for co-grafts of 6 weeks, TH-positive nerve fibres innervated a larger volume, had a patchy appearance and the density was higher in striatum grafted to 2 week-old nigral transplants than that seen in striatal transplants grafted to mature nigral grafts. The patchy pattern of TH-immunoreactive nerve terminals was also seen in striatum co-grafted with 6-week-old or 1-year-old nigral transplants. No difference in striatal innervation volume was detected between those latter two groups. When striatum was implanted adjacent to mature ventral mesencephalon and grown together for 6 months--the longer survival time--the same dense TH-positive innervation as seen in striatum co-grafted with immature nigral tissue at the shorter survival time was found. Additionally, the nigral part of the co-grafts showed increased TH-immunoreactive nerve fibre density. In conclusion, dopaminergic neurites from mature ventral mesencephalic transplants can re-initiate growth if placed in contact with non-innervated striatal tissue. The nigral grafts do not progressively re-innervate the host iris, while locus coeruleus grafts do. The intra-ocular grafting model can be used to study the in vivo effects of trophic factors on mature dopaminergic neurons.
The actions of a series of derivatives of 3-aminopropyl-phosphinic acid as baclofen agonists and antagonists have been examined on the synaptic excitation of neurones by impulses in primary afferent fibres in the lumbar spinal cords of pentobarbitone-anaesthetised cats and rats. Both the pre- and postsynaptic inhibitory actions of microelectrophoretic (-)-baclofen were reduced by similarly administered CGP 35,348, 36,742, 46,381, 52,432, 54,626 and 55,845, the latter being the most potent antagonist. None of these antagonists either decreased or increased the excitability of spinal neurones, and the inhibitory action of GABA was reduced only by local concentrations of antagonists which also reduced the action of piperidine-4-sulphonic acid, a GABAA agonist. Although the weak inhibitory effect of 3-aminopropylphosphinic acid in both the rat and the cat was not reduced by these baclofen antagonists, the pre- and postsynaptic inhibitory effects of 3-aminopropyl-methyl-phosphinic acid (CGP 35,024), which was more potent than (-)-baclofen, were reduced by the antagonists. Like (-)-baclofen, CGP 35,024 was relatively ineffective in reducing transmitter release in the cord from the terminals of excitatory spinal interneurones, the terminals of excitatory tracts in the dorsolateral funiculus and the cholinergic terminals of motor axon collaterals. In both rat and cat cords, receptors for (-)-baclofen could not be demonstrated to be activated by microelectrophoretic GABA, possibly because of the predominantly dendritic location of GABAB receptors. Spinal pre- and postsynaptic baclofen receptors appeared to be pharmacologically similar but differed from those in the higher central nervous system of the rat, where 3-aminopropylphosphinic acid has been reported to be an effective baclofen agonist. The compounds tested, particularly CGP 55,845 and 46,381, will be of use in further investigations of the physiological relevance of baclofen receptors at central synapses where GABA may be the transmitter.
Lowering [Mg2+]o induces epileptiform bursting in hippocampus and entorhinal cortex (EC), presumably by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors. Since increasing [H+]o has been shown to reduce NMDA receptor activation, we hypothesized that this could contribute to anticonvulsant actions of acidic pH. To test this, we studied the effects of raising extracellular PCO2 (20.6%, pH = 6.7) or lowering extracellular pH (6.7 or 6.2) on low-Mg(2+)-induced epileptiform discharges. Lowering the pH to 6.7 by either means increased the interval between seizure-like events (SLEs), decreased the maximal amplitude of SLEs, and if the site of seizure generation was at a distance from the recording site, acidification slowed the rate of seizure propagation. In contrast, the duration of SLEs was unaffected by acidic pH or high PCO2. Raising PCO2 or lowering pH to 6.7 also blocked early (8-10 min) but not late (&gt; 20 min) phases of status-like discharges. All effects of the extracellular pH changes were fully reversible. Further lowering of extracellular pH to 6.2 completely and reversibly blocked both SLEs and status-like discharges. Our data show that the effects of high PCO2 and low pH on seizures in the EC in vitro may be dose-dependent and consistent with induction by proton blockade of NMDA receptors. Thus, blockade of NMDA currents by protons may be an important component of the anticonvulsant action of extracellular acidosis. The results also suggest that acidosis may be a desirable property for new antiepileptic treatments.
This study investigated the effects of visual and ideothetic cues on the spatial tuning of head-direction (HD) cells recorded in the rat posterior cortices. Extracellular, single unit responses were recorded from animals performing each of two different tasks, a spatial working memory task on a radial-arm maze and a passive rotation task on a modified &quot;lazy Susan&quot; platform. The influence of visual cues was assessed by manipulating the position of one white and three black cue-cards placed around the maze. We found three major categories of HD cells based on their response to cue manipulations in the maze tasks. Type A cells (10/41) rotated their preferred directions along with the rotation of the cues. The majority (type B, 25/41) of the HD cells were unaffected by the rotation of visual cues, maintaining their established preferred direction. Type C cells (6/41) showed complex responses to cue rotation, with the preferred direction reflecting either a combination of both type A and type B responses or an unpredictable response. The results indicate that the internal representation of directionality can be calibrated by visual cues and that some mnemonic processes may have been involved in the registration of the previous cue locations. Eleven cells were tested in both the maze task and the passive rotation task. Most (9/11) showed a significant directionality in the former task, but showed either no or weak directionality in the latter task, suggesting that movement-related ideothetic cues may be used in supporting the directional firing of these cells. Only two cells showed significant directionality in both tasks. Their established preferred directions did not rotate along with the cues in the maze task, but did rotate with the cues in the passive rotation task. We conclude that the dynamic aspect of the directional tuning in these cortical HD cells may represent on-line calibration of an angular coordinate representation.
Touch and pressure stimulation of the body surface can strongly influence apparent body orientation, as well as the maintenance of upright posture during quiet stance. In the present study, we investigated the relationship between postural sway and contact forces at the fingertip while subjects touched a rigid metal bar. Subjects were tested in the tandem Romberg stance with eyes open or closed under three conditions of fingertip contact: no contact, touch contact (&lt; 0.98 N of force), and force contact (as much force as desired). Touch contact was as effective as force contact or sight of the surroundings in reducing postural sway when compared to the no contact, eyes closed condition. Body sway and fingertip forces were essentially in phase with force contact, suggesting that fingertip contact forces are physically counteracting body sway. Time delays between body sway and fingertip forces were much larger with light touch contact, suggesting that the fingertip is providing information that allows anticipatory innervation of musculature to reduce body sway. The results are related to observations on precision grip as well as the somatosensory, proprioceptive, and motor mechanisms involved in the reduction of body sway.
Neuronal responses to hairy skin stimulation were simultaneously recorded in the ventral posterolateral nucleus (VPL) of the thalamus and primary somatosensory cortex (SI) of halothane-anesthetized cats. Among 233 thalamocortical neuron pairs, cross-correlation analysis revealed significant interactions in 120 pairs. Excitatory interactions were most prevalent and included influences occurring exclusively in the thalamocortical (41 pairs) or corticothalamic (23 pairs) directions as well as multiphasic interactions (40 pairs) in both directions. Only 16 pairs exhibited inhibitory interactions and 7 of these involved multiphasic combinations of excitation and inhibition. In 14 of these neuron pairs, inhibition was exerted in the corticothalamic direction. Receptive field (RF) overlap between thalamic and cortical neurons varied considerably, and neuronal interactions were more likely for neuron pairs sharing large portions of their combined RFs. Computer-controlled stimulation was delivered to multiple RF sites but only 46% of the neuron pairs displayed interactions at more than one stimulation site and only four neuron pairs showed interactions at all stimulus positions. When interactions occurred at multiple stimulus sites, 40% of these interactions were characterized by timing shifts where the time interval between VPL and SI discharges varied as much as 20 ms because of stimulus relocation. In nine neuron pairs, systematic shifts in stimulus position produced reversals in the temporal sequence of thalamic and cortical neuronal discharges. Functional interactions between thalamic and cortical neurons were detected during both spontaneous and stimulus-induced activity. Matched-sample comparisons of connection strength and half-widths of thalamocortical peaks during spontaneous and stimulus-induced activity indicated that functional interactions produced by cutaneous stimulation were significantly stronger and had less temporal variability than those occurring spontaneously.
We have studied the development of corticospinal projections from the hand area of the primary motor cortex to the spinal cord using anterograde transport of WGA-HRP. In the neonate, as in the adult, corticospinal projections to the intermediate zone at the C8/T1 spinal level were clearly present. However, in contrast to the adult, there was only very faint and barely visible labelling in the dorso-lateral motor nuclei which supply the hand muscles. No aberrant projections to other motor nuclei were seen. By 2.5 months, a ring of dense labelling was present around the dorso-lateral motor nuclei, but labelling was still sparse in the central region. This labelling was more pronounced at 11 months, but was still not as heavy as in the adult. There was no labelling among the ventral motoneurones at any age. The conduction velocity (c.v.) of the fastest corticospinal fibres was determined in each of the monkeys. There was an age-related increase in c.v. within the spinal cord. At birth, the fastest axons had a c.v. of only 8 m.s-1. At 11 months c.v. was still substantially slower (55 m.s-1) than the adult value of 73 m.s-1. In contrast, by 11 months, the axonal c.v. within the brain was close to the adult value, suggesting a rostro-caudal maturation of the corticospinal system. Our results demonstrate that corticospinal projections in the macaque monkey mature gradually over a period of at least 11 months, much longer than previously thought.
Peripheral and central terminations of mystacial pad afferents in rats were labeled by anterograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin-HRP (WGA-HRP) or choleragenoid HRP (B-HRP). Tracer was injected in the trigeminal ganglion and survival times were 6-24 h. Most of the innervation previously observed with other techniques in the mystacial pad were labeled by at least one of the tracers. This included extensive reticular endings from large-caliber afferents and a loose network of fine-caliber axons in vibrissal follicle-sinus complexes (F-SCs). Also included were individual highly branching bush-like profiles in the intervibrissal epidermis that arose from fine to medium caliber afferents. Other endings were revealed, such as beaded endings affiliated with tylotrich hairs and presumptive encapsulated lamellated endings affiliated with both vibrissae and small sinus hairs. Finally, the anterograde labeling also revealed differences in the branching pattern of Merkel afferents to the rete ridge collars and ring sinuses of F-SCs. Each tracer produced different patterns of labeling related to the survival time in the mystacial pad which corresponded to particular patterns of labeling in the trigeminal nucleus caudalis. WGA-HRP produced dense labeling of all types of afferents and peripheral endings as well as all laminae of nucleus caudalis after short survivals, but the labeling diffused as the survival times were increased. B-HRP preferentially filled the largest afferents and endings after shorter survivals, while smaller profiles became progressively labeled after longer survivals. In nucleus caudalis, profiles extending into laminae III, IV and inner part of lamina II were labeled with B-HRP after shorter survivals, but the outer part of lamina II also became labeled with longer survivals. This has not been previously observed with B-HRP. Along with other recent findings, these results reveal that the innervation of the mystacial pad especially by fine-caliber axons is far more extensive and complex than previously described. Also, depending on the survival time, the central and peripheral labeling patterns differ, which must be taken into account when interpreting results using these two tracers.
Immunohistochemical analysis of the localization of nitric oxide synthase-(NOS)-like immunoreactivity revealed the presence of this enzyme in a few neuronal cell bodies and in dendritic and axonal processes within the rat locus coeruleus (LC). Also cells in the pericoeruleus area were NOS-positive. Intracellular recordings were made from LC neurons in brain slices. Bath application of the NOS inhibitors nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (L-NAME) or NG-monomethyl-L-arginine (L-NMMA) potently enhanced the excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) evoked by focal electrical stimulation of the slice. Hemoglobin, which binds extracellular NO, also enhanced the EPSP. This enhancement was reversed by coadministration of L-arginine, a precursor of neuronal nitric oxide (NO). Neither NOS inhibitors, L-arginine, nor hemoglobin had effects on the resting membrane potential or impedance. These results suggest a role for NO in synaptic transmission in the LC.
Positron Emission Tomography (PET) and the radioligand [11C]flumazenil were used to examine benzodiazepine (BZ) receptor binding in the human brain. In a first study of healthy males acute ingestion of alcohol did not alter total radioactivity uptake or specific [11C]flumazenil binding in the neocortex or cerebellum. In a second study [11C]flumazenil binding was determined in 5 healthy male controls and 5 chronic alcohol dependent men using a saturation procedure with two PET experiments. Mean values for BZ-receptor density and affinity were similar in the two groups but the Bmax variance for the alcohol dependents was significantly larger (p &lt; 0.05) for all regions. The present studies do not support the view that alcohol affects central BZ receptor binding in man.
Though today techniques utilizing molecular methods are emphasized, we must not neglect to put the molecular data into a clinical context. Extrapolations should be handled with great care. The knowledge on alcohol has many levels, and facts are often taken out of context. For a proper report of a clinical state or situation, validity lies both in the precision of clinical descriptions and in the accuracy of the molecular parameter. Alcohol as a medical risk factor is often disregarded, and there is often a communication gap.
Reward is a strong behavioral cue. It is argued that a sense of reward must be strictly controlled in time and magnitude to be functional. Central to the reward system is the mesolimbic dopamine pathway which is titillated by addictive drugs and alcohol. Rat lines or strains that voluntarily drink alcohol have lower dynorphin levels in relevant brain areas than those which avoid alcohol. Reward control may be a protective factor against addiction.


The zebrafish has recently emerged as a useful system for understanding vertebrate developmental genetics, despite the lack of a linkage map. To identify DNA-based genetic polymorphisms for constructing a genetic map, we have screened a collection of RAPD primers for their utility in identifying genetic polymorphisms between two laboratory strains of zebrafish. Here, we report 116 primers that identify 721 strain-specific genetic markers and show how they can be used in haploid genetics of zebrafish.
Numerous ectopic granule cells are found in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus in NZB/BlNJ and dreher mutant mice. These ectopic neurons occur either singly or in small clusters. In contrast, few ectopic granule cells are seen in the dentate molecular layer of C57BL/6J mice and dreher control littermates. In this investigation we have examined the morphology, number, and distribution of molecular layer astrocytes in NZB/BlNJ, dreher homozygotes, dreher littermate controls, and C57BL/6J mice to determine the effect of the presence of ectopic granule cells. In the molecular layer of C57BL/6J mice and dreher control littermates, astrocytes have a typical stellate appearance with processes emanating in all directions. The arborization of astrocytes in areas devoid of ectopic granule cells in NZB/BlNJ mice and dreher homozygotes was similar to that in C57BL/6J mice and dreher control littermates. In contrast, the morphology of astrocytes in the immediate vicinity of ectopic granule cells or ectopic clusters was distinctly non-stellate. Furthermore, the somata and processes of these astrocytes occasionally appeared to make intimate contact with the ectopic granule cells. A quantitative analysis of the number and distribution of astrocytes in NZB/BlNJ vs C57BL/6J mice and dreher vs. control littermates indicated that these parameters were not altered by the presence of the ectopic neurons. We conclude that the trophic effects of ectopic neurons on glial cells can affect the growth and orientation of astrocytic processes without a concomitant effect on glial cell number.

Levels of benzodiazepine receptor ligands were measured in plasma samples from 25 patients in various stages of hepatic encephalopathy due to fulminant liver failure who were not exposed to pharmaceutical benzodiazepines immediately before or during hospitalization. Chromatographic analysis of extracted plasma samples revealed one to nine fractions containing material that competitively inhibited [3H]flumazenil binding to benzodiazepine receptors with the pharmacological properties of benzodiazepine receptor agonists. Two of these peaks were positively identified as the 1,4-benzodiazepines diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam on the basis of chromatographic, ultraviolet and mass spectral evidence. The plasma levels of diazepam and N-desmethyldiazepam were significantly increased above control values in stage 4 hepatic encephalopathy, whereas total benzodiazepine receptor ligand concentrations were increased above control in stages 1 through 4. A significant but weak linear correlation was found between the relative increase in the levels of diazepam, N-desmethyldiazepam and total benzodiazepine receptor ligands and the severity of hepatic encephalopathy. Thus increased concentrations of benzodiazepine receptor ligands appear to contribute to the enhancement of GABAergic neurotransmission in hepatic encephalopathy, particularly in stage 4. These results constitute further support for a role for benzodiazepine receptor ligands in the pathogenesis of hepatic encephalopathy associated with acute liver failure.
In 1906, the personal scientific books collection of J.M. Charcot (1825-1893) was bequeathed by his son, the explorer J.B. Charcot, to the Neurological Disease Unit-Salptrire Hospital in Paris. This library died progressively. In the same time, so did the Anatomical Museum, founded to by J.M. Charcot, and also settled in the &quot;Division Pariset&quot;. Since 1966, with help of the late Professeur P. Castaigne, and collaborators, the library is reviving. It increased with several gifts of personal libraries, from Dr. Souques, Pr. Mollaret, Pr. Alajouanine, Pr. Lhermitte, Pr. Signoret. It is now the &quot;Bibliothque de Neurosciences J.M. Charcot-Paris VI University&quot;.
The phenomenon of parental imprinting has become increasingly important in disciplines such as evolution, genetics, molecular biology, embryology and pathology. Principally, parental imprinting refers to a parent-of-origin dependent expression of a subset of autosomal loci, independent of the sex of the offspring. Today, at least seven such loci have been identified, including the human IGF2 gene. It appears that the set of imprinted genes is not always identical between the species, although the importance of maintaining this kind of gene regulation is evolutionarily conserved. It is particularly interesting from the clinical point of view that a number of human diseases, such as the Beckwith-Wiedemann and Prader-Willi/Angelman syndromes, appear to involve unbalanced parental contributions of imprinted loci. We show here that the four different human IGF2 promoters are expressed mono- and/or biallelically in complex patterns in postnatal liver specimens.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) was used to examine the pattern of activity of the prefrontal cortex during performance of subjects in a nonspatial working memory task. Subjects observed sequences of letters and responded whenever a letter repeated with exactly one nonidentical letter intervening. In a comparison task, subjects monitored similar sequences of letters for any occurrence of a single, prespecified target letter. Functional scanning was performed using a newly developed spiral scan image acquisition technique that provides high-resolution, multislice scanning at approximately five times the rate usually possible on conventional equipment (an average of one image per second). Using these methods, activation of the middle and inferior frontal gyri was reliably observed within individual subjects during performance of the working memory task relative to the comparison task. Effect sizes (2-4%) closely approximated those that have been observed within primary sensory and motor cortices using similar fMRI techniques. Furthermore, activation increased and decreased with a time course that was highly consistent with the task manipulations. These findings corroborate the results of positron emission tomography studies, which suggest that the prefrontal cortex is engaged by tasks that rely on working memory. Furthermore, they demonstrate the applicability of newly developed fMRI techniques using conventional scanners to study the associative cortex in individual subjects.  1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Two research areas that so far have had little interaction with one another are functional neuroimaging and computational neuroscience. The application of computational models and techniques to the inherently rich data sets generated by &quot;standard&quot; neurophysiological methods has proven useful for interpreting these data sets and for providing predictions and hypotheses for further experiments. We suggest that both theory- and data-driven computational modeling of neuronal systems can help to interpret data generated by functional neuroimaging methods, especially those used with human subjects. In this article, we point out four sets of questions, addressable by computational neuroscientists whose answere would be of value and interest to those who perform functional neuroimaging. The first set consist of determining the neurobiological substrate of the signals measured by functional neuroimaging. The second set concerns developing systems-level models of functional neuroimaging data. The third set of questions involves integrating functional neuroimaging data across modalities, with a particular emphasis on relating electromagnetic with hemodynamic data. The last set asks how one can relate systems-level models to those at the neuronal and neural ensemble levels. We feel that there are ample reasons to link functional neuroimaging and neural modeling, and that combining the results from the two disciplines will result in furthering our understanding of the central nervous system.  1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc. This Article is a US Goverment work and, as such, is in the public domain in the United State of America.
We present the new computerized Human Brain Atlas (HBA) for anatomical and functional mapping studies of the human brain. The HBA is based on many high-resolution magnetic resonance images of normal subjects and provides continuous updating of the mean shape and position of anatomical structures of the human brain. The structures are transformable by linear and nonlinear global and local transformations applied anywhere in 3-D pictures to fit the anatomical structures of individual brains, which, by reformatting, are transformed into a high-resolution standard anatomical format. The power of the HBA to reduce anatomical variations was evaluated on a randomized selection of anatomical landmarks in brains of 27 young normal male volunteers who were different from those on whom the standard brain was selected. The HBA, even when based only on standard brain surface and central structures, reduced interindividual anatomical variance to the level of the variance in structure position between the right and left hemisphere in individual brains.  1994 Wiley-Liss, Inc.
Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is a complex nervous system disorder characterized by the development of schwannomas (especially vestibular), meningiomas, ependymomas and juvenile lens opacities. Mutation in the NF2 gene, which encodes for the schwannomin protein (SCH), a member of the band 4.1 superfamily of genes, predisposes carriers to these central nervous system tumors. We have isolated a mouse cDNA from a brain library which contains the complete open reading frame of the mouse homologue of the NF2 gene. This cDNA encodes for a 596 amino acid protein with 98% identity to the human SCH. Cross species hybridization experiments predict that the NF2 gene is highly conserved in other vertebrates. Northern analysis detects a 4.5 kb transcript in mouse brain, kidney, cardiac muscle, skin and lung suggesting ubiquitous expression. The predicted secondary structure of SCH, which is shared by all members of the band 4.1 superfamily, includes a highly conserved amino-terminal domain which is believed to bind to proteins in the plasma membrane and a large highly charged alpha-helix domain proposed to associate with the cytoskeleton. The NF2 gene is the first example of a tumor suppressor gene whose protein product appears to act as a membrane cytoskeleton-linker. These results show that the NF2 gene is highly conserved and suggests that the analysis of the mouse NF2 gene might yield insights into the function of the human gene.
Schwannomas are tumors arising from schwann cells surrounding peripheral nerves. Although most schwannomas are sporadic, they are seen in approximately 90% of individuals with neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2), an autosomal dominantly inherited disease with an incidence of 1:40000 live births. The NF2 gene has recently been isolated on chromosome 22 and encodes a putative membrane organizing protein named schwannomin. It is believed to act as a tumor suppressor gene based on the high frequency of loss of heterozygosity (LOH) on this autosome in both sporadic and NF2 associated schwannomas and meningiomas and the identification of inactivating mutation in NF2 patients. In this study we examined 61 schwannomas including 48 sporadic schwannomas (46 of which are vestibular schwannomas) and 12 schwannomas obtained from NF2 patients, for mutations in 10 of the 16 coding exons of the NF2 gene. Twelve inactivating mutations were identified, 8 in sporadic tumours and 4 in tumors from people with NF2. These results support the hypothesis that loss of function of schwannomin is a frequent and fundamental event in the genesis of schwannomas.
The wide spectrum of clinical manifestations resulting from glucocerebrosidase deficiency complicates genetic counseling for Gaucher disease. The identification of mutations in the glucocerebrosidase gene has enabled studies of genotype-phenotype correlation. However, a genotypic analysis of 60 type 1 and type 3 Gaucher patients reveals that the 5 most common Gaucher mutations, N370S, L444P, R463C, 84insG, and IVS2 + 1 G--&gt;A, can be found both in patients with and without neurologic manifestations. Moreover, although some generalizations can be made about mutations that are more frequently encountered in particular patient populations, Gaucher patients sharing identical genotypes can exhibit considerable clinical heterogeneity. Thus in considering rationale for population screening one cannot rely solely on PCR determined DNA mutation analysis to reliably predict prognosis in Gaucher disease.

The self-stimulation (SS) induced neuronal plasticity was observed in CA3 hippocampal and layer V motor cortical pyramidal neurons. SS experience was allowed daily for a total of 1 hour for 10 days through four bipolar electrodes implanted bilaterally in lateral hypothalamus (LH) and substantia nigra-ventral tegmental area (SN-VTA) in adult male Wistar rats. Examination of pyramidal neurons stained by rapid Golgi technique was made in a total of 1,600 neurons out of 80 rats consisting of 4 groups. The dendritic intersections were quantified upto 200 and 120 microns radial distances in apical and basal dendrites respectively. The CA3 hippocampal and layer V motor cortical pyramidal neurons of SS group revealed significant increase (P &lt; 0.001, two-way ANOVA) in dendritic intersections in both apical and basal dendrites, compared to normal control (NC), sham control (SH) and experimenter-administered (EA) group of animals. These results demonstrate that SS experience promotes increase in dendritic length in hippocampal and motor cortical pyramidal neurons.
In a previous pharmacokinetic study in Alzheimer patients great inter-individual variation and low oral bioavailability of the cholinesterase inhibitor tacrine (tetrahydroaminoacridine, THA) were found. In the present investigation oral and rectal administration of tacrine were compared with the aim to find a route for improved bioavailability through diminished first-pass metabolism in the liver. Eight patients suffering from Alzheimer's dementia were given tacrine by oral (25 and 50 mg b.i.d.) and rectal (12.5 and 25 mg b.i.d.) routes for 1 week with 4-6 weeks washout in between. Drug hydroxylation capacity in the patients was determined using the debrisoquine test. Levels of tacrine in plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) were determined and the cognitive performance was examined by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the Alzheimer Deficit Assessment Scale (ADAS). Tacrine was well tolerated in all but one patient, a slow hydroxylator, who developed an aplastic anemia. MMSE and ADAS scores did not significantly change, except for word recall which was improved on tacrine when given by the rectal route. Pharmacokinetic analysis of the two administration routes revealed that the drug dose may be reduced by almost 50% when given rectally compared to orally. Concentrations of tacrine in the CSF were significantly lower and correlated linearly with the concentrations in plasma.





This paper reports the direct evidence for the presence of Japanese encephalitis virus (JEV)-specific immune complexes in the CSF of 31/185 confirmed patients for the first time. A monoclonal antibody-based capture ELISA was used for the detection of immune complexes. Amongst the 31 cases positive for immune complexes, 14 were positive for JEV IgM antibodies and/or neutralizing antibodies in the CSF, 6 were positive for viral antigen in the CSF and 11 for both antibody and antigen. Correlation of findings to final outcome revealed that the presence of immune complexes in CSF was significantly associated with death (p = 0.01).
Adhesion to vascular endothelium is a primary step in the colonization of select target organs by blood-borne cancer cells. Previous studies in our laboratory have shown that adhesion is followed by the establishment of fully functional gap junctional channels between the arrested tumor cell and the endothelium and that gap junctional communication might play an important role in extravasation. Here we report on a critical interdependence between endothelial cell adhesion and communication of lung-metastatic cancer cells. Gap junctions are assembled at focal adhesion contacts between tumor cells and endothelial cells where they mediate metabolic coupling between the junction-forming cell pair. The level of coupling depends on sufficient amounts of connexin43 (cx43) protein expression by both cell partners and, in a rate-limiting fashion, on the expression level of the receptor/ligand pair that mediates adhesion between tumor cells and the endothelium. This conclusion is based on our findings that (a) tumor cells with equal cx43 message, yet different adhesion potential for endothelial cells, differ significantly in their level of communication with the endothelium (e.g., R230AC-MET vs. R3230AC-LR), and (b) gap junctional communication between B16-F10 melanoma cells and lung-matrix-modulated endothelium can be effectively blocked by antiadhesive, anti-Lu-ECAM-1 monoclonal antibody 6D3 and by soluble Lu-ECAM-1. Significantly increased adhesion and communication levels in highly lung-metastatic carcinoma cells imply a role of gap junctional coupling in cancer metastasis, presumably by facilitating extravasation.
Twenty patients of Idiopathic Prakinson's disease in the early phase were enrolled to study the efficacy and safety of selegiline as monotherapy. The mean duration of time before levodopa had to be initiated was 9.75 months. The UPDRS scores for activities of daily living, motor examination, tremor and total score showed significant improvement initially with subsequent worsening. Selegiline was well tolerated and there were no serious side-effects. In conclusion, selegiline may have a short lasting symptomatic effect in IPD and is well tolerated.
A monoclonal antibody MA4-2 against a dystrophin-associated protein 35DAG (A4) was established and applied to examine the distribution of 35DAG in monkey tissue and its expression in DMD patients. In immunoblotting after two-dimensional gel electrophoresis of crude skeletal muscle extracts, MA4-2 reacted exclusively with an apparent single spot located in a similar position to rabbit 35DAG in each animal examined. 35DAG was detected only in striated muscles (quadriceps femoris and cardiac muscles), but not in other tissues examined, including smooth muscle (aorta, uterus), brain, nerve, lung, and liver. This distribution pattern is the same as that of 50DAG but different from that of 43DAG (A3a) [Mizuno et al. (1993) J. Biochem. 114, 936-941]. In Duchenne muscular dystrophy muscles, 35DAG was distinctly present, but greatly reduced in amount. This is also the case with 50DAG. On the basis of these results, it is concluded that 35DAG and 50DAG are striated muscle-specific and may be important in the pathogenesis of Duchenne muscular dystrophy.
Eleven pineal parenchymal tumors were studied using various antibodies specific to the central nervous system and cell-proliferation-related antigen MIB-1 in order to examine the divergent types of cell differentiation and also evaluate prognosis. Electron microscopy was also performed. All tumors were immunohistochemically positive to chromogranin A and alpha B crystallin, and were also highly positive to retinal S protein. Pineocytoma cells contained microtubules, intermediate filaments, glial bundles, clear-centered vesicles and synaptic apparati. Pineoblastoma cells also had microtubules and neurofilaments, but glial filaments and definite synapses were not identifiable. Pineal parenchymal tumors were considered to be of pinealocyte origin, and there was a continuous spectrum of divergent cell differentiation between pineocytoma and pineoblastoma cells. The MIB-1 labeling index correlated well with histological malignancy, neuronal differentiation evaluated immunohistochemically by both neurofilament protein and synaptophysin, and cases with seeding potentials. Although histopathological features of neuronal development were, until recently, seen as the hallmark of benign prognosis in pineal parenchymal tumors, they are now thought to be only one of the pieces of evidence that may be used for purposes of prognosis.
The rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) is the primary region maintaining vasomotor tone, and a site of action for central antihypertensive agents. In vitro [125I]p-iodoclonidine binding studies showed that moxonidine was selective for I1-imidazoline over alpha 2-adrenergic receptors in the RVLM. We identified efaroxan and SK&amp;F 86466 as selective I1- and alpha 2-antagonists, respectively. We tested moxonidine's action within the RVLM of spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) on I1-imidazoline or alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, and determined whether the RVLM mediates the action of systemic moxonidine. SHRs were anesthetized, paralyzed, and ventilated and the RVLM was localized by testing for a pressor response to 2 nmol glutamate. To test whether I1 or alpha 2 mediates hypotensive effects of moxonidine, the I1/alpha 2 antagonist efaroxan (4 nmol) or the alpha 2-blocker SK&amp;F 86466 (10 nmol) was administered 15 min before 4 nmol moxonidine. Efaroxan elevated blood pressure and abolished the action of moxonidine, whereas alpha 2-blockade with SK&amp;F 86466 slightly lowered blood pressure and only partially attenuated moxonidine's effect. The depressor effect of intravenous moxonidine (40 micrograms/kg) was reversed within 10 min by microinjection of 10 nmol efaroxan into the RVLM. Prior bilateral microinjections of efaroxan (10 nmol in 80 nl/site) into the RVLM prevented the hypotensive action of moxonidine given i.v. (40 micrograms/kg). Pharmacokinetic studies showed that at the peak vasodepressor response (8 min post-injection), [3H]moxonidine spread less than 1 mm from the injection site. Moxonidine is a centrally acting antihypertensive with a selective action on I1-imidazoline receptors in RVLM.
The posttranslational processing enzyme peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) occurs naturally in integral membrane and soluble forms. With the goal of understanding the targeting of these proteins to secretory granules, we have compared the maturation, processing, secretion, and storage of PAM proteins in stably transfected AtT-20 cells. Integral membrane and soluble PAM proteins exit the ER and reach the Golgi apparatus with similar kinetics. Biosynthetic labeling experiments demonstrated that soluble PAM proteins were endoproteolytically processed to a greater extent than integral membrane PAM; this processing occurred in the regulated secretory pathway and was blocked by incubation of cells at 20 degrees C. 16 h after a biosynthetic pulse, a larger proportion of soluble PAM proteins remained cell-associated compared with integral membrane PAM, suggesting that soluble PAM proteins were more efficiently targeted to storage granules. The nonstimulated secretion of soluble PAM proteins peaked 1-2 h after a biosynthetic pulse, suggesting that release was from vesicles which bud from immature granules during the maturation process. In contrast, soluble PAM proteins derived through endoproteolytic cleavage of integral membrane PAM were secreted in highest amount during later times of chase. Furthermore, immunoprecipitation of cell surface-associated integral membrane PAM demonstrated that very little integral membrane PAM reached the cell surface during early times of chase. However, when a truncated PAM protein lacking the cytoplasmic tail was expressed in AtT-20 cells, &gt; 50% of the truncated PAM-1 protein reached the cell surface within 3 h. We conclude that the trafficking of integral membrane and soluble secretory granule-associated enzymes differs, and that integral membrane PAM proteins are less efficiently retained in maturing secretory granules.
Quantitative receptor autoradiography was used to evaluate the density of high-affinity binding sites for the &quot;peripheral-type&quot; benzodiazepine receptor (PTBR) ligand [3H]PK11195 in brain regions of the rat at different stages of pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency encephalopathy, an experimental model of the Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome (WKS). Assessment of the density of [3H]PK11195 binding sites in thiamine-deficient animals showing no neurologic signs of thiamine deficiency encephalopathy, and revealed no significant alterations compared with pair-fed control animals in any brain region studied. Densities of [3H]PK11195 binding sites were, however, significantly increased in brain regions of the rat at the symptomatic stage, where increased densities were seen in the inferior colliculus (233% increase, p &lt; 0.001), inferior olivary nucleus (154% increase, p &lt; 0.001) and thalamus (up to 107% increase, p &lt; 0.001). Histologic studies of these same brain regions revealed evidence of neuronal cell loss and concomitant gliosis. Densities of [3H]PK11195 binding sites in nonvulnerable brain regions that showed no histologic evidence of neuronal loss, such as the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, and caudate-putamen, were not significantly different from those in control animals. Increased densities of binding sites for the PTBR ligand probably reflect glial proliferation and are consistent with an excitotoxic mechanism in the pathogenesis of neuronal cell loss in thiamine deficiency encephalopathy. Positron emission tomography (PET) using [11C]PK11195 could offer a potentially useful diagnostic tool in WKS in humans.
The most common mutation in late-onset metachromatic leukodystrophy is a cytosine-to-thymine substitution in exon VIII. This mutation caused a substitution of leucine for proline at amino acid residue 426. We developed a rapid and simple method for the detection of 426Pro--&gt;Leu mutation by polymerase chain reaction with mismatched primer. Although the 426Pro--&gt;Leu mutation does not alter recognition sequence for restriction enzymes, we created a Pst I restriction site using a 3'-primer mismatched at one nucleotide. As a result, the mutation can be detected as a Pst I restriction fragment length polymorphism.


MX2, a novel lipophilic morpholino anthracycline, has been reported to have superior chemotherapeutic effects to Adriamycin (ADM) against murine and human tumour cells. In this study the chemotherapeutic effect of MX2 against C6 glioma cells in vitro and in vivo was examined as well as the photocytotoxicity of MX2 and the combination effect of MX2 and photodynamic therapy (PDT) in vitro. The drug concentration required for 50% inhibition of cell growth (IC50) of MX2 for C6 glioma cells was 6.5 +/- 1.0 ng/ml, which was lower than for ADM and nitrosourea (ACNU). The growth of C6 glioma cells inoculated intracerebrally in mice was inhibited by intravenous (iv) injection of MX2 at doses ranging from 1.0-3.0 mg/kg suggesting that MX2 may be clinically effective against human malignant gliomas. Mild photocytotoxicity of MX2 against C6 cells in vitro was observed at high concentrations of MX2 illuminated with white light but not red light (&gt; 630 nm). In combination, MX2 and the photosensitizer haematoporphyrin derivative (HpD) resulted in cyto- and photo-toxicity of C6 glioma cells irrespective of whether the cells were treated with MX2 either immediately after red light illumination following incubation with HpD, or at an interval of 24 hours before incubation with HpD. We conclude that MX2 may be clinically useful against malignant glioma alone, and in combination with other therapies such as PDT.
Abstract Steven Pinker is a professor in the Department of Brain and Cognitive Sciences at MIT, and in 1994 will become director of its McDonnell-Pew Center for Cognitive Neuroscience. He received his B.K from McGill University in 1976 and his Ph.D. from Harvard University in 1979, both in experimental psychology, and taught at Harvard and Stanford before joining the faculty of MIT in 1982. He has done research in visual cognition and the psychology of language, and is the author of Language Learnability and Language Development (1984) and Learnability and Cognition (1989) and the editor of Visual Cognition (1985), Connections and Symbol (1988, with Jacques Mehler), and Lexical and Conceptual Semantics (1992, with Beth Levin). He was the recipient of the Early Career Award in 1984 and the Boyd McCandless Award in 1986 from the American Psychological Association, a Graduate Teaching Award from MIT in 1986, and the Troland Research Award from the National Academy of Sciences in 1993. His newest book, The Language Instinct, will be published by William Morrow &amp; Company in January 1994.

Pearson syndrome is a multisystem mitochondrial disorder of infancy that is associated with deletions in the mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) genome. We report a study on a male infant with Pearson syndrome. Assessment of oxidative phosphorylation activity indicated combined respiratory-chain defects in muscle, liver and fibroblasts; in particular, activity of complex I was reduced. Analysis of the patient's mtDNA identified a novel heteroplasmic 2.461 kb deletion, present at levels greater than 50% of the total mtDNA in the tissues examined. The deletion spanned nucleotides 10368 to 12828 and was flanked by a 3 bp GCC direct repeat sequence. Gene sequences affected are subunits 3, 4, 4L and 5 of complex I, and tRNAs for arginine, histidine, serine and leucine. Our findings correlate with the multiorgan involvement observed in Pearson syndrome.
The conductance of channels formed by diphtheria toxin (DT) in lipid bilayer membrane depends strongly on pH. We have previously shown that a 61 amino acid region of the protein, denoted TH8-9, is sufficient to form channels having the same pH-dependent conductance properties as those of whole toxin channels. One residue in this region, Aspartate 352, is responsible for all the dependence of single channel conductance on trans pH, whereas another, Glutamate 349, has no effect. Here, we report that of the seven remaining charged residues in the TH8-9 region, mutations altering the charge on H322, H323, H372, and R377 have minimal effects on single channel conductance; mutations of Glutamates 326, 327, or 362, however, significantly affect single channel conductance as well as its dependence on cis pH. Moreover, Glutamate 362 is titratable from both the cis and trans sides of the membrane, suggesting that this residue lies within the channel; it is more accessible, however, to cis than to trans protons. These results are consistent with the membrane-spanning topology previously proposed for the TH8-9 region, and suggest a geometric model for the DT channel.
A 27-year-old woman is described whose disorder meets the DSM-III-R criteria for a diagnosis of schizophrenia and who was found to have a significantly increased serum level of homocysteine. Repeatedly, she improved on frequent cobalamin injections and deteriorated in periods without treatment. The effects of prolonged weekly treatment appeared to diminish as time went on, suggesting that the abnormality was not wholly cobalamin-dependent. It was found that methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MR) activity in cultured skin fibroblasts was reduced to a magnitude that is found among people with heterozygous deficiency. A defect in MR activity indicates a deficiency in methyltetrahydrofolate (MTHF), with a consequent reduction of the remethylation of homocysteine to methionine. Thus, reduced methylation may explain the increased levels of homocysteine and the transient effects of cobalamin treatment in the patient. Theoretically, MTHF should be the optimal treatment for her. The case reported highlights the importance of assessing the serum homocysteine level in order to detect methylation deficiency in patients with schizophrenia.
The binding of [3H]-U-69593 and [3H]-CI-977 to kappa-1 opioid receptors has been examined in the temporal cortex of postmortem brains from patients with Alzheimer's disease and age-matched controls using quantitative autoradiography. There was no significant difference between Alzheimer and control subjects in the level of [3H]-U-69593 and [3H]-CI-977 binding, but ChAT activity was markedly reduced (by 73% compared to controls). These results are not consistent with a presynaptic localisation of kappa-1 receptors on cholinergic terminals in human temporal cortex.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common disease causing dementia. Today the clinical diagnosis of AD is made by way of exclusion, and no biochemical markers are available to assist the clinical diagnosis. We examined the potential of neuron-specific enolase (NSE) in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) as a diagnostic marker for AD. NSE was determined with a monoclonal antibody two-site immunoradiometric assay (IRMA) in serum (S) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) samples from 45 patients with &quot;probable Alzheimer's disease (AD)&quot;, 19 patients with vascular dementia (VAD) and 33 age-matched healthy individuals. There was no significant correlation between S-NSE and CSF-NSE, or between CSF/S albumin ratio and CSF-NSE, findings suggesting that the major portion of CSF-NSE is intrathecally produced and that analysis of CSF-NSE alone (without accompanying analysis of serum) is sufficient. CSF-NSE was significantly higher in the AD group (4.7 +/- 2.7 ng/mL; p &lt; 0.0001) and in VAD group (4.5 +/- 2.5 ng/mL; p &lt; 0.001) as compared with the control group (2.2 +/- 1.0 ng/mL), while it did not differ significantly between the AD and the VAD group. These findings suggest that CSF-NSE have a potential as a non-disease specific marker for the neuronal degeneration in dementia disorders.
Attempts to lessen the progression of Parkinson's Disease (PD) have made use of 2 strategies: inhibition of monoamine oxidase type B with deprenyl (selegiline) and the free radical trapping agent alpha-tocopherol (vitamin E). Clinical trials exploring these possibilities have suggested that deprenyl can alter the natural course of PD, although the mild symptomatic effects produced by this drug confound the analysis of its possible protective actions. Alpha-tocopherol conferred no neuroprotection. Since deprenyl produces a variety of pharmacological effects, the results of the DATATOP and related clinical studies with this drug are subject to several alternative explanations.
Striatal cholinergic interneurons have been shown to receive input from striatal gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-containing cell elements. GABA is known to act on two different types of receptors, the GABAA and the GABAB receptor. Using in vivo microdialysis, we have studied the effect of intrastriatal application of the GABAA-selective compounds muscimol and bicuculline and the GABAB-selective compounds baclofen and 2-hydroxysaclofen, agonists and antagonists, respectively, at GABA receptors, on the output of striatal acetylcholine (ACh). Intrastriatal infusion of 1 and 10 mumol/L concentrations of the GABAA antagonist bicuculline resulted in a significant increase in striatal ACh output, whereas infusion of 1 and 10 mumol/L concentrations of the GABAA agonist muscimol significantly decreased the output of striatal ACh. Both compounds were ineffective in changing the output of striatal ACh at lower concentrations. Infusion of concentrations up to 100 mumol/L of the GABAB-selective antagonist 2-hydroxy-saclofen failed to affect striatal ACh output, whereas infusion of 10 and 100 mumol/L baclofen, but not 0.1 and 1 mumol/L baclofen, significantly decreased the output of striatal ACh. Thus, agonist-stimulation of GABAA and GABAB receptors decreases the output of striatal ACh in a dose-dependent fashion, whereas the GABAAergic system appears to inhibit tonically the output of striatal ACh via GABAA receptors, but not via GABAB receptors. We hypothesize that although GABAA mediated regulation of striatal ACh occurs via GABA receptors on the cholinergic neuron, the GABAB mediated effects may be explained by presynaptic inhibition of the glutamatergic input of the striatal cholinergic neuron.
Neuropeptides were directly detected in single identified neurons and the neurohemal area of peptidergic (neuroendocrine) systems in the Lymnaea brain by using matrix-assisted laser desorption ionization mass spectrometry (MALDI-MS). The samples were placed in matrix solution and ruptured to allow mixing of cell contents with the matrix solution. After formation of matrix crystals, the analytes were analyzed by MALDI-MS. It was surprising that clean mass spectra were produced, displaying extreme sensitivity of detection. In one of the neuroendocrine systems studied, we could demonstrate for the first time, by comparing the peptide patterns of soma and of neurohemal axon terminals, that processing of the complex prohormone expressed in this system occurs entirely in the soma. In the other system studied, novel peptides could be detected in addition to peptides previously identified by conventional molecular biological and peptide chemical methods. Thus, complex peptide processing and expression patterns could be predicted that were not detected in earlier studies using conventional methods. As the first MALDI-MS study of direct peptide fingerprinting in the single neuron, these experiments demonstrate that MALDI-MS forms a new and valuable approach to the study of the synthesis and expression of bioactive peptides, with potential application to single-cell studies in vertebrates, including humans.



We have examined the induction of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) activity in the rat astrocyte-derived C6 glioma cell line. In contrast to the previous results with primary astrocyte cultures, incubation of C6 cells with bacterial endotoxin lipopolysaccharide (LPS; 1 microgram/ml for 24 h) did not stimulate NO2 production. However, addition of either tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) or interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma), cytokines that by themselves had no effect on NOS activity, imparted LPS responsiveness onto these cells in a dose-dependent manner (EC50 values of 39 ng/ml of TNF-alpha and 9.4 U/ml of IFN-gamma), and the effect of TNF-alpha could be further potentiated (twofold) by the presence of interleukin-1 beta. The simultaneous presence of TNF-alpha and IFN-gamma yielded a greater response than either cytokine alone; however, the respective EC50 values were not affected. A cytoplasmic extract from induced C6 cells catalyzed the Ca(2+)-independent conversion of L-arginine to L-citrulline, with an apparent Km of 51.2 microM, and this activity could be blocked by L-arginine analogues in the potency order amino &gt; methyl &gt; nitroarginine. Immunoblot analysis revealed an apparent molecular mass of 125 kDa for the NOS protein induced in C6 cells. These results indicate that the combination of LPS plus cytokines can induce NOS activity in C6 glioma cells with properties similar to those of the enzyme expressed in primary astrocyte cultures.
Regional 45Ca2+ accumulation and analysis of monoamines and metabolites in dissected tissues were used to localize, quantify, and characterize brain damage after intracerebral injections of Mn2+ into striatum and hippocampus. The specificity of Mn(2+)-induced lesions is described in relation to brain damage produced by local Fe2+ or 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) injections. In striatum, Fe2+ and Mn2+ produced dose-dependent (0.05-0.8 mumol) dopamine (DA) depletion, with Fe2+ being 3.4 times more potent than Mn2+. Studies examining the time course of changes in monoamine levels in striatum following local application of 0.4 mumol of Mn2+ revealed maximal depletion of all substances investigated (except 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid) after 3 days. The effects on DA (87% depletion at day 3) and its major metabolites were most pronounced and lasted until at least 90 days (40% depletion), whereas serotonin and noradrenaline levels recovered within 21 and 42 days, respectively. In addition, levels of 3-methoxytyramine, which is used as an index of DA release, also recovered within 42 days, indicating a functional restoration of DA neurotransmission despite substantial loss of DA content. Intrastriatal Mn2+ (0.4 mumol) produced time-dependent 45Ca2+ accumulation in striatum, globus pallidus, entopeduncular nucleus, several thalamic nuclei, and substantia nigra pars reticulata ipsilateral to the injection site. In contrast, 6-OHDA injected at a dose equipotent in depleting DA produced significantly less 45Ca2+ accumulation in striatum and globus pallidus and no labeling of other brain areas, whereas Fe2+ (0.4 mumol) produced extensive 45Ca2+ accumulation throughout basal ganglia, accumbens, and cerebral cortex. In hippocampus, high Mn2+ (0.4 mumol) produced limited 45Ca2+ accumulation in subiculum and dentate gyrus, whereas low Fe2+ (0.1 mumol) produced widespread 45Ca2+ accumulation throughout hippocampus, thalamus, and cerebral cortex. It is concluded that (a) Mn2+ is selectively neurotoxic to pathways intrinsic to the basal ganglia, (b) intrastriatal injections can be used as a model for systemic Mn2+ intoxications, and (c) high endogenous Fe3+ and/or catecholamine levels potentiate the neurotoxicity of Mn2+.
Metastatic epidural spinal cord compression (MESCC) is a medical emergency complicating the course of 5-10% of patients with cancer [1]. When diagnosis and treatment is early with the patient ambulatory prognosis for continued ambulation is good [2]. If the patient is nonambulatory or paraplegic, prognosis for meaningful recovery of motor and bladder function is markedly decreased. In the last decade, significant advances in the understanding, management and treatment of metastatic epidural spinal cord compression have occurred. Recent pathophysiological and pharmacological animals studies have afforded insights into disease mechanisms [3-9]. The audit of standard methods of investigation and magnetic resonance imaging have resulted in revision of guidelines for patient evaluation [10-17]. Finally, new surgical philosophies and technical advances have generated interest and controversy [18-25]. With improved clinical awareness, new imaging modalities will help us diagnose epidural spinal cord compression earlier and institute appropriate treatment.
The criteria for clinical response to treatment in cerebral glioma remain poorly defined, but could be made more objective if simple measures of neurological impairments were included in the definitions. We assessed the utility of simple fast previously validated tests of limb impairment (Timed nine hole peg test and 10 meter walk), memory (Williams delayed recall test) and language (Boston Aphasia Severity Rating Scale) in fifty patients with primary brain tumours to see if they could act as a surrogate for neurological impairment. The tests were compared with established measures of physical disability (Barthel Disability Index [BDI]) and handicap. Timed tests of hand function and gait were sensitive to minor impairments and were abnormal in patients with physical disability on BDI. Timed tests correlated well with handicap (rank correlation 0.734). Short term memory was impaired more commonly with tumours involving the left hemisphere (p &lt; 0.01). Dysphasia limited testing of memory in 8%. Depression was associated with problems in limb function (p &lt; 0.01), memory (p &lt; 0.001), language (p &lt; 0.001), BDI (p &lt; 0.001) and handicap (p &lt; 0.001). The number of abnormal fast tests also correlated with the severity of handicap (rank correlation 0.786) indicating that memory impairment and aphasia contribute to handicap and should be assessed. Median time to complete all assessments was 7 minutes 20 seconds. Utilization of these simple tests will add sensitivity and objectivity to evaluation of neurological response in clinical trials and can be performed quickly by non medical staff.
Thromboembolism is a common problem in patients with brain tumors. Within this population are subpopulations of patients at varying but substantial risk for deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism. Prophylactic strategies can be applied to these various risk groups that will dramatically reduce the incidence of thromboembolism, and these should be applied on a routine basis. The standard prophylactic methods for thromboembolic prophylaxis include mechanical devices (e.g., graduated leg stockings; external pneumatic calf compression) and pharmacological agents (e.g., low dose heparin). In addition, a basic knowledge of low molecular weight heparins and heparinoids is essential because these new agents have a potentially promising role in the prophylaxis of neurological disease in certain patients. The principles concerning the prophylaxis of venous thromboembolic disease in patients with brain tumors are addressed in this review.
1. The effects of repetitive stimulation of primary afferents in lumbar dorsal roots on synaptic transmission in the dorsal horn (DH) were studied in a rat spinal cord slice-dorsal root ganglion (DRG)-peripheral nerve trunk preparation by the use of intracellular recording from neurons (n = 115) of the spinal dorsal horn (depth 147 +/- 139, mean +/- SD). All DH neurons were excited synaptically by electrical stimulation of the dorsal root or the peripheral nerve trunk. The electrical shocks were calibrated to produce activation either of large fibers (10-20 V, 0.02 ms) or the whole fiber population including unmyelinated afferents (supramaximal stimulus: &gt; 35 V, 0.5 ms). Postsynaptic potentials induced by low intensity repetitive stimulation of primary afferents at frequencies below 5 Hz failed to produce a prolonged change in the resting membrane potential. In 97/115 DH neurons, slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSP)--evoked by high intensity low-frequency repetitive stimulation (0.1-2 Hz) of primary afferents--summated, producing a prolonged cumulative depolarization. In the remaining 18/115 DH neurons, high intensity low-frequency stimulation produced a cumulative hyperpolarizing response. 2. In 22 of 97 neurons that responded to high intensity repetitive stimulation with a cumulative depolarization, wind-up in the firing of action potentials was recorded. In all but two experiments, neurons that responded with wind-up to stimulation of one root responded with wind-up to stimulation of the adjacent dorsal root. In 14/22 wind-up neurons, the synaptic response to high intensity stimulation of primary afferents was composed of a short latency EPSP, followed by an inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP), followed by a slow EPSP. The decrease of the amplitude and duration of the IPSP obtained during train stimulation did not seem to contribute to facilitation of transmission induced by repetitive stimulation. 3. The wind-up in firing of action potentials was followed by a prolonged potentiation of synaptic transmission in tetanized synapses. A test of other, adjacent primary afferents revealed that these synapses in the neurons in the superficial laminae had not undergone potentiation. This &quot;synaptic specificity&quot; of post-wind-up potentiation suggested that the mechanism for the induction of stimulation-dependent changes in the excitability of the DH neuron is presynaptic to the recorded-from neuron. 4. In a concentration of 0.5 microM and higher, tetrodotoxin (TTX) applied to sensory neurons selectively blocked action potentials in large myelinated primary afferents.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The directional movement of many cellular organelles in neurons is dependent on polarized microtubules and direction-specific motor molecules. Microtubules are also thought to mediate the retrograde transport of herpes simplex virus (HSV) in sensory neurons. To define the cellular machinery responsible for retrograde axonal transport of HSV, we have investigated the polarity of microtubules in the peripheral axons of trigeminal ganglion neurons. The long ciliary nerves of rabbits were prepared for a standard &quot;hook assay&quot; of microtubule polarity. Axons in cross-sectioned nerves contained microtubules with almost uniform orientation. The fast-growing, plus ends of these axonal microtubules are located distal to the cell body and the slow-growing, minus ends are directed centrally. To determine the role played by microtubules in the retrograde transport of HSV in these axons, we injected the retrobulbar space of mice with the microtubule-inhibiting drugs colchicine, vinblastine, or nocodazole or with the microfilament inhibitor cytochalasin D and 1 d later inoculated the cornea with HSV. We found that colchicine, vinblastine, or nocodazole reduced by 52-87% the amount of virus recovered from the ganglion 3 d postinoculation, compared to vehicle-treated animals. In contrast, cytochalasin D or beta-lumicolchicine did not significantly reduce the amount of HSV recovered from the ganglion. We conclude that the retrograde axonal transport of HSV from axon endings in the cornea to the trigeminal ganglion cell bodies requires intact microtubules and occurs in a plus-to-minus direction on the microtubules. Our data are consistent with the hypothesis that the retrograde axonal transport of HSV is mediated by a minus end-directed motor molecule, for example, cytoplasmic dynein.
Potential cellular substrates for functions ascribed to the dopamine D2 receptor were examined in rat brain using immunoperoxidase for localization of a D2 receptor peptide and immunogold staining for the catecholamine biosynthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH). Specificity of the rat polyclonal antiserum, raised against a 15 amino acid fragment from the third intracellular loop of the D2 receptor, was shown by immunoblot analysis and by selective labeling of cultured Chinese hamster ovary cells permanently transfected with the cDNA for the D2 receptor. Although the light microscopic distribution of immunolabeling for the D2 peptide was diffuse, it was selectively localized to regions containing dopamine cells (substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area) or their forebrain projections (dorsal and ventral striatum, nucleus accumbens, and olfactory tubercles). Electron microscopic examination of the medial substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area revealed readily detectable peroxidase immunoreactivity for the D2 peptide, primarily associated with the smooth endoplasmic reticulum and plasmalemmal surfaces of dendrites. Many D2 peptide-immunoreactive dendrites also contained immunogold labeling for TH, although some dendrites were singly labeled for either marker. In the medial and dorsolateral striatum, immunoperoxidase product for the D2 peptide was localized most extensively in dendrites, with the greatest intensity of immunolabeling seen in spines. A number of striatal dendrites exhibiting D2 peptide labeling were contacted by axon terminals immunoreactive for TH. Additionally, D2 peptide immunoreactivity was distributed to some synaptic vesicles and portions of the plasmalemmal surface in unmyelinated axons and in axon terminals. Most D2 peptide-immunoreactive terminals either lacked detectable membrane specializations, or formed thin, symmetric synapses in single sections. A few D2 peptide-labeled terminals formed asymmetric junctions on dendritic spines. In dually labeled sections, most D2 peptide-immunoreactive terminals lacked detectable immunolabeling for TH. However, in fortunate planes of section, peroxidase product for D2 peptide immunoreactivity was occasionally seen in pre-terminal portions of axons whose terminal varicosities contained immunogold labeling for TH. These ultrastructural results are consistent with the localization of a dopamine D2 receptor-like protein that is strategically positioned to subserve (1) autoreceptor functions at the level of dendrites in the midbrain and presynaptic axon terminals in the striatum, as well as (2) postsynaptic actions on striatal spiny dendrites and other nondopamine terminals.
The simultaneous use of different neuroanatomical anterograde tracers provides a potentially powerful method to study the convergence of afferent systems in a particular brain area. However, a simple routine procedure to apply multiple anterograde tracers in conjunction with their simultaneous visualization is still missing. We report an easy and straightforward application of three sensitive anterograde tracers: Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L), rhodamine-conjugated dextran amine (RDA) and biotin-conjugated dextran amine (BDA). These tracers can be visualized simultaneously and permanently through a triple-staining procedure with nickel-enhanced diaminobenzidine (DAB-Ni), DAB and 1-naphthol/Azur B as chromogens. Our test model comprised the projections from the nucleus reuniens thalami and entorhinal cortex. Both projection systems show a high degree of overlap in their terminal fields in the hippocampus. Two tracers were injected in the left and right entorhinal cortex, respectively; a third tracer was injected in the nucleus reuniens. This combination of injections provided a good opportunity to compare the three tracers in one and the same animal. PHA-L, RDA and BDA, injected in either of the injection sites, turned out to be equally sensitive and revealed the morphology of the involved projection systems in great detail. The triple-staining protocol yielded an excellent, simultaneous detectability of the three tracers with a remarkably low background level. Thus, the combination of the anterograde tracers PHA-L, RDA and BDA, in conjunction with the triple-staining procedure, offers a very attractive approach for neuroanatomical research.
Parkinson's disease is a prevalent neurological disease characterized by profound and incapacitating movement disorders. A common pathology in Parkinson's patients is degeneration of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons that innervate the striatum and a corresponding decrease in striatal dopamine content. We now report that NT-4/5 can prevent the death of rat embryonic substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons in low density, enriched, primary cultures. Furthermore, these neurons express messenger RNA encoding the trkB receptor for NT-4/5 and transcripts for NT-4/5 are present in their environment. In addition, we demonstrate that NT-4/5 protects embryonic dopaminergic neurons from the toxic effects of the neurotoxin MPP+. Thus, NT-4/5 could be a physiological survival factor for midbrain dopaminergic neurons and may be useful as a therapeutic agent for Parkinson's disease.
Previous studies have suggested that only a small proportion (&lt; 15%) of comatose head-injured patients whose initial computerized tomography (CT) scan was normal or did not show a mass lesion, midline shift, or abnormal basal cisterns develop intracranial hypertension. The aim of the present study was to re-examine this finding against a background of more intensive monitoring and data acquisition. Eight severely head-injured patients with a Glasgow Coma Scale score of 8 or less, whose admission CT scan did not show a mass lesion, midline shift, or effaced basal cisterns, underwent minute-to-minute recordings of arterial blood pressure, intracranial pressure (ICP), and cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) derived from blood pressure minus ICP. Intracranial hypertension (ICP &gt; or = 20 mm Hg lasting longer than 5 minutes) was recorded in seven of the eight patients; in five cases the rise was pronounced in terms of both magnitude (ICP &gt; or = 30 mm Hg) and duration. Reduced CPP (&lt; or = 60 mm Hg lasting longer than 5 minutes) was recorded in five patients. Severely head-injured (comatose) patients whose initial CT scan is normal or does not show a mass lesion, midline shift, or abnormal cisterns nevertheless remain at substantial risk of developing significant secondary cerebral insults due to elevated ICP and reduced CPP. The authors recommend continuous ICP and blood pressure monitoring with derivation of CPP in all comatose head-injured patients.
Primary traumatic brain damage may be compounded by secondary pathophysiological insults that can occur soon after trauma, during transfer to hospital or subsequent treatment of the head-injured patient. The aim of this prospective study was to quantify the burden of a wide range of secondary insults occurring after head injury and to relate these to 12-month outcome. In 124 adult head-injured patients studied during intensive care using a computerized data collection system, &lt; or = 14 clinically indicated physiological variables were measured minute-by-minute. Verified values falling outside threshold limits for &gt; or = 5 min, as defined by the Edinburgh University Secondary Insult Grading scheme, were analysed by insult grade and duration. A greater incidence of secondary insults was detected than previous studies have indicated. Insults were found in 91% of patients and occurred in all severities of head trauma, at all ages, and at every level of Injury Severity Score (ISS). The cumulative durations were much greater than previously recorded although 85% of the total time was at the least severe grade. Short duration insults were common. In 71 patients, in whom 8 insults could be assessed (intracranial pressure, arterial hypo- and hypertension, cerebral perfusion pressure, hypoxemia, pyrexia, brady- and tachycardia), outcome at 12 months was analysed using logistic regression to determine the relative influence of age, admission Glasgow Coma Sumscore, ISS, pupil response on admission, and insult duration on both mortality and morbidity. The most significant predictors of mortality in this patient set were durations of hypotensive (p = .0064), pyrexic (p = .0137), and hypoxemic (p = .0244) insults. When good versus poor outcome was considered, hypotensive insults (p = .0118) and pupil response on admission (p = .0226) were significant.
This study is a retrospective review to evaluate factors associated with the risk of pneumocephalus following craniofacial resection and the management of tension pneumocephalus. Twenty-two craniofacial operative procedures were reviewed in 18 patients entered into the Neurosciences Critical Care Unit, Johns Hopkins Hospital, during a 54 month period, from 1986-1991. Pneumocephalus developed after 7 of 22 operations; of these seven, two developed tension pneumocephalus. The use of lumbar cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) drainage during the operation correlated most strongly with the development of pneumocephalus. The diagnosis of esthesioblastoma also correlated significantly. Both episodes of tension pneumocephalus occurred after craniofacial resection in which lumbar drainage of CSF was performed. Tension pneumocephalus was successfully treated in these two patients with a combination of air evacuation and medical management of raised intracranial pressure. Transient diabetes insipidus developed in both patients. The risk of pneumocephalus following craniofacial procedures is significant, and may be increased by the use of lumbar drainage of CSF intraoperatively. Rapid neurologic deterioration following craniofacial resection may be caused by the development of tension pneumocephalus. Early diagnosis of tension pneumocephalus and aggressive management of raised intracranial pressure may be important in preventing serious neurological complications.
Binding of dopamine receptor ligands to human D2 and D3 receptors was characterized in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells using the dopamine D2 receptor antagonist [125I] iodosulpiride. Only limited binding selectivity was observed for known dopamine D2 receptor antagonists from a variety of chemical classes, which included haloperidol, chlorpromazine, sulpiride, pimozide and cis flupenthixol. The most selective compound from this group were (+)butaclamol and domperidone which showed 5-fold D3 selectivity. A number of high affinity dopamine receptor agonists, including apomorphine and bromocriptine, also failed to demonstrate selectivity. In contrast, the natural ligand dopamine and the efficacious synthetic agonists quinpirole, (+)4-propyl-9-hydroxynapthoxazine (PHNO), 2-amino-6,7-dihydroxy-1,2,3,4-tetrahydronaphthalene (6,7-ADTN), 7-OH DPAT and N-0434 showed marked apparent human dopamine D3 (hD3) receptor selectivity. In the aminotetralin series, this selectivity was observed preferentially with analogs of the 6,7-rotamer compared with compounds from the 5,6-rotamer series. Functional coupling of the hD3 receptor was investigated in a number of cell lines in which the hD3 receptor was stably expressed, including CHO cells, the neuroblastoma-glioma hybrid cell line NG108-15 and a rat 1 fibroblast cell line. There was no evidence of functional coupling of the hD3 receptor to adenylate cyclase, arachidonic acid release, phospholipase C activation, K+ currents or calcium mobilization in any of the cell lines examined. Furthermore, guanine nucleotides failed to inhibit the binding of [3H] N-0437 to hD3 receptors in any of the three cell lines. There may be a number of explanations for these results. These cell lines may not have the appropriate G-protein or secondary messenger systems that are coupled to the hD3 receptor in situ. Alternatively, this receptor may couple by a mechanism that is as yet undefined. The finding that a wide range of structurally diverse human dopamine D2 (hD2) receptor agonists have an apparent hD3 selectivity may imply that the hD3 receptor exists predominantly in a high affinity state.
Central noradrenergic function in relation to cognitive performance was studied in the Maudsley rat strains. Neurochemical studies revealed a higher response to acute stress in the locus coeruleus (LC) in the Maudsley reactives (MR) than in the Maudsley non-reactives (MNRA). Autoradiographic studies showed that MNRAs had greater 125I clonidine binding to alpha 2 receptors in LC, which was accompanied by a higher behavioral sensitivity to clonidine. MRs had a deficit in working memory, but were superior to MNRAs in two reference memory tasks. MRs displayed a stronger preference for novel objects, with no strain differences in general exploratory activity. The behavioral profile of the MRs is similar to rats treated with drugs which enhance noradrenergic function. Furthermore, MNRA rats had greater availability of muscarinic receptors, which correlated with behavioral performance in the spatial working memory task. The differences in noradrenergic and cholinergic systems and their relationship to the behavioral profile make the Maudsley strains a useful tool to probe the interaction between two neurotransmitter systems in cognitive function.
Glutamate-gated ion channels mediate most excitatory synaptic transmission in the mammalian central nervous system and play major roles in synaptic plasticity, neuronal development, and in some neuropathological conditions. Recent studies have suggested that protein phosphorylation of neuronal glutamate receptors by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC) may regulate their function and play a role in some forms of synaptic plasticity. To test whether these protein kinase effects are due to direct phosphorylation of the receptors and to further examine the sites and mechanisms by which the receptors are modulated, we transiently expressed recombinant glutamate receptors in HEK-293 cells and studied their biochemical and biophysical properties. Our results indicate that the kainate-preferring receptor GluR6 is phosphorylated by PKA, primarily on a single serine in the proposed major intracellular loop. Moreover, using the whole cell patch clamp recording technique, we have shown that phosphorylation at this site increases the amplitude of the GluR6-mediated glutamate current without significantly altering its dose-response, current-voltage relation or desensitization kinetics. In other experiments, we have demonstrated that the NMDA receptor subunit NR1 is phosphorylated by PKC on several distinct sites, and most of these sites are located within a single alternatively spliced exon in the C-terminal domain. These findings suggest that RNA splicing can regulate NMDA receptor phosphorylation and that, contrary to the previously proposed membrane topology model, the NR1 C-terminus is intracellular. Furthermore, in HEK-293 cells co-transfected with NR2A and NR1 subunits containing the C-terminal exon with the PKC phosphorylation sites, our preliminary studies indicate that the NMDA-evoked current is potentiated by intracellular PKC. We are currently examining PKC effects on the NMDA-evoked current responses of mutant NR1 receptors that lack the C-terminal phosphorylation sites. These studies provide evidence that glutamate receptors are directly phosphorylated and functionally modulated by protein kinases. Moreover, by identifying phosphorylation sites within the receptor proteins, our results provide information about the structure and membrane topology of these receptors.
Although the excitatory amino acid (EAA) receptor agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) can exert profound stimulatory effects on the neuroendocrine reproductive axis of Syrian hamsters, the exact relationship between NMDA receptors and LHRH neurones is unclear. In the present study, in situ hybridization histochemistry was performed on sections of hamster brain using an 35S-labelled riboprobe to the EAA receptor gene, NMDAR1. A high content of NMDA receptor mRNA was detected not only in brain areas classically associated with specific NMDA binding (for example, hippocampus and cerebral cortex) but also in the hypothalamus, in particular the ventromedial-arcuate area; diffuse hybridization of the riboprobe also occurred in the medial-septal area and diagonal band of Broca, regions of the hamster brain in which the LHRH neuronal perikarya are primarily located. In a separate experiment, RNA was extracted from immortalized LHRH neurones (GT1-1 and GT1-7 cells) and used for northern analysis with a 32P-labelled NMDAR1 riboprobe. Clear-cut hybridization occurred with RNA bands of approximately 4.2 and 4.4 kb from the two LHRH neuronal subtypes. These findings suggest that at least some of the stimulatory action of EAAs on LHRH secretion is likely to be exerted directly at the level of the LHRH neurones rather than being mediated through interneurones. Furthermore, the demonstration of abundant NMDA receptor gene expression within hypothalamic areas that lie outside the blood-brain barrier adds plausibility to the concern that EAAs of dietary origin, such as monosodium glutamate, have the capacity to perturb the normal secretory activity of neuroendocrine circuits of the hypothalamus.
The role, techniques and tools of interventional neuroradiology are growing rapidly because of the number of active investigators. Training programs are being certified by the American Society of Neuroradiology. Recommendations are that Interventional Neuroradiologists be fully qualified in neuroradiology (two years) and have a one or two-year additional fellowship in interventional. The ideal interventionalist would also have some clinical neuroscience training. While these training requirements seem excessive on the surface one must recognize that with the overall drop in routine angiography that a longer exposure is necessary to acquire the prerequisite knowledge, skill and experience easily obtained in one year ten years ago. In fact there has been some pressure to place all of diagnostic neuroangiography in the hands of interventionalists. Endovascular approaches are the treatment of choice for: (1) cerebral vasospasm, (2) carotid cavernous fistulae, (3) vertebral artery origin stenosis, (4) subclavian artery stenosis, (5) innominate and left carotid origin stenosis, and (6) giant intracranial aneurysms. Endovascular treatment is developmental and should be restricted to centers performing formal trials in the treatment of: (1) cerebral arteriovenous malformations and (2) internal carotid artery and intracranial stenosis.
Human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection of the developing central nervous system results in a dementing process in children, termed HIV-1-associated encephalopathy. Infection of astroglial elements of the pediatric nervous system has been demonstrated and suggests that direct infection of some astrocytes may contribute to the neurologic deficit. In this model, HIV-1 establishes a persistent state of infection in astrocytes, which can be reactivated by the cytokines tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNF-alpha) and interleukin 1 beta (IL-1 beta). To better understand the natural history of viral persistence in astroglial cells, we characterized infection at the transcriptional level. The most abundant viral transcript during the establishment of persistence was the subgenomic multiply spliced 2-kb message, similar to mononuclear cell models of HIV-1 latency. Following reactivation with TNF-alpha or IL-1 beta the multiply spliced 2-kb message remained the most abundant viral transcript, in contrast to infected mononuclear cells in which reactivation leads to the reemergence of the 9- and 4-kb transcripts. Further characterization of the persistent 2-kb transcript by PCR amplification of in vitro-synthesized viral cDNA showed that, in the absence of cytokine stimulation, the most abundant multiply spliced transcripts were the Nef- and Rev-specific messages. However, following cytokine stimulation, double- and triple-spliced Tat-, Rev-, and Nef-specific messages could be identified. Immunohistochemical staining demonstrated that, during viral persistence, astrocytes expressed Nef protein but few or no viral structural proteins. These results demonstrate that viral persistence in astrocytes at the transcriptional level is fundamentally different from that seen in mononuclear cells and could account for the virtual absence of astroglial expression of viral structural antigens in vivo.
The chronic consumption of low doses of nicotine in drinking water for two years consistently increased the sensitivity of rats to a nociceptive thermal stimulus (tail-flick test), but reduced aversiveness in the elevated plus-maze test, relative to the responses of age-matched controls in these tests. The responses of aged nicotine-consuming rats were indistinguishable from those of young adult rats that did not receive nicotine. To determine whether these effects were due to a nicotine-induced retardation of age-related changes, young adult rats were similarly treated with nicotine for three months and similar changes in the tail-flick latency and performance in the plus-maze test were observed during nicotine consumption. These changes were reversed following withdrawal from nicotine. It is concluded that the maintenance of circulating low levels of nicotine (and/or its metabolites) increased the nociceptive sensitivity of the rats and reduced their aversions in the plus-maze test regardless of their age.
Normal male rats in which status epilepticus has been induced by injecting 30 mg/kg of pilocarpine after a single systemic administration of lithium (sufficient to produce blood levels of 0.2 mEq/L) invariably die within 24 hr. Real-time monitoring indicated sudden cardiac death; it was preceded by progressive intensification of arrhythmia. A single systemic injection (25 mg/kg) of the atypical phenothiazine acepromazine prevented the mortality and virtually eliminated the cardiac instability.
Endogenous opioids are known to regulate morphogenesis in both neural and non-neural systems. This study examined whether endogenous opioids influence cardiac development. Naltrexone, a potent opioid antagonist that blocks the interaction of opioid peptides and opioid receptors, was administered acutely (50 mg/kg) to 1-day old rats. The numbers of myocardial and epicardial cells in the ventricles and atria that synthesized DNA, as determined by [3H]-thymidine incorporation and autoradiography, were markedly increased from control levels. Labeling indices were significantly elevated for at least 12 hr following a single injection of naltrexone. Examination of 10-day old rats exposed to naltrexone from birth revealed higher labeling indices, as well as increases in body and heart weights and in areal measurements of the entire heart and the ventricles. The effects of naltrexone were not mediated through the sympathetic nervous system or thyroid hormone. These results lead one to suggest that an opioid peptide is tonically acting as a negative regulatory factor in the formation of the heart. Alterations in the endogenous opioid system in early life may contribute to cardiac dysmorphogenesis. Moreover, these data indicate that opioid antagonists could act as an important therapeutic influence with regard to cardiac malformations.
It is important to apply an appropriate test for determining cell viability, in order to properly evaluate the role of the amyloid beta protein in neuronal degeneration in Alzheimer's disease. In the current paper, we present evidence that the putative neurotoxic fragment 25-35 of amyloid beta causes loss of trypan blue exclusion in differentiated mouse neuroblastoma N1E-115 cells which suggests a potential neurotoxic effect. Surprisingly, no parallel changes in apparent cell viability were observed when fluorescein diacetate staining or release of lactate dehydrogenase were measured. Positive staining with trypan blue was also induced by incubating cell membranes prepared from N1E-115 cells or rat hippocampus with amyloid beta 25-35. Our results indicate that amyloid beta might induce trypan blue adsorption on the cell membrane. Therefore, caution should be taken when trypan blue exclusion is used in studies of the potential neurotoxicity of amyloid beta peptides.
The influence of genetic variation in alcohol dehydrogenase (ADH; EC 1.1.1.1) and aldehyde dehydrogenase (ALDH; EC 1.2.1.3) on the metabolic pattern of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) in humans was examined from the relative urinary concentrations of the end products 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5-HIAA) and 5-hydroxytryptophol (5-HTOL). Healthy Caucasian (Swedish) and Oriental (Chinese) subjects were genotyped for ADH2, ADH3 and ALDH2 by a PCR/SSCP technique. The 5-HTOL/5-HIAA ratios ranged between 0.9-9.4 pmol/nmol (4.4 +/- 1.8, mean +/- SD, n = 143). No significant difference in the 5-HT metabolic pattern was observed between Caucasians and Orientals (4.3 +/- 1.8 and 4.4 +/- 1.8 pmol/nmol, respectively), nor between any of the ADH2, ADH3 and ALDH2 genotypes. Despite the modulatory effects of genetic variation of these enzymes on ethanol metabolism, the present results indicate that the individual isozyme composition of ADH2, ADH3 and ALDH2 is not important for the metabolic pattern of 5-HT.
Several neuroactive guanidino compounds have been reported to be synthesized in mammals by transamidination reactions. The enzyme(s) responsible for their synthesis and their location in the body has not been well established. The purpose of this investigation was to determine if purified homogeneous rat kidney alpha- and beta-L-arginine : glycine amidinotransferase (transamidinase) would catalyze the synthesis of certain neuroactive guanidino compounds, and if so, to determine if any catalytic specificity existed between the two forms of the enzymes. L-Arginine (Arg) was used as the amidino group donor and the following compounds were investigated for their ability to accept the amidino group: ethanolamine; 4-aminobutyric acid; lysine; 5-aminovaleric acid; 3-aminopropionic acid; taurine; L-glutamic acid (Glu); L-aspartic acid (Asp); and histidine (His). All of the above listed compounds served as amidino group acceptors for the enzyme except Glu, Asp and His. No differences were found between the alpha- and beta-transamidinase in any of the experiments reported, and the synthesis of 2-guanidinoethanol by the enzyme was by a sequential mechanism with a Km for Arg and ethanolamine of 14mM and 163mM, respectively. The possibility that the site of synthesis of the neuroactive guanidino compounds in the kidney and perhaps pancreas is discussed.
Gangliosides are glycosphingolipids localized to the outer leaflet of the plasma membrane of vertebrate cells. The highest ganglioside concentration of any organ is found in the mammalian brain, where the gangliosides are enriched in the neuronal membrane, particularly in the synapses. There are four major brain gangliosides with the same neutral tetrasaccharide core to which one to three sialic acids are linked--the simplest being the GM1-ganglioside. These gangliosides have been shown to have neuritogenic and neuronotrophic activity and to facilitate repair of neuronal tissue after mechanical, biochemical or toxic injuries. Mixtures of native bovine brain gangliosides were adopted for pharmacological use in the treatment of peripheral nerve damage, and GM1-ganglioside has been applied for the treatment of CNS injuries and diseases. Beneficial effects of GM1 have been documented in the treatment of stroke and spinal cord injuries, particularly when the treatment has been initiated within a few hours of the acute event. Continuous intraventricular infusion of GM1 has recently been shown to have a significant beneficial effect in Alzheimer disease of early onset (AD Type I).
A new analytical system, including chromatography separation, enzyme digestion, radioimmunoassay detection, and mass spectrometry characterization, has been designed to detect native preproenkephalin A-derived peptides in the bovine pituitary. The direct evidence of these intact peptides was provided by the mass spectrometric detection of the (M+H)+ ions of ME-Lys at m/z 702 and of ME-Arg at m/z 730, following trypsin digestion and the detection of ME-like immunoreactivity in HPLC fractions.
Dopamine D2 receptor (D2-receptor) expression and its coupling to Gi sensitive adenylate cyclase was investigated in human neuroblastoma SHSY-5Y cells. Incubation of SHSY-5Y cells in the presence of 100 nM retinoic acid (RA) for 24 hours resulted in phenotypic differentiation accompanied by a 47% increase in D2-receptor mRNA and a significant increase in the specific binding of a D2-receptor antagonist, [3H]YM09151-2. Stimulation of D2-receptors in differentiated cells by LY171-555, a D2-agonist, attenuated cellular cAMP levels by 30%. The effect of LY171-555 on cAMP levels was blocked by the D2-antagonist, (-)sulpride. Application of these drugs to control undifferentiated cells or differentiated cells incubated with vehicle only had no effect on cellular cAMP levels. These studies suggest that differentiated SHSY-5Y cells express functional D2-receptors and will provide a useful model for future studies on the regulation of expression and function of D2-receptors in cellular differentiation of neuronal cells.
Previous studies have suggested that the amyloid beta-protein present in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease may be derived in part from peripheral blood. We determined that after IV injection of synthetic amyloid beta-protein 1-40 (A beta), labeled with radioactive 125I (I-A beta), radioactivity accumulated in the brains of mice by a nonsaturable mechanism. Radioactivity also accumulated in the brain after the i.v. injection of radioiodinated reverse amyloid beta-protein 40-1 (I-rA beta). Capillary depletion techniques, however, showed I-A beta to have a much greater degree of association with brain capillaries than I-rA beta. Acid precipitation of radioactivity in CSF samples and recovery from cortical homogenates suggested the presence of intact I-A beta within the CNS after peripheral administration. HPLC analysis of cortical homogenates confirmed the presence of intact I-A beta. Gel electrophoresis of the CSF acid precipitates and of the HPLC fractions further verified the presence of intact blood-derived I-A beta peptide in CNS. These results suggest that endogenous bloodborne A beta can enter the CNS after associating with the capillary endothelium to accumulate intact within the parenchymal and CSF spaces of the brain.
In primary cultured bovine adrenal chromaffin cells (BACC), pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide 1-38 (PACAP) produced a dose related increase in tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) Vmax when measured 48 hours after the beginning of the treatment; a significant increase was observed with 0.5 nM and the maximal induction of close to 2.5-fold was found with 0.1 microM PACAP. The potency of PACAP was nearly 3 orders of magnitude greater than forskolin and VIP in inducing TH activity. These effects were preceded by an increase in TH mRNA levels, that started 2 hours after treatment and peaked 12 hours later. The presence of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor HL 725 further increased the stimulation of TH activity by PACAP, indicating that this activation was mediated via a cascade of events initiated by cAMP. Nicotine (1 microM) failed to increase TH activity significantly, however, when added in association with PACAP, a statistically significant increase of TH was elicited with peptide concentrations 5 times lower (0.1 nM) than the threshold dose of the peptide. The stimulation of nicotinic receptors facilitates the TH induction elicited by PACAP.
beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity (BE-li), methionine enkephalin-like immunoreactivity (ME-li), and substance P-like immunoreactivity (SP-li) were measured in the posterior pituitary of rats that experienced a 5-day space flight in a Space Shuttle. ME-li and SP-li were both significantly lower compared to the control rats. However, there was no difference in BE-li between flight and control rats. These data suggest that the space flight stress diminished the methionine enkephalin (ME) and substance P (SP) concentrations in the posterior pituitary without affecting the beta-endorphin (BE) concentration. Thus, the proenkephalin A and tachykinin, but not proopiomelanocortin, neuropeptidergic systems in the posterior pituitary may respond to this type of unique stress.
Gastrin is mitogenic for several colon cancers and is postulated as an autocrine growth factor for colon cancer cells. In the present study we report the development of a simple competitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) method for measuring relative abundance of gastrin gene expression in colon cancer cells. Primers flanking exons 2 and 3 of the gastrin gene were utilized for co-amplification of cDNA and genomic DNA. The amplification of genomic DNA was distinguished from that of cDNA by the presence of the 130 bp intron sequence which was resolved by electrophoresis on agarose gels. A standard reaction of competitive PCR, using known concentrations of genomic DNA and cDNA, was first established. The steady state levels of gastrin mRNA were next quantitated in three human colon cancer cell lines (HCT-116, Colo-205 and DLD-1) by competitive PCR. Gastrin mRNA levels in these cell lines ranged from approximately 0.1 to 1.0 fmoles/mg total RNA (approximately 2-25 copies of gastrin mRNA per cell). Thus low to moderate levels of gastrin were expressed by human colon cancer cell lines which may function as autocrine growth factors for colon cancers.




The effects of naftidrofuryl on the reinnervation of the rat gastrocnemius muscle after its denervation by localized freezing of the sciatic nerve were tested with electrophysiological techniques. Daily intraperitoneal injections of 30 mg/kg of naftidrofuryl do not increase the rate of axonal regeneration since early signs of reinnervation appeared as in controls around the 10th day after surgery. However, axonal sprouting is markedly increased since the percentage of muscle fibers with polyneuronal innervations was almost twice as high as in controls at the 15 and 21 day postoperative stages. The promoting effects of naftidrofuryl on polyneuronal innervation which gives rise to a redundant innervation during the first period of reinnervation constitutes an improvement of motor function which might be efficient for treatment of nerve injury and neuropathies.

Natural (GM1) and semisynthetic [113-Neu-5-AcGgOse4-2-D-erythro-1,3- dihydroxy-2-dichloroacetylamide-4-trans-octadecene (LIGA20)] glycosphingolipids, given parenterally, protect neurones against glutamate-induced death without producing the side effects typical of glutamate receptor antagonists. Chronic glutamate-related neurotoxicity (e.g., in recurring strokes in elderly hypertensive patients, and in Parkinson disease) could be prevented also by glycosphingolipids treatment, but this therapeutic intervention will require a protracted administration of orally active glycosphingolipids. Here we demonstrate that 3-6 h after oral administration of 68 mumol/kg of LIGA20 and GM1 to rats, the brain content of LIGA20 is 50-fold higher than that of GM1. The brain concentration of LIGA20 remains elevated for at least 12-24 h. Because the LIGA20 that reaches the brain is slowly metabolized, repeated oral administrations of this glycosphingolipid can yield to its accumulation in brain, and can yield various brain levels depending on the dose and frequency of drug administration. In contrast this is not possible with GM1, which given orally for 7 d, cannot accumulate in brain in pharmacologically significant concentrations.
Transgenic mice expressing an Escherichia coli beta-galactosidase reporter gene under the control of 3 kilobases of human proenkephalin gene 5'-flanking sequence and 1.2 kilobases of 3'-flanking sequence exhibited an anatomically correct pattern of basal and stress-regulated transgene expression within the hypothalamus. Acute osmotic stress and hypovolemia induced transgene expression in neurons within both the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei. Chronic osmotic stress resulted in dramatic induction of transgene expression in both nuclei. These results demonstrate that the information required for correct hypothalamic expression and stress regulation of the proenkephalin gene is contained within our fusion construct.
An antagonist ligand for the glycine site of the NMDA receptor, [3H]L-689,560, has recently been described. We have investigated the use of this ligand to label NMDA receptors which have been solubilized from rat brain. It has significant advantages over [3H]dizocilpine ([3H]MK-801) for this purpose since (a) it is not inhibited by most detergents, (b) interactions between the glutamate and glycine sites are maintained, and (c) equilibrium binding is rapid and of high affinity (Kd = 8.8 +/- 1.9 nM, n = 4). Nevertheless, precautions must be taken to remove glycine throughout all experimental procedures. In addition we have investigated the ability of NMDA receptors to bind to various lectins and conclude that only N-linked glycosylation is present, consistent with consensus sequences for glycosylation present in cloned subunits of the NMDA receptor. Further binding of the radioligand [3H]L-689,560 was detected both to the solubilized receptor and to receptor immobilized on lectin-agarose, identifying it as an appropriate ligand for use in the characterization of NMDA receptors during purification procedures.
The term &quot;nocturnal paroxysmal dystonia&quot; has been used to describe patients who display paroxysmal episodes of dystonic-dyskinetic movements arising during nonrapid eye movement sleep, in particular stages 2-3 (Lugaresi E, Cirignotta F. Hypnogenic paroxysmal dystonia: epileptic seizure or a new syndrome. Sleep 1981;4: 129-138). The pathogenesis of these attacks has remained controversial. We describe a patient with posttraumatic paroxysmal nocturnal hemidystonia. Acetazolamide led to improvement.
Forty-four affected individuals, aged 8-68 years (mean 34 years), from six families with hereditary motor and sensory neuropathy type I (HMSN I, Charcot-Marie-Tooth disease type 1) were investigated to determine the clinical and electroneurographical characteristics of the HMSN I subtype that is defined by the presence of a DNA duplication on chromosome 17p. Motor nerve conduction velocity (MNCV) and, to a lesser extent, compound muscle action potential amplitude, were inversely related to clinical severity. Neither clinical severity nor MNCV were significantly related to age. These results suggest that the primary pathological process is not, or only slightly active after childhood.
We probed serial and near serial sections of cerebellum from 13 Alzheimer's disease (AD), 10 older Down's syndrome (DS) patients, and 9 age-matched, non-AD controls, using single and double labeling immunohistochemistry to investigate the pathologic consequences of beta-amyloid or A4 (A beta) deposits in cerebellum and their relationship to Purkinje cells (PCs). Our data showed that A beta deposits in cerebellum of AD and older DS adults only form diffuse or preamyloid plaques and the density of A beta lesions per unit area of molecular layer correlated with the number of PCs per unit length of the subjacent PC layer in double immunostained sections (r = 0.85; p &lt; 0.001). About 65% of these cerebellar A beta deposits were in physical contact with PC dendrites. No A beta plaques were found in the cerebellum of controls. Despite the abundance of A beta deposits in the cerebellar cortex of AD and older DS patients, neither PC bodies nor PC dendrites in physical contact with A beta lesions showed evidence of structural abnormalities.








Sodium valproate is a well established anticonvulsant drug but its exact mode of action is not yet clear. With a view to find out whether the mechanism of action of sodium valproate is mediated by alteration in monoamine levels, apart from GABA, in brain, sodium valproate (200 mg/kg body wt) was administered i.p. to male adult Wistar rats for 45 days. The levels of norepinephrine (NE), dopamine (DA) and serotonin (5-HT) were assayed in different brain regions using high performance liquid chromatographic (HPLC) method. It was noted that at the end of the experimental period there was no change in body or brain weight nor were there any neurological deficits as a result of sodium valproate administration. However, after administration of sodium valproate there was a significant increase in norepinephrine levels in hippocampus (P &lt; 0.01) and brainstem (P &lt; 0.01) while a significant decrease was noted in hypothalamus (P &lt; 0.001). Dopamine levels were significantly increased in motor cortex (P &lt; 0.01), hippocampus (P &lt; 0.01) and hypothalamus (P &lt; 0.001). Serotonin levels were significantly increased in striatum-accumbens and brain stem (P &lt; 0.001). However a marginal increase was also observed in motor cortex and hippocampus. 5-HT levels were significantly decreased in hypothalamus (P &lt; 0.001) and cerebellum (P &lt; 0.01). The present findings suggest the possibility that the anticonvulsant effect of sodium valproate could be due to alterations in monoamine levels apart from its action on GABA, which would indicate also the efficacy of this drug in different types of seizures.
Calcium homeostasis and mitochondrial oxidative metabolism interact closely in brain and both processes are impaired during hypoxia. Since the regulation of the pyruvate dehydrogenase complex (PDHC) may link these two processes, the relation of cytosolic free calcium ([Ca2+]i) to the activation state of PDHC (PDHa) was assessed in isolated nerve terminals (i.e. synaptosomes) under conditions that alter [Ca2+]i. K+ depolarization elevated [Ca2+]i and PDHa and both responses required external calcium. Treatment with KCN, an in vitro model of hypoxia decreased ATP and elevated [Ca2+]i and PDHa. Furthermore, in the presence of KCN, PDHa became more sensitive to K+ depolarization as indicated by larger changes in PDHa than in [Ca2+]i. The calcium ionophore Br-A23187 elevated [Ca2+]i, but did not affect PDHa. K+ depolarization elevated [Ca2+]i and PDHa even if [Ca2+]i was elevated by prior addition of ionophore or KCN. Previous in vivo studies by others show that PDHa is altered during and after ischemia. The current in vitro results suggest that hypoxia, only one component of ischemia, is sufficient to increase PDHa. These data also further support the notion that PDHa is regulated by [Ca2+]i as well as by other factors such as ATP. Our results are consistent with the concept that PDHa in nerve endings may be affected by [Ca2+]i and that these two processes are clearly linked.

We analyzed family structure, genetic patterns, epidemiology, and vitamin usage in a series of families with multiple cases of spina bifida (familial SB). Among 6,491 individuals ascertained in 72 families with familial SB, we identified 180 patients--85 males and 95 females. The number of collateral cases on the maternal side (49 of 3,588), analyzed by category of kinship, were significantly higher than those on the paternal side (16 of 2,903) (p = 0.0002). Genomic imprinting or a partial mitochondrial contribution are possible mechanisms for this maternal effect. The proportion of US-born SB families reporting some Irish ancestry (49%, 34 of 70) or some German ancestry (50%, 35 of 70) were significantly higher than those for the US population at large. In contrast, the proportion of families reporting some African-American ancestry (1%, 1 of 70) was significantly lower. The elevated proportions of families with Irish and German ancestry, the high frequency of SB in Northern Ireland and in certain regions of Germany, the reduced proportion of families with African-American ancestry, and the lower prevalence of SB in African-Americans all suggest a genetic contribution to the etiology of the disorder. In our study, the proportion of mothers who used supplemental vitamins during the periconceptional period (29%, 47 of 163) was not significantly different from that in the US population at large.
Six patients from three centers had MRI and pathologic evidence of hippocampal sclerosis but no detectable hippocampal atrophy. Loss of normal internal structure and T1- and T2-weighted signal abnormalities allowed the MRI diagnosis of unilateral hippocampal sclerosis when hippocampal volume measurements were normal and symmetric. Although accurate hippocampal volume measurements will determine the most severely affected side in most cases, volume measurements or atrophy alone will not always detect all MRI-visible pathology. Additional detailed MRI assessment is required before structural abnormality of the hippocampus is excluded on the basis of volume measurements.
We tested the action of intraperitoneal sumatriptan, a 5-HT1D receptor agonist that aborts migraine headaches, using a model of neurogenic inflammation induced by capsaicin applied to the rat sciatic epineurium. Sumatriptan prevented the development of capsaicin-induced hyperemia without inducing pretreatment vasoconstriction or altering AV shunt flow. The findings indicate that sumatriptan prevents &quot;neurogenic&quot; vasodilation by a mechanism other than vasoconstriction or changes in AV shunt flow.
We determined the number of immunocytochemically identified oxytocin (OXT) and vasopressin (AVP) neurons in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the human hypothalamus of six Parkinson's disease (PD) patients ranging from 59 to 83 years of age. Six subjects without a primary neurologic or psychiatric disease, ranging from 69 to 88 years of age, served as controls. The OXT-immunoreactive cell number in the PVN of the PD patients was 22% lower than that of the control subjects. Although Lewy bodies were present in the nucleus basalis of Meynert, there were no Lewy bodies in the PVN of these patients. Doubt is raised about the presumed direct relationship between the presence of Lewy bodies and neuronal degeneration in PD. The AVP-immunoreactive cell number in the PD patients showed a similar decreasing trend, but the 18% reduction failed to reach statistical significance. The presence of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons in the PVN was not affected in PD patients, supporting the notion that dopaminergic neurons of the mesencephalon, but not of the hypothalamus, are affected in PD. The decreased number of OXT-containing neurons in the PVN suggests that dopamine may be important for the function of these neurons and may provide a neural basis for some autonomic and endocrine disturbances in PD.
In rat cerebellar slices, we compared whole-cell recordings of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents (sIPSCs) with Cl- currents resulting from pulses of GABA (1 mM, &lt; 2 ms) to outside-out patches from Purkinje and granule neurons. sIPSCs in Purkinje cells decayed with a single fast exponential, as previously reported, whereas in granule cells sIPSC decay was best described by the sum of a fast and a slow exponential curve, with a variable contribution of the slow component to the peak current. GABA pulses to nucleated patches from granule cells elicited Cl- currents with decays similar to sIPSC decays, whereas in patches from Purkinje neurons GABA pulses produced Cl- currents decaying largely with a fast component, but often followed by a slower exponential. GABA concentration steps produced rapidly desensitizing currents in patches from both cerebellar neurons. In distinct cerebellar neurons, specific functional properties of GABAA receptors may relate to the presence of distinct receptor subtypes.
Ligand-gated ion channel subunits show a striking abundance of highly conserved proline residues. We, therefore, tested the hypothesis that peptidyl-prolyl isomerases may be involved in the maturation of these channels. Cyclosporin A, a selective blocker of a ubiquitous isomerase cyclophilin, reduced the surface expression in Xenopus oocytes of functional homo-oligomeric receptors containing nicotinic acetylcholine receptor subunit alpha 7 without blocking alpha 7 polypeptide synthesis. This effect could be generalized to the homo-oligomeric 5-hydroxytryptamine type 3 receptor but not to the hetero-oligomeric muscle nicotinic receptor. An alpha 7 receptor could be rescued from cyclosporin A blockade by coexpressed muscle non-alpha subunits. The effect of cyclosporin A was reversed by overexpression of exogenous rat brain cyclophilin. These findings indicate that cyclophilins may play a critical role in the maturation of homo-oligomeric receptors, acting directly or indirectly as prolyl isomerases or as molecular chaperones.
Algogens such as capsaicin, bradykinin, acetylcholine, 5-hydroxytryptamine and potassium ions applied to exposed tail skin of the rat isolated spinal cord-tail preparation evoke a ventral root response consisting of depolarization and spiking activity. L-glutamate and kainate also evoke similar reflexes. All these compounds evoke depolarization of afferent axons or dorsal root ganglion cells. Since GABA depolarizes unmyelinated afferent fibers, the ability of GABA receptor agonists to activate cutaneous nociceptive afferents has been examined. GABA superfused over exposed tail skin evoked a ventral root reflex essentially identical to that produced by capsaicin (3 microM). The EC50 was 27 microM. Muscimol, 3-aminopropane sulphonate, isoguvacine and beta-alanine had effects comparable to GABA, with EC50 values of 9.6, 26, 56 and 870 microM respectively. Baclofen (100 microM) or glycine (10 mM) had no effect. Bicuculline applied to the tail competitively antagonized GABA (Schild slope = -1.03) with a pA2 of 5.8. Spinal application of 1 microM morphine blocked the actions of GABA and capsaicin. These data indicate that GABAA receptors can depolarize and excite nociceptive afferents. GABA could be involved in nociception by contributing to firing of C-fibres, or by analogy to presynaptic inhibition in the spinal cord, may act to decrease neuropeptide transmitter release in cutaneous tissue.
The behavior of nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) channels in acutely isolated habenula neurons was examined by rapidly applying nicotinic agonists to outside-out membrane patches. At negative membrane potentials, applications of 100 microM nicotine routinely produced macroscopic currents due to the opening of a large number of channels. During the continuous application of the agonist, the number of open nAChR channels decreased exponentially, i.e. receptor desensitization. A progressive loss in the number of channels contributing to the peak current was observed with time following outside-out patch excision, i.e. receptor rundown. In addition to rundown there was a time-dependent increase in the rate of desensitization and a concomitant slowing in the rate of recovery from desensitization. The extent of rundown and the changes in desensitization were coupled to the time after patch excision and were not dependent on ligand activation of nicotinic channels.
Brain electric source analysis (BESA) of the scalp EEG has been used to identify multiple equivalent current sources in the brain during during interictal spikes and seizure onset. To obviate the need for fitting dipole sources to every EEG segment, a new method has been developed on the basis of multiple fixed dipoles, each designed to emphasize functional imaging of particular cortical areas. &quot;FOCUS&quot; can quickly display EEG in various montages including new &quot;sources montages&quot; which provide a high sensitivity for source currents near each dipole while largely suppressing contributions from other brain areas. By comparing this &quot;source EEG&quot; to routine digital EEG in patients with complex partial epilepsy, we have observed that &quot;FOCUS&quot; can more readily determine whether an epileptiform discharge is consistent with a discrete or multifocal generator, characterize likely cerebral source(s), differentiate between spikes and seizures of mesio-basal versus lateral temporal or frontal origin, and estimate the presence and direction of propagation from source potential timing differences. Improved non-invasive EEG evaluations of partial epilepsy will undoubtedly result from this advance.
Quantitative pharmaco-EEG has become a useful technique for determining pharmacodynamic parameters after CNS-active drug administration. Nevertheless, one of the most important problems faced by practitioners of pharmaco-EEG is the difficulty in evaluating drug-specific effects. In this article, a methodology for comparing two time sequences of pharmacodynamic measurements, the Statistical Decision Tree (SDT), is proposed. This methodology, based on one- and multi-dimensional Wilcoxon signed-rank tests on EEG variables, takes into account vigilance fluctuations and placebo effects in order to pick out effects specifically due to the drug.
Quantitative EEG changes were studied during cocaine withdrawal in 36 subjects. All subjects had used cocaine orally (n = 28) or intravenously (n = 8) within 48 h of admission to an inpatient unit. EEGs were recorded 2 and 6 days following admission. Nine subjects returned for a 1-month follow-up EEG. Modal EEG frequency significantly decreased on day 6 compared to day 2. The most dramatic change in both absolute and relative power from day 2 to day 6 was a decrease in the beta 2 (18-26 Hz) band. Those subjects who returned for the 4-week follow-up showed a further decrease in beta 2 power. Power in the beta 2 band was significantly greater for the intravenous users than for the smokers, and the decrease in power from day 2 to day 6 was also significantly greater in this group. While acute effects of cocaine on the EEG have been reported to last only several hours, this study indicates that chronic use may cause longer lasting neuroadaptive changes, particularly in those who have used cocaine intravenously.
The effects of repeated treatment with electroconvulsive shock (ECS) and imipramine on [3H]8-OH-DPAT binding to serotonin1A (5-HT1A) receptors in the rat brain were studied by quantitative autoradiographic analysis. A large number of binding sites for [3H]8-OH-DPAT were observed in the hippocampus, especially the dentate gyrus, CA1+CA2 field, dorsal raphe nucleus and septum. Repeated treatment with ECS, but not repeated imipramine treatment, significantly increased [3H]8-OH-DPAT binding sites in the dentate gyrus. These results suggest that the increase in [3H]8-OH-DPAT binding sites in the dentate gyrus may be important in ECS therapy for depressive illness.



This paper presents a general outline of the mathematical basis of an approach for analysis of population synchrony by means of coherence computations, a demonstration of the use of this approach, and a discussion of the potential utility and limitations of the approach. The coherence function for the pair single-unit activity and population-aggregate activity is studied in the light of theoretical considerations on the superposition of partially correlated unitary activities. The theoretical analysis, as well as computer simulations, indicate that when a subset of units in a population are correlated around some frequency, the unit-to-aggregate coherence function for members of this subset shows, in a wide range of conditions, a clear peak around that frequency (and possibly harmonic peaks), being very low at other frequencies where there is no synchrony. Specifically, the value of the peak coherence at the frequency of synchrony reflects the strength of the unitary correlations and their extent within the population, the numerical size of the population, and the degree of phase concentration for the units of the correlated subset. This value remains substantial, or at least significant, for wide ranges of values of these parameters. In contrast, the unit-to-aggregate coherence function for the remaining uncorrelated units has very low values at all frequencies, and tends to zero in the case of a large population. On the basis of these properties, an approach is presented for analysis of synchrony (correlations) in a neural population, which is simple and efficient, particularly when the population is large in numerical size. This approach utilizes unit-to-aggregate coherence computations for a sample of recorded unitary activities as a means for detecting population synchrony and estimating the extent of synchrony. In addition, this analysis can provide useful information on other characteristics of synchrony, such as the strengths of the unitary correlations. The use of the approach is demonstrated with an example from a study of fast rhythms in inspiratory activities, and other applications are also briefly described. The main advantage of unit-to-aggregate coherence analysis is that by using readily recorded activities, it efficiently identifies correlated units in a population and provides information on characteristics of synchrony, at every frequency within the range of interest.
In this study we examined the effects of aging on various aspects of the ultrastructure of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons in female rats, including the density of synaptic input and the volume fraction of various subcellular organelles. In addition, we explored the possibility that removal of estrogen might provide a protective effect on the aging of the gonadotropin-releasing hormone neuron as exposure to gonadal steroids alters the time course of reproductive aging. Our experimental groups included four- and 18-20-month-old virgin female rats divided as follows: young intact, young short-term ovariectomized, old intact, old short-term ovariectomized and old long-term ovariectomized. Brain tissue was processed for immunocytochemical detection of gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons and selected cells from the preoptic area were chosen for electron microscopic examination. The percentage of plasma membrane containing synaptic modification was quantified using a morphometrics program, and the volume fraction of lysosomes/lipofuscin, rough endoplasmic reticulum and Golgi apparatus were estimated using point count stereology. Whereas we had previously found a significant increase in the density of synaptic input to gonadotropin-releasing hormone neurons in aged virgin male rats, the density of synaptic input to gonadotropin-releasing hormone cells in the virgin female was not affected by age. The volume fraction of lysosomes/lipofuscin was increased in all age groups. Aging produced a dramatic decrease in the volume fraction of rough endoplasmic reticulum as well as a decrease in Golgi, suggesting a general decrease in biosynthetic activity of the cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Intracellular microelectrode recordings were made from dopamine-containing neurons of the ventral tegmental area or substantia nigra zona compacta in rat brain slices in vitro. The firing pattern of the neurons was switched from a tonic, single-spike pattern to a burst firing mode by adding N-methyl-D-aspartate (20 microM) to the superfusing solution; after adding tetrodotoxin the membrane potential underwent rhythmical oscillations of 20-40 mV at 0.5-2 Hz. Baclofen (1 microM) and dopamine (30 microM) hyperpolarized the neurons; when the potential was restored to its original level, the oscillations of potential and/or burst firing were not observed, but the tonic firing pattern was restored. These effects of baclofen and dopamine were prevented by barium (1 mM), which also prevented the membrane hyperpolarization. Oscillations of membrane current of a similar frequency were observed when the somatic membrane was voltage-clamped at -60 mV; these were also blocked by barium (1 mM). It is concluded that the oscillations in membrane potential observed with N-methyl-D-aspartate are generated predominantly at a dendritic location which is not voltage-clamped with an electrode at the soma. Baclofen and dopamine inhibit the oscillations by increasing the potassium conductance and hyperpolarizing the dendrites.
The functional ablation technique was used to assess the role of motor cortex and caudate nucleus in a complex skilled movement. Rats were trained to synchronize tongue and forepaw movements in a drinking box equipped with a retractable spout which was automatically withdrawn after every lick but could be returned by pressing and releasing a lever placed 4 cm below the spout. The animals learned to perform short presses synchronized with the lick cycle in such a way as to allow continuous drinking. Neural circuits implementing these lick-associated instrumental movements were blocked by intracranial injection of 10 ng of tetrodotoxin. Bilateral blockade of the motor cortex interfered with lick-synchronized bar pressing, but did not significantly influence licking from a stationary spout. Both licking and bar-pressing were impaired by bilateral injection of tetrodotoxin into the lateral part of the caudate nucleus for the duration of the tetrodotoxin-induced inactivation of the target region. The instrumental tongue-forelimb synchronization recovered considerably later, i.e. after two to three days. Functional blockade of the medial part of the caudate nucleus caused only a partial impairment of lick-synchronized bar pressing lasting less than 7 h and did not significantly influence consummatory licking. It is concluded that the tongue-forepaw synchronization is disrupted by blockade of motor cortex or lateral caudate considerably longer than the performance of the isolated component movements.
Cytoarchitectonically defined cell-dense islands and regions of low acetylcholinesterase reactivity referred to as striosomes have been regarded as equivalent markers of the non-matrix compartment in the neostriatum. We examined islands and striosomes in adjacent sections to determine the degree of correspondence between the two neostriatal compartmental markers. Islands are aggregated centrally within the caudate, whereas striosomes are located throughout the entire nucleus, including the dorsolateral and ventromedial sectors. Moreover, even within the central sector, striosomes are more prevalent than islands. The present quantitative analysis suggests that islands may be further characterized as acetylcholinesterase-poor since the vast majority of islands co-localize with striosomes. However, due to the fact that striosomes are more numerous and more widely distributed throughout the neostriatum, less than a third of all striosomes are coincident with islands in adjacent sections. Comparison of each of these compartmental markers with the patterned terminal field of the prefrontal cortical projection revealed a near one-to-one correspondence between islands and terminal-free zones in the prefrontal projection. The percentage of striosomes which are aligned with fenestrations in the prefrontal projection is also quite high; however, because more striosomes than islands are found within the prefrontal terminal domain, some striosomes that fit within terminal-free zones do not have corresponding islands. These results indicate that islands and striosomes are not entirely equivalent compartmental markers and further suggest that contemporary, two-compartment models may not adequately represent the heterogeneity of the neostriatum.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine1B receptor is a serotonin receptor subtype which is expressed predominantly in the basal ganglia. It has been suggested to play a role in movement and appetite control as well as in certain pathological states such as migraine. The recent cloning of the 5-hydroxytryptamine1B gene as well as the discovery of a radioligand that labels in rodents 5-hydroxytryptamine1B and possibly 5-hydroxytryptamine1D alpha receptors (S-CM-G[125I]TNH2) allowed us to compare the distribution of the messenger RNA and of the protein in mouse brain sections. A high 5-hydroxytryptamine1B messenger RNA level is found in the caudate-putamen in medium spiny neurons that project to the globus pallidus and the substantia nigra. In contrast, no messenger RNA is expressed in the globus pallidus and substantia nigra although these structures reveal the highest level of 5-hydroxytryptamine1B binding sites. In the hippocampus, 5-hydroxytryptamine1B messenger RNA is localized in the cell bodies of pyramidal cells of the CA1 field while the protein is found predominantly in the dorsal subiculum, a projection zone for the CA1 pyramidal neurons. In the cerebellum, 5-hydroxytryptamine1B messenger RNA is expressed in the Purkinje cells, which display no receptor binding sites. Conversely, moderate binding is found in the deep nuclei of the cerebellum, the main projection zone of the Purkinje cells. 5-Hydroxytryptamine1B sites are also detected in the superficial gray layer of the superior colliculus and the lateral geniculate nucleus, brain regions containing the terminals of retinal ganglion cells. The soma of these ganglion cells express high levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine1B messenger RNA while no 5-hydroxytryptamine1B binding sites were found in the retina. This study demonstrates that the main brain regions, expressing 5-hydroxytrypamine1B messenger RNA contain low densities of 5-hydroxytryptamine1B binding sites. Conversely, the major projection areas of these anatomical structures do not express detectable levels of 5-hydroxytryptamine1B messenger RNA, but present a high density of binding sites. In addition, our data suggest that the distribution of the 5-hydroxytryptamine1D alpha binding sites is different from that of the 5-hydroxytryptamine1D alpha messenger RNA. These results together with previous lesion studies, indicate that the 5-hydroxytryptamine1B and possibly the 5-hydroxytryptamine1D alpha receptors are localized predominantly on axon terminals, while their expression is low or absent at the somatodendritic level. The 5-hydroxytryptamine1D alpha proteins might therefore contain an addressing signal allowing their transport toward nerve endings.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The innervation of the suprachiasmatic nucleus by serotoninergic fibers has been studied in rats from the 22nd embryonic until the 21st postnatal day. The serotoninergic fibers were detected with the pre-embedding immunocytochemical technique at the electron-microscopic level using antibodies to serotonin. Serotonin-immunopositive fibers were always identified as axons as they contained numerous synaptic vesicles both in fetuses and postnatal rats. Moreover, immunopositive dense core vesicles appeared in the axons after birth. From the end of fetal life onwards, the serotonin-immunopositive axons made specialized contacts with the immunonegative neurons, mainly with their dendrites and to a lesser extent with cell bodies and axons. In fetuses, only immature synapses (presynapses) were observed. After birth, presynapses were replaced by typical synapses with the thickened pre- and postsynaptic membranes, accumulations of dense materials at the pre- and postsynaptic membranes as well as with an accumulation of synaptic vesicles at the presynaptic membrane. The functional significance of the serotoninergic input to the suprachiasmatic nucleus in ontogenesis is discussed.
Stimulations of a morphologically reconstructed cortical pyramidal cell suggest that the long, thin, distal dendrites of such a cell may be ideally suited for nonlinear coincidence-detection at time-scales much faster than the membrane time-constant. In the presence of dendritic sodium spiking conductances, such hypothetical computations might occur by two distinct mechanisms. In one mechanism, fast excitatory synaptic currents inside a thin dendrite create strong local depolarizations, whose repolarization--resulting from charge equalization--can be 100-fold faster than the membrane time-constant; two such potentials in exact coincidence might initiate a dendritic spike. In the alternate mechanism, dendritic sodium spikes which do not fire the soma nonetheless create somatic voltage pulses of millisecond width and a few millivolts amplitude. The soma may fire upon the exact coincidence of several of these dendritic spikes, while their strong delayed-rectifier currents prevent the soma from temporally summating them. The average firing rate of a compartmental simulation of this reconstructed cell can be highly sensitive to the precise (submillisecond) arrangement of its inputs; in one simulation, a subtle reorganization of the temporal and spatial distribution of synaptic events can determine whether the cell fires continuously at 200 Hz or not at all. The two cellular properties postulated to create this behavior--fast, strong synaptic currents and spiking conductances in the distal dendrites--are at least consistent with physiological recordings of somatic potentials from single and coincident synaptic events; further measurements are proposed. The amplitudes and decays of these simulated fast EPSPs and dendritic spikes can be quantitatively predicted by approximations based on dendritic properties, intracellular resistance, and transmembrane conductance, without invoking any free parameters. These expressions both illustrate the dominant biophysical mechanisms of these very transient events and also allow extrapolation of the simulation results to nearby parameter ranges without requiring further simulation. The possibility that cortical cells perform temporally precise computations on single spikes touches many issues in cortical processing: computational speed, spiking variability, population coding, pairwise cell correlations, multiplexed information transmission, and the functional role of the dendritic tree.
If, as indicated in olfactory conditioning studies, rats are able to demonstrate primate-like behavior by their acquisition of response strategies, rodent olfactory learning may provide a particularly useful model for neurobiological analyses of learning and memory. Reid and Morris [Proc. R. Soc. Lond., Ser. B 247, 137-143 (1992); Trends Neurosci. 16, 17-20 (1993)] have recently challenged these views. They suggested that the evidence for acquisition of an olfactory learning set in rodents is insufficient and that rat olfactory learning may provide no special advantage for the neurobiologist. This essay reviews the relevant studies and concludes that there are serious shortcomings in the Reid and Morris argument, that the available data base provides clear evidence for the claim that rats acquire abstract rules for responding and that olfactory learning may be qualitatively different from other forms of instrumental learning in rodents.
The tetanus toxin light chain blocks calcium induced vasopressin release from neurohypophysial nerve terminals. Here we show that histidine residue 233 within the putative zinc binding motif of the tetanus toxin light chain is essential for the inhibition of exocytosis, in the rat. The zinc chelating agent dipicolinic acid as well as captopril, an inhibitor of zinc-dependent peptidases, counteract the effect of the neurotoxin. Synthetic peptides, the sequences of which correspond to motifs present in the cytoplasmic domain of the synaptic vesicle membrane protein synaptobrevin 1 and 2, prevent the effect of the tetanus toxin light chain. Our results indicate that zinc bound to the zinc binding motif constitutes the active site of the tetanus toxin light chain. Moreover they suggest that cleavage of synaptobrevin by the neurotoxin causes the inhibition of exocytotic release of vasopressin from secretory granules.
Endogenous d.c. electric fields have been postulated to play a role in normal development and repair functions of a variety of living systems. The corollary hypothesis, that exogenous electric fields can alter development and repair mechanisms, has led to the use of d.c. electric fields as a means to enhance mammalian peripheral nerve regeneration. This study investigates the response of transected rat sciatic nerves within silicone tubes to low intensity d.c. stimulation. In 40 rats, the right sciatic nerves were transected and sutured into silicone tubes, leaving a 5.0 mm gap between the stumps. The nerves were either treated with 10 microA d.c., with the cathode at the midpoint of the tube and the anode distant, or received no exogenous current. Three weeks later, transverse sections from the center of the tissue bridging the two segments were analysed by sampling approximately 12% of the cross sectional area, using x 1000 magnification on the light microscope. All non-stimulated (control) nerves showed regeneration of myelinated axons at the center of the bridge, while only 35% of the nerves stimulated with 10 microA had such a response. Of the nerves with regeneration of myelinated axons at the center of the tube, the control nerves had significantly more myelinated axons (P = 0.0028) than treated nerves. Stimulated nerves showed bizarre regeneration responses, including formation of multiloculated cysts and neuroma-like formations. In control nerves there was a gradual tapering of axon number from proximal to distal in the regeneration bridge, while in the stimulated nerves there was a sharp decrease in the number of axons proximal to the cathode. We hypothesize that this effect is due to the accumulation of electrolysis products at the cathode, which inhibit regeneration through this region. Regeneration of transected rat sciatic nerves is not enhanced by electric currents applied in this manner. Previous work interpreted the increased number of axonal cross-sections in the tube as an increase in the absolute number of regenerating fibers. Our data suggest that the increased number of axonal cross-sections is due to neuroma formation, probably in response to the accumulation of electrolysis products at the cathode. This work brings into question claims of an enhancement of peripheral nerve regeneration by applied electric fields.
Neurogenesis, migration and maturation of ganglion cells in the posterior pole of chick retina have been studied using embryonic incorporation of [3H]thymidine, immunocytochemistry and retrograde labeling. Unlike previous studies, we have examined the neurogenesis of independently identified ganglion cells that have survived the period of naturally occurring cell death (embryonic days 11-16). Embryos were labeled with [3H]thymidine at different embryonic ages (embryonic days 3, 5 and 7). After the chicks hatched, ganglion cells were retrogradely labeled with rhodamine microspheres and the retinas were processed for autoradiography and fluorescent microscopy. The results indicate that 40% of the ganglion cells in the posterior pole undergo a final mitosis by embryonic day 3 and that more than 25% of the ganglion cells are born on or after embryonic day 7. These results also suggest that naturally occurring cell death does not preferentially affect ganglion cells born on specific embryonic days. Using immunocytochemistry with an antibody against neuron-specific beta-tubulin and retrograde labeling with the carbocyanine dye DiI we show that ganglion cells begin to differentiate before the completion of their migration to the presumptive ganglion cell layer. These results suggest the following developmental sequence. (1) Ganglion cells of the posterior pole undergo their final mitosis near the ventricular margin between embryonic days 2 and 8. (2) They maintain contacts with both retinal surfaces and their nuclei move toward the ganglion cell layer. At this time they start to differentiate, expressing a form of neuron-specific tubulin and growing axons that can reach the optic chiasm. (3) Once migration is completed dendritic development commences.
The basolateral amygdaloid nucleus, a limbic/autonomic center in the basal forebrain, has been known to send projection fibers to the prelimbic and dorsal agranular insular areas in the prefrontal cortex, as well as to the nucleus accumbens. In the present study, we investigated single basolateral amygdaloid nucleus neurons sending their axons to both the prefrontal cortex and nucleus accumbens. The fluorescent retrograde double-labeling technique was employed in the rat; True Blue was injected into the prelimbic or dorsal agranular insular cortex, and Diamidino Yellow into the medial or lateral part of the nucleus accumbens. The majority of basolateral amygdaloid nucleus neurons projecting to the dorsal agranular insular cortex or prelimbic cortex were located, respectively, in the rostral two-thirds or caudal two-thirds of the nucleus, while those projecting to the medial or lateral part of the nucleus accumbens were diffusely distributed in the nucleus. Almost 50% of basolateral amygdaloid nucleus neurons projecting to the prelimbic cortex sent their axon collaterals to the medial part of the nucleus accumbens. About 30-40% of basolateral amygdaloid nucleus neurons projecting to the dorsal agranular insular cortex or prelimbic cortex issued their axon collaterals to the lateral part of the nucleus accumbens. The axons bifurcating to both the dorsal agranular insular cortex and lateral part of the nucleus accumbens, those bifurcating to both the prelimbic cortex and lateral part of the nucleus accumbens, or those bifurcating to both the prelimbic cortex and medial part of the nucleus accumbens arose preferentially from the rostral, middle or caudal parts of the basolateral amygdaloid nucleus, respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The dopaminergic mesolimbic system plays a major role in the mechanisms of reward and positive reinforcement, and is also known to be a primary target for the action of substances that are self-administered and are considered drugs of abuse. Even though alcohol administration has been shown, by physiological and pharmacological manipulations, to cause changes in the mesolimbic dopaminergic system, it has not yet been determined whether, conversely, experimentally induced changes in this system are effective in regulating the voluntary intake of ethanol. In the present study we assessed the effects of the intrastriatal transplantation of fetal dopaminergic grafts on the regulation of voluntary alcohol intake in the rat. Fetal dopaminergic transplants from ventral mesencephalon--but not dopamine-poor transplants or sham-operated animals--reduced the voluntary intake of ethanol by about 40-50%. These results indicate that the effects obtained are due to the dopaminergic nature of the grafts, and not the consequence of a non-specific effect of the graft, or of the surgical procedure itself. These results support the hypothesis that the dopaminergic mesolimbic system plays an important role in the regulation of the voluntary intake of ethanol.
The effects of neurotrophins brain-derived neurotrophic factor and neurotrophin-3 on cultured dissociated cells from chick retina were studied at several embryonic ages from day 4 to day 13. Precursor cells from days 4-7 retinas proliferated in vitro and, after 20 h in culture, a proportion of them underwent spontaneous differentiation, as judged by both [3H]thymidine uptake and acquisition of neuronal morphology and neuron-specific markers. Brain-derived neurotrophic factor did not affect neuronal differentiation, although this factor supports survival of differentiated retinal ganglion cells [Rodrguez-Tbar et al. (1989) Devl Biol. 136, 296-303]. However, in cultures from young undifferentiated retinas, neurotrophin-3 produced up to a 2.5-fold increase in the number of [3H]thymidine-positive neurons, i.e. those that in vitro replicated their DNA. Moreover, in older retinas, neurotrophin-3, like brain-derived neurotrophic factor, supported the survival of differentiated retinal ganglion cells over a short developmental period. This effect was negligible at embryonic day 5, maximal at day 9, decreased at day 11 and was absent at embryonic day 13. Neurotrophin-3 also supported the survival of a population of amacrine neurons. This effect was modest at embryonic day 9, and increased at days 11 and 13. Our results show that, whereas the action of brain-derived neurotrophic factor is restricted to differentiated neurons, neurotrophin-3 exerts two distinct successive actions on retinal cells in vitro: first, this factor promotes either differentiation of neuroepithelial cells or maturation of recently differentiated neurons, and later in development, this factor supports the survival of differentiated retinal ganglion and amacrine cells but only during a discrete post-differentiation period.
The expression of Fos, Jun and Krox-24 proteins was investigated in spinal cord neurons of the rat 2, 4 and 8 h following noxious thermal stimulation of one hind-paw and pre-treatment with morphine. The number of neurons expressing c-Fos, c-Jun, Jun B and Krox-24 were maximal after 2 h and thereafter declined. The number of Fos B and Jun D immunoreactive neurons increased constantly for up to 8 h with Jun D showing expression above baseline only after 4 h following stimulation. Intravenous application of morphine (5 and 10 mg/kg) 20 min before noxious heat stimulation decreased the expression of all six proteins at any time-point with a predilective effect on neurons of deeper laminae of the dorsal horn. The suppressive effects of morphine were more pronounced with the higher dose of morphine and completely reversed by intravenous naloxone (1 and 10 mg/kg). The temporospatial patterns of expression following morphine were similar to those seen without morphine, but in a much smaller number of neurons and with a shorter time-course. However, despite the high dose of morphine and continuous halothane anaesthesia during the whole experimental procedures, a considerable number of neurons expressing the various genes remained in all laminae of the spinal cord. At 2 h following noxious heat stimulation morphine had decreased the number of labelled neurons for c-Fos, Fos B, Krox-24, c-Jun and Jun B to 30-60% of control levels in laminae I-II and to 10-30% in laminae III-VII,X of the spinal cord. At 4 h the level of reduction had further increased while Jun D was only moderately reduced to 75% in all laminae of the spinal cord. Eight hours following noxious heat plus morphine application we did not detect noxious evoked immunoreactivity for c-Fos, Krox-24, c-Jun and Jun B, while there was residual labelling for Fos B in the superficial dorsal horn and for Jun D in laminae I-VII and X of the spinal cord. The different temporospatial pattern of immediate early gene expression in neurons of the spinal cord dorsal horn following noxious stimulation suggest that variable transcription complexes may interact with DNA regulatory sequences and could thus activate alternative secondary response genes, even under protection of a high dosage of morphine applied before noxious stimulation.
This study provides morphological evidence for the activation of the descending modulatory control by nociceptive afferent pathways. Fos-like immunoreactivity in the spinal dorsal horn is used as an indicator of efficacy of transmission of noxious inputs at this level. Wistar rats were anesthetized with nembutal and the spinal dorsolateral funiculus was transected unilaterally at the level of T11,12. Two days later, an equal volume (0.2 ml) of formalin (5% in saline) was injected into the plantar aspect of two hindpaws. After 1 h of injection, rats were deeply anesthetized and killed for the immunocytochemical examination of Fos-like protein product by using an immunocytochemical technique. The results show that the mean number of Fos protein-like immunoreactive neurons is significantly lower in the superficial laminae and in the neck of the dorsal horn on the side ipsilateral to the intact dorsolateral funiculus than that on the opposite side (i.e. 18.4 +/- 1.0 vs 30.0 +/- 1.3 and 33.9 +/- 0.2 vs 56.8 +/- 1.7, respectively). We conclude that the peripheral noxious inputs (which ascend via the ventral half of the spinal cord in this study) can activate the supraspinal descending inhibitory systems, which in turn suppress the synthesis of Fos-like protein in the related dorsal horn neurons.
We have used the evoked expression of the immediate early gene-encoded proteins (c-Fos, Fos B, Jun B, Jun D, c-Jun and Krox-24) to monitor sensory processing in the hindbrain structures of rats undergoing somatic inflammation. Experiments were performed on freely moving animals that did not experience constraints other than those imposed by the disease itself. Local injections of chemicals were used to cause subcutaneous inflammation of the plantar foot or monoarthritis by intracapsular injection. Labelling was studied at survival times that corresponded either to the time points of maximum labelling in the spinal cord (4 h for the subcutaneous model, 24 h and two weeks for the monoarthritis model) or at survival times that corresponded to the chronic phase of monoarthritis evolution (six, nine and 15 weeks). Controls consisted of freely moving, unstimulated animals. Basal expression was observed for all immediate early genes and in a variety of structures, but always remained moderate. All immediate early gene-encoded protein expressions except c-Jun were evoked, but except for c-Fos, and to a lesser extent Jun D, intensities of staining always remained faint. The following results will be mainly based on c-Fos expression, as this protein proved to be the most effective marker for all the survival times studied. Somatic pain evoked c-Fos expression in a subset of discrete subregions of both the caudal medulla oblongata and transitional areas of the pontomesencephalic junction. In the caudal medulla oblongata, structures involved were the caudal intermediate reticular nucleus, the subnucleus reticularis dorsalis, the ventrolateral reticular formation and the lateral paragigantocellular nucleus. Structures involved at the pontomesencephalic junction level mostly included the superior and dorsal lateral subnuclei of the parabrachial area, the nucleus cuneiformis and the most caudal portions of the lateral central gray, also including the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus; labelling in other lateral subnuclei of the parabrachial area always remained moderate. Staining in the caudal reticular areas was evident only at short survival times (4 and 24 h survival times in subcutaneous and monoarthritis models, respectively). Staining in nuclei of the pontomesencephalic junction was evident in all cases except for the very long survival periods (six to 15 weeks) of monoarthritis. In all cases staining was bilateral with contralateral predominance with regard to the stimulated limb. The present work demonstrates that hindbrain structures involved in somatic pain processing can be effectively identified in behaving animals and that c-Fos is the most reliable activity marker in this case.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have evaluated the pattern of c-fos expression induced in the rat spinal cord, caudal brainstem and cerebellum by a behavior that is associated with non-noxious inputs transmitted over large-diameter primary afferent fibers, namely walking for 1 h on a rotating rod. Walking on the rotating rod induced a large increase in the number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons in regions of the cervical and lumbar spinal cord gray matter that contain neurons that respond to non-noxious stimuli: the inner part of the substantia gelatinosa (lamina IIi), the nucleus proprius and the medial parts of laminae V and VI. We also observed considerable labeling in lamina VII and in ventral horn motoneurons. We did not record an increased number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons in lamina I, in the outer substantia gelatinosa (lamina IIo), or in the lateral, reticulated portion of lamina V, regions that contain neurons predominantly responsive to noxious stimulation. Unilateral sensory deafferentation of the forelimb, by multiple dorsal rhizotomies, significantly decreased the number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons in the ipsilateral spinal cord, suggesting that afferent input contributed to the walking-induced pattern of labeling. In rats that walked on the Rota-Rod, we also recorded increased labeling in the dorsal column nuclei. Unilateral cervical deafferentation reduced the labeling in the cuneate nucleus; this reduction was paralleled by decreased cytochrome oxidase activity. Finally, we found that there was a significant increase in the number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons in the cerebellum of rats that walked on the Rota-Rod. Northern blot analysis revealed that the increase in Fos-like immunoreactivity was associated with an increase in c-fos messenger RNA. The pattern of labeling observed in the rats that walked on the Rota-Rod was distinct from that observed when rats are exposed to a noxious stimulus [Presley et al. (1990) J. Neurosci. 10, 323-335]. This result reinforces the conclusion that by monitoring the evoked expression of the c-fos proto-oncogene, it is possible to identify unique populations of neurons that are specifically related to the modality of the stimulus or to behaviour occurring during the stimulus presentation.
The present study shows that the protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine impairs the transient (&lt; 60 min) potentiation (short-term potentiation) evoked by a weak tetanus to about the same extent as the more stable potentiation (long-term potentiation) evoked by a strong tetanus. This effect on short-term and long-term potentiation was seen both as a reduced magnitude and an increased decay rate, the latter being increased by about 50% compared to that seen under normal conditions. Comparison with potentiations evoked at different strengths in control solution suggested that much, but not all, of the increased decay rate observed in the presence of staurosporine could be explained by an impared induction. Staurosporine did not affect the N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated field excitatory postsynaptic potential evoked by low-frequency stimulation or the magnitude of N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated currents during high-frequency tetanization. This result suggests that the induction is impaired at a stage not related to the N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated calcium influx. The present results suggest that short-term and long-term potentiation cannot be separated on the basis of protein kinase dependence. They do not support the common notion that short-term and long-term potentiation are mechanistically separate entities. Instead, the results support the view that long-term potentiation has a variable duration/stability dependent on the induction conditions and that protein kinase activation, via an action on induction mechanisms, contributes to its stabilization.
The inhibitory neuromodulator adenosine is an endogenous anticonvulsant that terminates brief seizures in the brain and it has been proposed that loss of adenosine or adenosine-mediating systems may play a major role in the development of status epilepticus, a seizure condition characterized by prolonged and/or recurrent seizures that last by definition, at least 20 min. In this study, the effect of specific A1-adenosine agonists and antagonists were tested for their ability to prevent and cause status epilepticus in two electrical stimulation models in rats. In a recurrent electrical stimulation model, whereas no vehicle-treated animals developed status epilepticus after 20 recurrent electrical stimulations, rats injected with 10 mg/kg of the specific A1-adenosine antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethylxanthine intraperitoneally developed status epilepticus after stimulation. 8-(p-Sulphophenyl)-theophylline, which has limited penetrability into the brain when administered peripherally, did not cause status epilepticus when injected intraperitoneally. However, when 200 micrograms of 8-(p-sulphophenyl)-theophylline were administered intracerebroventricularly, status epilepticus developed in all animals, suggesting status epilepticus developed as a result of central adenosine receptor antagonism. In the second study, whereas all vehicle-treated animals developed status epilepticus after constant electrical stimulation, administration of N6-cyclohexyladenosine and N6-cyclopentyladenosine prior to stimulation suppressed the development of status epilepticus. N6-Cyclohexyladenosine was also effective in terminating status epilepticus after it had progressed for 20 min. The effects of a selective A2-agonist was also tested on both stimulation models and had no anticonvulsant effects. An electrical stimulus given to rats pretreated three days prior to stimulation with pertussis toxin, a compound which inactivates Gi-proteins, also resulted in generalized status epilepticus, suggesting that impairment of G-protein-linked receptors is involved in the development of status epilepticus. The effects of a GABAB antagonist, phaclofen, and a GABAB agonist, baclofen, were also tested in the recurrent stimulation model, as GABAB receptors are also coupled to the same subset of K+ channels as the A1-receptor. Rats given phaclofen did not develop status epilepticus after recurrent electrical stimulation, although baclofen was effective at preventing the induction of status epilepticus in the constant stimulation model. These results, together with some preliminary data obtained showing that the GABAA antagonist picrotoxin did not cause status epilepticus after recurrent stimulation, suggest that loss of GABAergic inhibition only has a minor role in status epilepticus development in our models. Brains from all animals were also assessed for brain injury.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Diadenosine polyphosphates (Ap4A and Ap5A) are present in secretory granules of chromaffin cells as well as in the rat brain synaptic terminals. Their contribution to the exocytosis of the total synaptosomal content is considerable, ranging from 7% to 12%. Ap4A and Ap5A are released from synaptosomes in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner. There are indications on the high affinity of diadenosine polyphosphates to P2 receptors, but their action on P1 receptors remains unclear. Here we report that both substances induce a blocking action on excitatory synaptic transmission in the rat hippocampus. This action is elicited via the A1 (subclass of P1) receptors and differs in some respects from the action of adenosine.
In the present study, the nature of the synaptic transmission responsible for a monophasic potential generated by vestibular nerve stimulation of the principal cells in the chick tangential nucleus was established. This work was performed in slice preparations at the critical embryonic age of 15-16 days, the time of first observation of morphologically mixed (chemical and electrical) synapses at the axosomatic endings called spoon endings. The spoon endings are formed by the primary vestibular fibers with the largest diameters, the colossal vestibular fibers. This monophasic potential fits the criteria for chemical rather than electrical transmission due to the following responses in most cases: (i) the absence of collision between a direct spike initiated by depolarization in the principal cell and a vestibular-evoked action potential; (ii) failure to follow high frequency stimulation (up to 50 Hz); (iii) sensitivity to low calcium solution (0.1 mM). These tests indicate that strong electrical coupling between spoon endings and principal cells does not prevail at this stage. The recordings were obtained from principal cells injected intracellularly with biocytin, allowing their identification by morphological criteria. The lack of tracer coupling between the stained principal cells and their innervating vestibular fibers (n = 17) is consistent with the absence of electrical coupling. Identification of the neurotransmitter involved in this vestibular response was achieved by bath application of glutamate receptor antagonists, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (40 microM) and 6-cyano-7-nitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione (10 microM), which blocked transmission reversibly. These results suggest that at the onset of formation of these &quot;mixed&quot; vestibular synapses, the gap junctions identified morphologically are likely not functional, and that the main response of the principal cells to vestibular nerve stimulation is mediated by glutamate.
The distributions of the cholinergic system and catecholaminergic system in the normal human brain were analysed quantitatively by a microphotometry system. Consecutive coronal sections were obtained from the anterior area of the left hemisphere and were stained alternately with fluorescent immunohistochemical staining for choline acetyltransferase or tyrosine hydroxylase. Each stained section was divided into approximately 120,000 areas and the fluorescence intensity in each area was measured by a fluorescence microphotometry system which is a measuring microscope for distribution of fluorescence intensity in the tissue slice. Nonspecific autofluorescence was distributed in myelinated nerve fiber throughout the entire area, which was subtracted from the fluorescence intensity value in each measuring area. The obtained immunohistochemical fluorescence intensities of choline acetyltransferase and tyrosine hydroxylase were classified into eight ranks and were indicated by color graphics. Also, the intensity values of actual immunohistochemical fluorescence in the various brain regions were presented. The choline acetyltransferase and tyrosine hydroxylase concentrations varied greatly depending on the brain region. Relatively high levels of choline acetyltransferase and tyrosine hydroxylase were distributed in the putamen, caudate nucleus, claustrum, insula and some cortical regions. The immunohistochemical level of tyrosine hydroxylase was lower than that of choline acetyltransferase in a few brain regions such as the globus pallidus and amygdala. High levels of choline acetyltransferase and tyrosine hydroxylase were localized in the one area of the basal ganglia which developed from the telencephalic area, whereas middle levels of these were distributed in another, part of which developed from the diencephalic area.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The present study was undertaken to determine whether the enkephalinergic hypothalamoseptal tract originating in the magnocellular dorsal nucleus in the guinea-pig brain is under the influence of somatostatin. In the first step, double immunocytochemical labeling of enkephalinergic cells and somatostatinergic fibers was combined at the light and electron microscopic levels in the magnocellular dorsal nucleus. As a second step, an in vitro radioautography was used to determine whether somatostatin receptors are present in the same area. A close relationship between somatostatin nerve endings and enkephalin perikarya was observed at both the light and electron microscopic levels. Contracts were more numerous in the ventral part of the magnocellular dorsal nucleus. Whenever synaptic images were clearly observable, they appeared symmetrical. In the same area, a moderate concentration of G-protein-coupled somatostatin binding sites was also visualized. These results suggest that somatostatin has a regulator role on the enkephalinergic hypothalamoseptal tract, directly at the level of the magnocellular dorsal nucleus.
This study has evaluated differentiation of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons in the suprachiasmatic nucleus as well as the innervation of this nucleus by tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive axons in rats during ontogenesis. Tyrosine hydroxylase-containing structures were detected with electron-microscopic pre-embedding immunocytochemistry at the 22nd fetal day as well as at the second, ninth and 21st postnatal days. Rare uni- and bipolar small tyrosine-hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons were observed in the suprachiasmatic nucleus both in fetuses and postnatal rats. These neurons underwent differentiation over the perinatal period that was mainly manifested in the increase of their size as well as in the development of the Golgi complex, granular endoplasmic reticulum and the onset of the dense core vesicle production. Concomitantly, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive neurons, cell bodies and dendrites, became innervated by immunonegative axons first making presynapses, and, then, symmetric (Gray-type II) and asymmetric (Gray-type I) synapses. In addition to cell bodies and dendrites, tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive axons were regularly observed in ventral, ventrolateral and ventromedial regions of the suprachiasmatic nucleus in fetuses and postnatal rats. Tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive axons were observed either in simple appositions with the immunonegative neurons or making presynapses in fetuses and symmetric and asymmetric synapses in postnatal animals. The nature of the tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive axons and the functional significance in the suprachiasmatic nucleus in ontogenesis are discussed.
To investigate the effects of the endogenous kappa-receptor agonists dynorphin and leumorphin on neurons of the supraoptic nucleus in the rat hypothalamus, intracellular recordings were made from 62 supraoptic neurons in slice preparations. Bath application of dynorphin and leumorphin at 10(-7) M to 3 x 10(-6) M decreased the spontaneous firing rate with slight hyperpolarization of the membrane potential (-3.8 +/- 0.5 mV, mean +/- S.E.M.) but did not detectably change input resistance. The inhibitory effects were blocked by the relatively selective kappa-antagonist MR-2266. The synthetic kappa-receptor agonist U-50,488H had similar inhibitory effects on supraoptic neurons. Postsynaptic potentials evoked by electrical stimulation dorsal or dorsolateral to the supraoptic nucleus were suppressed by dynorphin and leumorphin. Morphine and [D-Ala, D-Leu]enkephalin, which are relatively selective to mu- and delta-receptors, respectively, influenced the postsynaptic potentials less. Dynorphin and leumorphin also decreased the duration of action potentials that were prolonged by either bath application of tetraethylammonium chloride at 5-10 mM or intracellular injection of Cs ions from the recording electrodes which were filled with 3 M cesium citrate. The prolongation was blocked by 1 mM MnCl2 and 2 mM CoCl2, which suggested that the components were due to voltage-dependent Ca2+ influx. The results suggest that endogenous kappa-receptor agonists inhibit neurosecretory cells of the supraoptic nucleus to suppress synaptic events and Ca2+ components of action potentials.
In goldfish brain, [3H]cyclohexyladenosine binding sites are ubiquitously distributed with a maximum in the hypothalamus and a minimum in the spinal cord. The binding parameters measured in cerebellar membranes (Kd = 0.88 +/- 0.08 nM; Bmax = 59.65 +/- 2.62 fmol/mg protein) are not significantly different from those of the whole brain. In perfused goldfish cerebellar slices, stimulation of cyclic AMP accumulation by 10(-5) M forskolin was markedly reduced (58.7%) by treatment with 10(-4) M cyclohexyladenosine, an adenosine A1 receptor agonist, and the reduction was reversed in the presence of 10(-4) M 8-cyclopentyltheophylline, a selective A1 receptor antagonist. In the same brain preparation, 30 mM K+ stimulated the release of glutamate, glutamine, glycine and GABA in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner, whereas the aspartate and taurine release was Ca(2+)-independent. Cyclohexyladenosine inhibited the 30 mM K(+)-evoked release of glutamate in a dose-related manner. This effect was reversed by 8-cyclopentyltheophylline. These results support the hypothesis that adenosine A1 receptors present in goldfish cerebellum are involved in the modulation of glutamate transmitter release.
The physiological signals and patterns of synaptic connectivity that CNS neurons display after the loss of their target cells were evaluated in adult cats for one year. Abducens internuclear neurons were chosen as the experimental model because of their highly specific projection onto the medial rectus motoneurons of the oculomotor nucleus. Selective death of medial rectus motoneurons was induced by the injection into the medial rectus muscle of ricin, a potent cytotoxic lectin that leaves the presynaptic axons intact. The electrical activity of antidromically identified abducens internuclear neurons was recorded in chronic alert animals, during both spontaneous and vestibularly induced eye movements, before and after target removal. During the three weeks that followed ricin injection, abducens internuclear neurons exhibited several firing-related abnormal properties. There was an overall reduction in firing rate with a corresponding increase in the eye position threshold for recruitment. In addition, neuronal sensitivities to eye position and velocity were significantly decreased with respect to control data. Bursting activity was also altered since low-frequency delayed burst accompanied the saccades in the on-direction and, occasionally, internuclear neurons exhibited low-frequency discharges associated with off-directed saccades. Intracellular recordings carried out seven and 15 days after ricin injection demonstrated no significant changes in their electrical properties, although a marked depression of synaptic transmission was evident. The amplitude of both excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials of vestibular origin was reduced by 60-85% with respect to controls. However, postsynaptic potentials recorded one month after ricin injection showed normal amplitude values which persisted unaltered one year after target loss. Recovery of synaptic transmission occurred at the same time as the re-establishment of normal eye-related signals in the discharge pattern of abducens internuclear neurons recorded in alert cats from days 25-30 post lesion. The functional restoration of firing properties was maintained in the long term (one year). Conversely, abducens motoneurons showed normal firing and synaptic patterns at all time intervals analysed. These results demonstrate that, after an initial period of altered physiological properties, abducens internuclear neurons survive the loss of their target motoneurons and regain a normal discharge pattern and afferent synaptic connections.
The morphological sequelae induced by target removal were studied on adult cat abducens internuclear neurons at both the somata and terminal axon arborization levels. The neuronal target--the medial rectus motoneurons of the oculomotor nucleus--was selectively destroyed by the injection of toxic ricin into the medial rectus muscle. Retrograde labeling with horseradish peroxidase demonstrated the survival of the entire population of abducens internuclear neurons up to one year after target removal. However, soma size was reduced by about 20% three months postlesion and maintained for one year. At the ultrastructural level, a considerable deafferentation of abducens internuclear neurons was observed at short intervals (i.e. 10 days after lesion). Large regions of the plasmalemma appeared devoid of presynaptic boutons but were covered instead by glial processes. The detachment of synaptic endings was selective on abducens internuclear neurons since nearby motoneurons always showed a normal synaptic coverage. By one month, abducens internuclear neurons recovered a normal density of receiving axosomatic synapses. Anterogradely biocytin-labeled axon terminals of abducens internuclear neurons remained in place after the lesion of medial rectus motoneurons, although with a progressive decrease in density. Ultrastructural examination of the oculomotor nucleus 10 days after the lesion revealed numerous empty spaces left by the dead motoneurons. Targetless boutons were observed surrounded by large extracellular gaps, still apposed to remnants of the postsynaptic membrane or, finally, ensheathed by glial processes. At longer intervals (&gt; one month), the ultrastructure of the oculomotor nucleus was re-established and labeled boutons were observed contacting either unidentified dendrites within the neuropil or the soma and proximal dendrites of the oculomotor internuclear neurons, that project to the abducens nucleus. Labeled boutons were never found contacting with the oculomotor internuclear neurons either in control tissue or at short periods after ricin injection. These results indicate that the availability of undamaged neurons close to the lost target motoneurons might support the long-term survival of abducens internuclear neurons. Specifically, the oculomotor internuclear neurons, which likely suffer a partial deafferentation after medial rectus motoneuron loss, constitute a potential new target for the abducens internuclear neurons. The reinnervation of a new target might explain the recovery of synaptic and firing properties of abducens internuclear neurons after medial rectus motoneuron lesion, which occurred with a similar time course, as described in the accompanying paper [de la Cruz R. R. et al. (1994) Neuroscience 58, 81-97.].
We have attempted to identify which subpopulations of rat sensory neurons possess functional neurotransmitter receptors which elevate the free concentration of intracellular calcium. Subpopulations of sensory neurons were identified using three accepted criteria: (i) the distribution and proportion of neurons with differing somatic diameters; (ii) the expression of substance P-like immunoreactivity; and (iii) the responsiveness of each neuron to capsaicin. The total neuronal population was primarily grouped into three classes according to somatic diameter and defined as small- (&lt; 17 microns), intermediate- (17-25 microns) and large- (&gt; 25 microns) sized neurons. It was not possible to distinguish between small and intermediate-sized neurons since a similar percentage of each class expressed substance P-like immunoreactivity or sensitivity to capsaicin. Large-sized neurons did not possess these characteristics and, therefore, represented a distinct neuronal population. In single, intact neurons of differing diameter, the ability of a variety of receptor agonists to elevate the free concentration of intracellular calcium was determined using the calcium-sensitive indicator, Fura-2. Local application of capsaicin, adenosine, bradykinin, ATP and substance P elevated the resting level of the free concentration of intracellular calcium in small and intermediate-sized neurons. The large-sized neurons were unresponsive to these receptor agonists with the exception of ATP. The response to ATP was relatively transient in nature and did not differ between neurons of differing somatic diameter.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Involvement of an L-type Ca2+ channel in the regulation of spontaneous transmitter release was studied in Xenopus nerve-muscle cultures. The frequency of spontaneous synaptic currents, which reflects impulse-independent acetylcholine release from the nerve terminals, showed a marked increase in high-K+ medium or after treatment with a phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol 13-acetate, a drug that activates protein kinase C and depolarizes the presynaptic neuron. The potentiation effect of high K+ and 12-O-tetradecanoyl-phorbol 13-acetate requires Ca2+ influx through the L-type Ca2+ channel in the plasma membrane, since it was significantly reduced by the presence of nifedipine, verapamil or diltiazem and enhanced by Bay K 8644, an L-type Ca2+ channel agonist. It was shown recently that adenosine 5'-triphosphate markedly potentiates the spontaneous acetylcholine release at these synapses through the binding of P2-purinoceptors and the activation of protein kinase C. We found in the present study that potentiation effects of adenosine 5'-triphosphate are inhibited by L-type Ca2+ channel blockers, suggesting that the L-type Ca2+ channel is responsible for the positive regulation of spontaneous acetylcholine secretion by adenosine 5'-triphosphate at the developing neuromuscular synapses. Our data suggest that modulation of the L-type Ca2+ channel in embryonic motor nerve terminals is important for the regulation of spontaneous transmitter release.
The monoclonal antibody PAC 1 (postsynaptic density and cytoskeleton enriched) recognizes an epitope present on two postsynaptic density-enriched glycoproteins of 130,000 (postsynaptic density-enriched glycoprotein 130) and 117,000 mol. wt (postsynaptic density-enriched glycoprotein 117), and a cytoskeleton-enriched polypeptide of 155,000 mol. wt (cp155). The PAC 1 antibody has been used to study the development of the PAC 1 antigens in the developing rat forebrain in vivo and in tissue culture. cp155 is detected by embryonic day 14 and its level continues to rise until the sixth postnatal week. Postsynaptic density-enriched glycoproteins 130 and 117 are also expressed in embryonic brain although the level of postsynaptic density-enriched glycoprotein 130 initially increases more rapidly than that of postsynaptic density-enriched glycoprotein 117. Peak values are observed at postnatal days 4 (postsynaptic density-enriched glycoprotein 117) and 9 (postsynaptic density-enriched glycoprotein 130). The level of post synaptic density-enriched glycoprotein 117 subsequently decreases to some 50% of the peak value by postnatal day 42. Immunocytochemical studies show that PAC 1 immunoreactivity in developing cerebral cortex, detectable by postnatal day 0, is primarily associated with the perikarya and dendrites of pyramidal cells. The immunoreactivity develops as patches of PAC 1-positive neurons, uniform staining of the cortex only being fully established after postnatal day 9. Double-immunofluorescence labelling studies of forebrain cultures prepared from embryonic day 18 animals shows that many, but not all, growth-associated protein 43-positive neurons exhibit PAC 1 immunoreactivity. Some non-neuronal cells also stain with the PAC 1 monoclonal antibody. The growth cones of cultured neurons exhibit PAC 1 immunoreactivity and the PAC 1 antigens are detected on immunodeveloped western blots of isolated growth cones. The PAC 1 epitope is intracellular, but immunoreactivity does not co-localize with F-actin as detected by rhod-amine-phalloidin or with tubulin immunoreactivity. Postsynaptic density-enriched glycoprotein 130 is readily detected on PAC 1 immunodeveloped western blots of forebrain cultures maintained for up to 14 days in vitro. Postsynaptic density-enriched glycoprotein 117 is only poorly expressed by these cultures. The PAC 1 glycoproteins are present in forebrain synaptic membranes and postsynaptic densities at an early stage of development. The synaptic membrane level of postsynaptic density-enriched glycoprotein 130 and postsynaptic density-enriched glycoprotein 117 increases markedly between postnatal days 3 and 8. The level of both glycoproteins detected in postsynaptic densities remain virtually constant from postnatal days 9-90. These results are consistent with functional roles for these molecules in neuronal and synapse development.
Net-like structures, visualized with the Golgi technique and several histochemical and immunocytochemical methods, have been described to ensheath somata, parts of dendrites and axon initial segments of various types of neurons. The origin and function of these perineuronal nets have been controversially discussed. Recently, it was confirmed that they are glia-associated. In the present study such perineuronal nets were demonstrated by using colloidal iron hydroxide staining for detection of polyanionic components and the plant lectins Vicia villosa agglutinin and Wisteria floribunda agglutinin with affinity for N-acetylgalactosamine. This paper shows their distribution patterns and the occurrence of regional specialization of these nets which might provide a basis to suggest functional implications of these structures. Perineuronal nets were found in more than 100 brain regions, such as neocortex, hippocampus, piriform cortex, basal forebrain complex, dorsal lateral septal nucleus, lateral hypothalamic area, reticular thalamic nucleus, zona incerta, deep parts of superior and inferior colliculus, red nucleus, substantia nigra, some tegmental nuclei, cerebellar nuclei, dorsal raphe and cuneiform nuclei, central gray, trochlear nucleus, pontine and medullar reticular nuclei, superior olivary nucleus and vestibular nuclei. Neurons enwrapped by perineuronal nets not only differ in morphology but also in transmitter content. In neocortical and hippocampal regions there occurs a much higher number of perineuronal nets ensheathing non-pyramidal cells than in paleocortical structures. Most subcortical regions containing perineuronal nets were found to be integrated in motor functions. The findings are discussed with respect to known electrophysiological data of cell types described in our investigation as net-associated. There are some indications that such cells may represent fast firing types.
Changes in the serotonergic system in the posterior hypothalamus of freely moving rats were related to sleep and wakefulness using in vivo voltammetry (with carbon fiber microelectrodes) and polygraphic recordings. By using an optoelectronic telemetry system for the voltammetric signals, electrical cross-talk between the two settings was avoided and simultaneous neurochemical and electro-physiological recordings could be made so that a detailed time course of events could be obtained. Extracellular levels of the serotonin metabolite, 5-hydroxy-indoleacetic acid, measured every 2 min, increased with wakefulness and decreased with sleep: levels were significantly lower during desynchronized sleep than slow wave sleep. In vivo voltammetry associated with the optoelectronic telemetry system appears to be a useful tool for studying the relationship between neurochemical changes and electrophysiological events.
Inward currents in the somatic membrane of dissociated rat dorsal root ganglion neurons have been studied in two groups of animals (17 days of embryonic development and the first day after birth) by suction pipette (whole-cell configuration) and voltage-clamp techniques. Altogether 157 neurons were examined. Four components in the inward currents have been identified: fast tetrodotoxin-sensitive (INaf) and slow tetrodotoxin insensitive (INas) sodium, low-(ICal) and high-threshold (ICah) calcium currents. The percentage of neurons demonstrating four types of inward currents INaf, INas, ICal, ICah increased from 21% in embryo to 61% in newborn. The percentage of neurons with INaf, INas and ICah increased from 4% in embryonic to 14% in the first day after birth. The percentage of cells with INaf, ICal and ICah (without tetrodotoxin-insensitive INas) decreased from 56 to 11% in embryo and newborn rats, respectively. A statistically significant linear correlation was found between the densities of INaf and ICah currents for both ages. A correlation also occurred between the densities of INas and ICah. A reciprocal relation between the densities of both types of calcium currents and the size of cell soma was found in the neurons with all four types of inward currents from newborn animals. A comparison of these data with previous study of inward currents during postnatal development indicates that the most dramatic changes in their distributions and mean densities takes place some time after the birth of the animals.
Endoneurial hypoxia of ischaemic origin is believed to cause the reduction in sciatic nerve substance P levels in experimentally diabetic rats. The first part of this study was designed to determine whether the changes seen extended to another neuropeptide, calcitonin gene-related peptide, and to reveal any correlation between substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide levels in the sciatic nerve of both diabetic and centrally hypoxaemic rats. Comparison of streptozotocin diabetic rats (four-week duration) with their control group showed clear reductions in both substance P-like immunoreactivity (control = 225 +/- 20 pg/mg protein, diabetic = 139 +/- 19; P &lt; 0.01) and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity (control = 9.08 +/- 0.65 ng/mg protein, diabetic = 4.43 +/- 0.44; P &lt; 0.001). A similar pattern was seen with the comparison of five-week centrally hypoxaemic rats (housed in 10% O2) with their controls for both substance P-like immunoreactivity (control = 222 +/- 10 pg/mg protein, hypoxic = 148 +/- 13; P &lt; 0.001) and calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity (control = 6.58 +/- 0.42 ng/mg protein, hypoxic = 3.01 +/- 0.45; P &lt; 0.001). Calcitonin gene-related peptide levels correlated closely with substance P levels in both the diabetes and central hypoxaemia studies (r2 = 0.69 and 0.62, respectively). The second part of this study measured the messenger RNA levels of the substance P precursor, preprotachykinin-A, and calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA in the L4 and L5 dorsal root ganglia of control, diabetic and centrally hypoxaemic rats. There was no change in preprotachykinin-A or calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNA levels between any of the groups, suggesting that the sciatic nerve decreases in substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide described above are post-transcriptional in origin.
Stroke is the third leading cause of death in the United States, behind only heart disease and cancer. With an estimated three million survivors of stroke in the United States, the cost to society, both directly in health care and indirectly in lost income, is staggering. Despite recent advances in basic and clinical neurosciences, which have the potential to improve the treatment of acute stroke, the general approach to the acute stroke patient remains one of therapeutic nihilism. Most basic science studies show that to be effective, acute intervention to reperfuse ischemic tissue must take place within the first several hours, as is the case with ischemic myocardium. In addition, most neuroprotective agents must also be administered within a short time frame to be effective at salvaging at-risk tissue. Recent studies have suggested that the outcome after intracerebral and subarachnoid hemorrhage is improved with early intervention. However, most stroke patients fail to present to medical attention within this short &quot;window of opportunity.&quot; The public's knowledge about stroke is woefully inadequate. However, clinicians who deal with stroke can use the dramatic changes in the treatment of acute myocardial infarction over the last 2 decades as a guide for shaping changes in the management of acute stroke. Comprehensive educational efforts aimed at clinicians and the public at large have dramatically reduced the time from symptom onset to presentation and treatment for acute myocardial infarction, enabling treatment methods such as thrombolysis to be effective. The Decade of the Brain offers a unique opportunity to all concerned with the treatment of the patient with acute stroke to engage in a concerted effort to bring patients with a &quot;brain attack&quot; to specialized neurological attention within the same timeframe that the &quot;heart attack&quot; patient is handled. Such an effort is justified because, although at the present time there are few therapeutic interventions of &quot;proven&quot; value in the treatment of acute stroke, there is more than sufficient suggestive evidence that a number of approaches may be beneficial within the first few hours after the onset of the stroke.



The nervous system of the mermithid nematode Romanomermis culicivorax was investigated at different developmental stages for the distribution of the neuropeptide FMRF-amide. An FMRF-amide-like peptide was detected by an indirect immunofluorescence technique. The peptidergic nervous system increased in complexity during development. In adults, FMRF-amide-like peptide was present in the nerve ring, cephalic papillary ganglia, cephalic nerves, amphids, ganglia posterior to the nerve ring, longitudinal nerve cords and several mid-body region ganglia. The distribution of peptidergic ganglia in the tail region was different for each sex. Four clusters of ganglia were present in the tail of females, whereas such ganglia were absent in the tail of males. The results suggest that FMRF-amide-like peptide is widely distributed within the nervous system of R. culicivorax and might function as a neurohormone or neurotransmitter in controlling physiological and developmental processes.
The nervous system of the mermithid nematode Romanomermis culicivorax was investigated at different developmental stages for the distribution of catecholamine(s). The catecholaminergic nervous system increased in complexity during development. In the adult nematode, catecholamine(s) occurred in the nerve ring and associated ganglia, cephalic nerves, ventral and dorsal nerve cords and mid-body region ganglia. The distribution of catecholaminergic ganglia in the tail region was different for each sex. The tail region of males contained 16-20 catecholaminergic ganglia, whereas the tail of females contained only 2 ganglia. The catecholamine widely distributed throughout the nervous system of R. culicivorax is not dopamine, since immunoreactivity to dopamine was observed only in the amphids. The results suggest that the catecholamine(s) is widely distributed within the nervous system of R. culicivorax and might function as a neurohormone or neurotransmitter in controlling physiological and developmental processes.
A 14-year-old boy was diagnosed as having a medulloblastoma in the posterior fossa. Radiation therapy was given and the patient made a good recovery. Three months later he presented with supraclavicular lymph node metastasis, in the absence of other foci of metastases. He was treated with 60Co and the metastasis decreased. Two months later a bone scan and bone marrow aspiration showed bone metastasis. He was started on chemotherapy. The different possible mechanisms of metastasis are discussed.
Cerebral ganglia of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis were incubated in vitro in 10(-6) M ORG 2766 for 10 and 20 h, with or without regular refreshment of the medium. Quantitative ultrastructural study of cross sections of the cerebral commissure showed that the number of microtubules in large axons of all ORG 2766-treated groups had increased after 10 h by approximately 40%. In a separate experiment, central nervous systems were incubated in ORG 2766 for only 15 min and then kept in Ringer's for 9 h and 45 min. Maximal stimulation (40% increase of microtubules) in these specimens was also observed. The results would seem to support the hypothesis that ORG 2766 binds to a receptor and initiates a long-lasting effect. It is argued that ORG 2766 stimulates novel synthesis of tubulin rather than being involved in the assembly of microtubules. Also, glial cells were found to be activated by ORG 2766. This was concluded from the fact that the number of heterochromatin clumps and the size of the clumps in these cells had decreased and the amount of glial tissue surrounding the axons had increased (approximately 50%). In contrast to the activating effects of ORG 2766 on glial tissue, this drug did not affect nucleoli, number, and size of the heterochromatin clumps and the Golgi apparatus in the neuropeptidergic caudodorsal cells. The data indicate that ORG 2766 exerts differential trophic effects.
A purification scheme is described for the isolation of secretory granules containing egg-laying prohormone-related peptides from the atrial gland of Aplysia californica, an exocrine organ in the reproductive tract. Granules were purified by differential centrifugation of atrial gland homogenates followed by centrifugation on continuous Percoll-sucrose gradients. Quantitative enzyme assays in conjunction with electron microscopic analyses demonstrated that secretory granules thus isolated were significantly purified with respect to other subcellular organelles such as mitochondria and lysosomes. Immunoelectron microscopy demonstrated that the majority (approximately 85%) of the purified secretory granules were immunoreactive for A-NTP (N-terminal peptide), a cleavage product of the egg-laying prohormone-related A and A' precursors (residues 22-34). The purified granules represented an enriched source of peptides that were readily resolved by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography.
Because of the enormous growth over the last three decades of research on the role of peptides in the brain, the need became apparent to determine the status of these compounds in terms of their current research interest. Since 1965, over a quarter of a million research papers have been published on peptides that have since been classified as neuroactive. The present study was undertaken to analyze systematically the yearly trends of research emphasis in neuroactive peptides as reflected by their individual frequency of publication by year, beginning in 1966. A computer analysis of the publication characteristics was carried out using the Medline data base in which the citation search was limited to the topic brain crossed with the topic mammal. One criterion for the inclusion of a given peptide in the analysis was a frequency of 25 or more citations following its discovery, as related to the mammalian brain. The 42 peptides that met this criterion were: adrenocorticotropic hormone, angiotensin II, atrial natriuretic factor, bombesin, bradykinin, calcitonin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, carnosine, beta-casomorphin, cholecystokinin, corticotropin-releasing factor, delta sleep-inducing peptide, dynorphin, beta-endorphin, Leu-enkephalin, Met-enkephalin, galanin, gastrin, glucagon, growth hormone, growth hormone-releasing factor, insulin, kyotorphin, beta-lipotropin, luteinizing hormone-releasing factor, melanocyte-stimulating hormone release inhibitory factor-1, alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, motilin, neurokinin A, neurokinin B, neuropeptide Y, neurotensin, oxytocin, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide, peptide HI, prolactin, secretin, somatostatin, substance P, thyroid-releasing hormone, vasopressin, and vasoactive intestinal peptide. An overall analysis of the 298,105 papers published on these 42 peptides since 1965 revealed that the research activity of 24,742, or 8.30%, of the studies, focused on their neuroactive properties. Taken as a whole, the research on neuroactive peptides reached a peak in 1986, as reflected by the total of 1793 papers published during that year. Although the level of publication has fluctuated between 1548 and 1774 research papers over the last 6 years, it is now clear that the trend in research on neuroactive peptides has reached an asymptote today that shows no sign of deviation. A temporal analysis year by year of individual publication profiles revealed three distinct trends: 1) peptides showed a slow development in research interest and did not exceed more than 15-30 publications per year; 2) peptides exhibited a steady increase in research activity over the years that continues today; and 3) peptides displayed an initial, often intense, research emphasis that inexplicably declined, in some cases precipitously, in the mid 1980s.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A pharmacokinetic study was carried out to assess the bioavailability of desglycinamide-[Arg8]vasopressin (DGAVP, Org 5667). DGAVP (2 mg) was administered both intranasally and orally to healthy subjects with a treatment interval of 1 week. Blood samples were taken regularly between 15 min before and 210 min after administration and were assayed for DGAVP by radioimmunoassay. In all subjects endogenous vasopressin (AVP) levels were detectable. Peak levels of DGAVP occurred at 15 min after both treatments. The mean absorption half-life was 8.7 and 7.3 min and the mean elimination half-life was 38 and 34.6 min for the intranasal and oral route of administration, respectively. The bioavailability of orally administered DGAVP was low compared with the intranasally administered drug; the relative bioavailability of oral/nasal administration was 0.7%. The results indicate that DGAVP is absorbed rapidly after both oral and intranasal administration, but the intranasal route of administration of DGAVP is 100 times more effective in increasing plasma DGAVP levels.
The Km and Vmax values were determined for enzymes in human lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) that inactivate synthetic substance P (SP = RPKPQQFFGLM-NH2) and produce metabolic products. For the human lumbar CSF samples analyzed in this study, Km = 2.24 +/- 0.93 mM and Vmax = 0.113 +/- 0.035 nmol/ml/min (n = 10; mean +/- SEM) for the rate of decrease of SP. HPLC analysis of the incubated synthetic peptide fragments demonstrated that the primary enzymatically produced fragment is SP(3-11), with minor amounts in decreasing order of SP(1-4), SP(1-7), and SP(1-9). Electrospray ionization mass spectrometry (ESI-MS) confirmed the appropriate molecular weights for the four peptides, SP(3-11), SP(1-4), SP(1-7), and SP(1-9). These data demonstrate that the primary enzyme in human lumbar CSF that acts on synthetic SP is a post-proline cleaving enzyme (PPCE).
A study is reported of human binocular rivalry and fusion over a range of luminances from scotopic to photopic. At scotopic light levels, rivalry alternations were very slow and complete. Suppression spread over much larger areas of the visual field than at photopic light levels. As luminances decreased from photopic to scotopic levels there was a rod-cone break for binocular rivalry. Mean suppression durations became abruptly greater as light levels dropped below those allowing the cones to be active. Horizontal disparities allowing fusion were 4 to 6 times greater at scotopic than at photopic light levels. Binocular vision at scotopic luminances was sluggish and of low resolution. It is as though connections to, and within, binocular vision are changed when light levels allow only rod input.

Reactive gliosis has been considered to be the major cause of regenerative failure of the mature mammalian central nervous system (CNS). It is classically defined by increased glial fibrillary acidic protein expression. However, the response to injury is not uniform throughout the CNS. This heterogeneity is becoming more apparent as other markers for reactive astrocytes emerge from recent studies. These molecules may be more relevant markers of the functional state of reactive astrocytes and may help us understand the events leading to failure of regeneration in the CNS.
The vertebrate spinal cord is comprised of a complex array of different populations of neurons and axon tracts. Recent studies suggest that this complex neuronal cytoarchitecture is complemented by a similarly complex glial cytoarchitecture. Cultures of neonatal rat spinal cord contain multiple different classes of astrocytes. These distinct classes of astrocytes have particular morphologies and arise from separate precursors that proliferate in response to different mitogens. It seems likely that the individual classes of astrocytes will have regional localization and will be involved in specific functions in the intact spinal cord. In contrast to the significant diversity seen among astrocytes, spinal cord oligodendrocytes in the embryonic animal appear to be a relatively homogenous population of cells that proliferates in response to known growth factors at particular stages of maturation. An important future challenge in glial cell biology is to define clearly the functional roles of individual populations of astrocytes in the developing adult, and injured spinal cord. Such information may ultimately lead to the ability to modulate astrocytic function at a cellular level during aberrant development and following injury to the adult spinal cord.
The initial step in the recognition of odors occurs when individual odorant molecules enter the nasal cavity and interact with the sensory endings of neurons located in the olfactory epithelium. These neurons are unique in several respects. First, they are directly accessible to the external environment. Second, perhaps because of their exposure to toxic substances in the environment, they degenerate and are replenished continuously from a population of stem cells at the base of the epithelium. Third, the sensory neurons born in the olfactory epithelium of adults retain the ability to differentiate and establish synaptic contact with target cells in the mature olfactory bulb. These unique features, which are conserved phylogenetically (for example, see Blaustein et al), provide substantial rationale for studying neuronal genesis and differentiation in the olfactory epithelium. We will summarize much of what is currently known about the development of the olfactory epithelium, the birth and differentiation of olfactory receptor neurons, and the molecular correlates of these events.
The adult mammalian brain is a remarkably heterogeneous structure comprised of more than 50 biochemically distinct types of neurons. This phenotypic diversity is established during development, not only as the result of genetic but also epigenetic influences. It is believed that extracellular proteins, called differentiation factors, both instruct neurons in their original choice of neurotransmitter substance and, in certain situations, revise those biochemical decisions. The first candidate differentiation factor in the brain has only recently been proposed. This muscle-derived substance has the unique ability, in culture, to initiate expression of genes associated with catecholamine transmitter synthesis in non-catecholamine neurons of the brain. Because it also amplifies expression in cultured catecholamine-producing neurons in vitro and in vivo, it may prove to be an important therapeutic agent in diseases involving catecholamine shortages.
Intracerebroventricular administration to mice of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine at a dose of 300 micrograms resulted in convulsive behaviour and death (latency 7.6 +/- 1.7 min.). Pretreatment with dizocilpine or chlormethiazole resulted in a dose dependent inhibition of the convulsive behaviour. A dose of dizocilpine of 0.12 mumol/kg or chlormethiazole at a dose of 150 mumol/kg prevented seizures for 30 min. Injection of 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine (75 micrograms, intracerebroventricularly) produced an approximate 50% neurotoxic loss of cerebral 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) and its metabolite 5-hydroxyindole acetic acid (5-HIAA) 8 days later. This loss was not prevented by administration of either dizocilpine (4.5 mumol/kg intraperitoneally) or chlormethiazole (300 mumol/kg intraperitoneally) given 5 min. before and 55 min. after the 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine injection. It is proposed that chlormethiazole and dizocilpine may protect against 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine-induced seizures because of their anticonvulsant activity, but that they do not prevent the neurotoxic effects of the compound. The data also suggest that the neurotoxic effects of substituted amphetamines such as 3,4-methylene dioxymethamphetamine (MDMA or Ecstasy) do not result from the formation of a 5,7-dihydroxytryptamine like compound.
The PC is and will remain a basic instrument in the laboratory arsenal in the next few years. The key role of the IBM PC and its clones prompted us to develop a universal multifunctional I/O board (UNIMUL) for this computer. The board will make it possible to use the IBM PC for a wide range of tasks from a simple interface for laboratory processing of data to complex IBM PC-based instruments, e.g. a stimulator, signal analyzer, chart recorder. The present article summarizes the experience gathered during the design and application of the described I/O board in more than 10 different IBM PC-based laboratory and clinical systems listed in the Appendix. An example of the application of the I/O board is presented in the conclusion of this report together with the discussion of the future role of new Application-Specific Integration Circuits (ASICs) and single chip processors in this domain.
In this review we examined the emerging science of deterministic chaos (nonlinear systems theory) and its application to selected physiological systems. Although many of the popular images of fractals represent fascination and beauty that by analogy corresponds to nature as we see it, the question remains as to its ultimate meaning for physiological processes. It was our intent to help clarify this somewhat popular, somewhat obscure area of nonlinear dynamics in the context of an ever-changing procedural base. We examined not only the basic concepts of chaos, but also its applications ranging from observations in single cells to the complexity of the EEG. We have not suggested that nonlinear dynamics will answer all of our questions; however, we did attempt to illustrate ways in which this approach may help us to answer new questions and to rearticulate old ones. Chaos is revolutionary in that the overall approach requires us to adopt a different frame of reference which, at times, may move us away from previous concerns and methods of data analysis. In sections I-IV, we summarized the nonlinear dynamics approach and described its application to physiology and neural systems. First, we presented a general overview of the application of nonlinear dynamical techniques to neural systems. We discussed the manner in which even apparently simple deterministic systems can behave in an unpredictable manner. Second, we described the principles of nonlinear dynamical systems including the derived analytical techniques. We now see a variety of procedures for delineating whether frenetic chaotic behavior results from a nonlinear dynamical system with a few degrees of freedom, or whether it is caused by an infinite number of variables, i.e., noise. Third, we approached the applications of nonlinear procedures to the cardiovascular systems and to the neurosciences. In terms of time series, we described initial studies which applied the now &quot;traditional&quot; measures of dimensionality (e.g., based on the algorithm by Grassberger and Procaccia) and information change (e.g., Lyapunov exponents). Examples include our own work and that of Pritchard et al., demonstrating that the dynamics of neural mass activity reflect psychopathological states. Today, however, the trend has expanded to include the use of surrogate data and statistical null hypotheses testing to examine whether a given time series can be considered different from that of white or colored noise (cf. Ref. 262). One of the most important potential applications is that of quantifying changes in nonlinear dynamics to predict future states of the system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

This paper presents a performance metric which uses a single number to characterize the response time for a non-deterministic client-server application operating over the Internet. When applied to a Macintosh-based distance learning application called the Digital Anatomist Browser, the metric allowed us to observe that &quot;A typical student doing a typical mix of Browser commands on a typical data set will experience the same delay if they use a slow Macintosh on a local network or a fast Macintosh on the other side of the country accessing the data over the Internet.&quot; The methodology presented is applicable to other client-server applications that are rapidly appearing on the Internet.














The aim of this overview is to present evidence that local neuronal networks (LNNs) are functionally organized in such a way that they behave as dynamic non-linear systems that can exhibit multiple types of attractor and can present bifurcations between different attractors, depending on control parameters. To begin with, some of the theoretical concepts of non-linear dynamics and chaos are briefly presented. As a case study, we described the CA1 area of the hippocampus and the changes that the corresponding LNNs undergo during kindling epileptogenesis. During epileptic seizures, evidence exists for the presence of low-dimensional chaos, since the correlation dimension estimated from the corresponding EEG signals decreases dramatically from a large value, characteristic of the resting state, to a low value typical of deterministic chaos. We propose that, among other things, an important control parameter of the dynamics of this brain area is the balance between excitatory (E) and inhibitory (I) processes. We assume that this balance can be experimentally estimated by using a paired-pulse paradigm. Accordingly, we demonstrate that the paired-pulse response changes during kindling epileptogenesis in the sense that the E/I ratio increases in the course of the establishment of a kindled epileptogenic focus. This change in E/I leads to a shift in the operating point of the LNN moving it close to a bifurcation where a rapid state change takes place. In this way, the LNN dynamics can change more readily to the basin of attraction of a chaotic attractor than under normal conditions. This is in essence what makes the behavior of the LNN more sensitive to tetanus, and predicts the facilitated occurrence of epileptic seizures during kindling.










The author point out the possibility of joint consideration of different psychological theories, neurophysiology and computer science to grasp better understanding of the brain. He propose the scheme supporting the trail of the synthesis. The synthesis indicates remedial measures against the hate causing war by ideological reasons.
This article, based more on speculation than on clinical work, aims at clarifying the nature of child autistic syndromes using two elements: epigenetic findings concerning the construction of human brain and the idea that there is a self-organizing development and functioning of the living. First initiated by H. Atlan (1979) and A. Bourguignon (1981), this approach could lead to a fruitful understanding of autistic disturbances, both consistent with developmental neurobiology and psychodynamics. This approach integrates clinical, paraclinical, follow-up and experimental data related to these disturbances. It also might lead to new therapeutic approaches which we are in the process of investigating.
The cytochrome P450 mono-oxygenases are a group of enzymes that metabolize a variety of exogenous and endogenous compounds, some of which are potentially toxic. Individual variations in the metabolism of potential toxins could influence susceptibility to disorders having genetic and environmental components, such as schizophrenia. The frequency of two common mutant alleles of the gene for the cytochrome P450 enzyme debrisoquine-4-hydroxylase (CYP2D6) was determined in 264 Caucasian schizophrenic patients and 217 controls, using the polymerase chain reaction and restriction enzyme digestions. The patient and control samples showed no significant deviation from Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium and the frequency of each mutant allele (CYP2D6A and CYP2D6B) did not differ between patients and controls.
According to this model, the dynamic unconscious is a nonaccommodating schema consisting of the unmastered painful residues of childhood and subsequent experience assimilated to it. The assimilation of persons from current life into the roles originally created by important childhood figures accounts for repetition phenomena and transference. Advantages over the structural model include internal consistency, absence of highly abstract concepts, and the clear place given unconscious fantasy. The role of perception, badly handled by the structural model, is made clear. An illustrative case is described and the compatibility of the model with neuroscience and psychodynamic research findings is explored.
Displacement is a defense mechanism employed by many other defenses and has a different role from all the other defenses. Locating conflicts in a new situation, displacement attempts to find new solutions. Dis-placement often is a re-placement unless it is part of the repetition-compulsion pattern. The paper explores the technical implications that demand special recognition of displacement beyond the usual analysis of the defenses. References are made to new research in the neurosciences.
Peripheral administration of endotoxin induces brain-mediated responses, including activation of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and changes in thermoregulation. This paper reviews the mechanisms by which endotoxin affects these responses. The effects on thermoregulation are complex and include macrophage-dependent hyperthermic and hypothermic responses. Low doses of endotoxin, given IP, activate peripheral macrophages to produce interleukin (IL)-1 beta, which enters the circulation and acts as a hormonal signal. IL-1 may pass fenestrated endothelium in the median eminence to stimulate corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) secretion from the CRH nerve-terminals. In addition, IL-1 may activate brain endothelial cells to produce IL-1, IL-6, prostaglandins, etc., and secrete these substances into the brain. By paracrine actions, these substances may affect neurons (e.g., CRH neurons) or act on microglial cells, which show IL-1-induced IL-1 production and therefore amplify and prolong the intracerebral IL-1 signal. In contrast, high doses of endotoxin given i.v. may directly stimulate endothelial cells to produce IL-1, IL-6, and prostaglandin-E2 (PGE2) and thereby activate the HPA axis in a macrophage-independent manner.
Adrenaline, which is secreted from the adrenal medulla during stress, is considered to be involved in the control of inflammation and immune responses. Therefore, we studied the effects of adrenaline on the plasma levels of one of the major pro-inflammatory cytokines, interleukin-6 (IL-6). Here we describe that in rats, SC administration of adrenaline induces a dose-dependent increase in plasma IL-6 concentrations, reaching its maximum after 2 h. In addition, intravenous (IV) infusion of adrenaline in a dose resulting in circulating adrenaline concentrations similar to those observed during stress, enhanced heart rate and increased plasma IL-6 concentrations. The increase in plasma IL-6 in response to adrenaline given by subcutaneous (SC) route and by IV infusion could be blocked by the beta-adrenergic receptor antagonist l-propranolol but not by d-propranolol. Based on these data we conclude that under physiological conditions circulating adrenaline may be involved in the control of IL-6 production, and thereby may modulate inflammatory responses.
We examined the effect of bromocriptine (BCR) treatment on the duration and severity of neurological symptoms of acute experimental allergic encephalomyelitis (EAE), an animal model for demyelinating diseases, particularly multiple sclerosis. To mimic the clinical situation, BCR treatment was started after the onset of clinical signs. Furthermore, the effect of BCR treatment on the course of a chronic relapsing form of EAE was studied. BCR was injected at daily intervals in a dose that resulted in sustained suppression of plasma concentrations of prolactin, a pituitary hormone that plays a role in immunoregulation. In acute EAE, BCR therapy reduced both severity and duration of the clinical signs. In chronic relapsing EAE, BCR treatment did not affect the severity and duration of the first attack, but reduced the duration of the subsequent, second attack. Thus, BCR treatment improves the clinical course in animals with ongoing disease. These findings may have implications for the search for new therapeutic approaches in multiple sclerosis.
Hypothalamic circuits utilizing the monoamine neurotransmitter norepinephrine (NE) may be key elements upon which the ovarian steroids estradiol (E2) and progesterone (P) act to regulate female reproductive behavior. Recent studies have focused on the modulation of hypothalamic NE release by E2 and P treatments that facilitate sexual behavior. Brain microdialysis studies suggest that oxytocin, a neuropeptide known to enhance lordosis when infused into the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH) of E2 + P-primed females, modulates NE release in the VMH. Systemic administration of oxytocin reliably enhances extracellular NE levels in the VMH of animals primed with moderate doses of both E2 and P. Thus, ovarian steroids may facilitate female sexual behavior in part by promoting oxytocin-induced NE release in the VMH. Studies examining the release of 3H-NE from superfused hypothalamic slices indicate that estrogen treatment also facilitates NE neurotransmission by attenuating alpha 2-adrenergic receptor-mediated inhibition of NE release. Hypothalamic alpha 2-adrenergic receptors are not downregulated by estrogen, suggesting that brain adrenoceptor function can be modulated by E2 independent of changes in receptor density. A model is proposed wherein E2 and P enhance hypothalamic NE release, leading to increased excitability of VMH neuronal activity and the expression of lordosis behavior.
An understanding of brain development and brain function at the level of the genome is developing rapidly, because of the availability of new technologies in molecular and cellular biology. This understanding can be further enhanced by an interactive exchange between the disciplines of behavioural neuroscience and molecular genetics. New genes are being cloned almost daily, but their function remains an enigma. The purpose of this review is to illustrate how reporter genes can be used to map the brain's genetic activity in developmental time and anatomical space. The production of mutants in the homozygous condition may further lead to a morphological or behavioural phenotype. A knowledge of behavioural neuroscience can provide a prescreen of the reporter distribution and thereby make predictions concerning the type of behavioural analysis required. This approach allows selective cloning and sequencing of those genes which have either a morphological or behavioural phenotype but are transcribed at low levels. It is known that genomic imprinting influences brain development, and also that human genetic mutations and deletions influence imprinting in mental retardation as well as certain behavioural disorders. Precisely how such imprinted genes influence brain development and behaviour is being pursued by the use of chimeras. The distribution of maternal or paternal disomy cells in the brain and the way they influence behaviour may reveal the phenotype and how this is brought about.
The delusional misidentification syndromes are characterized by a belief in duplicates and replacements. They can be classified as forms of reduplication expressed in the modalities of person, place, time and event, objects, parts of the body and the self. Common features are selectivity, coexistence of forms, intact recognition and faulty identification, depersonalization, and symbolic representation of the patient's feelings, experiences and problems. A neural substrate of altered connectivity of multimodal cortical association areas and paralimbic and limbic structures resulting in a cognitive-perceptual-affective dissonance is suggested.
The phenomenon of &quot;one-trial tolerance&quot; to the effects of chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride (CDP) in the elevated plus maze was re-examined. Unlike previous experiments, pre-exposure to the maze resulted in habituation and a consequential reduction in time spent on the open arms. The habituation effect was measured by recording the actual distance travelled by the rats in the maze and this was found to be significantly reduced by pre-exposure. Pre-exposure to the maze in the presence of CDP resulted in a reduced response to its &quot;anxiolytic-like&quot; effects (increasing time on the open arms compared to vehicle control rats). However, although the time spent on the open arms was reduced by pre-exposure, CDP significantly increased the time spent on the open arms by rats pre-exposed under a non-drugged state. These results suggest that rats do not become tolerant to the effects of CDP, but rather the reduced response to CDP after pre-exposure is due to habituation of exploratory behaviour.
The effect of isradipine, a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist, on cocaine intravenous self-administration in rats was investigated. Administration of (+/-)isradipine (1.25-5 mg/kg SC) 2 h before the cocaine self-administration session induced a significant and dose-dependent increase in the number of cocaine injections with respect to basal values. This effect was stereospecific, with the (+) form of isradipine being active, while the (-) stereoisomer was ineffective. These results suggest that isradipine antagonizes the rewarding properties of cocaine, possibly by inhibiting those dopaminergic systems related to reward mechanisms. These results further indicate a possible use of isradipine, or structurally similar compounds, in the treatment of cocaine related disorders.
Previous studies have shown that administration of 5-HT1B, 5-HT1C or 5-HT2 agonists decreases food intake in rats. However, it has not been established whether these drugs induce satiety or decrease feeding by a non-specific mechanism. In the present study the post-prandial satiety sequence was used to characterise the actions of the 5-HT2 receptor agonist, 1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI), the 5-HT1B/5-HT1C receptor agonists, 1-(3-chorophenyl) piperazine (mCPP) and 1-[3-(trifluoromethyl)phenyl] piperazine (TFMPP), and the 5-HT1B agonist, 5-methoxy-3-(1,2,3,6-tetrahydro-4-pyridinyl)H-indole (RU 24969), on feeding in rats. All four compounds reduced food intake in rats that had been food deprived overnight. The 5-HT1B/5-HT1C agonists, TFMPP (at a dose of 1.0 mg/kg) and mCPP (at a dose of 3.0 mg/kg), appeared to produce satiety as their effects on the satiety sequence were similar to those induced by a food pre-load. In contrast, the 5-HT1B agonist RU 24969 and the 5-HT2 agonist DOI did not produce behavioural profiles that resembled satiety. Thus, RU 24969 elevated active behaviours and did not accelerate resting whereas DOI appeared to induce hypophagia by a non-specific fragmentation of behaviour. The results suggest that simultaneous activation of 5-HT1B and 5-HT1C receptors may be sufficient to elicit behaviourally specific satiety in the rat. In contrast, selective activation of 5-HT2 receptors does not induce satiety but elicits active behaviours and decreases feeding by response competition.
Four experiments compared the CNS effects of a novel M1/M3 receptor agonist L-689,660 with those of the M1/M3 muscarinic receptor agonist AF102B. In the mouse tail-flick test of antinociception (TF) the minimum effective doses to increase tail-flick latency (MED) of L-689,660 and AF102B were 0.03 mg/kg and 10.0 mg/kg, respectively. In a rat conditioned-suppression-of-drinking (CSD) test of reference memory, doses of 0.3 and 1.0 mg/kg L-689,660 and a dose of 5.0 mg/kg AF102B reversed a scopolamine-induced deficit in performance (0.6 mg/kg). Although there was a tendency for L-689,660 to reverse the scopolamine-induced (0.4 mg/kg) performance deficit in a rat delayed-matching-to-position (DMTP) test, the difference failed to reach statistical significance. In contrast, a 5.0 mg/kg dose of AF102B potentiated the scopolamine-induced deficit in choice accuracy and the number of trials completed on this task. In a response sensitivity (RS) test, chain-pulling rates were significantly decreased by L-689,660 (MED = 0.03 mg/kg) and by AF102B (MED = 5.0 mg/kg). These results suggest that L-689,660 and AF102B may ameliorate or reverse a scopolamine-induced deficit, but only at doses that also reduce chain-pulling rates on operant schedules of reinforcement.

We used double-immunolabelling with various size gold particles in label-fracture replicas to gain information on the subunit composition of GABAA receptors in clusters located in the plasma membrane of cultured cerebellar granule cells. We hypothesize that if two subunits colocalize in the same GABAA receptor, the density of the label of any given subunit decreases when another subunit of the same receptor complex is prelabelled with an antibody linked to a gold particle of larger size. Following this hypothesis, the interpretation of our results allows to suggest that a consistent receptor colocalization of beta 2/3 with alpha 1 or alpha 6 subunits may be operative in cerebellar granule cells. The decrease in the density of the second labelling in double-labelling experiments using the alpha 1 and gamma 2 antibodies suggests that these subunits colocalize in the same receptor complex, this may be also true for the alpha 6 and gamma 2 subunits. When one prelabels the delta subunit the intensity of labelling of the alpha 1 subunit fails to change but that of the alpha 6 subunit decreases significantly, suggesting a consistent colocalization of alpha 6 and delta but not of alpha 1 and delta. Finally, when one prelabels the alpha 1 subunit the intensity of labelling for the alpha 6 subunit fails to change, suggesting that these subunits do not colocalize in the same receptor complex. We conclude that in the GABAA receptors expressed in granule cells the alpha 1 subunit is preferentially colocalized with the beta 2-3 and gamma 2 subunits, while the alpha 6 subunit is preferentially colocalized with the beta 2-3 and either the delta or the gamma 2 subunit. This conclusion is supported by parallel experiments in which the sequence of labelling is inverted.
We examined the role of two invariant cysteines, one in S2 and one in S6, of the voltage-gated K+ channel Kv2.1 (DRK1) by site-directed mutagenesis and subsequent channel expression in Xenopus oocytes. Despite the conserved nature of the side chain, substitutions in S2 were generally tolerated. Fourteen of 17 substitutions for Cys 232 in S2 resulted in voltage-sensitive K(+)-selective channels, for the most part with minor changes in voltage dependence and channel kinetics. In contrast, only 7 of 19 substitutions for Cys 393 in S6 preserved channel function. Furthermore, the side chain at this position influenced deactivation kinetics, inactivation kinetics, and ion-permeation properties. The chemical nature but not the volume of the side chain governed the rate constants of deactivation and inactivation. In contrast, changes of the volume of the side chain but not of its chemical properties correlated with changes in ion conductance. Our results indicate that the side chain at position 393 in S6 is involved in conformational changes during transitions between open and closed states and that it also contributes to the control of ion permeation.
A human brain alpha 1 Ca2+ channel subunit was cloned and expressed in Xenopus laevis oocytes. The open reading frame, encoding 2,312 amino acids, has high homology to the marine ray doe-1, the rat E-type, and the rabbit brain BII alpha 1 subunits. The amino and carboxy termini of this human.E-type alpha 1 subunit (alpha 1E) are most similar to the rabbit BII-1 splice variant, the remainder being colinear with the BII alpha 1 with the exception of two insertions, one of 43 amino acids in the C-terminus and another of 7 amino acids, found also in the rat alpha 1E, between domains II and III. Two potential Ca2+ binding sites are predicted from its primary structure. The expression of inward Ba2+ currents reveals voltage-dependent activation and inactivation measured by the cut-open oocyte vaseline-gap technique, with kinetics that correspond to that of a high-voltage-activated neuronal Ca2+ channel, and pharmacologic properties that resemble those of some low-voltage-activated neuronal Ca2+ currents. The human alpha 1E currents are insensitive to omega-conotoxin-GVIA (1 microM), omega-agatoxin-IVA (200 nM), a synthetic funnel web spider toxin (FTX, 20 microM), and Bay-K8644 (0.5 microM); they are inhibited 20% by high concentrations of methoxyverapamil and diltiazem, 65% by 0.1% crude funnel web spider venom and 100% by Ni2+ (IC50 = 30 nM). Single-channel records show a complex activity pattern with several apparent conductance states, the largest having a conductance of 14 pS.


Following unilateral injury to the forelimb-representation area of the sensorimotor cortex (FL-SMC) in adult rats, there occurs a biphasic process of overgrowth and partial elimination of neuronal dendrites in layer V pyramidal cells of the homotopic cortex of the opposite hemisphere. These neural events are associated with hyper-reliance on the non-impaired forelimb for postural-supporting and related movements that compensate for impaired function in the other forelimb. The overgrowth appears to be use-dependent because it can be prevented by one-sleeve casts that restrict the range of movements of the unimpaired limb during the period of expected neural growth. In development, &quot;exuberant&quot; growth of neurons is often followed by pruning, a process that has been associated with activity-dependency and a glutamatergic N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) mechanism. To determine whether a related mechanism might be operating in adult animals recovering from brain damage, MK-801, a non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist, was administered during the pruning phase in adult rats that had sustained FL-SMC lesions. MK-801 prevented the elimination of dendrites in the FL-SMC rats and had no effect on dendritic arborization in Sham-operated rats. MK-801 reinstated dysfunction in the previously-recovered forelimb in FL-SMC rats, and had no effect in Sham-operated rats. These data are consistent with the possibility that there may be a functionally important pruning mechanism with a glutamatergic component in adults with FL-SMC lesions, just as in the developing brain.
Norepinephrine (NE) has been implicated in cerebral plasticity and recovery of function after brain injury. To examine the status of noradrenergic mechanisms in the brain following traumatic brain injury (TBI), male Sprague-Dawley rats underwent right sensorimotor cortex contusions and were observed for the next 30 days for recovery of motor function by measurement of the time taken to perform a modified beam walking task! At 30 days, their brains were assayed by receptor autoradiography for r- and 2-adrenoceptor binding with 1 nM [3H]prazosin and 1 nM [3H]paraminoclonidine, respectively. One day after contusion, TBI rats took 60% longer to run the beam than sham-lesioned controls. Run times were directly proportional (r = 0.784; P = 0.012) to lesion volume determined at 30 days. The motor deficit persisted for 8 days, after which TBI and control rats had similar run times, largely due to increased run times in sham rats. At 30 days, TBI rats had a generalized, bilateral decrease in [3H]prazosin binding across all brain areas read (F[l,13] = 9.23; P = 0.009) with specific 12%-21% decreases in the cortex contralateral to the lesion and bilaterally in the dorsomedial hypothalamic and three thalamic nuclei. On the other hand, [3H]paraminoclonidine binding did not differ from sham lesion controls in any brain area of TBI rats. Thus, unilateral TBI is followed by widespread, bilateral changes in 1-adrenoceptor binding which would leave the animal vulnerable to any factors which reduced the access of NE to its postsynaptic adrenoceptors. This is compatible with the observation that 1-antagonists and 2-agonists can transiently reinstate the motor deficit after recovery has occurred.
In previous 'short-term' (2 to 7 months) experiments, we had demonstrated, in the adult rat, that motoneurons of the injured cervical spinal cord could extend lengthy axons into an autologous peripheral nerve segment which was connected to a nearby denervated skeletal muscle. In addition, we had shown that new functional motor endplates were formed by these axons both at the original sites of innervation and at ectopic locations of the denervated muscle. This substitution motor system, although quite functional, was anatomically very different from the original model of innervation in the intact animal, relating to its motoneuronal pool, the course of its motor axons and the sites of terminal innervation. The present 'long-term' (11 to 21 months) experiments demonstrate the anatomical and functional permanency of the new motor circuitry, despite a lack of strict specificity in the new neuromuscular connections. However, some minor modifications or adjustments were observed with time: (i) the maintenance of functional ectopic endplates could be consistently demonstrated, while functional reinnervated endplates at the initial sites of innervation were rare or even lacking; (ii) there was a definitive withdrawal of all non target-specific regenerated axons from the vicinity of the muscle. It is now necessary to address the question to what extent this substitution motor system is actually controlled by central and/or peripheral inputs.
Solid grafts of E12 embryonic spinal ventral horn were transplanted into motoneuron-depleted adult lumbar spinal cord in the rat. A muscle was implanted parallel to the vertebral column with its nerve inserted into the lumbar cord at the site of transplantation so as to provide a target for innervation by the grafted neurons. Previous retrograde labelling studies have shown that modest numbers of grafted motoneuron-like cells participate in the muscle's reinnervation and these are often found outside the graft within the host spinal cord. However, Nissl stained sections show that larger numbers of neurons survive within tissue recognisable as being of graft origin. In this study we have examined the expression of acetylcholinesterase (AChE) and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) by neurons within the graft. These enzymes are involved in cholinergic neurotransmission and are characteristic of motoneurons. Thirty-four to seventy days following transplantation the grafts contained numerous neurons with acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity. Different patterns of AChE staining were observed which probably reflected the degree of differentiation and maturation within the graft. AChE positive neurons were found in isolation or in groups resembling developing motor pools. Most of the AChE-positive neurons appeared immature with scant cytoplasm. However, neurons could be found which appeared relatively mature with a regularly shaped nucleus, prominent nucleolus and Nissl bodies. The grafts contained few AChE-positive axons and no dense plexuses of varicose fibres around the neurons such as are found around motoneurons in the mature ventral horn. Comparisons between the size of AChE-positive neurons in the graft and the size of AChE-positive neurons in the developing ventral horn found that the size of grafted neurons to be intermediate between the sizes of spinal motoneurons at E19 and P0. Far fewer grafted neurons were found to be immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) than histochemically reactive for AChE. This was consistent with our findings in the spinal cord during normal development where we found that fixation and staining procedures which labelled adult motoneurons failed to reliably demonstrate ChAT immunoreactivety in normal motoneurons prenatally, although AChE histochemical reactivity could be demonstrated as early as E16. We conclude that the grafts contain numbers of immature motoneurons which fail to proceed beyond a certain stage of development, perhaps because of a failure to form appropriate efferent and afferent connections.
GM1 ganglioside (monosialoganglioside) is a significant endogenous component of central nervous system (CNS) cellular membranes, thereby contributing to the membranes' integrity and function. Exogenous gangliosides have been shown to be incorporated into plasma membranes and can exert neuroprotective effects on damaged neuronal tissue(s). An in vitro method of physical injury (trauma) previously described which used cultures derived from fetal mouse spinal cord [38] was adapted for these studies in order for us to assess GMl's neuroprotective efficacy. Injury was induced by uniformly crosshatching the spinal cell cultures with a 1 mm plastic pipette tip. The extent of injury and the effects of GM1 ganglioside posttreatment (80 M) was assessed after 48 h by measuring lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) released and by observing changes in the plasma membrane surface distribution of endogenous GM1 using cholera toxin/antitoxin/fluorescent antibody immunohistochemistry. A gradient of injury, from the zone of maximum injury to partially traumatized or non-injured areas, was seen using immunohistochemistry. The primary injury zone in this gradient was characterized by areas of swollen or dead cells and abnormal or degenerating cell processes. At further distances, cells were observed to be nearly normal, with intact fibers. This gradient of injury may reflect proximate (at the locus of trauma) and distant effects of the release of neurotoxic levels of endogenous glutamate (Glu) and other excitatory amino acids. Ganglioside GM1 treatment resulted in a significantly reduced (&gt;75%) release of LDH as well as enhanced cell and process integrity indicative of reduced tissue injury. These initial results indicate that GMl's previously documented neuroprotective effects using neuronal culture systems can be generalized to injured spinal cells in vitro wherein there is evidence for preservation (rescue) of cellular plasma membranes after injury as reflected by reduced cell loss, swelling, and process degeneration, as well as decreased LDH release.
Immunological reactions after intracerebroventricular syn-, allo- and xenogenic transplantation of adrenal medulla were investigated histologically. In xenografts only, T cell infiltration and graft rejection were observed. Syngrafts and allografts were not rejected and were not infiltrated by T cells, although expression of MHC class II antigen was observed at all survival times. Major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I immunoreactivity was strongly expressed in adrenal cortex syngrafts, which could play a role in the rejection of grafts containing mixed cell populations. The survival of chromaffin cells in allografts was decreased as compared to syngrafts, and there were fewer allograft animals with large numbers of surviving chromaffin cells. There was some increased cellularity (microglia and macrophages) in allografts even though no T cell infiltration was found. Therefore, it appears that this limited survival of intracerebral adrenal medulla allografts is not due to T cell-mediated graft rejection.

Many neurobiologists remain reluctant concerning the perspectives of a fruitful dialogue between psychoanalysis and neurosciences. Our attempt aims to underline the impact of recent neurophysiological and psychophysiological data on a scientific foundation of the three basic components of psychoanalysis: unconsciousness, sexuality and dreams. The psychoanalytical and the neuroscientific theory and practice of the posttraumatic stress disorders and of the stress concept are also discussed.
Computer network hardware and communication protocols are commonplace. Commercially available nuclear medicine computer systems lag behind in their support of network standards. Network hardware and software are mature and stable technologies available for all computers and operating systems. Networks make it practical to optimize the configuration of each computer to a particular task, such as acquiring, processing, viewing, or storing data. This distribution of functions has proven to be economical and operationally robust. It is reasonable to expect that within the next few years, all commercially available computer systems for nuclear medicine will provide the software and hardware support that will make networking computers within a department a practical way of sharing the computational resources of the department.
This article reviews a symposium on the sensory control of movement held at the 22nd annual meeting of the Society for Neuroscience. Four speakers addressed a large audience on the proposition that &quot;one can only control what one senses.&quot; Charles Vierck supported the notion with a description of the severe motor deficits caused by lesions of the spinal dorsal columns (DCs) in monkeys. In the discussion of Vierck's presentation, Robert Forget described the difficulties experienced by deafferented patients in tasks of daily life. Next, John Brooke showed that sensorimotor transformations vary greatly with task, anticipation, and uncertainty. In light of this, he questioned the simplifications inherent in servo and equilibrium-point theories of motor control. Paul Cordo then showed that in a rapid throwing task, proprioceptive information is used to control the moment of release (contradicting the idea that sensory feedback is too delayed for ballistic movements). Dick Burgess, like Brooke, criticized equilibrium-point models; he argued that a subject's sense of effort is a measure of the internal motor command, which should correspond to specific equilibrium points. However, his experimental data were inconsistent with this interpretation. He suggested instead that motor output is adjusted by comparing incoming afferent information to an expected &quot;afferent template.&quot; Anatol Feldman and Mark Latash disagreed, saying that a constant sense of effort does not imply a constant equilibrium-point command. The equilibrium-point debate was not resolved, but the symposium ended with a consensus that in most motor tasks, one can control only what one senses.
The evoked potential (EP) over primary somatosensory cortex (SI) was monitored before and after a complete lesion of the primate dorsal column (DC) pathway on one side. The EP was elicited by electrocutaneous or mechanical stimulation of either foot, and was recorded from the contralateral cortical surface for periods of up to 3 months after the lesion. The amplitudes of the three major peaks (P20, N50, and P90) of the cortical somatosensory EP were significantly reduced following interruption of the contralateral DC. Over weeks following the lesion, there was a significant increase in amplitude of the P90 component of the EP that was not evident in the other peaks. The postlesion increases in P90 amplitude were correlated with improved performance on a task that required grasping with either foot, suggesting that behavioral recovery from a DC lesion results in part from neural plasticity, as opposed to a simple relearning of the task.
Adult mammalian primary afferent neurogenesis implies considerably more plasticity for the adult nervous system than is presently envisioned. One hypothesis is that such neurogenesis does not occur, because no tritiated-thymidine-labeled or mitosing neurons are observed in adults, and no increase in cells can be found in young as compared to old adults. The other hypothesis is that adult primary afferent neurogenesis does occur, but that it has not been observed because it is correlated with changes in the size of the animals. This has not been tested, and because of the implications of adult neurogenesis, it is important to see whether dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cell numbers increase with animal size. This is particularly pertinent because of recent advances in the technology for counting neurons and improved methods for resolving the cells in question. The present results indicate that DRG cell numbers are approximately the same in animals whose sizes are different by a factor of approximately 5. Thus our data are consistent with the hypothesis that numbers of adult DRG cells are stable, and we cannot demonstrate a change in relation to age or body size in our animals. Therefore, we do not find evidence of adult neurogenesis in our animals.

A traditional approach to the problem of human object recognition is to assume that the visual system represents an object in terms of invariant quantities. This study considers a generalization of this approach to the problem of visually recognizing differences in shape, specifically between contour markings on a planar surface, as the position of the surface varies in space. For a given 'shape cue', perceived differences in contour may be quantified by threshold values--Weber fractions--at a particular criterion level of performance. A necessary theoretical condition for the Weber fraction to be constant with the relative viewpoint of the observer is that the cue should be a relative invariant under the natural spatial transformations of the image. Some data are reviewed showing how statistically efficient some cues are in explaining the observed discriminability of symmetric curved contours at a fixed criterion performance level of 75%. A new, fuller analysis is presented showing that the efficiency of the most efficient cue satisfying the invariance condition is maintained over a wide range of criterion performance levels, from 53% to 92% correct, corresponding to discrimination index values of 0.1 to 2.0. Over these levels, Weber's law was found empirically to hold almost exactly.

In animal models of Parkinson's disease (PD), it is postulated that the excessive output from the subthalamic nucleus (STN) plays a critical role. Selective lesions or high frequency electrical stimulation of the STN can alleviate parkinsonian symptoms in MPTP-treated monkeys. We decided to carry out STN stimulation in patients suffering from severe akinetic forms of PD. After approval of the institutional ethical committee, we operated on a parkinsonian patient aged 51, suffering for 8 years from a strongly disabling akinetorigid form of PD, complicated by an on-off effect (Hoehn and Yahr stage 5 in the worst-off motor phase). Stereotactic surgery was done on one side under local anesthesia. The theoretical target was chosen according to stereotactic atlases, based on ventriculographic landmarks such as anterior and posterior commissures (AC and PC). The final position of the chronic electrodes was optimized using electrophysiological recording and stimulation along with clinical assessment and surface EMG of agonist and antagonist muscles of the examined limbs. A spontaneous increase in neuronal activity was recorded in an area located 2-4 mm under the level of the intercommissural plane, 10 mm from the midline, at mid-distance between AC and PC. Within the same place, a 130-Hz stimulation induced acute and reversible akinesia alleviation mainly on the contralateral limbs, comparable to that obtained with dopaminergic drugs. No dyskinesia, such as hemiballism, was induced by introduction of electrodes or by stimulation. Then a long-term quadripolar DBS Medtronic electrode was inserted in this area. Studies of the effects of chronic stimulation were extensively performed to determine the best spatiotemporal and electrical stimulation variables.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The remarkable recent progress in stereotactic surgery, functional as well as nonfunctional, is briefly reviewed, with emphasis on our own experiences. Owing to the day-by-day progress of computer-assisted neuroimaging and basic research in neuroscience, stereotactic surgery has greatly benefitted. In this sense, the future of stereotactic surgery could be 'en rose' and quite promising toward the 21st century.



The dynamics of presynaptic transmitter release are often matched to the physiological properties and functions of the postsynaptic cell. In organisms ranging from cats to crickets, evidence suggests that retrograde signaling is essential for matching these presynaptic release properties to individual postsynaptic partners. Retrograde interactions appear to control the development of presynaptic, short-term facilitation and homosynaptic depression through local, retrograde signaling at the synapse.
Following peripheral axotomy, long-lasting changes in the expression of neuropeptides and their receptors in primary sensory neurons are observed. These changes involve the downregulation of the excitatory peptides substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide and the upregulation of the inhibitory peptides neuropeptide tyrosine and galanin, resulting in a reduction of transmission in the dorsal horn. The changes observed are thought to represent adaptive responses to limit the consequences of peripheral nerve damage to the organism as a whole and to promote survival and recovery of the individual neuron.

Many years' studies in functional neurochemistry have provided a concept of the functionally induced biochemical heterogeneity of neurons and their subcellular components, which is formed during ontogenesis as the functions of the central nervous system are developed. It has been established that it manifests itself at the systemic, cellular, and subcellular levels: (1) between brain formations which constitute the single functional system; (2) between the neurons of various morphofunctional types (associative, efferent, afferent ones) between the neurons and the glia; (3) between individual components (the nucleus and the cytoplasm) of a neuron and its subcellular (synaptosomes, mitochondria, synaptosomal membranes) components. It is concluded that the functionally determined biochemical heterogeneity and morphofunctional features found in animals of various strains may be regarded as one of the ways of compensatory, rehabilitative, and adaptative processes in the central nervous system.
A plaque-cloned mouse hepatitis virus mutant, MHV-S No. 8, was isolated from Ki-BALB cells persistently infected with MHV-S. The mRNAs 1 to 6 were larger in the mutant, whereas there was no difference between the two viruses in the size of the smallest mRNA, mRNA 7. Sequence analyses of the genomic RNA, mRNA 6, and mRNA 7 of the two viruses revealed that an additional 111 nt were inserted just upstream of the intergenic consensus sequence preceding the N gene in MHV-S No. 8. The inserted region consisted of two different parts; the 3'-most 30 nt corresponded to nucleotides 28 to 57 of the leader sequence and the 5'-most 81 nt corresponded to nucleotides 58 to 138 of mRNA 7. This structure of No. 8 was most likely generated by RNA-RNA recombination between genomic RNA and subgenomic RNA species. The nucleotide insertion in the intergenic sequence between genes M and N resulted in two consensus sequences separated by 111 nt. Primer extension analysis revealed that the amount of a slightly larger, subgenomic mRNA resulting from initiation of synthesis at the upstream consensus sequence was only 5% of the usual sized mRNA 7 initiated from the downstream consensus sequence.
Two cDNA clones for nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) subunits sensitive to alpha-bungarotoxin (alpha-Bgt) have been isolated, the so-called alpha-Bgt binding proteins alpha 1 (or alpha 7 nAChR subunit) and alpha 2 (or alpha 8 nAChR subunit). Immunohistochemical experiments have shown that both alpha 7 and alpha 8 subunits, as well as subunits insensitive to alpha-Bgt (beta 2 and alpha 3), are present in amacrine and ganglion cells of the chick retina. However, only the alpha 8 subunit was observed in presumptive bipolar cells. The present study investigated in detail the pattern of distribution of the bipolar cells containing the alpha 8 nAChR subunit and its relation to the pattern of distribution of bipolar cells immunoreactive to protein kinase C (PKC). Presumptive alpha 8- and PKC-like immunoreactive (alpha 8-LI and PKC-LI) bipolar cells were observed sending their dendrites to the outer plexiform layers and their axons to the inner plexiform layer. Whereas alpha 8-LI bipolar cells corresponded to 40-53% of the whole population of bipolar cells, PKC-LI bipolar cells represented only 6-8% of the same population. The soma sizes of the alpha 8-LI bipolar cells were slightly smaller (mean +/- S.D.; 4.9 +/- 0.8 microns) than the soma sizes of the PKC-LI bipolar cells (5.4 +/- 0.9 microns). Double-labeling experiments indicated that probably all PKC-LI bipolar cells also contain alpha 8-LI. This indicates that two distinct groups of cholinoceptive bipolar cells exist in the chick retina, one that contains PKC-LI, and another one that does not.
Many studies of visual neurons make use of stimuli that are sinusoidally modulated in time, and take as the response the fundamental Fourier component of the firing. This is a study of the variability of the fundamental sinusoidal components. A theoretical analysis shows that the variance of sinusoidal components should be nearly independent of their amplitudes; this is expected despite the observation that variance of firing rate increases with increasing firing rate. However, this result applies only to the variance of the complex amplitude, defined as the complex Fourier amplitude in response to each stimulus cycle. This variance is called the complex variance. The variance of the scalar amplitude, which is simply the amplitude in response to each stimulus cycle disregarding phase (scalar variance) is expected to shrink by a factor of up to 2 1/3 as the response magnitude approaches zero. If the relationship between variance of rate and rate is linear, complex variance should be independent of amplitude. If the relationship between variance of rate and rate is characterized by a compressive nonlinearity (as has been observed), the complex variance should very slightly decrease with increased amplitude, despite the main trend of increased variance of rate with increased rate. Data from cat ganglion cells stimulated with sinusoidally modulated lights of various contrasts agree with the theory, although some individual cases show trends that may be indicative of nonlinearity in the relationship between variance of rate and rate.
The neurotransmitter used by horizontal cells in mammals has not been identified. GABA has been the leading candidate, but doubt has remained because of failure to clearly demonstrate the GABA synthetic enzyme, glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD) in these cells. Because GAD was recently shown to exist as two isoforms, 65 kDa and 67 kDa, we considered whether there might be a mismatch between the forms of GAD expressed in horizontal cells and the probes used to detect it. Accordingly, we stained sections of mammalian retina with antibodies specific for each isoform. Cat horizontal cells of both types (A and B) were immunoreactive for GAD67 but negative for GAD65; monkey horizontal cells of both types (H(I) and HII) were positive for GAD65 and negative for GAD67. The findings reconcile previous, apparently conflicting, observations and strengthen considerably the hypothesis that mammalian horizontal cells are GABAergic.
A man with presumed posterior cortical atrophy had a markedly elevated threshold for orientation discrimination (approx. 25 deg) and selective impairment of &quot;pop-out&quot; tasks based on orientation. Direction discrimination for moving plaids was superior to direction discrimination for their component gratings. The superior performance for plaids disappeared when the spatial frequencies of the component gratings were altered to eliminate coherence. This finding implies that extraction of plaid motion is not dependent on pre-processing within narrow spatial frequency bands. It is inconsistent with simulations based on the &quot;intersection of constraints&quot; model, which predict that the error rate for plaids would be larger than the error rate for gratings, particularly for the plaids composed of gratings moving at nearly opposing angles. It is consistent with models such as the Heeger [(1987) Journal of the Optical Society of America A, 4, 1455-1471] model, which extract direction from the pattern of activity across broadly-tuned spatiotemporal filters.
Ticlopidine hydrochloride is an antiplatelet agent of proven antithrombotic efficacy that in December 1991 became available for general clinical use in the United States. The relative value of ticlopidine compared with aspirin, also an effective antiplatelet agent, has become a key clinical issue. Whereas ticlopidine is somewhat more effective than aspirin for preventing stroke in certain populations, it is also more expensive and potentially toxic. We recommend its use for patients with threatened stroke who are intolerant of aspirin and for patients who have cerebral ischemic symptoms despite aspirin therapy. Patients surviving major ischemic stroke make up a third group for whom ticlopidine use may be recommended in preference to aspirin. The use of ticlopidine rather than aspirin in patients with other cerebrovascular conditions is not strongly supported by existing data. The risk-benefit-cost equation involving ticlopidine versus other antithrombotic therapies is complex, rendering a wide range of acceptable management practices. If reliable laboratory monitoring for neutropenia during the first 3 months of therapy is not feasible, ticlopidine should not be used.
&quot;Health futures&quot; is defined as a set of tools that can help explore probable, plausible, possible, and preferable futures for guiding actions whereby potential health threats could be anticipated. The World Health Organization (WHO) is promoting national futures studies for health planning and development as confirmed at the World Health Assembly in 1990. WHO began scanning the field of health futures and learning about the methods used for trend assessment and forecasting. An international consultation on health futures was convened in July 1993 and attended by 38 experts. The consultation proposed follow-up activities sharing studies and methods through international publications; establishing electronic communication to this end; developing a handbook on health futures; and cataloguing experts, institutions, and training opportunities in health futures. A variety of people presented a wide range of studies on the purposes of health futures studies, methodologies, and funding; there were 5 scenarios for health care in the United States (continued growth/high technology, hard times/governmental leadership, buyer's market, a new civilization, healing and health care). The consultation focused on 6 themes, including assessing health technology. An extensive study undertaken in the Netherlands between 1985 and 1988 identified emerging health technology: neurosciences, the use of lasers in treating ischemic heart disease, biotechnology, new vaccines, genetic testing, computer-assisted medical imaging, and home care technologies. Health resources projection was also described for China using simulation models for 3 estimates of demand for hospital beds and doctors between 1990 and 2010. Also presented was Statistics Canada's new population-health model (POHEM), which is based on an individual life-cycle theory of health. A well-institutionalized modeling system by the US Bureau of Health Professions was introduced, showing the physician-supply model for forecasting purposes in the debate over health care reform. Artificial neural networking was introduced for predicting hospital length-of-stay.
Future and emerging health care technologies are increasingly high-impact events for society in terms of the quality and costs of health care. They raise issues of efficacy, safety, resource allocation, ethics, impact on the organization and delivery of care, and broad social effects. This article describes an analysis of future and emerging health care technology, initiated by the government of the Netherlands and carried out formally from 1985 to 1988, and its potential usefulness in a policy and decision-making context. Using the results and experiences of this analysis, it is argued that rational health care planning and decision-making can be strengthened by paying more attention to the possible implications of emerging and future technology.


Stimulus programs and their reproduction by the examinees are compared. This makes up the system of logic regularities, reflecting characteristics of voluntary movement control. The authors ground their investigations on the principle of estimating dynamics of intracyclic components in electromyographic equivalent of reproductive tapping synergy considered as a sample of voluntary movement combining neurophysiological, psychophysiological and biomechanical components.


Formal overviews (or meta-analyses) are now widely accepted as the most reliable way to evaluate the evidence from several randomized controlled trials that have all assessed a particular form of therapy. If a limited amount of trial data has accumulated, overviews can be undertaken at a relatively simple level, assembling just summary data extracted from published reports. Such overviews are likely to be incomplete and biased and may (because of the restricted number of analyses that are possible) not answer all the clinically important questions that might be addressed. Where a particularly large body of data from randomized trials has accumulated, more thorough and detailed overview analyses are needed. Such detailed reviews are greatly facilitated if a collaborative group of all the trialists is formed. Such groups have sought to collate individual patient data (a very few key items for every patient randomized). A central statistical secretariat then coordinates the process of data collection, checking, and analysis. Analyses are presented to the whole group for discussion and final reports are published in the name of the whole group. Experience from two very large groups that have followed this model, the Antiplatelet Trialists' Collaboration and the Early Breast Cancer Trialists' Collaborative Group, has shown that detailed collaborative overviews have many benefits: the results are particularly clear and therefore have substantial public health impact; the areas of statistical and medical agreement on the evidence can be defined; the areas of uncertainty (and hence future research priorities) are clarified; and the group can disseminate the results particularly widely and rapidly.
This experiment compares the effects of microinjections into the basolateral amygdala nucleus of diazepam (DZP) and a new 5-HT3 receptor antagonist, BRL 46470A, on acquisition and retention of an inhibitory avoidance tasks by rats. The animals were microinjected with DZP or BRL 46470A between 10 and 15 min before the learning trial. Retention testing 48 h later showed impaired retention in animals injected with DZP but not with BRL 46470A. These results show that BRL 46470A, a compound suggested to have anxiolytic effects does not induce amnesia. This evidence for a possible dissociation between anxiety-reducing and memory-disrupting effects of a drug has implications, for one, for the understanding of the neuronal substrates mediating these effects, and secondly, for the search for anxiolytic agents devoid of undesirable side effects on memory processes.
Immunocytochemical techniques were used to study the colocalization of proto-oncogene c-fos protein (Fos)-like immunoreactivity and of glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity in the spinal cord dorsal horn of adult male rats after nociceptive stimulation. About 5-10% of the stimulus evoked Fos-immunoreactive profiles colocalized glucocorticoid receptor immunoreactivity. The results suggest the possibility of a corticosteroid action in a small neuronal population of the dorsal horn implicated in processing nociceptive inputs.
We used current source density (CSD) analysis of a laminar profile of subicular stimulus-evoked field potentials recorded in cortical slices in vitro to characterize the interlaminar microcircuitry of posterior cingulate cortex. Neuroanatomic and electrophysiologic data indicate that subiculocingulate tract (SCT) afferents monosynaptically excite apical dendrites of deep laminae (V-VI) neurons, evoking pure EPSPs, while superficial laminae (II/III-IV) neurons are driven polysynaptically, evoking a mixture of longer latency EPSPs and IPSPs. Consistent with this model, CSD analysis of field potential laminar profiles supports the conclusion that activation of excitatory subicular afferent terminal fields in superficial laminae of cingulate cortex elicits primary monosynaptic activation of apical dendrites of deep lamina (V-VI) pyramids. Subsequent EPSP propagation to the somata of these pyramids generated synchronous action potential discharges which appeared to elicit delayed polysynaptic activation of superficial laminae pyramids and interneurons. Latency differences between SCT-stimulus-evoked EPSPs and action potentials in superficial and deep laminae were minimized by stimulus train frequencies of 5-8 Hz, indicating that the proposed microcircuitry can show functional tuning at frequencies characteristic of hippocampal neuronal activity (theta). Such tuning suggests that hippocampal output activity frequency and phase locked to theta rhythm will be preferentially gated through cingulate cortex.
Electrical field depolarization releases gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in rat striatal slices in the absence of external Ca2+. omega-Conotoxin GVIA (omega-CgTx; 1-50 nM), a neuronal Ca2+ channel blocker, inhibits electrically evoked efflux of newly taken up [3H]GABA in a concentration-dependent manner in either normal or Ca(2+)-free medium. This suggests that ion influx occurs through Ca2+ channels in the absence of external Ca2+ and contributes to the efflux of GABA. Reducing external Na+ concentration to 27.25 mM (low [Na+]o medium) by equimolarly substituting choline chloride for sodium chloride has differential effects on electrically evoked GABA efflux depending on the external Ca2+ concentrations. In normal Ca2+ medium, electrically evoked GABA efflux increases whereas, in Ca(2+)-free medium, it is greatly inhibited when [Na+]o is reduced to 27.25 mM. In low [Na+]o medium, GABA efflux is largely tetrodotoxin (TTX)-sensitive, however, spike firing evoked by antidromic stimulation of striatal cells is inhibited. In Na(+)-free medium, resting GABA efflux increases 17-fold whereas evoked GABA efflux diminishes. In Ca(2+)-free medium, 70 min of incubation with 1-2-bis-(1-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N' tetraacetoxy methyl ester (BATPA-AM, 1 microM), an intracellular calcium chelator, increases both resting GABA efflux and electrically evoked GABA overflow by approximately 100%. These results suggest that: (1) in Ca(2+)-free conditions, Na+ permeability of cells increases via Ca2+ channels and this profoundly affects GABA efflux. (2) Electrical field depolarization is likely to release GABA by directly depolarizing axon terminals. (3) Ca(2+)-independent GABA efflux is not promoted by an increase in intracellular free Ca2+ concentration via Na+/Ca2+ exchange processes from internal pools.
Extracellular recordings were made from a type of relay neurons of the superior laryngeal nerve (SLN) afferents in the vicinity of the retrofacial nucleus (RFN) in either pentobarbitone-anesthetized or unanesthetized and decerebrate cats, which were paralyzed and artificially ventilated. A total of 26 neurons that could be activated both orthodromically by electrical stimulation of the SLN and antidromically by stimulation of the brainstem were analyzed. All 26 neurons were activated from the ipsilateral SLN and 13 were activated from the contralateral SLN with mean latencies of 7.7 ms and 11.4 ms, respectively. The majority of these neurons were located in the parvocellular reticular formation dorsomedial to the RFN and to the rostral part of the nucleus ambiguus (AMB). Antidromic stimulation of the medulla showed that 22 of the 26 neurons projected to the hypoglossal nucleus (HYP) and 19 neurons tested projected to the AMB. Of these, 15 neurons projected to both the HYP and AMB and two projected to the lateral reticular nucleus as well. Seventeen neurons were tested for their behavior during fictive swallowing which was elicited by continual electrical stimulation of the SLN and monitored by the activity of the hypoglossal nerve. Twelve neurons showed brief (100-200 ms) burst firing at the onset of swallowing; the firing of the other 5 neurons were suppressed during swallowing. Both the swallowing-active and swallowing-inactive neurons projected to the HYP and AMB. Thus, the SLN relay neurons in the vicinity of the RFN might participate in the early stage of SLN-induced swallowing by integrating inputs from SLN afferents.
The isolated oesophagus of Lymnaea stagnalis was used as a bioassay preparation to identify peptides that modulate the activity of the oesophagus. Several modulatory messengers were detected from the oesophageal extract. One of these, having an excitatory action, was further purified from both the oesophagus and the central nervous system through high performance gel permeation chromatography followed by serial reversed phase high performance liquid chromatography. The purified peptide was chemically characterized through amino acid sequencing and mass spectrometry as GFRANSASRVAHGY-NH2.
Thiamine diphosphatase (TDPase) activity was measured using a colorimetric assay in frontal and temporal cortex obtained at autopsy from eight patients with neuropathologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease (AD) and from an equal number of control patients matched for age and autopsy delay interval, free from neurological or psychiatric disorders. TDPase activities were significantly reduced in frontal cortex (by 28%, P &lt; 0.05) and temporal cortex (by 62%, P &lt; 0.01) of AD patients. These findings add to a growing body of evidence of altered thiamine neurochemistry in AD. Given the previous reports of an association of TDPase with cholinergic nerve terminals, loss of TDPase activities could reflect loss of cholinergic neurons in frontal and temporal cortex in AD.
We have recently demonstrated that electrically induced seizures lead to dramatic increases in mRNA for GFAP in areas in which seizures occur. The present study evaluates the time course of the changes in the GFAP-mRNA levels after seizures and the relationship between these changes and GFAP protein levels to understand the role of neuronal activity in regulating glial gene expression. GFA protein and mRNA levels were measured in hippocampi from rats in which seizures were induced by: (1) 50-Hz stimulus trains delivered 12 times over the course of 1 day via indwelling electrodes implanted chronically in the CA3 region of the hippocampus; and (2) intraperitoneal injections of pentylenetetrazol. In the case of the electrically induced seizures, we also compared the glial response in animals that had never experienced a seizure with the response in animals that previously had been kindled but had not experienced a seizure for 30 days. Electrically induced seizures led to rapid transient increases in GFAP-mRNA levels in the hippocampus ipsi- and contralateral to the stimulation. GFAP-mRNA increased about five-fold 1 day after the end of seizure activity and returned to near-control levels by 4 days. There were no detectable increases in GFA protein at 1 day but by 2 days GFA protein levels had increased about two-fold. GFA protein levels remained elevated until 4 days poststimulation and then began to decrease. The responses were similar when seizures were induced in kindled animals, except that the GFAP protein levels remained elevated for somewhat longer.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of chronic ethanol treatment (CET) on cholinergic modulation of CA1 evoked field potentials and recurrent inhibition were investigated in rat hippocampal slices. Densities of muscarinic receptor subtypes were quantified in remaining hippocampal tissue by immunoprecipitation. Iontophoretic application of ACh in stratum pyramidale results in facilitation of single evoked population spikes; application in stratum radiatum results in depression of field EPSPs. CET decreased cholinergic facilitation of population spikes, while cholinergic inhibition of field EPSPs remained unaffected. Integrity of feedback (recurrent) inhibitory circuitry was evaluated by paired-pulse stimulation. As previously demonstrated, recurrent inhibition was significantly reduced after CET; cholinergic disinhibition was also significantly reduced. Thus, CET appears to disrupt a subset of cholinergic effector systems within hippocampal neurons. The reductions in cholinergic function produced by CET does not appear to be due to receptor loss, since muscarinic receptor subtype densities were not found to be significantly altered in this tissue. These results support the hypothesis that muscarinic receptor function is impaired in CA1 pyramidal cells through a disruption of intracellular signal transduction mechanisms. While it is unclear whether cholinergic function is reduced in interneurons directly, these results suggest that modulation of neuronal firing in the hippocampus is markedly altered following CET due to impairment of both cholinergic and GABAergic systems.
The Mauthner cells are pair of identifiable hindbrain neurons that participate in the escape response of fishes. Membrane excitability in these cells is regulated by inhibitory neurons that use glycine as a transmitter. We examined the possibility that the inhibitory transmitter gamma-amino butyric acid (GABA) may also act on the Mauthner cells. We used immunocytochemical methods involving an antibody against glutamic acid decarboxylase (GAD), the synthesizing enzyme for GABA. Our study revealed dense GAD immunoreactive terminals surrounding the Mauthner cells. Puncta counts showed that the distribution of GAD immunoreactivity was densest at the distal lateral dendrite of the Mauthner cells; the distribution of puncta tapers gradually in regions closer to the soma. The axon cap was devoid of GABAergic immunoreactivity. We also performed unilateral lesions of the octaval nuclei to evaluate the origin of the GAD immunoreactive terminals. Following the lesions, we found marked decreases in GAD immunoreactive terminals on the proximal lateral dendrite, soma, and proximal ventral dendrite of both Mauthner cells. These results suggest that the octaval region contributes to bilateral inhibition of the Mauthner cells. The distal lateral dendrite of the ipsilateral Mauthner cell also showed a reduction in GAD immunoreactive terminals. This suggests that GABA mediates remote dendritic inhibition of this cell. GAD immunoreactive puncta also surrounded other large reticulospinal neurons, some of which are serially reiterated along the anterior-posterior axis of the hindbrain. Thus, GABA may also exert an influence not only on the Mauthner cells, but also on other reticulospinal neurons.
Immunocytochemical localization of the protein product of the proto-oncogene c-fos allows anatomical identification of physiologically activated neurons. The present study examined the subnuclear distribution of cFos protein in the rat caudal medulla following peripheral administration of cholecystokinin octapeptide, which reduces feeding and gastric motility by a vagally mediated mechanism. To begin phenotypic characterization of neurons activated to express cFos following cholecystokinin treatment, double-labeling techniques were used to identify vagal motor neurons and neurons immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase, neuropeptide Y, and neurotensin. Activated cells were most prevalent in the subnucleus medialis of the nucleus of the solitary tract, less prevalent in the subnucleus commissuralis, and virtually absent in the subnuclei centralis and gelatinosus. Many activated cells occupied the caudal area postrema; some of these were catecholaminergic. In contrast, activated cells were sparse within the medial rostral area postrema. Other activated cells occupied the dorso- and ventrolateral medulla and the midline raphe nuclei. Retrograde labeling of vagal motor neurons confirmed that very few were activated. Those that were activated occupied the caudal dorsal motor nucleus. In the dorsomedial medulla, 51% of catecholaminergic neurons and 39% of neurons positive for neuropeptide Y were activated, but no neurotensin-positive neurons were activated. In the ventrolateral medulla, 25% of catecholaminergic neurons and 27% of neuropeptide Y-positive neurons were activated. By characterizing the subnuclear distribution and chemical phenotypes of neurons activated by exogenous cholecystokinin, these data contribute to elucidation of the neural circuits mediating the behavioral, physiological, and neuroendocrine effects produced by this peptide.

We report here that during early fetal rat development, most, if not all, dorsal root ganglion (DRG) cells were stained by the beta-NADPH diaphorase histochemical reaction, indicating that they expressed nitric oxide synthase. During late fetal development, most DRG cells lost their diaphorase activity, but a small subset (located in all DRGs, but primarily in mid-thoracic DRGs) remained diaphorase-positive in adult animals. The transient expression of this enzyme suggests that nitric oxide may play a role during development that differs from its function in mature cells.
A major component of amyloid deposits found in Alzheimer disease and Down syndrome is the beta/A4 peptide, which is derived from the Alzheimer amyloid protein precursor (APP). Recent evidence indicates that increases in APP expression and/or beta/A4 peptide accumulation may underlie the amyloidosis characteristic of these diseases. In the present study, transgenic mice carrying the entire human APP gene were studied for expression of human APP. Significant expression of human APP protein was observed in these animals, and this expression paralleled the expression of endogenous APP. These results, which represent a first demonstration of significant human APP expression in transgenic animals, support the use of such animals to study human APP expression and processing in vivo and possibly as models for the amyloidosis associated with Alzheimer disease.
The phosphorylation status of full-length APP (FL-APP) and secreted APP (s-APP) was investigated in stably transfected cells. 32P incorporation was detected in the mature full-length APP both in the absence and presence of phorbol ester. Surprisingly, 32P-phosphate was incorporated in the secreted ectodomain, and this was stable to treatment of the [32P]-phospho-s-APP with a large excess of PNGase F, suggesting that N-linked oligosaccharide sites do not account for phosphate incorporation. Phosphoamino acid analysis of the [32P]-phospho-s-APP resulted in the recovery of [32P]-phosphoserine as the preponderant species. Brefeldin A completely inhibited the release of [32P]-phospho s-APP, but did not inhibit the incorporation of 32P into the FL-APP, suggesting that phosphorylation occurs early in the central vacuolar pathway. It is possible that ectodomain phosphorylation by a novel luminal or extracellular protein kinase may play a role in regulating the metabolic fate of APP.

To address prior reports that schizophrenia is associated with loss of normal brain asymmetry and that it might be linked to a defect of a gene controlling cerebral lateralization, we measured on three-dimensional cortical renderings from magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans the lengths and angles of the sylvian fissures in 10 normal monozygotic (MZ) twin pairs (n = 10 pairs) and in 10 MZ pairs discordant for schizophrenia (n = 10 pairs). We confirmed in both sets of twins the expected normal asymmetries of length and angle of the sylvian fissure. We also confirmed that the length asymmetry occurs solely in the region of the planum temporale. In the discordant twins, affected and unaffected twins did not differ in asymmetry measures, thus failing to support an association between illness per se and diminished asymmetry. Moreover, the discordant twins as a group did not differ from the normal twins as a group, thus failing to confirm the hypothesis of a genetic association with abnormal asymmetry. The implications of variations in methodology and patient samples are discussed.
Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I (CaM kinase I) was previously purified from bovine brain (Nairn, A. C., and Greengard, P. (1987) J. Biol. Chem. 262, 7273-7281) based on its ability to phosphorylate the synaptic vesicle protein, synapsin I at site 1. The cDNA for this protein kinase has now been cloned from both a rat and a bovine brain cDNA library and the complete amino acid sequence of rat CaM kinase I determined. The rat cDNA encoded a protein of 331 amino acids with a calculated M(r) of 37,545, and the encoded kinase was expressed in bacteria as a glutathione S-transferase fusion protein. The resulting fusion protein was purified by Sepharose-CaM affinity chromatography and shown to be totally dependent on Ca2+ and CaM for activity. Furthermore, the purified kinase phosphorylates synapsin I at the same site (site 1) as the endogenous brain enzyme. CaM kinase I is homologous to other known protein kinases and contains all nine invariant amino acids conserved in the catalytic domain of this class of enzymes. CaM kinase I was most identical to CaM kinase II both in the catalytic domain and in a short region at the COOH-terminal that is predicted to be the calmodulin-binding domain. CaM kinase I appeared to be encoded by a single gene. RNase protection assays detected the mRNA encoding CaM kinase I in all tissues examined. High concentrations of the kinase mRNA were found in all regions of the brain with frontal cortex showing the greatest level. CaM kinase I was autophosphorylated in a Ca2+/CaM-dependent manner at a threonyl residue (Thr-177) which is located at a position equivalent to that of the threonyl residue (Thr-197) autophosphorylated in cAMP-dependent protein kinase.
Two neuroradiologists compared the brain MR scans of 52 patients with the CDC criteria for the chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) with those of 52 age and sex matched controls who had undergone imaging because of histories of head trauma or headache. CFS patients had significantly more abnormal scans than controls--27% vs 2%. Abnormalities seen were foci of increased white matter T2 signal in 9 CFS patients and one control and ventricular or sulcal enlargement in 5 CFS patients. Follow up of patients with subcortical signal hyperintensities revealed 3 who had symptoms suggestive of other known medical causes of what appeared to be CFS. The data indicate that some CFS patients have some organic problem manifesting itself on neuroimaging. But, finding MR abnormalities should warn the physician that the patient's symptoms may be secondary to some other medical illness and not simply primary CFS.
The induction of long-term potentiation and depression depends upon associative interactions between synapses that converge on individual dendrites. The distance over which these associative interactions occur is limited. The present study evaluates whether this limitation is regulated by synaptic inhibition. We evaluated the associative interactions between two inputs that terminate on different proximo-distal locations along the dendrites of dentate granule cells in the presence of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonist bicuculline methiodide. Local blockade of GABAergic inhibition enhanced associative interactions between nonoverlapping inputs, compared to within-animal control sites, where inhibitory transmission was intact. The results suggest that synaptic inhibition limits interactions between excitatory synapses by creating current shunts that limit the spread of depolarization within the dendritic tree.
Reactive non-neuronal cells express high levels of low-affinity neurotrophin receptor and truncated trkB receptors after spinal cord injury. Here we report that descending nerve fibres in the rat lateral spinal cord column show strong trkC-like immunoreactivity after traumatic spinal cord lesions in the adult rat. No change in trkC expression by glial cells could be detected by immunohistochemistry or in situ hybridization at the lesion site. The data suggest that regeneration of descending spinal cord axons could be encouraged by the trkC ligand, neurotrophin 3.
The efficacy of synaptic transmission from the fimbria to the lateral septum (LS) of freely moving mice was monitored electrophysiologically over 9 days of training in a spatial discrimination task (radial maze). Electrical stimulation of the fimbria evoked two negative waves (N2 and N3) in the ipsilateral LS. Compared to a control group exposed to muscular effort (treadmill), trained animals displayed a significant and progressive increase in the amplitude of N3 with no changes in N2. Moreover, this increase was of greater magnitude in fast learners than in slow learners and persisted for at least 24 h following the last (9th) training session. These changes might play a role in spatial learning through the regulation of septohippocampal cholinergic activity.
We used in situ hybridization to localize trk, trkB and trkC mRNA, in rat and cat olfactory bulb. Expression of mRNA encoding truncated trkB receptors was seen in all layers, while only very modest full-length trkB expression could be detected. trkC hybridization was seen in all layers, most dense in the mitral cell layer. The localization of full-length tyrosine kinase trkB receptor in olfactory bulb and epithelium was examined with immunohistochemistry. trkB-like immunoreactivity was seen in the fila olfactoria, epithelium and in vitro, in olfactory sensory neurones. Since BDNF is expressed by olfactory sensory neurone target cells in the olfactory bulb, these data suggest that BDNF may act as a target derived neurotrophic factor in the primary olfactory system.
Glutamate is the major excitatory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. The release of glutamate is terminated by rapid uptake of glutamate into the presynaptic nerve terminals and into surrounding glial cells. Recently, a neuronal glutamate transporter was cloned from rabbit small intestine, thereby providing the possibility to study the distribution of cells that express glutamate transporter mRNA. Using oligonucleotide probes and in situ hybridization, glutamate transporter mRNA was demonstrated in large cell bodies, presumably motoneurones, in the thoracic spinal cord of the rabbit. Immunohistochemical analysis with rabbit polyclonal antibodies to glutamate showed immunoreactivity in the cytoplasm of large cell bodies in the ventral horn, presumably motoneurones, of the rat spinal cord. Glutamate-LI was in addition demonstrated in the motor end plate in hindlimb muscle of the rat, as visualized by double-labelling with mouse monoclonal antibodies to synaptophysin. Taken together, these data raise the possibility that glutamate has a function at the vertebrate neuromuscular junction.
Rats exposed to the smell of a predator adopted the freezing posture indicative of anxiety. Correlatively, the concentration of cholecystokinin tetrapeptide (CCK-4) was increased in the olfactory bulb, frontal and central cortex, dorsal and ventral striatum, central amygdala and the nucleus of the solitary tract. The concentration of CCK-8 was increased only in the ventral striatum. Glutamate was increased in the cortex and the striatum and dopamine was increased in the cortex. Intraperitoneal injection of CCK-4 increased brain levels of CCK-4 and replicated, in part, the behavioural effect of the smell of the predator. Injection of a CCK-B-receptor antagonist had the opposite behavioural effect. The results support a role for CCK-4 in anxiety.
It has been reported that methamphetamine (METH) upregulates striatal neurotensin (NT) mRNA levels. The present in situ hybridization study demonstrates, using the dopamine D1 antagonist SCH23390 that this effect is mediated through D1 receptors. Sulpiride, a selective D2 antagonist, induces an upregulation of NT expression, which in some striatal areas is additive to the METH effect. This suggests the existence of at least two NT striatal neuronal populations. One, sensitive to D1 receptors, corresponds to the recently described striatonigral NT pathway. The second one, modulated by D2 receptors, may project to the globus pallidus and/or represent interneurones.
It has been proposed that synchronous oscillations of groups of neurons corresponding to sensory information and changes in temporal pattern of oscillations are important for processing of the information in the cortex. However, it has not been determined yet how the temporal or spatial pattern of such oscillations are regulated. We observed spontaneous synchronous oscillations of Ca2+ transients, which were caused by bursts of action potentials of neurons, even in cultured cortical neurons. The frequency of synchronous Ca2+ oscillations increased with development of synapses in cultured neurons and was highly correlated to the number of synapses formed in the same culture.
The aim of this study was to investigate whether perinatal hypoxia-ischemia preferentially destroys GABAergic nerve endings in rat cerebral cortex tissue which, in its turn, could then account for the reported higher risk of developing epilepsy later in life. To that end rat pups, with an age of 12-13 days postnatally, were unilaterally exposed to hypoxic-ischemic conditions. After a survival period of 2 to 6 months, the animals were sacrificed by perfusion fixation and their brains were used for cutting transversal vibratome and frozen sections. These sections were double-stained with primary antibodies against one of the two GABA synthesizing enzymes, glutamic acid decarboxylase with a mol. wt. of 66,600 (GAD67) and one of the intrinsic membrane proteins of small synaptic vesicles, synaptophysin, followed by fluorophore-conjugated second antibodies. By using the confocal laser scanning microscope, we determined the ratio between the amount of GAD67/synaptophysin immunofluorescence in nerve endings per unit volume of tissue in the hypoxia-damaged neocortex. It turned out that this ratio, contrary to expectations, was significantly higher in the hypoxia-damaged cortical areas than in matched areas on the contralateral side. It appeared, moreover, that this effect was directly proportional to the severity of the incurred damage. The conclusion was drawn that these observations do not support the hypothesis that perinatal hypoxia-ischemia ultimately leads to a preferential loss of GABAergic nerve endings in the damaged neocortex and, as such, to a shortage of inhibition.
The opioid growth factor, [Met5]-enkephalin, is an inhibitory agent of cell proliferation and maturation that interacts with the zeta (zeta) opioid receptor to modulate growth. In order to learn more about this receptor, polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies were raised against binding subunits identified on two-dimensional gels by ligand blotting. Using Western blotting, the polyclonal antibodies and some of the monoclonal antibodies recognized all 4 binding polypeptides (32, 30, 17, and 16 kDa) in developing rat cerebellum; no reaction was recorded in adult cerebellum. In addition, other monoclonals were able to distinguish only certain subunits (e.g. 17 kDa). The monoclonal antibodies and their F(ab')2 fragments, as well as the polyclonal antibodies, blocked the binding of [3H][Met5]-enkephalin to preparations of developing cerebellum. Both the polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies immunoprecipitated zeta opioid binding polypeptides from 6-day-old cerebellar homogenates solubilized by the zwitterionic detergent, CHAPS. Immunocytochemistry performed with polyclonal antibodies showed immunoreactivity associated with proliferating and differentiating cerebellar cells, but no specific staining was detected in the adult cerebellum. These results have identified and characterized antibodies to the zeta opioid receptor, and the antibodies were used to localize this receptor; these antibodies will be valuable to further cellular and molecular studies.
The distribution of non-NMDA receptors in the normal human motor cortex, brainstem and spinal cord has been investigated using [3H]CNQX. In the motor and premotor cortex, specific [3H]CNQX binding was present in all cortical laminae with the highest density of binding sites in laminae I, II and the upper part of III. In the normal brainstem, non-NMDA receptors labelled by [3H]CNQX had a heterogeneous distribution. Brainstem motor nuclei subserving eye movements, which tend to be spared in motor neuron disease (MND), had a higher density of [3H]CNQX binding sites compared to other cranial nerve motor nuclei (VII, X, XII) which tend to be affected. Specific [3H]CNQX binding was present throughout the spinal grey matter, the greatest density of binding being found in the substantia gelatinosa. Excitotoxicity at non-NMDA receptors has been implicated in chronic neurodegenerative diseases such as motor neuron disease. This study suggests that the density of non-NMDA receptors, labelled by [3H]CNQX, does not account for selective vulnerability of motor neurons in this disorder.
Three ion channel binding sites were examined by means of quantitative ligand binding autoradiography in temporal and occipital cortex from 9 patients with neuropathologically confirmed Alzheimer's disease (AD) and 7 matched control subjects. The following ligands were used: 125I-apamin to label a population of Ca(2+)-sensitive K+ channels; [3H]PN200-110 to label L-type voltage-sensitive Ca2+ channels and [3H]glibenclamide to label ATP-sensitive K+ channels. Ion channel binding sites were compared to: choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity and plaque densities measured in the same tissue. In the temporal cortex in AD 125I-apamin binding was increased compared to controls (e.g. superficial layers: control = 0.71 +/- 0.07; AD = 1.02 +/- 0.07, mean +/- S.E.M. pmol/g tissue). In contrast, in adjacent sections [3H]glibenclamide binding was reduced in AD compared to controls (e.g. superficial layers: control = 25.3 +/- 1.7; AD = 17.9 +/- 1.4 pmol/g tissue). [3H]PN200-110 binding in temporal cortex was not altered in AD compared to controls. In the occipital cortex 125I-apamin binding was increased in AD while both [3H]glibenclamide and [3H]PN-200-110 binding sites in this cortical area were not different from controls. Plaque density (per mm2) was higher in temporal (e.g. layers I-III, 43 +/- 6) than in occipital cortex (layers I-III, 27 +/- 4) in the AD patients while ChAT activity was reduced by 40% in temporal cortex and by 50% in occipital cortex compared to controls. The results suggest that the three ion channel binding sites are located on structural elements in the brain which are differentially affected by the pathophysiology of AD.
Lateral hypothalamic (LH) injections of the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate, or its excitatory amino acid (EAA) agonists, kainic acid (KA), D,L-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA), or N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA), can rapidly elicit an intense feeding response in satiated rats. To determine whether the LH is the actual locus of this effect, we compared these compounds' ability to stimulate feeding when injected into the LH, versus when injected into sites bracketing this region. Food intake in groups of adult male rats was measured 1 h after injection of glutamate (30-900 nmol), KA (0.1-1.0 nmol), AMPA (0.33-3.3 nmol), NMDA (0.33-33.3 nmol) or vehicle, through chronically implanted guide cannulas, into one of seven brain sites. These sites were: the LH, the anterior and posterior tips of the LH, the thalamus immediately dorsal to the LH, the amygdala just lateral to the LH, or the paraventricular and perifornical areas medial to the LH. The results show that across doses and agonists the eating-stimulatory effects were largest with injections into the LH. In the LH, glutamate between 300 and 900 nmol elicited a dose-dependent eating response of up to 5 g within 1 h (P &lt; 0.01). Each of the other agonists at doses of 3.3 nmol or less elicited eating responses of at least 10 g with injections into this site. Injections into the other brain sites produced either no eating, or occasionally smaller and less consistent eating responses.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Labyrinthine-intact guinea pigs received unilateral, brainstem cannula injections of (1) 2.5 micrograms of the selective dihydropyridine L-type Ca2+ channel agonist, Bay K 8644 (n = 4 animals); (2) 10 micrograms Bay K 8644 (n = 4); 12.5 micrograms of the selective dihydropyridine L-type Ca2+ channel antagonist, nifedipine (n = 4); or 40 micrograms nifedipine (n = 4). In 11/16 cases, the lesion associated with the cannula tip was located within or near the border of the right vestibular nucleus (VN) complex. All cannula injections were delivered in a 1 microliter volume of artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) and dimethylsulphoxide (DMSO) (70% DMSO, 30% ACSF for Bay K 8644; 80% DMSO, 20% ACSF for nifedipine), adjusted to a pH of approx. 7.0. The effects of these injections were compared with control injections of ACSF/DMSO in our previous studies. Animals were observed for signs of a labyrinthine syndrome (i.e. spontaneous ocular nystagmus, yaw and roll head tilt) directed to the contralateral or ipsilateral side. In no case did Bay K 8644 or nifedipine cause ocular motor or postural symptoms similar to those produced by a unilateral labyrinthectomy. These results suggest that L-type Ca2+ channels do not contribute significantly to the resting activity of VN neurons and therefore do not contribute to static vestibular function at the level of the VN.

When an action potential reaches a synaptic terminal, fusion of a transmitter-containing vesicle with the presynaptic membrane occurs with a probability (pr) of less than one. Despite the fundamental importance of this parameter, pr has not been directly measured in the central nervous system. Here we describe a novel approach to determine pr, monitoring the decrement of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate)-receptor mediated synaptic currents in the presence of the use-dependent channel blocker MK-801 (ref. 2). On a single postsynaptic CA1 hippocampal slice neuron, two classes of synapses with a sixfold difference in pr are resolved. Synapses with low pr contribute to over half of transmission and are more sensitive to drugs enhancing transmitter release. Switching between these two classes of synapses provides the potential for large changes in synaptic efficacy and could underlie forms of activity-dependent plasticity.
Binding sites for the sigma ligand [3H]di-o-tollylguanidine ([3H]DTG) have been reported to be altered in the brains of genetically dystonic rats. In the present study, selective sigma 1 and sigma 2 assay conditions were utilized in an effort to define which subpopulation of [3H]DTG binding sites is altered in the dystonic strain (dt). Both this approach and a re-examination using conditions similar to the previous report failed to confirm a difference between the brains of dystonic and normal rats in terms of sigma binding. Although not directly negating the possible involvement of sigma receptors in dystonia, these results indicate that sigma 1 and sigma 2 receptors appear unchanged in dystonic rats.
YM114 (KAE-393), (R)-5-[(2,3-dihydro-1-indolyl)carbonyl]-4,5,6,7- tetrahydro-1H-benzimidazole hydrochloride, is a derivative of YM060, a potent 5-HT3 receptor antagonist. We investigated the effects of YM114 on 5-HT3 receptors, both in vitro and in vivo, and on bowel dysfunction induced by restraint stress, 5-HT and thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH), and compared them with the effect of trimebutine. YM114 dose dependently inhibited the reduction in heart rate induced by 5-HT (30 micrograms/kg i.v.) in rats (ED50 = 0.31 micrograms/kg i.v.), and the potency of YM114 was almost the same as that of the racemate. The S-form of YM114 also inhibited 5-HT-induced bradycardia, but 1350 times less potent than the R-form. YM114 and its S-form inhibited [3H]GR65630 binding to N1E-115 cell membranes in a concentration-dependent manner with Ki values of 0.341 and 616 nM, respectively, showing the isomeric activity ratio (R-/S-form) of YM114 to be much greater (1800). YM114 antagonized 5-HT-induced depolarization of the nodose ganglion (EC50 = 1.39 nM). Trimebutine (1 mg/kg i.v.) failed to inhibit 5-HT-induced bradycardia, implying that it does not possess 5-HT3 receptor antagonistic activity. YM114 significantly and dose dependently prevented restraint stress-, 5-HT- and TRH-induced increases in fecal pellet output, and restraint stress- and 5-HT-induced diarrhea in rats and mice (ED50 = 6.9, 72.5, 154.6, 9.7 and 52.4 micrograms/kg p.o., respectively). Trimebutine significantly prevented stress- and 5-HT-induced diarrhea (ED50 = 29.4 and 87.3 mg/kg p.o., respectively), but only partially affected stress-, 5-HT- and TRH-induced increases in fecal pellet output. Thus, YM114 is a potent and stereoselective 5-HT3 receptor antagonist with much greater protective effects against stress-induced defecation than trimebutine.

Components of a signaling pathway that couples the ciliary neurotrophic factor (CNTF) receptor to induction of transcription were identified. CNTF stimulated the tyrosine phosphorylation of p91, a protein implicated in interferon signaling pathways, and of two proteins that are distinct but related to p91. Tyrosine-phosphorylated p91 translocated to the nucleus, where p91 and p91-related proteins bound to a DNA sequence found in promoters of genes responsive to CNTF. This DNA sequence, when inserted upstream of a reporter gene, conferred a transcriptional response to CNTF. A pathway that transduces interferon signals may therefore have a more general function in the propagation of responses to certain neurotrophic factors.



A double-blind group comparison study of L-sulpiride and amitriptyline was carried out in 30 bipolar outpatients on maintenance treatment with lithium suffering from a major depressive recurrence. L-sulpiride showed equivalent antidepressant activity to amitriptyline at 4 weeks using the Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression. However, the onset of action was faster in the L-sulpiride group, showing a significant improvement at 1 week in both anxiety-somatization and specific depression items, including depressed mood, feelings of guilt, work &amp; activities and retardation. The incidence of anticholinergic side effects was significantly higher in the amitriptyline treatment group.
Whole cell patch-clamp recordings were obtained from isolated rat supraoptic nucleus magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs). Under current clamping, hyperosmolality produced by the addition of 10-30 mM mannitol depolarized each of 25 cells tested. In contrast, reducing fluid osmolality from 295 to 265 mosmol/kgH2O had the reverse effect, hyperpolarizing 18 of 21 MNCs. Voltage-clamp recordings in 43 cells revealed that the effects of hypo- and hyperosmolality, respectively, were caused by decreases and increases in a nonselective cation conductance reversing near -41 mV. Current-voltage analysis in Na(+)-free solution revealed that the reversal potentials of currents elicited by increases and decreases in osmolality both shifted to a value near -90 mV, suggesting that a single ionic conductance is modulated by these stimuli. The relation between cationic conductance and osmolality was specific, sensitive (+2.14%.mosmol-1.kgH2O-1), and well-fit by linear regression (r = 0.96; n = 22 cells) between 275 and 325 mosmol/kgH2O. These results indicate that MNCs express a depolarizing current that is active under steady-state conditions and that the up- or downregulation of this current contributes to the excitation or inhibition of these cells upon acute exposure to hypo- or hyperosmolar conditions.
The synthetic peptide neurogranin(28-43), the sequence of which is homologous to the phosphorylation site of the brain specific protein kinase C (PKC) substrates neurogranin and neuromodulin, was tested for its utility as a PKC substrate in crude tissue homogenates. The phosphorylation of neurogranin(28-43) shows time- and protein concentration-dependency. In prolonged incubations, the addition of the protein phosphatase inhibitor sodium pyrophosphate results in increased phosphorylation of neurogranin(28-43). The phosphorylation of neurogranin(28-43) was compared to that of another widely used PKC substrate, S6(229-249). Neurogranin(28-43) is as potent as S6(229-249) and more selective than S6(229-249) as a PKC substrate. Greater than 95% of phosphate incorporation into neurogranin(28-43) can be inhibited by a selective PKC inhibitor, PKC(19-36). Kinetic analysis of neurogranin(28-43) phosphorylation in hippocampal homogenate revealed an apparent Km of 147 nM, virtually identical to previously published Km observed for phosphorylation of the substrate by purified PKC. In addition, we assayed several neuronal and nonneuronal tissues using neurogranin(28-43) as substrate in the presence or absence of detergent. We show that the relative PKC activity assayed with neurogranin(28-43) correlates well to the relative amount of PKC known to be present in various neuronal and nonneuronal tissues. Overall, this report shows that neurogranin(28-43) can be used to selectively assay PKC, even in tissue containing low PKC activity.
Postpump chorea (PPC) is the development of choreoathetoid movements within 2 weeks following cardiopulmonary bypass. Over a 10-year period, 668 children underwent open cardiac surgery, of whom 8 (1.2%) developed PPC. Age at surgery ranged from 8 to 34 months. The onset of chorea was 3 to 12 days following surgery. Computed tomography and magnetic resonance imaging showed atrophy but no focal lesions. Cerebral positron emission tomography using [18F]fluorodeoxyglucose in a patient following 12 months of chorea showed patchy areas of decreased glucose metabolism. None of the patients were developmentally normal 22 to 130 months following surgery. Three patients have had transient and 5 have persistent chorea. Neurological deficits ranged from a mild learning disability to progressive hypotonia and obtundation ending in death. One of 4 patients who received haloperidol had a decrease in the severity of chorea. We compared PPC patients with 39 randomly selected controls. During surgery, affected patients spent significantly more time on pump and at temperatures under 36 degrees C, were cooled to lower temperatures than controls, and were more likely to have had a circulatory arrest. One patient developed chorea without a history of circulatory arrest. We conclude that (1) there is a strong association between PPC, deep hypothermia, and circulatory arrest, (2) absence of characteristic macroscopic changes suggests a biochemical or microembolic etiology in some cases, (3) chorea is frequently associated with developmental delay, and (4) the prognosis for complete resolution of chorea is guarded.
We describe a new noninvasive method using near-infrared spectroscopy for monitoring cerebral hemodynamics during cardiopulmonary bypass in children. All patients were undergoing open heart operations for repair of congenital heart defects. Standardized anesthesia, an alpha-stat method of blood gas management, and nonpulsatile flow were used in all cases. All measurements during bypass were made after steady-state conditions had been reached. Cerebral blood flow was measured on 13 occasions in 4 children, aged between 4 and 10 months (median, 5 months). Values of 15.9 to 53.5 mL x 100 g-1 x min-1 were obtained. Cerebral blood volume was measured in 1 patient, aged 4 months. Volumes of 4.3 to 8.0 mL x 100 g-1 were obtained on bypass at full pump flow (2.4 L.min-1 x m-2). On bypass at half flow, the volume increased to 14.7 mL x 100 g-1. Change in cerebral blood volume with changing carbon dioxide tension (CBVR) was measured in 13 patients aged from 1 to 90 months (median, 13.5 months). Preoperatively, CBVR was 0.12 +/- 0.07 mL x 100 g-1 x kPa-1 and was independent of mean arterial pressure, which remained between 40 and 80 mm Hg in all cases. During hypothermic bypass (25 degrees C), CBVR was significantly reduced to 0.05 +/- 0.02 mL x 100 g-1 x kPa-1. In addition, there were three values at mean arterial pressure of lower than 40 mm Hg in which CBVR was negative (-0.04 +/- 0.01 mL x 100 g-1 x kPa-1). We conclude that near-infrared spectroscopy is useful for the noninvasive investigation of cerebral hemodynamics during cardiopulmonary bypass.

In 2 experiments, the effects of axon-sparing lesions of the hippocampus on performance in aversive and appetitive taste conditioning tasks were investigated. In Experiment 1, hippocampally lesioned rats showed no impairment of conditioned taste aversion learning relative to control subjects, but they did display an increased sensitivity to latent inhibition (LI). In Experiment 2, the same hippocampectomized rats acquired a conditioned taste preference but failed to show any evidence of extinction. The influence of the neurotoxic lesion on LI is in the opposite direction to the effect typically found following hippocampal damage induced by traditional methods. Accordingly, the data present challenges for most current theories of hippocampal function.
The effects of amygdala, hippocampus, and periaqueductal gray (PAG) lesions on contextual fear conditioning in rats were examined. Freezing behavior served as the measure of conditioning. Unlesioned control animals showed reliable conditional freezing in the testing chamber when observed both immediately and 24 hr after footshocks. In contrast, rats with amygdala or ventral PAG lesions exhibited a significant attenuation in freezing both immediately and 24 hr after the shocks. Dorsal PAG lesions had no effect on freezing at either time. Animals with hippocampal lesions displayed robust freezing behavior immediately following the shock, even though they showed a marked deficit in freezing 24 hr after the shock. These results indicate that there are anatomically dissociable short- and long-term conditional fear states.
Three experiments examined the conditioned taste aversion (CTA) deficit that occurs following electrolytic lesions of the parabrachial nucleus (PBN). In Experiment 1, lesioned rats failed to avoid either a gustatory or an olfactory stimulus that had been paired with lithium chloride-induced toxicosis. In Experiment 2, however, all rats learned a conditioned flavor preference. Finally, in Experiment 3, all controls and 7 of the 12 lesioned rats learned a conditioned place aversion. Together, these results demonstrate that the disruption of CTA in lesioned rats cannot be ascribed to an inability to process either gustatory or visceral afferent information per se. Rather, the data suggest that PBN-lesioned rats are unable to form a specific association between gustatory and visceral cues.
Serrastruma lujae ants individually search for collembolans in the leaf litter of humid tropical forests. During the dry season, collembolans aggregate in wet patches randomly scattered in the dry litter where numerous single workers come hunting from their nest. We simulated this situation in the laboratory, and observed that workers seem to be able to use the humidity gradient direction to efficiently orient themselves towards a wet patch. Once the patch has been reached, they exhibit area-concentrated searching,consisting, in particular, of adopting a high sinuosity and a low speed. After capturing a collembolan, the ants return to their nest along nearly straight paths. This ability may rely on a spatial memory of the nest location by means of a path-integration process. In the absence of prey, however, various behaviours were observed after an unsuccessful search. Comparisons between these data and the results obtained with a homogeneously wet environment simulating the rainy season situation showed that these ants do not simply respond to the humidity level but are also sensitive to the degree of patchiness of their environment. They can therefore be said to be able to adapt suitably to the considerable climatic changes they encounter during the year.
A multiple regression/discriminant analysis of positron emission tomographic cerebral metabolic (rCMRglc) data in 10 obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) patients before and during pharmacotherapy was carried out to see if rCMRglc interdependencies distinguished OCD patients from controls. Before therapy, a discriminant function reflecting parietal, sensorimotor, and midbrain rCMRglc interdependencies correctly classified eight (80%) of the 10 patients as OCD; after therapy, six (70%) were classified as controls, most of whom were responders. Before therapy, rCMRglc interdependencies involving basal ganglia, thalamus, limbic, and sensory and association cortical regions distinguished 67% of patients who clinically responded to drug (RESP, n = 6) and 75% of patients who did not (NRESP, n = 4) from controls. After therapy, all RESP were classified as controls; classification of NRESP remained unchanged. The results suggest the conjunctive utility of this method to assess individual differences in rCMRglc during pharmacotherapy, and to explore the neurobiology of OCD.
The rat alpha 7 neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor was expressed and studied in Xenopus oocytes. The magnitude and reversal potential of instantaneous whole cell currents were examined in solutions containing varying concentrations of either calcium or barium, and in the presence or absence of the intracellular calcium chelator BAPTA. In external barium, application of nicotine elicits an inwardly rectifying response; in calcium the response is larger and has a linear IV relation. Pretreatment of oocytes with BAPTA-AM could not prevent activation of calcium-dependent chloride channels in external Ringer containing calcium. Using an extended GHK equation, the permeability ratio PBa/PNa of the alpha 7 receptor was determined to be about 17. Our results suggest that alpha 7 nicotinic receptors are highly permeable to divalent cations.
1. Release of substance P in the dorsal horn is considered a primary event in the perception of pain. The profile of racemic RP67580, a non-peptide antagonist at the NK1 (substance P) receptor, was examined in a range of antinociception tests on rodents. 2. At doses up to 30 mg kg-1, s.c. racemic RP67580 exhibited antinociceptive activity in writhing and formalin paw tests in mice and gerbils. Acetic acid induced writhing and the licking response to formalin were reduced to 40-50% of the level observed in vehicle-treated animals (P &lt; 0.05). However, this agent was not active in mouse tail flick, rat paw pressure or rat and guinea-pig formalin paw tests. 3. Like racemic RP67580, the calcium channel blockers nifedipine (30 mg kg-1, i.p.) and verapamil (10 or 20 mg kg-1, s.c.) inhibited the response to formalin by approximately 60% in gerbils (P &lt; 0.05 compared with vehicle-treated animals). 4. Evidence for calcium channel antagonist activity of RP67580 was obtained in vitro. Racemic RP67580 inhibited calcium entry into depolarized strips of guinea-pig ileum longitudinal muscle myenteric plexus (apparent KB = 587 +/- 115 nM), inhibited [3H]-diltiazem binding to rabbit skeletal membranes (IC50 = 298 nM) and depressed high threshold calcium currents in neurones cultured from rat cortex (10% inhibition at 10 microM). 5. These findings indicate that the acute antinociceptive effects of RP67580 may not be attributable to a specific interaction with NK1 receptors and may be mediated via calcium channel blockade.
The clinicopathological findings in a patient who presented a severe frontal syndrome and who had ischaemic lesions in the left anterior cingulate gyrus and in the head of the right caudate nucleus are reported. The clinical features included complex disorders such as distractibility, docility, emotional unconcern, manual grasping, prehension and utilization behaviour, perseverations and anterograde amnesia. They are closely similar to those previously described in a patient with bilateral lesions involving the anterior cingulate gyri. These findings suggest that (i) in the presence of a lesion of the anterior cingulate gyrus on one side, a lesion of the head of the contralateral caudate nucleus may be equivalent to a lesion of the anterior cingulate gyrus, the anterior cingulate gyrus--caudate complex working as a single functional unit; (ii) the anterior cingulate gyri (and anterior cingulate gyrus--caudate complexes) play a crucial role in the expression of frontal lobe functions; (iii) they are necessary for sustained goal-oriented responses to (emotionally or not) discriminated stimuli.
A longitudinal study was performed on 118 first-ever stroke patients to evaluate neurophysiological measurements of central motor conduction time (CMCT) in the period immediately following stroke as predictors of functional outcome and mortality at 12 months. Measurements of CMCT were made as described in the accompanying article (Heald et al., 1993, Brain, 116, 1355-1370), in which the following three groups of patients were recognized within 12-72 h after the onset of symptoms: normal response group, delayed response group and no response group. Neurophysiological and clinical investigations were commenced 12-72 h (designated as day 1) after the onset of symptoms and repeated at set time intervals up to 12 months. The subjects were examined neurologically and assessed using the Motricity Index for muscle strength, the Nine-hole Peg Test to measure manual dexterity, the Barthel Score for activities of daily living and the modified Rankin Scale for functional outcome. The duration of stay in hospital and the occurrence of stroke-related death were noted. During the first week following stroke, absence of responses correlated closely with the patient's symptoms and neurological observations of abnormal muscle tone and tendon reflexes. Correlations were made in the three groups of patients of functional scores at day 1 and at 12 months. Patients with normal CMCT had consistently higher scores throughout the 12 month period and achieved significantly better functional recovery. Patients with no responses showed poor performance in neurological and functional tests throughout the 12 month period. Patients with delayed CMCT had neurological and functional scores intermediate between those of the other two groups, but outcome at 12 months was similar to those in the normal response group. Where the threshold to cortical stimulation was abnormally high, functional outcome was generally poor. Mortality was highest in the group with absent responses and the survivors spent the longest period in hospital. In conclusion, the observation of normal or delayed CMCT at day 1 identifies a group of patients with a high probability of survival and functional recovery. The absence of responses to cortical stimulation at day 1 identifies a group of patients who are at high risk of poor functional recovery at 12 months and greater probability of stroke-related death during this period.
A 12 month longitudinal study has been performed on 118 subjects following first-ever stroke to determine changes in central motor conduction time (CMCT) to upper limb muscles. The responses to electromagnetic stimulation of the motor cortex and cervical motor roots were recorded bilaterally in the surface electromyograms of pectoralis major, biceps and triceps brachii and thenar muscles. The CMCTs obtained from these recordings in stroke patients have been compared with those obtained in 53 normal healthy subjects of a similar age. The first measurements were made within the immediate post-stroke period (12-72 h of the onset of symptoms) and repeated at set time intervals over 12 months. The first assessment of CMCT identified three groups: those with normal responses, delayed responses and absent responses. During the first 12 months following stroke various changes in CMCT occurred. Central motor conduction time may remain unchanged, delayed CMCT may return to normal and previously absent responses may reappear and be delayed or normal. Using electromagnetic stimulation of the motor cortex the thresholds for motor evoked responses in the different muscles were initially high and fell over 12 months.

In situ hybridization was used to assess the subcellular distribution of rRNA and poly(A) RNA in hippocampal neurons maintained in culture. Labeling produced with 35S-labeled probes to either rRNA or poly(A) was heaviest over the cell body with lighter, patchy labeling of proximal dendrites. In contrast, 3H-labeled probes labeled dendrites throughout their length, and the ratio of dendritic to cell body labeling was higher with 3H-labeled probes. There was no detectable labeling of axons of mature neurons with either probe. The pattern of hybridization produced by 35S-labeled oligonucleotide probes to rRNA varied depending on the concentration of the oligonucleotide. These studies provide the first detailed study of the subcellular distribution of rRNA and poly(A) RNA in neurons, and highlight technical issues to consider when evaluating results of hybridizations carried out with 35S- and 3H-labeled probes on cells in culture.
Summing up with classical shortlasting inspirations, periodic longlasting inspirations (approximately 10 s) may be recorded with the normal inspirations through plethysmographic method in the intact newborn rat under deep diethyl ether anaesthesia. When they are present in vivo, the fast brainstem-spinal cord isolation allows to record in vitro periodic longlasting motor bursts (10-25 s) on C2-C8 ventral roots adding to shortlasting respiratory bursts (1-3 s) on C1-T13 ventral roots. Both kinds of rhythmic activities display a synchronous bilateral pattern. The longlasting bursts are maintained after a C2 spinal transection, especially if they have been induced by phenylephrine hydrochloride superfusion (0.4-0.5 mM).
Alkaline phosphodiesterase I from cultured fibroblasts from patients with neurofibromatosis was partially purified and characterized following extraction with Triton X-100, and fractionation with high-performance liquid chromatography. Some properties were compared with the enzyme extracted from normal-appearing fibroblasts. The isoelectric points of both the tumour and normal-appearing cell enzymes were 6.0. The enzyme required Zn2+ for its activity, was heat labile, and nicked superhelical covalently closed circular phi X174 DNA. The activity was inhibited by GTP, DTT and EDTA. The native molecular weight of alkaline phosphodiesterase I was determined to be 430,000. No differences were found in properties of the tumour-derived and normal cell enzymes. On purification it was observed that the peak pattern of enzyme activity corresponded to that of 125 kDa protein, which was more abundant upon SDS-PAGE analysis in tumour cells than in normal cells. The most active fraction of isoelectric focusing, which was performed using disulfide cross-linked polyacrylamide gel, was used to produce an antibody. The bands of 125, 60 and 40 kDa were immuno-stained in tumour cell preparation. These results indicate that alkaline phosphodiesterase I, of which the molecular weight is probably 125 kDa, is over-expressed in tumour-derived fibroblasts from neurofibromatosis patients.
1. HIV gp120 selectively reduces the glutamate-induced inward current and the acetylcholine-induced outward current in specific and identified Aplysia neurons without affecting dopamine (DA)- and serotonin (5-HT)-induced responses. 2. gp120 specifically decreases DA levels without significantly altering norepinephrine and 5-HT levels in Mytilus pedal ganglia. 3. The gp120-associated decrease in DA levels in Mytilus is dose dependent and exhibits a threshold level. 4. The alteration of in vitro DA levels is specific for gp120 since anti-gp120 blocks the effect. 5. gp120 and its effects appear to be stable due to the duration of treatment and the failure of secondary effects to materialize following antibody treatment.
Chronic administration of cocaine to rats has been shown to produce a persistent decrease in dopamine (DA) and its metabolites in the brain and periphery. To further explore the alterations in the DA system following repeated administration of cocaine, we studied the regional differences in DA transporter binding as a function of time after the last injection of cocaine. Two groups of rats were treated with cocaine (10 mg/kg twice a day) or saline for 7 days. Rats were sacrificed 1, 2, 3, 6, and 12 weeks after the last injection. The corpus striatum and the frontal cortex were dissected and assayed with [3H]GBR 12935 for DA transporter binding. Time-related differences were observed in the frontal cortex but not in the striatum of the saline-treated control rats. Cocaine treatment prevented the time-dependent increase in Bmax over the course of 6 weeks, but not over the course of 12 weeks following withdrawal. Although there was no difference between the cocaine- and saline-treated group in the striatum at any of the time points, cocaine in the frontal cortex produced a 33% reduction in Bmax during weeks 2 and 3 and a 57% reduction in Bmax at week 6 of withdrawal; the reduction persisted for &gt; or = 12 weeks. The KD was not affected by cocaine or time in either brain region. These findings may be functionally related to cocaine craving because the DA transporter has been identified as the neuronal structure and the medial prefrontal cortex as the anatomical site mediating cocaine reinforcement.
Precise estimation of spatio-temporal distribution of ions (or other constitutives) in three-dimensional geometrical configuration plays a major role in biology. Since a direct experimental information regarding the free intracellular Ca2+ spatio-temporal distribution is not available to date, mathematical models have been developed. Most of the existing models are based on the classical numerical method of finite-difference (FD). Using this method one is limited when dealing with complicated geometry, general boundary conditions and variable or non-linear material properties. These difficulties are easily solved when the finite-element-method (FEM) is employed. The first step in the implementation of the FEM procedure is the mesh generation which is the single most tedious, time consuming task and vulnerable to mistake. In order to overcome these limitations we developed a new interface called AUTOMESH. This tool is used as a preprocessor program which generates two- and three-dimensional meshes for some known and often-used shapes in neurobiology. AUTOMESH creates an appropriate mesh by using the mesh generator commercial tool of FIDAP.
Growth factors are potent and effective regulators of nerve-cell differentiation and survival. In the past year, several compelling studies have suggested that two proteins, glial derived neurotrophic factor and ciliary neurotrophic factor, may be useful in clinical approaches to treating injury or diseases of the nervous system. In addition, delivery of such factors to the central nervous system may be facilitated by a number of recently reported technologies: growth factor-antibody conjugates, polymer encapsulation and adenovirus vectors. These recent developments are part of new and innovative approaches towards brain repair.
Recent evidence suggests that independent sets of interneurons mediate presynaptic inhibition of primary and secondary muscle spindles and of tendon organ afferents. There is also evidence that the information which flows through different intraspinal collaterals of a single muscle spindle or tendon organ afferent fiber is selectively affected by electrical stimulation of the motor cortex. These studies suggest that presynaptic inhibition plays an important role in the selection of the sensory signals required for the execution of a specific motor task.
A critical review of the role of the cerebellum in motor learning is presented. Specifically, the hypothesis that the climbing fibers that issue from the inferior olive serve to modify the responsiveness of cerebellar Purkinje cells is evaluated. It is concluded that there is no convincing evidence, at this time, to support the view that a long-term modification of Purkinje cell activity is either the basis of motor learning or an authentic mechanism of cerebellar function. An alternative view, based on the biophysical, anatomical and ensemble properties of olivary neurons, suggests an important role for the olivocerebellar system in the coordination of movements. Future work in this interesting area of neuroscience will distinguish these two hypotheses.

Articles relevant to the topic of supranuclear eye-movement control including anatomy, physiology, pathology, and clinicoimaging correlates are emphasized in this review. Significant contributions in human oculomotor physiopathology were published during this review period and are discussed specifically in the sections on saccades, pursuit eye movement, and optokinetic nystagmus. A very important section is devoted to eye-to-hand coordination. Advances in the understanding of congenital nystagmus also are reviewed.
In two groups of patients posterior tibial nerve (PTN) and sural nerve (SN) somatosensory evoked potentials (SEPs) were compared to each other and related to classified neurological signs. Group A consisted of 7 patients with hereditary spastic paraparesis (HSP) and 8 with primary lateral sclerosis (PLS), with solely or primarily motor deficits. Group B consisted of 12 patients with different spinal cord diseases causing variable mixed sensory and motor impairments. Normal values were derived from 39 controls. A clear trend towards more frequently prolonged PTN SEP than SN SEP latencies was found in both groups and appears to make PTN SEPs more useful for clinical application than SN SEPs. No significant differences were found in SEP abnormalities when the two patient groups were compared to each other. No relationships were found between SEP abnormalities and spasticity, weakness or any single sensory modality, making the two SEPs questionable as a quantitative test for neurological deficits in our patients.
Nicotine (Nic) is a potent stimulus for ACTH secretion, and this response appears to be mediated by central catecholamine secretion. We have previously shown that fourth ventricular administration of Nic rapidly elevated plasma ACTH levels, that a nicotinic cholinergic antagonist, mecamylamine, instilled into the fourth ventricle inhibited the ACTH response to iv Nic, and that Nic stimulated norepinephrine secretion in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus. Thus, the present investigations sought to identify Nic-responsive regions in the brainstem that give rise to ascending catecholaminergic afferents resulting in ACTH secretion. Chronic brain and jugular cannulae were implanted, and Nic (50 nl over 30 sec) was infused into the locus coeruleus (LC), nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS -C2 or -A2 regions), C1, or A1 cell regions of freely moving, adult male rats. Injection of Nic (free base, 0.25-10 micrograms) into either the C2 or A2 region of NTS resulted in a dose-dependent increase in plasma ACTH. In contrast, C1 was unresponsive and A1 only showed responses to the highest doses of Nic (5 or 10 micrograms). In LC, Nic in doses of 2.5 micrograms or higher was required to elevate plasma ACTH. This dose is approximately 10-fold greater than that required in NTS-A2. Finally, mecamylamine (0.25 mg/kg body wt, iv), administered 2 min before Nic, abolished the ACTH responses in both C2 and A2 and significantly reduced the 7-min peak ACTH response in LC (P &lt; 0.05). In summary, microinjection of Nic selectively activated the brainstem regions under investigation, with a rank order of sensitivity to Nic that was NTS-A2 &gt; NTS-C2 &gt; LC &gt; A1 &gt; C1 = cerebrospinal fluid. Therefore, systemically administered Nic appears to activate multiple catecholaminergic brainstem regions that are involved in mediating ACTH secretion.
In recent years, several studies have shown that neuropeptide-Y (NPY) is involved in the control of LH secretion. We determined the effects of estrogen on NPY-induced LH and FSH release in the absence or presence of LH-releasing hormone (LHRH) at the level of the anterior pituitary gland (APG). Adult female rats were ovariectomized. Fifteen to 20 days later, they were given a blank or estrogen-filled capsule subdermally and killed 17-19 h later. APG cells were isolated and cultured for 3 days in medium containing 12.5% rat serum collected at death from the same rats used to make the respective APG cell pools. The cells were then challenged for 3 h with vehicle, NPY (10(-12)-10(-6) M), LHRH (10(-9)-10(-6) M), or combinations of NPY (10(-9)-10(-7) M) and LHRH (10(-9) M). LHRH stimulated LH and FSH release from nonestrogen and estrogen-primed cells. NPY at 6.7 x 10(-8)-10(-6) M increased (P &lt; 0.05) LH release and at 10(-6) M increased (P &lt; 0.05) FSH release from estrogen-primed cells, but was without effect on nonestrogen-primed cells. In contrast, NPY at 10(-9)-10(-7) M potentiated the action of LHRH (10(-9) M) to increase the release of LH and FSH from nonestrogen-primed cells, but was without potentiating effects in cultures of estrogen-primed cells. The results demonstrate that 1) NPY can release LH and FSH by a direct action on estrogen-primed APG cells; and 2) NPY can potentiate the action of LHRH to increase the release of LH and FSH by a direct action on nonestrogen-primed APG cells.
Primary cultures of neonatal atrial myocytes were used to study the biosynthesis of a prominent secretory granule enzyme that occurs naturally in soluble and integral membrane forms. The two most prominent forms of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase PAM) in atrial myocytes are type I integral membrane proteins (PAM-1 and -2); smaller amounts of a soluble form, PAM-3, are also found. All three PAM proteins are N-glycosylated, and PAM-1 also has sialylated O-linked oligosaccharide. Two hours after their biosynthesis, approximately half of the newly synthesized PAM-1 and PAM-2 proteins have acquired N-linked oligosaccharide chains resistant to digestion with endoglycosidase-H. Secretion of newly synthesized PAM-3 is detectable within 90 min after biosynthesis and is largely complete within 4 h. Release of the catalytic domains of PAM-1 and PAM-2, which requires endoproteolytic cleavage, occurs at a slow rate for many hours after biosynthesis. Release of PAM-3 and the soluble PAM proteins derived from PAM-1 and PAM-2 can be stimulated by secretagogue. Integral membrane PAM proteins that reach the surface of atrial myocytes are internalized and enter the endocytic pathway. The turnover of newly synthesized PAM-1 and PAM-2 is only partially accounted for by the release of soluble PAM protein into the medium and may involve a significant contribution from intracellular degradation.
It is known that in Clone 9 (C9) cells, intercellular gap junctional communication (IGJC) is rapidly blocked by the tumor promoter phorbol ester, 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol-13-acetate (TPA), but it recovers spontaneously a few hours later and becomes refractory to TPA (Yada et al., J. Membr. Biol. 88, 217-232 (1985)). We now report that gap junctions between C9 cells contain at least two junctional proteins, connexin26 (Cx26) and connexin43 (Cx43), and that the TPA-induced changes in IGJC correlate temporally to changes in the state of phosphorylation of Cx43. The latter changes were prevented by inhibition of protein kinase C. Phosphoamino acid analysis and two-dimensional tryptic peptide maps of 32P-labeled Cx43 showed that during the TPA-induced phosphorylation at least two of the phosphorylated forms of Cx43 were differentially phosphorylated in seryl residues as compared to control. TPA induced a drastic reduction in junctional conductance as well as a redistribution of unitary gap junction channel event sizes seen in control cells. These changes were associated with retrieval of Cxs from the plasma membrane. Reappearance of gap junctions formed by Cx43 but not by Cx26 accounted for the spontaneous recovery in IGJC. It is proposed that gap junctions between C9 cells contain two types of channels each formed by Cx43 or Cx26 and that they are differentially affected during the action of TPA.
Embryonic striatal cells were immortalized using the A58 temperature-sensitive allele of the SV40 large T antigen. Two cell lines, M213-2O and M26-1F, with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)ergic properties were selected from 85 clones thus developed. M213-2O is a multipolar, polygonal cell line which expresses SV40 large T antigen and glutamate decarboxylase (GAD) at the permissive temperature (33 degrees C) and GAD and MAP-2 immunoreactivity at the nonpermissive temperature (39.3 degrees C). M26-1F has a fibroblast-like morphology and expresses SV40 large T antigen and GAD both at the permissive and nonpermissive temperatures and MAP-2 immunoreactivity at the nonpermissive temperature. Both lines contain GABA as measured by reversed-phase HPLC and M213-2O expresses nipecotic-sensitive [14C]GABA uptake.
The survival of ventral mesencephalic substantia nigra (SN) dopamine neurons, which degenerate in Parkinson's disease, is enhanced by glial cells in vitro. The recent isolation of glial cell line-derived growth factor (GDNF), a molecule with apparently selective effects on dopamine (DA) neurons in vitro, raises the question of whether this factor is found in normal brain cells. In this study, the polymerase chain reaction (PCR) was employed to determine the regional distribution and cellular localization of GDNF in the rat central nervous system. GDNF was expressed by SN and basal forebrain Type 1 (T1) astrocytes, with trace transcript levels present in cortical T1 astrocytes. Neuronal cultures of embryonic SN also expressed GDNF. Regionally, postnatal striatum contained the highest GDNF mRNA levels in vivo under the PCR conditions employed. Our data suggest a role for GDNF in both local and target-derived support of DA neurons, as well as potential involvement in the support of other neuronal populations in vivo.
Pathological lesions in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) are characterized by dense deposits of the protein beta-amyloid. The link between the deposition of beta-amyloid in senile plaques and AD-associated pathology is, at present, controversial since there have been conflicting reports on whether the 39-43 amino acid beta-amyloid sequence is toxic or trophic to neurons. In this report, we show that beta-amyloid peptide when presented as an insoluble substrate which mimics its conformation in vivo can induce cortical glial cells in vitro and in vivo to locally deposit chondroitin sulfate containing proteoglycan. In vitro the proteoglycan-containing matrix deposited by glia on beta-amyloid blocks the usual ability of the peptide to allow cortical neurons to adhere and grow. Chondroitin sulfate-containing proteoglycan was also found in senile plaques of human AD tissue. We suggest that an additional effect of beta-amyloid in the brain, which compounds the direct effects of beta-amyloid on neurons, is mediated by the stimulation of astroglia to become reactive. Once in the reactive state, glial cells deposit large amounts of growth-inhibitory molecules within the neuropil which could impair neuronal process survival and regeneration leading to neurite retraction and/or dystrophy around senile plaques in AD.
The present study evaluates the temporal relationships between increases in glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) mRNA, GFA protein levels, and GFAP immunostaining in the hippocampus of adult rats following unilateral lesions of the entorhinal cortex (EC). GFAP mRNA levels were assessed at 12 h, 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, 12, 14, and 30 days postlesion by dot blot assays using 35S-labeled cRNA probes against the mRNA. Animals were also prepared for in situ hybridization during the peak of GFAP mRNA expression (2 days postlesion) to explore the nature of individual differences in the spatial extent of the increases. GFA protein levels were assessed by Western blot and dot immunoblot techniques in a separate group of animals prepared at 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, and 10 days postlesion and by immunostaining at 1, 2, 4, 6, and 8 days postlesion. The dot blot analyses of GFAP mRNA levels confirmed previous studies, in that we observed dramatic increases in the levels of GFAP mRNA in the hippocampus ipsilateral to the EC lesions. The increases were biphasic, with a large peak in mRNA levels at 1-2 days postlesion (about 10-fold greater than control) and a second peak at 6-8 days. In most animals, the increases were predominantly ipsilateral to the lesion. However, in some animals, there were also large increases on the contralateral side. In situ hybridization experiments revealed two different spatial patterns of increased gene expression, one in which the increases in GFAP mRNA occurred bilaterally and one in which increases were restricted primarily to the hippocampus ipsilateral to the lesion. Immunochemical measures revealed that GFA protein levels increased gradually in the hippocampus ipsilateral to the lesion, reaching a peak at about 2-fold higher than control at 4 days postlesion, and then remained near this level until at least 10 days postlesion. In the contralateral hippocampus, GFA protein levels were increased to about the same extent as on the ipsilateral side at 1, 2, and 4 days postlesion, but then began to decline, returning to near control levels by 8 days. Increases in immunostaining occurred with about the same time course as the increases in GFA protein levels as measured immunochemically. These results define the temporal relationship between increases in GFAP mRNA and increases in GFA protein, providing new insights into the regulation of gene expression in reactive astrocytes.
The potential role of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) as a trophic molecule for midbrain dopamine neurons was examined using two different approaches: in situ hybridization and intraocular transplantation. The presence of mRNA for GDNF was noted in striatal and ventral limbic dopaminergic target areas in the developing (E20-P7) rat, but not the adult rat. Signals were also found in nondopaminergic areas during maturation, such as the cerebellar anlage, spinal cord, and thalamus. Lesions of the nigrostriatal pathway in neonatal or adult rats, using 6-hydroxydopamine injected into the medial forebrain bundle, did not elicit upregulation of mRNA for GDNF. Grafts of fetal ventral mesencephalon in the anterior eye chamber were exposed to repeated injections of GDNF, which elicited a marked and dose-dependent increase in transplant volume. A low (0.1 microgram/eye) and high (1 microgram/eye) dose of GDNF both led to a somewhat larger mean area of dopamine fiber outgrowth into host irides. In the transplants, cell counts of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-immunoreactive neurons revealed a doubling of cell numbers in the low-dose group and about four times as many cells in the high-GDNF-dose group compared to controls. Moreover, the density of TH-immunoreactive nerve fibers was markedly and significantly higher in transplants treated with the high GDNF dose. Since the volumes of these transplants were also larger, the total amount of both TH-positive cells and TH-positive nerve fibers was many-fold greater in the high-GDNF group than that in the controls. Taken together, these data support the concept that GDNF functions as a dopaminotrophic factor in vivo.


