The gene for methylenetetrahydrofolate reductase (MTHFR) has shown polymorphism in the general human population. In its homozygous form, a C677T mutation occurs in more than 5% of the grown-up population and produces a thermolabile variant which reduces the overall enzyme activity to less than 30% of normal. We investigated patients with schizophrenia-like psychosis. If hyperhomocysteinemic, their DNA-genotype for thermolabile C677T mutation was determined. Seven of 11 patients, six males and one female, were homozygous for thermolabile MTHFR. One male patient was heterozygous and all three normal homozygotes were females. In the patients who were homozygous for the C677T mutation, the homocysteine concentrations did not respond to vitamin B12 but were normalized by folate supplementation. In the normal homozygotes, however, the homocysteine concentrations were reduced by vitamin B12 alone. Our results suggest that homozygosity for thermolabile MTHFR is a risk factor for schizophrenia-like psychosis. Possibly, this risk may be reduced by folate supplementation.
The aim of this study was to evaluate the effects of Tolcapone, a reversible, selective inhibitor of catechol-O-methyltransferase, on the cognitive function of eight patients with advanced Parkinson's disease. They underwent neuropsychological and motor assessment at baseline and were re-evaluated after 6 months. During this period, they received Tolcapone three times daily, while the L-dopa dosage was progressively reduced. Significant improvements were observed in the attentional task, auditory verbal short-term memory, visuo-spatial recall, constructional praxia and motor symptoms. These data suggest that treatment with Tolcapone, in combination with L-dopa therapy, may determine a significant improvement in cognitive resources of patients with advanced Parkinson's disease.
Dantrolene has been known to affect intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) by inhibiting Ca2+ release from intracellular stores in cultured neurons. We were interested in examining this property of dantrolene in influencing the [Ca2+]i affected by the NMDA receptor ligands, KCl, L-type Ca2+ channel blocker nifedipine, and two other intracellular Ca2(+)-mobilizing agents caffeine and bradykinin. Effect of dantrolene on the spontaneous oscillation of [Ca2+]i was also examined. Dantrolene in microM concentrations dose-dependently inhibited the increase in [Ca2+]i elicited by NMDA and KCl. AP-5, MK-801 (NMDA antagonists), and nifedipine respectively reduced the NMDA and KCl-induced increase in [Ca2+]i. Dantrolene, added to the buffer solution together with the antagonists or nifedipine, caused a further reduction in [Ca2+]i to a degree similar to that seen with dantrolene alone inhibiting the increase in [Ca2+]i caused by NMDA or KCl. At 30 microM, dantrolene partially inhibited caffeine-induced increase in [Ca2+]i whereas it has no effect on the bradykinin-induced change in [Ca2+]i. The spontaneous oscillation of [Ca2+]i in frontal cortical neurons was reduced both in amplitude and in base line concentration in the presence of 10 microM dantrolene. Our results indicate that dantrolene's mobilizing effects on intracellular Ca2+ stores operate independently from the influxed Ca2+ and that a component of the apparent increase in [Ca2+]i elicited by NMDA or KCl represents a dantrolene-sensitive Ca2+ release from intracellular stores. Results also suggest that dantrolene does not affect the IP3-gated release of intracellular Ca2+ and that the spontaneous Ca2+ oscillation is, at least partially, under the control of Ca2+ mobilization from internal stores.
The fractional release technique was applied to investigate the effects of single electroshock (ECS) on the opioid-mediated inhibition of dopamine release in rat striatal slices. Animals were submitted to ECS 24h before the experiments. The results demonstrate that pre-treatment with ECS suppresses the inhibition of dopamine release mediated by kappa opioid receptors. These data suggest that single ECS treatment modifies the sensitivity of the kappa opioid receptors located on the presynatic dopamine terminals in the rat striatum.
We have developed a new procedure, including three affinity chromatography steps, micro-reversed phase high pressure liquid chromatography (mR-HPLC) and Western blotting/mass spectrometric analysis to study central nervous system (CNS) specific proteins in human cerebro spinal fluid (CSF) in order to find biochemical markers for neuronal and synaptic function and pathology in degenerative brain disorders. After the three affinity chromatography steps, intended to remove interfering serum proteins from CSF, mR-HPLC revealed four major peaks, which by both Western blotting and mass spectrometric analyses were found to correspond to beta 2-microglobulin, cystatin C, transthyretin (TTR) and asialotransferrin. When comparing these peaks in CSF from Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and age-matched healthy controls, a reduction of the brain-specific TTR was found. Therefore we quantified TTR in CSF and serum samples from 8 patients with early onset AD (EAD), 18 patients with late onset AD (LAD), 8 patients with vascular dementia (VAD) and 18 healthy individuals using a nephelometric method. CSF-TTR was divided into barrier-dependent and barrier-independent TTR. The barrier-independent i.e. brain-specific TTR was significantly reduced in the EAD group compared to the controls. Transthyretin has been found to be present in the senile plaques in AD, and to specifically bind to beta/A4 protein, the major component of the amyloid deposits in AD. Therefore, the reduction of the transthyretin-isoform in CSF in AD may reflect an absorption of transthyretin to the amyloid deposits in the senile plaques.
Postural instability and gait disorders (PIGD) are the primary causes of disability in many but not all advanced Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. We have measured the concentrations of serotonin, 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), 5-hydroxy-3-indoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), and homovanillic acid (HVA) in samples of ventricular cerebrospinal fluid from ten PD patients with severe disability from PIGD and from ten PD patients with tremor and levodopa induced dyskinesia as their predominant motor dysfunction. The two groups were prospectively matched for duration of disease and age. No significant differences between the two groups were found in the concentration (mean +/- SD in ng/ml, PIGD dominant vs. tremor-dyskinesia dominant) of 5-HIAA (106 +/- 50 vs. 99 +/- 34) or HVA (1,068 +/- 595 vs. 881 +/- 469). Serotonin concentration was significantly lower (0.7 +/- 0.5 vs. 1.5 +/- 0.9) and 5-HTP concentration was substantially higher (684 +/- 1,054 vs. 6 +/- 5) in the patient group with PIGD as their predominant symptoms. Thus, the distinguishing feature of patients with severe PIGD appears to be a derangement in indoleamine metabolism at the reaction step catalyzed by aromatic amino acid decarboxylase (AADC). These findings suggest that aggravation of PIGD in advanced Parkinson's may be related in part to impaired serotonergic transmission secondary to inhibition or down regulation of AADC.
A study of &quot;primary&quot; (VEPs) and &quot;cognitive&quot; (ERPs) visual evoked potentials was carried out in a group of non-demented Afro-American Parkinson's disease (PD) patients. Current studies suggest that differences exist in the clinical manifestations of PD in Caucasian and non-Caucasian populations. Two horizontal sinusoidal gratings differing in spatial frequency, i.e., 1 and 4 cycles per degree (cpd), were presented in an &quot;odd-ball&quot; paradigm to 17 patients with PD and 17 age-matched control subjects. While the 1 cpd stimulus, is not expected to reveal retinal dopaminergic deficency, but only visuocognitive deficits, the 4cpd may give direct information of both &quot;retinal&quot; and &quot;cognitive&quot; visual deficits. We measured the latencies and amplitudes of N70, P100 and P300 components, and derived the &quot;normalized&quot; measures of P300-N70 latency difference (Central Processing Time-CPT70), the P300-P100 latency difference (CPT100) and the P300 amplitude responses normalized to either N70 and P100 amplitude (Amplitude Ratios AR70 and AR100). Our results do show that cognitive electrophysiological deficits in younger PD patients exist in non-Caucasians, perhaps to an even greater degree than in Caucasians, and confirm that absolute and normalized ERP amplitude and latency abnormalities are a distinguishing feature of younger PD patients from controls. In particular P300 measures are abnormal for 1 cpd pattern. A negative correlation exists between P300 amplitude and the motor score. By comparing the results for 1 and 4cpd stimuli it can be concluded that &quot;primary&quot; and &quot;cognitive&quot; visual abnormalities are independently affected in PD, implying that visuo-cognitive abnormalities are not passively determined by retinal dopaminergic deficiency.
Autoradiographic techniques were used to investigate the characteristics of tritiated inositol(1,4,5)trisphosphate ([3H]IP3) and inositol (1,3,4,5) tetrakisphosphate ([3H]IP4) binding to human brain. In brain sections [3H]IP3 exhibited a two-site binding with KD values of 87 nM and 9.3 microM respectively for the higher and lower affinity sites. [3H]IP4 also bound to two sites with KD values of 43 nM and 1.4 microM, respectively. With the conditions fixed in this study, [3H]IP3 and [3H]IP4 autoradiography in the cortex, caudate, hippocampus and cerebellum were performed. The most prominent [3H]IP3 binding among these regions was found in the cerebellum, particularly in the molecular layer. Within the hippocampus, the subiculum and the CA1 region showed much more prominent binding than the other subfields. [3H]IP4, binding was fairly homogeneous in the regions studied, with the exception of a slightly higher binding in the molecular layer of the cerebellum.
Acting as a substrate at the serotonin (5-HT) transporter, (+)-MDMA (3,4-methylenedioxymethamphetamine), is a potent releaser of 5-HT and causes toxicity to 5-HT neurons after repeated exposure. (+)-MDMA also releases dopamine (DA), although with less potency. Since we have shown previously that the intrastriatal application of 5-HT facilities DA release, it was hypothesized that increased release of striatal 5-HT after MDMA may influence extracellular levels of DA. Using microdialysis in vivo, we found that (+)-MDMA (4.7 mumol/kg, i.v.) administration increased extracellular striatal DA levels to 501% of control (p &lt; 0.01, n = 12). However, in the presence of fluoxetine (14.4 mumol/kg, s.c.), which prevents (+)-MDMA effects on 5-HT release, the (+)-MDMA-induced increase in DA was significantly less (to 375% of control, p &lt; 0.05, vs. no fluoxetine, n = 8). In vitro studies with striatal slices, to test drug selectivity, showed that (+)-MDMA (0.3-3 microM) increased extracellular levels of both DA and 5-HT in a dose-dependent manner. Fluoxetine (3 microM) completely blocked the effects of (+)-MDMA on 5-HT release, but did not alter (+)-MDMA-induced DA release in vitro. The selective DA transport inhibitor GBR-12909 (1 microM), blocked (+)-MDMA's effect on DA release. It is concluded that 5-HT release after (+)-MDMA treatment partially contributes to (+)-MDMA's effect on DA release in vivo.
During the past decade, converging lines of evidence have linked the abnormal release or leak of excitatory amino acids to the neurodegeneration associated with a wide range of pathologies including cerebral ischemias, Huntington's disease, and AIDS dementia (Coyle and Robinson, 1987; Lipton, 1994; Meldrum, 1994). Pharmacological studies indicate that activation of both ionotropic and metabotropic glutamate receptors can substantially contribute to excitotoxic cell damage (Choi, 1992; Pizzi et al., 1993; Sheardown et al., 1993; Xue et al., 1994). Based on these findings, therapeutic strategies based on blunting or blocking glutamatergic transmission may be useful in treating a variety of neurodegenerative disorders.
Cytokines are molecules that are synthesized not only by the immune system, but also by cells in the central nervous system, including neurons, glia, and brain vascular cells. In the brain, cytokines can be neuroprotective or they can contribute to neurodegeneration. The role of cytokines in the regulation of normal and abnormal brain function represents a rapidly growing frontier in neuroscience. Cytokines are pleiotropic and redundant, and they can modulate the effects of neurotransmitters and neuropeptides; thus, in order to understand the effects of brain cytokines on apoptosis and toxicity, it is necessary to study the temporal and spatial expression of complex networks of cytokines, growth factors, neuropeptides, and neurotransmitters. This effort is currently in progress in many centers. Modulation of cytokine function in the central nervous system represents a new therapeutic strategy for neurodegeneration.
The physiological functions of neurotrophic factors, such as nerve growth factor (NGF), in supporting the survival and differentiation of specific neurons during early development has in many cases been well established. Recent studies have shown that neurotrophic factors can also protect vulnerable neurons against a variety of mechanical and chemical injuries. The role and the effects of neurotrophic factors in various neurological diseases are however less known. Neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson and Alzheimer's diseases as well as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) are characterized by an impaired function and ultimate loss of specific populations of neurons. The study of the ethiology and molecular biology of these diseases has for a long time been hampered by the lack of good animal models mimicked part of the human disease in experimental animals. Here we will discuss some of the current approaches taken in these studies as well as address the important question of the possible beneficial effect of neurotrophic factors in alleviating the symptoms and possibly retarding the course of neurodegenerative diseases.
Parkinsonism is most of the time caused by idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD). Considering the differences in therapeutic response and prognosis, in vivo discrimination between IPD and &quot;parkinsonism-plus&quot; syndromes is important. Recently, ligands have become available for imaging the pre- and postsynaptic dopaminergic system by Single Photon Emission Computed Tomography (SPECT). Visualization of postsynaptic D2 dopamine receptors using 123I-iodobenzamide (123I-IBZM) may contribute to the differential diagnosis between IPD and &quot;parkinsonism-plus&quot; syndromes as IPD is a pure presynaptic disease. Imaging of the presynaptic dopamine transporters using [123I] beta-CIT (2 beta-carbomethoxy-3 beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropane) may be used as a diagnostic technique. Early disease detection in subjects suspected to be at risk for developing IPD has become possible using [123I] beta-CIT or other ligands for the dopamine transporter. Furthermore, with SPECT one is probably able to monitor in an objective way the efficacy of new pharmacological therapies.
Functional imaging of the brain using SPECT provides information correlative to the alterations of regional blood flow. In this paper we review the literature pertaining to SPECT in Parkinson's disease with and without dementia and depression. Parkinson's disease itself is not associated with a consistent pattern of cerebral blood flow alterations in the basal ganglia, but reduced parietal blood flow is more often reported. The heterogeneity of blood flow changes possibly reflects the multifactorial pathophysiology of the disease. In demented Parkinson's disease patients frontal hypoperfusion is often found or bilateral temporoparietal deficits, probably indicative of concomitant Alzheimer's disease. The SPECT studies undertaken in depressed patients with and without Parkinson's disease show highly conflicting and inconsistent results, probably due to methodological and diagnostic flaws (especially the inclusion of demented Parkinson patients). Several lines of reasoning point to a prefrontal dysfunction and future SPECT studies are planned to study this region in non-demented Parkinson's disease patients with and without major depression.
L1 antigen promotes neurite outgrowth from dopaminergic neurons in tissue culture. In the present study, we examined the effects of dopaminergic deafferentation of the striatum on L1 expression. In the medial-periventricular part of the striatum, both complete and partial substantia nigra (SN) lesions decreased L1 expression. Complete lesions increased L1 expression in the dorso-medial and ventro-lateral parts of the striatum on the lesioned side when compared with that on the non-lesioned side. The decrease in the ventro-lateral area was maintained in animals examined three months after the lesioning. Animals with partial SN lesions showed a different pattern of altered L1 expression. After frontal cortex lesions, changes in L1 expression also occur preferentially in the dorso-medial and periventricular striatum. Therefore, the results indicate a complex regulation of L1 expression after damage of striatal circuitry, manifested by a preferential occurrence of changes in periventricular regions.

Elevated activities of nitric oxide synthase (NOS) have been reported previously in the brains of portacaval-shunted (PCS) rats, a model of chronic hepatic encephalopathy (HE). As L-arginine availability for nitric oxide synthesis depends on a specific uptake mechanism in neurons, we studied the kinetics of L-[3H]-arginine uptake into synaptosomes prepared from the brains of PCS rats. Results demonstrate that L-arginine uptake is significantly increased in cerebellum (60%; p &lt; 0.01), cerebral cortex (42%; p &lt; 0.01), hippocampus (56%; p &lt; 0.01), and striatum (51%; p &lt; 0.01) of PCS rats compared with sham-operated controls. Hyperammonemia in the absence of portacaval shunting also stimulated the transport of L-[3H]arginine; kinetic analysis revealed that the elevated uptake was due to increased uptake capacity (Vmax) without any change in affinity (Km). Incubation of cerebellar synaptosomes with ammonium acetate for 10 min caused a dose-dependent stimulation of L-[3H]arginine uptake. Neither portacaval shunting nor hyperammonemia had any significant effect on the synaptosomal uptake of NG-nitro-L-[3H]arginine. These studies demonstrate that increased NOS activity observed in experimental HE may result from increased availability of L-arginine resulting from a direct stimulatory effect of ammonia on L-arginine transport.
Using microdialysis in the hippocampus of anaesthetised rats, the concentration of extracellular adenosine was estimated to be 0.8 microM. Kainic acid (0.1-25 mM) in the perfusate evoked a concentration-dependent release of adenosine with an EC50 of 940 microM. Two 5-min pulses of 1 mM kainic acid in the perfusate increased the dialysate levels with an S2/S1 ratio of 0.52 +/- 0.03. Kainate-evoked release of adenosine was reduced significantly by 10 microM tetrodotoxin and by a kappa-receptor agonist, U50, 488H (100 microM). The S2/S1 ratio was reduced by 4.5 microM 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, a non-NMDA receptor antagonist, but not by the NMDA receptor blockers (+)-MK-801 (dizocilpine; 100 microM) or (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (1 mM), indicating a non-NMDA receptor-mediated process. The S2/S1 ratio was also reduced significantly by 10 mM ascorbic acid, 10 mM glutathione (a scavenger of hydroperoxides), and 1 mM oxypurinol (a xanthine oxidase inhibitor), indicating the possible involvement of free radicals. Neither the adenosine A1 receptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dimethylxanthine (100 microM) nor the A1 adenosine receptor agonist R(-)-N6-(2-phenylisopropyl)adenosine (100 microM) affected release. Adenosine release evoked by kainic acid is therefore mediated by activation of non-NMDA receptors and may involve the propagation of action potentials and the production of free radicals.
Pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF) is a survival factor for cerebellar granule cells in culture. In the present study, we have investigated the ability of a recombinant form of PEDF (rPEDF) to protect against glutamate neurotoxicity. When rPEDF was added to cerebellar granule cell cultures 30 min before addition of 100 microM glutamate, glutamate-induced neuronal death was significantly reduced. The protective effect of rPEDF was dose-dependent in the range from 0.023 to 7.0 nM (1-500 ng/ml), with a half-maximal dose of 0.47 nM. An antibody to rPEDF blocked this protective effect. Measurement of intraneuronal free calcium levels demonstrated that rPEDF raised the basal calcium content. However, after the elevation of intracellular calcium in response to administration of glutamate, rPEDF reduced the plateau level seen in the presence of glutamate. These data show that PEDF can protect neurons against glutamate-induced neurotoxicity, possibly via a calcium-related pathway. The finding that only 30 min of preincubation is required for the neuroprotective effect, significantly faster than other known neurotrophic factors, suggests that PEDF may be useful clinically as a neuroprotective agent in the CNS.
Previous studies showed that various stressors can induce delayed (days) and long-lasting (weeks) increases of vasopressin (AVP) stores in terminals of CRH neurons in the external zone of the median eminence (ZEME) in adult rats. Here we tested whether this long-lasting neuroplastic change can be induced by mechanisms other than stressor provoked transsynaptic activation of CRH neurons. Single i.v. administration of a CRH antibody to adult rats causes a delayed (at least 1 day) and long-lasting (3 weeks) increase (2-3 fold) of AVP stores in the ZEME without affecting CRH stores. It suppresses ether-induced ACTH-responses for at least 8 days. In contrast, resting pm levels of ACTH and corticosterone (CORT) were suppressed only during the first 2 days. Suppletion of CORT levels on day 1 and 2, attenuates the antibody induced AVP-increase by 57%. CRH-immunoneutralization did not affect the AVP stores in CORT supplemented ADX rats. Thus, long-term increases of AVP stores induced by CRH-immunoneutralization largely depend on short-term suppression of pm CORT levels. Accordingly, single administration of metyrapone, which causes a transient suppression of pm CORT levels, increases AVP (1.5 fold) but not CRH stores one week later. We conclude that transient activation of hypothalamic CRH neurons results in long-lasting increases in AVP co-expression irrespective of the nature of the activating stimulus.
The purpose of this study was to evaluate the anatomy of the cerebral circulation, particularly the circle of Willis, using three-dimensional ultrasound (3DUS) imaging. Image data were obtained through the right transtemporal window from 8 young, healthy volunteers by acquiring gray-scale and color Doppler spectral (CDI) and energy (CDE) images using two-dimensional ultrasound equipment with a 2-MHz probe. Images and transducer position coordinates were fed into a graphics workstation, reprojected, analyzed to extract the blood flow signal, volume rendered, and displayed interactively. The architecture of the cerebral circulation was evaluated from multiple orientations using stereo viewing glasses and rotation to enhance the understanding of vessel position. The primary vessels of the cerebral circulation including the circle of Willis and bilateral views of the branching arteries (middle, anterior, and posterior cerebral arteries and internal carotid artery) could be imaged readily with 3DUS through one transtemporal window. Acquisition time was typically less than 30 seconds. Volume-rendering methods greatly assisted in showing the overall spatial relationships and continuity of cranial vessels. Secondary branches of the cerebral arteries were seen in 2 patients. Color data from two-dimensional ultrasound imaging that otherwise might be identified as artifact was found to represent continuous small vessels on three-dimensional viewing. 3DUS facilitates imaging of cranial vascular anatomy by clarifying overall spatial relationships and enhancing comprehension, compared to two-dimensional ultrasound methods. The method is rapid and the circle of Willis can be visualized from one side of the head.
Three cases are reported of the pseudotumour cerebri syndrome-that is, intracranial hypertension without mass lesion or enlarged ventricles, due to cryptococcal meningitis. In these patients the papilloedema was successfully treated with optic nerve sheath decompression, and the intracranial hypertension with lumboperitoneal CSF shunting. These cases support the concept that pseudotumour cerebri is a syndrome of intracranial hypertension that can be due to any disorder producing obstruction of the CSF pathways at the level of the arachnoid villi. This concept is important because it directs therapy to normalise the intracranial pressure and preserve vision.
Devic's neuromyelitis optica is a rare syndrome characterised by the combination of acute or subacute optic neuritis and transverse myelitis, in some cases considered to be a variant of multiple sclerosis. Mutations of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) associated with Leber hereditary optic neuropathy (LHON) have been identified in some patients with multiple sclerosis in whom optic neuritis is a prominent early feature. Using restriction enzyme digestion of mtDNA products amplified by the polymerase chain reaction, the primary LHON mtDNA mutations at positions 3460 bp, 11,778 bp, and 14,484 bp have been excluded in four women with Devic's neuromyelitis optica. A mutation at 4160 bp associated in some LHON families with more widespread neurological disease was also not detected. It is concluded that the primary mtDNA mutations currently associated with LHON are not responsible for the prominence of optic nerve disease in Devic's neuromyelitis optica.
The cellular localization and distribution of inducible and constitutive nitric oxide synthase (iNOS/cNOS) was determined in tissue sections from multiple sclerosis (MS) and control brain and spinal cord. Immunocytochemical techniques were applied using specific iNOS- and cNOS-directed antibodies. In addition, NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry was performed. To establish the identity of iNOS-, cNOS- and NADPH-diaphorase-positive cells single and double staining was performed on tissue sections with the macrophage marker KP1 (CD68) and with the astrocyte marker glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP). Areas of myelin breakdown and demyelination were determined using a staining for neutral lipids, Oil Red O (ORO). Furthermore, macrophages isolated from active demyelinating MS lesions were stained for iNOS, cNOS, KP1 and ORO. In active MS lesions strong iNOS immunoreactivity was found exclusively in perivascular and parenchymal macrophages distributed within regions of active demyelination. In these active MS lesions immunoreactivity for cNOS was also found in macrophages. Macrophages isolated from active MS lesions also showed immunoreactivity for iNOS and cNOS. Moreover, these isolated macrophages produced nitric oxide (NO; &gt;30 microM) in vitro. NADPH-diaphorase activity was detected in KP1-positive perivascular and parenchymal macrophages and in GFAP-positive reactive astrocytes in active MS lesions and in reactive astrocytes located in the hypercellular rims of chronic active MS lesions. cNOS-positive reactive astrocytes were detected in both active and chronic active MS lesions. Inside chronic active lesions some residual macrophages were weakly iNOS-positive. In control brain and spinal cord no iNOS immunoreactivity could be detected. These results suggests an important role for human macrophages capable of producing the free radical nitric oxide (NO), which may contribute to the cytotoxicity of oligodendrocytes and destruction of myelin in MS brain and spinal cord.
Throughout the glabrous representation in Area 3b, electrical stimulation of the dominant (median or ulnar) input produces robust, short-latency excitation, evident as a net extracellular &quot;sink&quot; in the Lamina 4 current source density (CSD) accompanied by action potentials. Stimulation of the collocated nondominant (radial nerve) input produces a subtle short-latency response in the Lamina 4 CSD unaccompanied by action potentials and followed by a clear excitatory response 12-15 ms later. Laminar response profiles for both inputs have a &quot;feedforward&quot; pattern, with initial activation in Lamina 4, followed by extragranular laminae. Such corepresentation of nondominant radial nerve inputs with the dominant (median or ulnar nerve) inputs in the glabrous hand surface representation provides a likely mechanism for reorganization after median nerve section in adult primates. To investigate this, we conducted repeated recordings using an implanted linear multi-electrode array straddling the cortical laminae at a site in &quot;median nerve cortex&quot; (i.e., at a site with a cutaneous receptive field on the volar surface of D2 and thus with its dominant afferent input conveyed by the median nerve) in an adult squirrel monkey. We characterized the baseline responses to median, radial, and ulnar nerve stimulation. We then cut the median nerve and semichronically monitored radial nerve, ulnar nerve and median nerve (proximal stump) evoked responses. The radial nerve response in median nerve cortex changed progressively during the weeks after median nerve transection, ultimately assuming the characteristics of the dominant nerve profile. During this time, median, and ulnar nerve profiles displayed little or no change.
We studied the high-voltage-activated (HVA) calcium currents in cells isolated from the ventrobasal nucleus of the rat thalamus with the use of the whole cell patch-clamp technique. Low-voltage-activated current was inactivated by the use of long voltage steps or 100-ms prepulses to -20 mV. We used channel blocking agents to characterize the currents that make up the HVA current. The dihydropyridine (DHP) antagonist nimodipine (5 microM) reversibly blocked 33 +/- 1% (mean +/- SE), and omega-conotoxin GVIA (1 microM) irreversibly blocked 25 +/- 5%. The current resistant to DHPs and omega-conotoxin GVIA was inhibited almost completely by omega-conotoxin MVIIC (90 +/- 5% at 3-5 microM) and was partially inhibited by omega-agatoxin IVA (54 +/- 4% block at 1 microM). We conclude that there are at least four main HVA currents in thalamic neurons: N current, L current, and two omega-conotoxin MVIIC-sensitive currents that differ in their sensitivity to omega-agatoxin IVA. We also examined modulation of HVA currents by strong depolarization and by G protein activation. Long (approximately 1 s), strong depolarizations elicited large, slowly deactivating tail currents, which were sensitive to DHP antagonists. With guanosine 5'-0-(3-thiotriphosphate) (GTP-gamma-S) in the intracellular solution, brief (approximately 20 ms), strong depolarization produced a voltage-dependent facilitation of the current (44 +/- 5%), compared with cells with GTP (22 +/- 7%) or guanosine 5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate) (7 +/- 4%). However, the HVA current was inhibited only weakly by 100 microM acetylcholine (8 +/- 4%). Effects of the gamma-aminobutyric acid-B agonist baclofen were variable (3-39% inhibition, n = 12, at 10-50 microM).
To determine whether corneal input is processed similarly at rostral and caudal levels of the spinal trigeminal nucleus, the response properties of second-order neurons at the transition between trigeminal subnucleus interpolaris and subnucleus caudalis (Vi/Vc) and at the transition between subnucleus caudalis and the cervical spinal cord (Vc/C1) were compared. Extracellular single units were recorded in 68 Sprague-Dawley rats under chloralose or urethan/chloralose anesthesia. Neurons that responded to electrical stimulation of the cornea at the Vi/Vc transition region (n = 61) and at laminae I/II of the Vc/C1 transition region (n = 33) were classified regarding 1) corneal mechanical threshold; 2) cutaneous mechanoreceptive field, if present; 3) electrical input characteristics (A and/or C fiber); 4) response to thermal stimulation; 5) response to the small-fiber excitant, mustard oil (MO), applied to the cornea; 6) diffuse noxious inhibitory controls (DNIC); and 7) projection status to the contralateral parabrachial area (PBA). On the basis of cutaneous receptive field properties, neurons were classified as low-threshold mechanoreceptive (LTM), wide dynamic range (WDR), nociceptive specific (NS), or deep nociceptive (D). All neurons recorded at the Vc/C1 transition region were either WDR (n = 19) or NS (n = 14). In contrast, 54% of the Vi/Vc neurons had no cutaneous receptive field. Of those Vi/Vc neurons that had a cutaneous receptive field, 57% were LTM, 25% were WDR, and 18% were D. All Vc/ C1 neurons responded to noxious thermal and MO stimulation. Only 22 of 47 and 13 of 19 Vi/Vc corneal units responded to thermal or MO stimulation, respectively. At the Vc/C1 transition region, 12 of 17 neurons demonstrated DNIC, whereas at the Vi/Vc transition region, DNIC was present in only 4 of 26 neurons. Of 15 Vc/C1 corneal units, 12 could be antidromically activated from the contralateral PBA (average latency 6.29 ms, range 1.8-26 ms). None of 22 Vi/Vc corneal units tested could be antidromically activated from the PBA. These findings suggest that neurons in laminae I/II at the Vc/C1 transition and at the Vi/Vc transition process corneal input differently. Neurons in laminae I/II at the Vc/C1 transition process corneal afferent input consistent with that from other orofacial regions. Corneal-responsive neurons at the Vi/Vc transition region may be important in motor reflexes or in recruitment of descending antinociceptive controls.
We investigated the mechanisms by which the antiparkinsonian and neuroprotective agents amantadine and memantine inhibit responses to N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA). Whole cell recordings were performed using cultured rat cortical neurons or Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells expressing NMDA receptors. Both amantadine and memantine blocked NMDA-activated channels by binding to a site at which they could be trapped after channel closure and agonist unbinding. For neuronal receptors, the IC50s of amantadine and memantine at -67 mV were 39 and 1.4 microM, respectively. When memantine and agonists were washed off after steady-state block, one-sixth of the blocked channels released rather than trapped the blocker; memantine exhibited &quot;partial trapping.&quot; Thus memantine appears to have a lesser tendency to be trapped than do phencyclidine or (5R,10S)-(+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H-dibenzo[1,d]cyclihepten-5,1 0-imine (MK-801). We next investigated mechanisms that might underlie partial trapping. Memantine blocked and could be trapped by recombinant NMDA receptors composed of NR1 and either NR2A or NR2B subunits. In these receptors, as in the native receptors, the drug was released from one-sixth of blocked channels rather than being trapped in all of them. The partial trapping we observed therefore was not due to variability in the action of memantine on a heterogeneous population of NMDA receptors in cultured cortical neurons. Amantadine and memantine each noncompetitively inhibited NMDA-activated responses by binding at a second site with roughly 100-fold lower affinity, but this form of inhibition had little effect on the extent to which memantine was trapped. A simple kinetic model of blocker action was used to demonstrate that partial trapping can result if the presence of memantine in the channel affects the gating transitions or agonist affinity of the NMDA receptor. Partial trapping guarantees that during synaptic communication in the presence of blocker, some channels will release the blocker between synaptic responses. The extent to which amantadine and memantine become trapped after channel block thus may influence their therapeutic effects and their modulation of NMDA-receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials.
We have identified a region in the pretectum of rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) that contains units that evince a complete cessation in firing immediately after saccades. The pause occurs for saccades to target steps and catch up saccades during smooth pursuit, spontaneously in complete darkness or after quick phases of nystagmus. Because the pause in unit firing always follows saccade onset, we call these neurons following omnidirectional pause neurons (FOPNs). Because the pause also occurs with saccades in the dark, it is related to the saccade per se and is not a visually contingent response. The duration of the pause in firing exceeded the duration of all saccades up to 40 deg. For targeting saccades, the start of the pause was locked rather tightly to the beginning of the saccade but began an average of 51 ms after the saccade did. The end of the pause was linked only loosely to either the beginning or end of the saccade. About half (54%) of our 59 FOPNs also discharged a distinct burst of firing that preceded the pause. In different units, the burst preceded saccade onset by from 0 to 20 ms with an average of 11 ms and therefore could signal the occurrence of an impending saccade. The presaccadic burst was not correlated with any parameter of the saccade. Most FOPNs were found 278 microns, on average, dorsal to the direction-selective units characteristic of the pretectal nucleus of the optic tract (NOT) and occasionally slightly beyond the anterior-posterior and medial-lateral borders of the NOT. The FOPN region does not coincide with any known anatomically or functionally delineated pretectal nucleus. Because the characteristics of the FOPN pause are not reflected in the characteristics of the saccade and the FOPN pause occurs well after the saccade is over, it is unlikely that the pause in pretectal FOPNs is involved with saccade generation. On the other hand, the leading burst exhibited by the majority of FOPNs reliably signals that a saccade is occurring but neither its size nor direction. Perhaps this signal indicating the occurrence of all saccades is routed to visual relay neurons to effect saccadic modification of visual pathways. The substantial efferent connections of the FOPN/NOT region to the pregeniculate nucleus and the saccadic discharge or pregeniculate cells are discussed in the context of this suggestion.
Thirty-nine patients with probable Alzheimer's disease (AD) were studied with [99mTc]HMPAO SPECT and a standardized neuropsychological battery testing intellect, memory, attention, language, motor and praxis functions, and depression. Spearman rank correlations and multivariate regression analyses were performed to correlate quantitative regional perfusion deficits to these tests. Patients were found to have decreased perfusion of left frontal, parietal, and temporal regions relative to right. WAB repetition scores and bilateral temporal flow were significantly correlated (P &lt; 0.01). Correlations between visual memory and bilateral temporal flow and those between Mini-Mental State/ Geriatric Depression Scale scores and bihemispheric flow approached significance. Although in this study regional cerebral blood flow was relatively insensitive to neuroanatomical abnormalities underlying specific cognitive deficits, it may have some specificity for identifying the language disorder in AD.
We have tested the ability of neurotrophins to reverse axotomy-induced changes in adult motor and sensory neurons, using the physiological measure of conduction velocity. Five weeks after axotomy, sensory and motor conduction velocities were greatly reduced. NT-3 at 60 microg/d, pumped directly onto the cut nerve stump, largely prevented the change in sensory fibers. Lower doses were less effective, and NT-4/5 was without effect. In contrast, both NT-3 and NT-4/5 were effective at rescuing motoneurons, with similar dose dependencies. This amelioration of physiological deficits in adult mammalian neurons suggests possible therapeutic application of neurotrophins. We have also studied the physiological effects of neurotrophin deprivation on intact peripheral neurons. After 2 weeks of sequestration of trkB ligands (BDNF and NT-4/5), motor, but not sensory, neuron conduction was significantly slowed. Sequestration of NT-3 was found to affect both motor and sensory fiber velocities but more modestly and only with higher doses of sequestering agent. These data therefore suggest that peripherally produced neurotrophins are necessary for the maintenance of normal functional properties of peripheral neurons.
Since its discovery as a putative neurotransmitter in the CNS, several functional roles have been suggested for nitric oxide (NO). However, few studies have investigated the role of NO in natural physiology. Because NO synthase (NOS) has been localized in regions believed to be important for attention and arousal, we hypothesized that NO production would be state-dependent. To test this hypothesis, we used in vivo microdialysis, coupled with the hemoglobin-trapping technique, to monitor extracellular NO concentrations in rat thalamus during wake, slow-wave sleep (SWS), and rapid eye movement (REM) sleep. The thalamus is known to receive a massive innervation from the NOS/cholinergic neurons in the mesopontine brainstem, which have been suggested to play a key role in EEG desynchronized states. To test whether thalamic NO output was sensitive to neuronal-dependent changes in the mesopontine brainstem, we measured thalamic NO concentration in response to electrical stimulation in the laterodorsal tegmentum (LDT) of anesthetized rats. Finally, the calcium dependence of NO release was tested by local depolarization with a high potassium dialysate or by addition of a calcium chelator. The results showed that (1) extracellular NO concentrations in the thalamus were high during wake and REM sleep and significantly lower during SWS, (2) thalamic NO release increased in response to LDT stimulation in both a site-specific and tetrodotoxin (TTX)-dependent manner, and (3) NO production was calcium-dependent. These data suggest that thalamic NO production may play a role in arousal.
In the optic tectum (OT) of the barn owl, visual and auditory maps of space are found in close alignment with each other. Experiments in which such alignment has been disrupted have shown a considerable degree of plasticity in the auditory map. The external nucleus of the inferior colliculus (ICx), an auditory center that projects massively to the tectum, is the main site of plasticity; however, it is unclear by what mechanisms the alignment between the auditory map in the ICx and the visual map in the tectum is established and maintained. In this paper, we propose that such map alignment occurs through a process of value-dependent learning. According to this paradigm, value systems, identifiable with neuromodulatory systems having diffuse projections, respond to innate or acquired salient cues and modulate changes in synaptic efficacy in many brain regions. To test the self-consistency of this proposal, we have developed a computer model of the principal neural structures involved in the process of auditory localization in the barn owl. This is complemented by simulations of aspects of the barn owl phenotype and of the experimental environment. In the model, a value system is activated whenever the owl carries out a foveation toward an auditory stimulus. A term representing the diffuse release of a neuromodulator interacts with local pre- and postsynaptic events to determine synaptic changes in the ICx. Through large-scale simulations, we have replicated a number of experimental observations on the development of spatial alignment between the auditory and visual maps during normal visual experience, after the retinal image is shifted through prismatic goggles, and after the reestablishment of normal visual input. The results suggest that value-dependent learning is sufficient to account for the registration of auditory and visual maps of space in the OT of the barn owl, and they lead to a number of experimental predictions.
The postnatal development of corticospinal projections was investigated in 11 macaques by means of the anterograde transport of wheat germ agglutin-horseradish peroxidase injected into the primary motor cortex hand area. Although the fibers of the corticospinal tract reached all levels of the spinal cord white matter at birth, their penetration into the gray matter was far from complete. At birth, as in the adult, corticospinal projections were distributed to the same regions of the intermediate zone, although they showed marked increases in density during the first 5 months. The unique feature of the primate corticospinal tract, namely direct cortico-motoneuronal projections to the spinal motor nuclei innervating hand muscles, was not present to a significant extent at birth. The density of these cortico-motoneuronal projections increased rapidly during the first 5 months, followed by a protracted period extending into the second year of life. The densest corticospinal terminations occupied only 40% of the hand motor nuclei in the first thoracic segment at 1 month, 73% at 5 months, and 75.5% at 3 years. A caudo-rostral gradient of termination density within the hand motor nuclei was present throughout development and persisted into the adult. As a consequence, the more caudal the segment within the cervical enlargement, the earlier the adult pattern of projection density was reached. No transitory corticospinal projections were found. The continuous postnatal expansion of cortico-motoneuronal projections to hand motor nuclei in primates is in marked contrast to the retraction of exuberant projections that characterizes the development of other sensory and motor pathways in subprimates.
Proliferation of supporting cells in the inner ear is the early major event occurring during hair cell regeneration after acoustic trauma or aminoglycoside treatment. In the present study, we examined the possible influence of 30 growth factors on the proliferation of pure rat utricular epithelial cells in culture. Utricular epithelial sheets were separated and partially dissociated from early postnatal rats via a combined enzymatic and mechanical method. The cultured utricular epithelial cells expressed exclusively epithelial cell antigens, but not fibroblast, glial, or neuronal antigens. With tritiated thymidine incorporation assays, we found that several fibroblast growth factor (FGF) family members, insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1), IGF-2, transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF-alpha), and epidermal growth factor (EGF), stimulated proliferation of the utricular epithelial cells. In contrast, neurotrophins and other growth factors did not elicit any detectable mitogenic effects. Among all of the growth factors examined, FGF-2 was the most potent mitogen. When FGF-2 was added in combination with IGF-1 or TGF-alpha to the medium, combined effects were seen. These results were confirmed with BrdU immunocytochemistry. Thus, the present culture system provides a rapid and reliable assay system to screen novel growth factors involved in proliferation of mammalian inner ear supporting cells. Furthermore, immunostainings revealed that the cultured utricular epithelial cells expressed FGF and IGF-1 receptors, and utricular hair cells produced FGF-2 in vivo. The addition of neutralizing antibodies against FGF-2 or IGF-1 to the cultures significantly inhibited the utricular epithelial cell proliferation. This work suggests that FGF-2 and IGF-1 may regulate the proliferation step during hair cell development and regeneration.
Antidepressant- and cocaine-sensitive serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) transporters (SERTs) dictate clearance of extracellular 5-HT after release. To explore protein kinase C-mediated SERT regulation, we generated a stable human SERT (hSERT)-expressing cell line (293-hSERT) and evaluated modulation of 5-HT activity via studies of 5-HT flux, hSERT-mediated currents under voltage clamp, and surface distribution of SERT protein. 293-hSERT cells exhibit saturable, high-affinity, and antidepressant-sensitive 5-HT uptake as well as hSERT-dependent whole-cell currents. In these cells, the protein kinase C activator beta-PMA caused a time-dependent reduction in 5-HT uptake capacity (Vmax) after acute application and a reduction in SERT-mediated currents. Effects of beta-PMA were mimicked by the phorbol ester beta-PDBu, were not observed with the inactive alpha-isomers, and could be blocked by treatment of cells with the protein kinase C inhibitor staurosporine. Biotinylation/immunoblot analyses showed that activity reductions are paralleled by a staurosporine-sensitive loss of surface SERT protein. These data indicate that altered surface abundance, rather than reduced catalytic transport efficiency, mediates acute PKC-dependent modulation of 5-HT uptake.
Several studies have reported on the use of primary neural cells transduced by adenoviral vectors as donor cells in neurotransplantation. In the present investigation, we examined whether adenoviral vector-mediated gene transfer could be used to introduce and express a foreign gene in solid neural transplants of fetal suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) tissue. A recombinant adenoviral vector containing the reporter gene LacZ encoding for beta-galactosidase (Ad-LacZ) was used in order to establish the optimal procedure for ex vivo gene transfer. Expression of beta-galactosidase was dependent on the duration of the infection and on the vector concentration. Infection for a short period (&lt; 4 h) with a high concentration of Ad-LacZ (3.4 x 10(9) pfu/ml), or for 18 h with a lower vector concentration (2 x 10(8) pfu/ml), resulted in expression of beta-galactosidase in a large number of neurons and glial cells up to 21 days in vitro. When infected fetal SCN tissue was implanted in the third ventricle of adult Wistar rats, expression was high after 8 days. After 21 days, the number of beta-galactosidase expressing cells had clearly declined, but expression remained present for at least 70 days. The method described in this paper might be applicable to introduce trophic factor genes in SCN grafts in order to support graft survival and to stimulate neurite outgrowth.
In this paper a detailed protocol is presented for neuroscientists planning to start work on first generation recombinant adenoviral vectors as gene transfer agents for the nervous system. The performance of a prototype adenoviral vector encoding the bacterial lacZ gene as a reporter was studied, following direct injection in several regions of the central and peripheral nervous system. The distribution of the cells expressing the transgene appears to be determined by natural anatomical boundaries and possibly by the degree of myelinization of a particular brain region. In highly myelinated areas with a compact cellular structure (e.g. the cortex and olfactory bulb) the spread of the viral vector is limited to the region close to the injection needle, while in areas with a laminar structure (e.g. the hippocampus and the eye) more widespread transgene expression is observed. Retrograde transport of the viral vector may serve as an attractive alternative route of transgene delivery. A time course of expression of beta-galactosidase in neural cells in the facial nucleus revealed high expression during the first week after AdLacZ injection. However, a significant decline in transgene expression during the second and third week was observed. This may be caused by an immune response against the transduced cells or by silencing of the cytomegalovirus promoter used to drive transgene expression. Taken together, the data underscore that for each application of adenoviral vectors as gene transfer agents in the nervous system it is important to examine vector spread in and infectability of the neural structure that is subject to genetic modification.
The in situ application of the antisense technique for the study of ligand gated channels is discussed here. Using antisense oligodeoxynucleotides to downregulate a gene of interest means being confronted with a number of choices that will determine the success. These include choosing a target sequence, considering chemical modifications of the oligo as well as its length and estimation of the turnover of the target protein in order to set up the treatment schedule. In this paper a short overview of technical aspects of the antisense approach on primary cultured neurons and brain slice cultures is presented. In addition, the effects of antisense oligos on the expression of neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and GABA(A) receptors are discussed: Patch-clamp recordings of neurons treated with specific antisense oligos targeted at individual subunits showed a clear downregulation of the expression of native ligand gated channels. Moreover, in a number of experiments novel channel types with altered properties were observed following antisense treatment. Thus, non-targeted channel subunits that remain expressed after antisense deletion, may aggregate to form novel channel types that are normally not present. Alternatively, the translational arrest of a protein may be accompanied by compensatory changes in the synthesis and/or targeting of other channel subunits to the cell surface. The antisense technique enables identification of the functional contribution of individual channel subunits to endogenous channel activity in the central nervous system. As such it paves the way to the elucidation of in vivo channel-subunit composition and channel functions, of post- as well as pre-synaptic ligand gated channel receptors.
Synthetic antisense oligodeoxynucleotides can inhibit the expression of a gene in a sequence-specific manner at the translational level. Their potential use to understand the role of neuropeptides or neurotransmitters in neuroendocrine and behavioral functions, and perhaps for therapeutic gene suppression, has become of great interest in neuroscience, especially in the cases of absence of available specific antagonists. Whether their action can be fully specific to the target gene and not only sequence-specific is, however, the main question about their application to brain studies. A number of factors such as the mode of action, specificity and chemistry of antisense molecules as well as the carrier vehicle and the time course of antisense treatment, must be carefully considered for the design and successful application of antisense oligonucleotides. Assay systems and controls must be chosen so as to ensure that the observed biological effects of antisense oligodeoxynucleotides do in fact reflect the result of a specific target gene inhibition. This article discusses these biochemical factors with the emphasis on the use of phosphodiester or phosphorothioate oligodeoxynucleotides in neuroendocrine or behavioral studies.
In classical gene inactivation approaches by homologous recombination in embryonic stem cells, the resulting knockout mice are genotypically homogeneous. The inactivation of a gene in the complete organism may sometimes lead to early embryonic lethality. The observation that bacterial recombinases can drive site-specific recombination in mammalian cells has allowed for spatiotemporally controlled genetic modifications. Thus, conditional gene inactivation can be achieved in a specific subset of cells, leaving the rest of the organism genotypically unchanged. Another application of bacterial recombinases is the generation of exon-specific knockout mice, allowing for the analysis of the role of tissue-specific splice variants. A combination of the above-mentioned bacterial recombinase technique with inducible promoter systems permits the investigator to choose precisely the onset of recombination. An extension of the above-mentioned techniques is the combination of the bacterial recombinase technique with adenovirus-based technology, which would open vast possibilities of tissue-specific genetic modifications in a controlled time frame.
There is contrasting in vitro and in vivo evidence regarding glial cell involvement in central nervous system (CNS) regeneration. This study has investigated the histological events that follow implantation of either microglia, mixed microglia/astrocytes, or astrocytes into the injured adult rat spinal cord. We have conducted an immunohistochemical characterization of the cellular profiles within and neuritic extension into various grafts consisting of gelfoam (GF) matrices impregnated with cultured microglia and/or astrocytes. After 2-5 weeks, prominent neuritic growth was observed into OX-42-immunoreactive (IR) microglial implants. These grafts were infiltrated by numerous host cellular elements including microvasculature and Schwann cells, and they demonstrated conspicuous laminin IR. Often, the patterns for laminin and OX-42 IR in microglial grafts were overlapping, suggesting partial expression of laminin on transplanted microglial cells. Mixed grafts of microglia and astrocytes demonstrated presence of neurites and laminin-IR elements with similar intensity as microglial grafts, while astroglial implants showed the least amount of neurite ingrowth. Some control implants consisting of cell-free GF showed marginal in-growth of neurites in areas of infiltrating OX-42-IR host cells. Collectively, our findings support a neurite growth-promoting role of activated microglia and suggest that microglia may counteract mechanisms that inhibit CNS regeneration. It remains to be determined whether the observed neurite growth-promoting effects are mediated directly by grafted and/or endogenous microglia, or whether this occurs via the recruitment of host Schwann cells.
The nomenclature most commonly applied to the motor-related nuclei of the human thalamus differs substantially from that applied to the thalamus of other primates, from which most knowledge of input-output connections is derived. Knowledge of these connections in the human is a prerequisite for stereotactic neurosurgical approaches designed to alleviate movement disorders by the placement of lesions in specific nuclei. Transfer to humans of connectional information derived from experimental studies in nonhuman primates requires agreement about the equivalence of nuclei in the different species, and dialogue between experimentalists and neurosurgeons would be facilitated by the use of a common nomenclature. In this review, the authors compare the different nomenclatures and review the cyto- and chemoarchitecture of the nuclei in the anterolateral aspect of the ventral nuclear mass in humans and monkeys, suggest which nuclei are equivalent, and propose a common terminology. On this basis, it is possible to identify the nuclei of the human motor thalamus that transfer information from the substantia nigra, globus pallidus, cerebellum, and proprioceptive components of the medial lemniscus to prefrontal, premotor, motor, and somatosensory areas of the cerebral cortex. It also becomes possible to suggest the principal functional systems involved in stereotactically guided thalamotomies and the functional basis of the symptoms observed following ischemic lesions in different parts of the human thalamus.
We have investigated the effect of memantine, a clinically used NMDA receptor antagonist, in two experimental animals models of spinal cord injury. The lesions were laser-induced photothrombosis to induce focal spinal cord ischemia and clip compression to mimic traumatic spinal cord injury. Pre- or posttreatment of rats with a dose of memantine (20 mg/kg ip) previously shown to be neuroprotective in cerebral ischemia, failed to affect both the neurological and morphological outcome of ischemic spinal cord injury. Likewise, memantine had no effects on neurological and morphological outcome after experimental traumatic injury. In view of the regional heterogeneity of NMDA receptors, the affinity of memantine for spinal cord NMDA receptors was also determined by studying displacement of [3H] (+)-5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5-H-dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5-10-imine (MK-801) to rat and human spinal cord homogenates. We found that memantine had an affinity for NMDA receptors in the spinal cord (Ki = 0.58 microM) that was significantly lower compared to that of the cerebral cortex (Ki = 0.23 microM) and that the affinity for NMDA receptors in human spinal cord was even lower. We conclude that in view of available data, memantine should not be chosen for clinical studies on neuroprotection in spinal cord injuries and that the lack of protective effect is most likely due to insufficient affinity of memantine for spinal cord NMDA receptors.

SIB-1765F, a novel nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonist, was tested for its efficacy in attenuating reserpine-induced hypolocomotion in rats. SIB-1765F was administered alone or in combination with L-DOPA and its effects were compared to those of nicotine, d-amphetamine and amantadine in the same conditions. Consistent with previous reports, reserpine-induced hypolocomotion was reversed by L-DOPA (plus benserazide), d-amphetamine and amantadine in a dose-dependent manner and the effect of L-DOPA in reserpine-treated rats was potentiated by amantadine. SIB-1765F also increased the locomotor activity of reserpine-treated rats and potentiated the effect of L-DOPA on reserpine-induced hypolocomotion. The onset of potentiation of L-DOPA by SIB-1765F was rapid (&lt; 5 min) compared to the onset of potentiation by amantadine (&gt; 105 min). Interestingly, nicotine did not attenuate reserpine-induced hypolocomotion nor did it affect the action of L-DOPA on reserpine-treated rats. Biochemical analysis of levels of dopamine and its metabolites, dihydroxyphenylacetic and homovanillic acid, indicated that, in contrast to amphetamine, SIB-1765F did not inhibit dopamine reuptake. The effect of SIB-1765F in reserpine-treated rats was attenuated by alpha-methyl-p-tyrosine, implying that SIB-1765F acts by releasing dopamine from both reserpine-insensitive and reserpine-sensitive pools. Our findings demonstrate that nicotinic acetylcholine receptor agonists may offer a new therapeutic approach to the symptomatic treatment of the motor deficits in patients with Parkinson's disease.
SIB-1765F ([+/-]-5-ethynyl-3-(1-methyl-2-pyrrolidinyl)pyridine fumarate) is a novel nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (NAChR) agonist displaying a different in vitro pharmacological profile than nicotine and epibatidine, suggestive of NAChR subtype selectivity. Our study describes the effects of SIB-1765F on locomotor activity in rats, which were compared to those observed for nicotine and epibatidine. The three NAChR agonists decreased or increased locomotor activity in rats naive or habituated to the test apparatus, respectively. The transient reduction in locomotor activity induced by SIB-1765F was quantitatively similar to those induced by nicotine and epibatidine but, unlike the effects of nicotine and epibatidine, was not blocked by the NAChR antagonists mecamylamine and dihydro-beta-erythroidine, suggesting different mechanisms of action. Furthermore, SIB-1765F produced a larger and longer-lasting increase in locomotor activity when administered to rats familiar with the test apparatus. Mecamylamine and dihydro-beta-erythroidine but not hexamethonium blocked the increase in locomotor activity induced by SIB-1765F, suggesting that SIB-1765F elicits this effect predominantly through the activation of central NAChR. The SIB-1765F-induced increase in locomotor activity was also attenuated by selective D1 and D2 dopamine receptor antagonists, implying that this increase in locomotor activity is mediated through the activation of dopamine receptors subsequent to the release of dopamine. Based on these results, SIB-1765F appears to have a different locomotor activity profile than nicotine and epibatidine.
Nicotine, the prototypical agonist for neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (NAChR), nonselectively activates NAChR limiting its use in elucidating the function of NAChR subtypes. SIB-1765F is a subtype selective NAChR agonist that displaces [3H]-nicotine binding with an IC50 of 4.6 nM and [3H]-cytisine binding with an IC50 of 12.2 nM which is 2000- to 6000-fold lower than its displacement of [3H]-QNB or [125I]-alpha-bungarotoxin. SIB-1765F did not inhibit human or rat cholinesterases or the uptake of [3H]-DA in synaptosomal preparations. SIB-1765F mimicked (-)-nicotine in stimulating [3H]-DA release from rat striatal and olfactory tubercle slices, with EC50 values of 99.6 and 39.6 microM, respectively. Such stimulation was sensitive to mecamylamine and DH beta E. SIB-1765F also released endogenous DA in the striatum and the nucleus accumbens as measured by in vivo microdialysis. SIB-1765F was less efficacious than (-)-nicotine at stimulating [3H]-NE release from rat hippocampal slices; in contrast, SIB-1765F increased [3H]-NE release from rat thalamic and cortical slices with efficacies approaching those of (-)-nicotine. Similar to (-)-nicotine and (+/-)-epibatidine, subcutaneous administration of SIB-1765F increased the turnover rate of dopamine ex vivo both in the striatum and olfactory tubercles in a mecamylamine-sensitive manner. Because the release of striatal DA and hippocampal NE appears to be regulated by distinct NAChR, differential effects of SIB-1765F on striatal DA and hippocampal NE release supports the NAChR subtype selectivity of SIB-1765F compared to (-)-nicotine. This is further demonstrated by observations showing that SIB-1765F has a higher affinity for h alpha 4 beta 2 NAChR relative to h alpha 4 beta 4 NAChRs in displacing [3H]-epibatidine binding and increasing cytosolic CA+2 concentration in cell lines stably expressing h alpha 4 beta 2 or h alpha 4 beta 4.
Human neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) h alpha 2 beta 2, h alpha 2 beta 4, h alpha 3 beta 2, h alpha 3 beta 4, h alpha 4 beta 2, h alpha 4 beta 4 and h alpha 7 were expressed in Xenopus oocytes and tested for their sensitivities to the nicotinic agonists acetylcholine (ACh), nicotine, cytisine (CYT) and 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium (DMPP) and the nAChR. antagonists mecamylamine (MEC), d-tubocurarine and dihydro-beta-erythroidine. CYT was the least efficacious agonist at hnAChRs containing beta 2 subunits, but it displayed significant activity at h alpha 2 beta 4, h alpha 3 beta 4, h alpha 4 beta 4 and h alpha 7 nAChRs. ACh was one of the most efficacious agonists at all hnAChRs, except at h alpha 3 beta 2, where DMPP was markedly more efficacious than ACh. ACh was among the least potent agonists at all hnAChRs. The rank order of potency displayed by h alpha 3 beta 2 and h alpha 3 beta 4 nAChRs (DMPP approximately CYT approximately nicotine &gt; ACh and DMPP &gt; CYT approximately nicotine &gt; ACh, respectively), differs from that reported for their rat homologs (Luetje and Patrick, 1991; Covernton et al., 1994). The agonist profile observed in h alpha 7 also differs from that reported for its rat homolog (Seguela et al., 1993). Human alpha 4 beta 2 and h alpha 4 beta 4 nAChRs were more sensitive to dihydro-beta-erythroidine than d-tubocurarine, whereas h alpha 7 and h alpha 3 beta 4 were more sensitive to d-tubocurarine than dihydro-beta-erythroidine. These antagonists were equipotent at h alpha 2 beta 2, h alpha 3 beta 2 and h alpha 2 beta 4 nAChRs. MEC (3 microM) inhibited h alpha 2 beta 4 and h alpha 4 beta 4 nAChRs by &gt; 80%, whereas h alpha 2 beta 2, h alpha 4 beta 2 and h alpha 7 nAChRs were inhibited by approximately 50%. Taken together, the differential sensitivities observed at various recombinant hnAChR subtypes indicate that both alpha and beta subunits contribute to the pharmacology of these ligand-gated channels. The unique selectivity profiles displayed by human nAChRs constitute a valuable tool for the development of selective nicotinic analogs as potential therapeutic drugs.
1. We have examined the effects of tyrosine phosphorylation on a spontaneously active cation channel that also participates in the modulation of pressure-sensitive (P) neurons in the leech. Cation channel activity in cell-attached or isolated, inside-out membrane patches from P cells in culture was monitored before and after treatments that altered the level of tyrosine phosphorylation. 2. In cell-attached recordings from intact P cells, bath application of genistein, an inhibitor of tyrosine kinases, resulted in a 6.6 +/- 2.6-fold increase in channel activity with no change in the mean open time or amplitude. Daidzein, an inactive form of genistein, was without effect. Addition of pervanadate, a membrane-permeant inhibitor of tyrosine phosphatases, had no effect on its own and blocked the effect of subsequent addition of genistein. 3. In inside-out P cell membrane patch recordings, exposure to a catalytically active fragment of a tyrosine phosphatase resulted in a 10.3 +/- 3.6-fold increase in channel activity with no change in the mean open time or amplitude. Orthovanadate had no effect on channel activity and, when added with the phosphatase, prevented the increase in activity. 4. Our results demonstrate that the basal activity of cation channels is increased by tyrosine dephosphorylation, suggesting a constitutive modulation of channel activity under resting conditions.
1. In cultures of rat forebrain neurones, mitochondria buffer glutamate-induced, NMDA receptor-mediated Ca2+ influx. Here, we have used the fluorescent calcium indicator, indo-1 AM to record [Ca2+]i from single cells. We varied either the glutamate concentration or the duration of exposure to investigate the cellular mechanisms recruited to buffer [Ca2+]i within different stimulation protocols. 2. For a 15 s stimulus, the recovery time doubled as the glutamate concentration was raised from 3 to 300 microM. Changing the duration of exposure from 15 s to 5 min increased the recovery time tenfold even when the glutamate concentration was held at 3 microM. 3. We used a selective inhibitor of the mitochondrial Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange, CGP-37157. When applied immediately after a 15 s, 100 microM glutamate challenge, CGP-37157 consistently caused a rapid fall in [Ca2+]i followed by a slow rise after the drug was washed out. A similar pattern was seen with the 5 min, 3 microM glutamate stimulus. The effects of CGP-37157 are consistent with the release of substantial mitochondrial Ca2+ stores during recovery from an intense glutamate stimulus. 4. These studies suggest that mitochondria become progressively more important for buffering glutamate-induced Ca2+ loads as the stimulus intensity increases. The recovery of [Ca2+]i to baseline following glutamate removal is critically regulated by the release of Ca2+ from mitochondrial stores via mitochondrial Na(+)-Ca2+ exchange. The data highlight a previously under-appreciated role for [Na+]i in the regulation of [Ca2+]i in central neurones.
Evidence that the neurotransmitter serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) plays a role in the pathophysiology of mood disorders has been accumulating over the past three decades. Recent studies on this neurotransmitter have extended across the spectrum of psychiatric disorder, suggesting a role for 5-HT in psychosis, aggression, eating disorders and addiction. However, much of the evidence has come from post-mortem examination of the brain or measures of peripheral rather than central 5-HT function. The technique of tryptophan depletion allows investigation of brain 5-HT function in living subjects by examining the behavioural responses to this pharmacological challenge. This review considers the current status of tryptophan depletion as an experimental technique and discusses the implications of findings both in affective disorders and in a range of other psychiatric syndromes. MEDLINE and PSYCHLIT searches were completed for the years 1966 to November 1996 using the key words 'serotonin', '5-hydroxytryptamine', 'tryptophan' and 'depletion'. In addition relevant journals were hand-searched for the period from 1980 to December 1996. Forty-four double-blind studies in humans and three clinical case reports were identified; these cover a range of psychiatric disorders including mood disorders and psychoses, anxiety and eating disorders and specific behaviours such as appetite, aggression and craving. The studies reviewed utilized a variety of differing methodologies reducing the extent to which results can be generalized. A series of studies in depressed patients (before and after treatment with antidepressants) and their first-degree relatives have shown the importance of an intact 5-HT system in the action of antidepressants and offer new insights into the biology of affective disorder. The mood change induced by tryptophan depletion may predict those patients likely to respond to 5-HT-specific drugs. Rapid tryptophan depletion has also been reported to exacerbate both panic and aggression in vulnerable individuals. Effects in other disorders are conflicting and further research is needed to clarify these findings.
The consumption of a weak saccharin solution was examined in rats subjected to chronic mild stress (CMS). Intake of saccharin was reduced in stressed animals compared to isolated and group control animals but saccharin preference was not affected. Removal of water deprivation from the CMS schedule did not alter the effects of CMS upon saccharin intake. However, when food deprivation was omitted entirely from the CMS schedule the reduction in saccharin intake was eliminated. Similarly, in animals habituated to the full CMS procedure, reduction in saccharin intake was abolished by omitting food deprivation or by delaying the intake test for 24 h. Both CMS and food deprivation reduced water intake but had no effect on food consumed during the fluid-intake test. The presence of food deprivation during CMS appears to be a key factor affecting saccharin intake. Our data suggest that saccharin intake is not an appropriate measure of stress and anhedonia.
A double-blind, in-clinic, placebo-controlled, randomized, three-period crossover study was undertaken to investigate the potential sedative and cognitive effects of diphenhydramine 50 mg, p.o. and cyclobenzaprine 5 mg, p.o. in elderly volunteers. Subjects were given 10 doses of each treatment over a 4-day period according to a t.i.d. schedule. A battery of cognitive tests was administered 2 h after the first and last dose of each treatment period and subjects also completed visual analogue scale subjective ratings at regular intervals. There was no evidence that either drug caused drowsiness or affected cognitive test performance. These findings contrast with previous data using similar assessments in young volunteers, which indicated clear diphenhydramine-induced impairments. Contrary to commonly held belief, the elderly appear to be less sensitive than the young to the central nervous system effects of oral diphenhydramine.

The frontal lobe has been the main target for surgical treatment of mental illness over the last 60 years. Initially the surgery was crude and performed on patients with many different psychiatric disorders. Contemporary surgery utilizes stereotactic lesions which interrupt fronto-thalamic and/or fronto-cingulate fibres. The findings of clinical, neurochemical, neuroimaging, neuropsychological and physiological research in this area are summarized. Current advances in clinical neuroscience methods should be used in patients with these lesions to elucidate the neural substrate of post-operative changes and optimize clinical practice.

In this naturalistic study of 55 outpatients selected for long-term psychodynamic psychotherapy, two Swedish assessment instruments are presented (the Karolinska Psychodynamic Profile and the Karolinska Scales of Personality), and the significance of psychodynamic criteria for the selection of patients is discussed. Thirty patients (55%) fulfilled criteria for a DSM-III-R diagnosis. The most prominent psychodynamically defined character pathology was found in the areas of coping with aggressive affects; dependency and separation; frustration tolerance; and impulse control. Some psychodynamically defined character traits, particularly poor frustration tolerance, were related to symptomatic suffering.

We have developed a consultation forum for clinical neurophysiology in Finland. The system connects local digital electroencephalography (EEG) recording and analysing networks using a high-speed asynchronous transfer mode (ATM) network. Clinicians can obtain a second opinion using interactive data and video consultations or using data-only consultations. In addition, the system can be used for off-line review of pre-recorded data. During a one-month evaluation, 66 EEG recordings were made altogether in Satakunta Central Hospital and consultations were required on 12 occasions. Nine of them were data-only consultations and three were data and video consultations. A data consultation lasted 15-20 min and a data and video consultation 35-45 min. Clinically, there were numerous benefits for the hospitals. The system established a link to a centre of excellence for second opinions or continuing education. It also helped with on-duty arrangements and enabled the construction of national data banks.
This paper examines the effect of global precedence (GPE: Navon, 1977) and its lateralisation from a comparative perspective. Using a divided field matching-to-sample task with compound stimuli, Experiment 1 demonstrated consistent patterns of lateralisation in humans and baboons, corresponding to a right-hemisphere advantage for global processing and a left- but nonsignificant advantage for local processing. Species differences emerged in terms of GPE; humans showed a global precedence effect, and baboons were better for local than for global matching. In Experiment 2, a visual search task was used to assess the origin of species differences in terms of GPE. Humans processed the global structure of the forms pre-attentively, whereas baboons used an attentional search strategy. From this finding, it is argued that lateralisation in Experiment 1 was rooted in early perceptual mechanisms. So far, consistent patterns of lateralisation for global/local processing have been found in baboons, chimpanzees, and humans, suggesting that this phenomenon has a long evolutionary history.
The influence of early experience on the development of lateralisation of hemispheric function was further investigated, using the chick as a model. A range of functions are lateralised in the chick and these correlate with asymmetry in the organisation of the visual projections. Chicks using the right eye and, therefore, primarily the left hemisphere are able to switch from pecking randomly at grain and pebbles to pecking mainly at grain, whereas those using the left eye and primarily the right hemisphere continue to peck at random. Exposure to light during the last days of incubation establishes this lateralisation in males, as a consequence of the embryo being oriented in the egg so that the left eye only is occluded. Males incubated in the dark peck at random when using either the right or left eye. Irrespective of light experience, females perform the same as dark-incubated males: they are not influenced by light exposure. Monocular performance of the pebble-grain task is compared to binocular performance, and the sensitive period for the influence of light is delineated. The interactive effects of sex hormone levels on the differentiation of lateralisation are discussed and also the relevance of the results to other species, including humans.
In the domestic chick, different versions of a particular learning experience are elaborated by right and left hemispheres (left: selection of cues allowing selection of appropriate response; right: elaboration of relatively complete and unselected record). During memory formation, further processing of the traces is associated with a series of brief points of trace reactivation, which recur with differing periodicity in association with the two hemispheres (16 min: left; 25 min: right). As a result there is a series of near coincidences, which allow interaction between the two traces. The first, at 48-50 min, is associated with such marked changes in what is available to recall that it has been identified as the onset of long-term memory. The period is shown here to begin with a left hemisphere event, which overlaps with a right hemisphere event, beginning at 50 min, in a way that helps to explain why the interaction that occurs at this time is predominantly one in which the left hemisphere accesses right hemisphere material. It is argued that the main change during hemispheric interaction is the establishment of linkages between different trace ''fragments''.

Intermittent morphine pretreatment (10 mg/kg/day for 14 days) induced long-lasting (one month post-treatment) sensitization to the locomotor effects of morphine and amphetamine in rats. Co-administration of the non-competitive NMDA-receptor antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) (0.1 mg/kg) with morphine did not prevent the development of long-term behavioural sensitization. However, this dose of MK-801 did cause long-term sensitization to its own locomotor effects. Co-administration of 0.25 mg/kg MK-801 with morphine caused death in 60% of the animals. In the animals that survived MK-801 plus morphine pretreatment, neither short-term (3 days) nor long-term morphine-induced sensitization was observed. MK-801 alone (0.25 mg/kg/day for 14 days) induced short-term cross-sensitization to morphine. Thus, the development of long-term morphine-induced locomotor sensitization could only be prevented by a dose of MK-801 that yields a lethal combination with morphine. In addition, MK-801 induced sensitization to its own locomotor effects and cross-sensitization to morphine. These findings seriously question whether MK-801 can be used to study the development of morphine-induced behavioural sensitization.
Labeled L-N-arachidonylphosphatidylethanolamine (L-N-arachidonyl PE), a likely precursor of N-arachidonylethanolamine (anandamide), as well as its D-isomer, were synthesized using [14C]arachidonic acid. Anandamide was formed by incubating L-N-arachidonyl PE and rat brain membrane with phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride (PMSF), an inhibitor of anandamide amidohydrolase. Formation of anandamide from L-N-arachidonyl PE was inhibited by p-chloromercuriphenylsulfonic acid (p-CMPS), sulfhydryl reagent, and heat inactivate pre-treatment. D-N-Arachidonyl PE, an unnatural analog for N-arachidonyl PE, did not form anandamide.
These experiments examined the influence of fluoxetine on ethanol-induced conditioned place preference, ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion, and ethanol discrimination. In the place conditioning experiment, male Swiss-Webster mice received 4 pairings of a distinctive floor cue with 2 g/kg ethanol, 10 mg/kg fluoxetine + ethanol, or fluoxetine alone. A different floor was paired with saline. During conditioning ethanol produced locomotor stimulation. Fluoxetine + ethanol resulted in greater levels of locomotor activity during conditioning trials 2-4. Fluoxetine alone also caused increases in activity. Floor preference testing revealed conditioned place preference in groups receiving ethanol. Fluoxetine did not change the magnitude of ethanol-induced conditioned place preference nor produced place conditioning alone. In the taste conditioning procedure, mice received 1-h access to 0.2 M NaCl solution followed by injections of 0, 5 or 10 mg/kg fluoxetine and 0 or 2.5 g/kg ethanol. Ethanol produced reductions in NaCl intake. Fluoxetine (10 mg/kg) enhanced the development of ethanol-conditioned taste aversion but did not cause taste aversion alone. In the ethanol discrimination experiment, mice were trained to respond for 10% sucrose on an FR20 schedule following injections of either 1 g/kg ethanol or saline. Following acquisition, 10 mg/kg fluoxetine pretreatment enhanced ethanol-appropriate responding at a dose of ethanol (0.5 g/kg) below the training dose. These results indicate enhancement of serotonergic activity influences ethanol aversion and discrimination but not ethanol reward.
The effect of immunoneutralization of beta-endorphin on the suckling-induced prolactin increase and on the activity of the tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) neurons was determined in lactating female rats between days 8 - 12 post-partum. Two antisera were used in the immunoneutralization studies. Both were specific for beta-endorphin, exhibiting little cross reactivity with met- or leu-enkephalin or dynorphin. Antisera to beta-endorphin completely abolished the suckling-induced prolactin increase indicating that this endogenous opioid peptide is involved in this response. Suckling significantly inhibited DOPA accumulation in the median eminence and antiserum to beta-endorphin did not prevent this inhibition. Additionally, 5-endorphin antiserum significantly reduced TIDA neural activity even in pup-deprived dams. These results indicate that beta-endorphin is involved in the prolactin secretory response to suckling but that inhibition of TIDA neuronal activity is not its mechanism of action. Other possible mechanisms are discussed.
Extracts of fetal (20 days gestation) brain, heart, and liver were evaluated for naltrexone in rats 1 hour following maternal injection of 50 mg/kg opioid antagonist; adult plasma from the pregnant rats was analyzed. Samples were prepared by ultrafiltration, lyophilized, reconstituted in mobile phase, and separated by reversed phase high-performance liquid chromatography with ultraviolet detection. This qualitative analysis revealed the presence of naltrexone in all fetal tissues, as well as in adult plasma. These results indicate naltrexone, maternally administered, passes through the placenta and enters the fetus. The data would suggest that reports concerning somatic and neurobiological acceleration in offspring exposed to naltrexone during gestation may be the result of a direct opioid antagonist action in the fetus.
The effect of acute ethanol on peripheral serotonin (5HT) metabolism was studied in Sprague-Dawley rats. Four hours after a single dose of ethanol (1.0 g/kg) administered into the stomach, a significant increase in the 5HT level in stomach tissue and a decrease in ileum was observed. The level of 5-hydroxyindole-3-acetic acid (5HIAA) was increased in urine, while increased concentrations of 5-hydroxytryptophol (5HTOL) occurred in jejunum, ileum, spleen and urine. After 7-9 h when the blood ethanol concentration had returned to zero, 5HTOL levels were still higher than control values in jejunum, ileum and urine. At 4 h, an elevated ratio of 5HTOL to 5HIAA was observed in urine and ileum (by approximately 2-fold), liver (approximately 3-fold), and spleen (approximately 5-fold), whereas the ratio was reduced in stomach. In urine and spleen, this metabolic shift persisted after 7-9 h. The 5HTOL level in bile was increased by approximately 3.5-fold after 8 h. 5HIAA was not detectable in bile. The present results indicate that the rat has a much higher proportion of 5HTOL formation than man under normal conditions. The rat does not appear to be an ideal model for studying the interaction between ethanol and 5HT metabolism in man.
In rat olfactory bulb membranes, the stimulation of adenylyl cyclase by the cholinergic agonist carbachol (CCh) was markedly inhibited by heparin at concentrations (0.3-10 microM) that had smaller or no effects on the enzyme stimulations elicited by vasoactive intestinal peptide, pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP), 1-isoproterenol and corticotropin releasing hormone. Heparin did not significantly affect the binding of [3H]N-methylscopolamine ([3H]NMS) to muscarinic receptors, but decreased the potency of CCh in displacing the bound radioligand in a manner similar to that of the GTP analogue guanosine-5'-O-(3'-thio)triphosphate (GTPgammaS). Heparin inhibited the binding of [35S]GTPgammaS to membrane G proteins stimulated by CCh more potently than that elicited by PACAP. Moreover, at the same concentrations, heparin inhibited the muscarinic inhibition of adenylyl cyclase in rat striatal membranes. These data indicate that heparin impairs the muscarinic stimulation of olfactory bulb adenylyl cyclase likely by interfering with the receptor-induced activation of G proteins. The higher sensitivity to heparin of this response as compared to those displayed by Gs-mediated enzyme stimulations provides further evidence that Gi/Go, rather than Gs, mediate the muscarinic stimulation of adenylyl cyclase in rat olfactory bulb.
Extracts of adult corneal epithelium, and developing and adult cerebellum, aorta, and heart, from rats were evaluated for [Met5]-enkephalin. Samples were prepared by ultrafiltration and solid phase extraction with a C-18 Sep-pak, separated by reversed phase high-performance liquid chromatography, and analyzed by radioimmunoassay (RIA). This qualitative analysis revealed the presence of [Met5]-enkephalin in all tissues but the adult cerebellum. These results confirm and extend earlier reports that have used RIA or immunohistochemistry with regard to the presence of this opioid peptide in developing and renewing tissues, and indicate that [Met5]-enkephalin is indeed being recognized by immunological assays.
We examined the effects of nitric oxide (NO) modulators on rat pituitary LH content in vivo and studied their response to LHRH-stimulated LH secretion in vitro in ovariectomized adult female Sprague Dawley rats. Alzet mini pumps (flow rate 10 microl/h) delivering either normal saline (Group I, 1.2 mg nitroglycerin, a donor of NO (Group II) or 50 mg of nitro-L-Arginine methyl ester, a NO synthase (NOS) inhibitor (Group III), were subcutaneously implanted into experimental animals. Following 36 h infusion, pituitaries were removed and either frozen for LH quantitation, or fragmented and challenged in the superfusion system with 10 min pulses of LHRH (1 ng/ml) at 90 min intervals for 10 hours. LH was assayed by radio-immunoassay (RIA) in the homogenates of pituitaries and in aliquots of the superfusate collected every 10 mins. Significantly lower pituitary LH levels were noted in Group III (150.3 +/- 18.6 ng) in comparison to Groups I (215.6 +/- 5.5 ng; p&lt;0.04) or II (221.2 +/- 14.9 ng; p&lt;0.01), suggesting that low levels of NO stimulate LH secretion in vivo. The pituitary LH contents were not significantly different in Groups I and II. In vitro studies reveal that exogenous LHRH stimulated response, measured as average pulse response (90 minute period after LHRH), and total LH released during the 10 hour perfusion, was 290 +/- 23.6 ng and 1646.7 +/- 270.8 ng, respectively, in Group III; 57.9 +/- 3.1, and 344.7 +/- 24.3 ng in Group I, and 105.3 +/- 6.3, and 633.7 +/- 77.1 mg in Group II. Thus, our in vitro studies demonstrate significantly enhanced (p&lt;0.05) LHRH- stimulated LH secretion in Group III in comparison to Groups I and II, while Group II shows higher responsiveness than Group I (p&lt;0.05). The results of the current studies provide evidence that NOS inhibition facilitates pituitary LH secretion. The differential responses to LHRH-stimulated LH secretion in vitro in the 3 groups suggest a possible role of NO in modulating pituitary LHRH receptor concentrations. However, this will have to be tested by further studies.
Rats were trained to discriminate eltoprazine (1-(2,3-dihydro-1,4-benzodioxin-5-yl)-piperazine) (1.0 mg/kg p.o.) from demineralized water in a two lever operant procedure. Eltoprazine generalized to the 5-HT1B receptor agonist anpirtoline (6-chloro-2-[piperidyl-4-thiol]-pyridine hydrochloride), the 5-HT(1A,1B) receptor agonists batoprazine (8-(1-piperazinyl)-2H-1-benzopyran-2-one) and 1-NP (1-(1-naphthyl)piperazine hydrochloride), and to the 5-HT(1B/2C) receptor agonist mCPP (1-(3-chlorophenyl)piperazine dihydrochloride). The 5-HT1A receptor agonist flesinoxan (R(+)-N-[2[4-(2,3-dihydro-2-2-hydroxy-methyl-1,4-benzodioxin-5-yl) -1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-4-fluorobenzoamide) generalized partially and the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist WAY-100635 (N-[2-[4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl]ethyl]-N-(2-pyridinyl) cyclohexanecarboxamide trihydrochloride) failed to antagonize the eltoprazine cue, suggesting that 5-HT1A receptors are of limited importance in the discriminative stimulus properties of eltoprazine. Methiothepin, mCPP, mianserin and alprazolam did not antagonize the eltoprazine cue. The 5-HT(1A,1B,1D) receptor agonist GR46611X (3-[3-(2-dimethylamino-ethyl)-1H-indol-6-yl]-N-(4-methoxy-benzyl)acrylam ide) and the 5-HT(1B,1D) receptor antagonist GR127935T (N-[4-methoxy-3-(4-methyl-1-piperazinyl) phenyl]-2'-methyl-4'-(5-methyl-1,2,4-oxadiazol-3-yl) [1,1,-biphenyl]-4-carboxamide) did neither generalize to nor antagonize the eltoprazine cue, whereas (-)-alprenolol showed partial antagonism and substitution. These results show that the eltoprazine discriminative stimulus is mediated by the 5-HT1B receptor, although the lack of good 5-HT1B receptor antagonists weakens this conclusion.
In the present study, we examined the effect of the novel sigma receptor ligand NE-100 on 5-hydroxytryptamine-2A (5-HT2A) receptor binding in rat brain using an in vivo approach. Rats received intraperitoneal injections of either vehicle (1 ml/kg) or NE-100 (3 mg/kg) twice daily for 14 days. The in vivo binding of [3H]RP 62203, a selective 5-HT2A receptor radioligand, to 5-HT2A receptors in the rat brain was examined at 1, 3 or 7 days after final treatment. The specific binding of [3H]RP 62203 in the frontal cortex, parietal cortex and occipital cortex 1 day after subchronic administration of NE-100 was significantly increased as compared to animals treated with vehicle. In contrast, specific binding in the frontal cortex and parietal cortex 3 days after subchronic administration of NE-100 was significantly decreased as compared with the vehicle treated group. Seven days after the last injection of NE-100 or vehicle, there were no significant differences between the NE-100 and vehicle treated groups in [3H]RP 62203 binding in all the regions examined except for the hippocampus. These findings indicate that subchronic treatment with NE-100 may regulate the in vivo binding characteristics of 5-HT2A receptors in the cerebral cortex of rat brain.
The muscarinic acetylcholine receptors are monomeric proteins with seven hydrophobic, membrane spanning helices, and share a common evolutionary origin with the other members of the superfamily of membrane proteins known as seven-helix receptors. The amino acid sequences of five different muscarinic acetylcholine receptors, called m1, m2, m3, m4 and m5 have been determined. The five subtypes are expressed to different extent in different tissues. A large number of low molecular ligands for muscarinic receptors are known, but they bind to all five subtypes of receptors and only a few of them have a slightly higher (five-six fold) affinity for one of the subtypes, e.g. pirenzepine for M1 (1) and tripitramine for M2 receptors (2). Several neurotoxins have been isolated from snake venoms and used as pharmacological tools. Mambas, African snakes of genus Dendroaspis, have toxins that recognize muscrinic receptors and some of these muscarinic toxins are the most selective ligands for M1 and M4 receptors known to date.
Guinea pig ileum longitudinal muscle/myenteric plexus preparations contain functional mu- and kappa-opioid receptors. A preparation with blocked kappa receptors was obtained by pretreating guinea pigs with 0.1-10.0 mg/kg intraperitoneal doses of a new kappa-selective affinity label, DIPPA (2-(3,4-dichlorophenyl)-N-methyl-N-[1S-1-(-3-isothiocyanatophenyl)-2-(-1 -pyrrolidinyl) ethyl] acetamide). Determination of IC50 values for the mu-selective agonist DAMGO ([D-Ala2,MePhe4,Gly(ol)5]-enkephalin) and the kappa-selective agonist U 69,593 ([5alpha,7alpha,8beta]-(+)-N-methyl-N-[7-(1-pyrrolidin yl)-1-oxaspiro-(4,5)-dec-8-yl]) showed that 0.5 mg/kg DIPPA at 48 h produced reliable, near-complete blockade of kappa-opioid activity but a minimal shift for kappa-opioid agonism. This new assay should be useful for studying mixed agonists/antagonists that produce strong kappa-opioid receptor agonism, which prevents determination of mu-opioid receptor antagonism.
The effects of chronic treatment with antidepressants, verapamil, or lithium on serotonin (5-HT)-induced Ca2+ increase were investigated in single C6BU-1 glioma cells with digital imaging microscopy. Clomipramine and citalopram, at a concentration of 100 nM, decreased the peak values of 5-HT-induced [Ca2+]i changes. Verapamil (100 nM), a calcium antagonist, and lithium (1 mM) also inhibited the peak amplitudes in the same way. The present findings suggest that chronic treatment with antidepressants, verapamil, or lithium, at therapeutic concentrations, have the common action of inhibiting 5-HT-mediated [Ca2+]i increase.
Previous studies from our laboratory have characterized a naloxone-insensitive beta-endorphin (beta-End) receptor on the human pro-monocytic cell line U937. Since monocytes are macrophage precursors, we sought to identify and characterize this site on fully differentiated effector macrophages. Mice (ICR females, 6-8 wk old) were injected (i.p.) with 1 mL of thioglycollate to induce an inflammatory response. Elicited cells were harvested 3 d later by lavage. Macrophages were enriched by adherence and analyzed via radioreceptor assay (with [125I] beta-End, 2,000 Ci mmol-1) as either intact cells or membrane preparations. Scatchard analysis revealed a single saturable binding site for beta-End (Kd = 9.75 +/- 2.6 x 10(-9) M; 8218 +/- 2360 sites/cell). Competition studies showed that other opiate receptor ligands including naloxone, DAMGO, U69593, or 2,5 DPDP-enkephalin were ineffective at displacing [125I] beta-End when compared to unlabeled beta-End. Analysis of competition studies utilizing fragments and analogs of beta-End revealed that beta-End (6-31) and beta-End (1-5, 16-31) were equipotent, and N-acetylated beta-End was less potent, than beta-end (1-31) in displacing [125I] beta-End binding. In contrast, beta-End (1-27) and beta-End (28-31) were ineffective. In summary, we have identified a naloxone-resistant beta-End binding site on murine peritoneal macrophages that is similar to one we have previously characterized on U937 cells and cultured murine splenocytes.
Endogenous morphine is found at very low levels (pg/ml) in human plasma. Without technical modification, the usual techniques, i.e., RIA or HPLC, can not directly detect its presence. As a result the initial purification process is very crucial. In this report we demonstrate this opiate alkaloids determination in 2 ml of human plasma. Following an acidified precipitation of proteins in plasma, a solid-phase extraction, Sep-pak collection, was employed to concentrate the endogenous morphine. The extract was dissolved in a pH 8.9 phosphate buffer and then extracted into an organic solvent (chloroform and isopropyl alcohol). The initially purified sample was separated by HPLC and detected with an electrochemical detector of 500 mV and 0.02 Hz. The results showed that the recovery of morphine by this technique was 86+5.7%, and the sensitivity was 50 pg/ml. Compared to the detection sensitivity of the HPLC (2 ng/ml), this method increased the detection limit by 40-fold. With this method the concentration of endogenous morphine in plasma was determined as 80 pg/ml.
Acoustic or sound noise due to gradient pulsing has been one of the problems in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), both in patient scanning as well as in many areas of psychiatric and neuroscience research such as functional MRI. Our recent observations in functional MRI for the visual and motor cortex show very different results with sound noise in comparison with the results obtained without sound noise. Although a number of ideas have been suggested in the literature about the possible elimination or reduction of sound noise, progress has been slow due to the basic role of gradient pulsing in MR imaging. Before we tackle the sound-noise-reduction problem, we believe that a systematic study of sound or acoustic noise behavior will provide important information for future endeavors in this area of research in MRI systems, in both commercial and research systems. Therefore, we report on some typical behavior of sound noise observed from MRI scanners and the analyses of their characteristics. Data are obtained both from a commercial MRI scanner (GE Signa 1.5-T EPI system) as well as a research-type MRI scanner (KAIS 2.0-T) developed at a university laboratory setting.
Magnetic resonance imaging gives high quality images of the urinary bladder with excellent contrast. We report here the first application of dynamic, multi-slice, echo planar imaging to a study of urinary bladder emptying. Changes in urinary bladder volumes and rates of urine expulsion from the bladder have been measured simultaneously with bladder pressure. The method shows promise for clinical applications involving compromised bladder function, for reappraising bladder contraction strength-volume relationships, and for investigating the rate of change of length, three-dimensional shape, and wall tension in different parts of the bladder during micturition.
The hippocampus is a mesial temporal lobe structure of complex shape and the main locus of temporal lobe epilepsy and also affected early in Alzheimer's disease. Magnetic resonance imaging of the hippocampus has been found to be a helpful diagnostic tool for these conditions. Measurement of hippocampal volumes has been found to be not only the most accurate approach to evaluation of the hippocampal pathology, but the most demanding and time consuming as well. One of the factors contributing to this is the slice thickness-the thinner the slice, the more time is required. On the other hand, it has been hypothesized, that the use of thick slice would result in volume aberrations due to, for example, the volume averaging effect. We therefore measured the volumes of the hippocampus on coronal slices in 10 healthy, young control subjects using slice thicknesses of 1, 3 and 5 mm, and evaluated the effect of the slice thickness on the volume formation. No significant difference between the volumes of the hippocampus using different thicknesses was found. Therefore, it appears that use of the thick slices would not necessarily introduce systematic bias to the volumetric measurement. Yet, we do not feel compelled to advise the use of &quot;thick&quot; slices either, since the use of &quot;thin&quot; slices seems the most authoritative and less vulnerable to being affected by a single false estimate.
Although most analyses of amnesia have focused on the loss of explicit declarative and episodic memories following hippocampal-region damage, considerable insights into amnesia can also be realised by studying hippocampal function in simple procedural, or habit-based, associative learning tasks. Although many simple forms of associative learning are unimpaired by hippocampal damage, more complex tasks which require sensitivity to unreinforced stimuli, configurations of multiple stimuli, or contextual information are impaired by hippocampal damage. In several recent papers we have developed a computational theory of hippocampal function which argues that this brain region plays a critical role in the formation of new stimulus representations during learning (Gluck &amp; Myers, 1993, 1995; Myers &amp; Gluck, 1996; Myers, Gluck, &amp; Granger, 1995). We have applied this theory to a broad range of empirical data from studies of classical conditioning in both intact and hippocampal-lesioned animals, and the model correctly accounts for these data. The classical conditioning paradigm can be adapted for use in humans, and similar results for acquisition are obtained in both normal and hippocampal-damaged humans. More recently, we have begun to address an important set of category learning studies in both normals and hippocampal-damaged amnesics. This work integrates experimental studies of amnesic category learning (Knowlton, Squire, &amp; Gluck, 1994) with theoretical accounts of associative learning, and builds on previously established behavioural correspondences between animal conditioning and human category learning (Gluck &amp; Bower, 1988a). Our work to date illustrates some initial progress towards a more integrative understanding of hippocampal function in both animal and human learning, which may be useful in guiding further empirical and theoretical research in human memory and amnesia.
Metal ions are believed to participate in many neurodegenerative conditions. In excitotoxic cell death there is convincing evidence for the participation of Ca(2+) and Zn(2+) ions although the exact molecular mechanisms by which these metals exert their effects are unclear. Only in one instance has the metal binding site of metalloenzymes been exploited for therapeutic purposes and this is the use of Li(+) in the treatment of bipolar affective disorder. Again the exact molecular target is not clear but is likely to involve a Mg(2+)-dependent enzyme of an intracellular signalling pathway. In Parkinson's disease, the selective loss of dopaminergic neurones in the substantia nigra may be caused by radical-mediated damage and there is good evidence to suggest that Fe(2+) or (3+) is important in promoting formation of radical species. The evidence that free radicals are important in mediating other neurodegenerative conditions is less strong but still substantial enough to suggest that removal of reactive oxygen species or preventing their formation may be a valid approach to therapy.
Approaches that permit direct observation and manipulation of skeletal muscle and its innervation in living animals will continue to contribute to our understanding of neural influences on muscle function in developing and mature animals. Understanding how motor neurons interact with each other, with supporting cells such as Schwann cells, and with their target muscle fibers are fundamental issues in neuroscience, as similar mechanisms are likely to underlie the formation and plasticity of synaptic connections in the less easily accessible central nervous system.
Fast atom bombardment mass spectrometry plays a continuing and effective role in the rapid and efficient analysis of synthetic peptides. In this article, the basic principles of FAB-MS and FAB-MS/MS are reviewed, and the limitations and pitfalls of the method are discussed. The potential of the technique is illustrated by several selected applications. The molecular weight of a synthetic peptide can be readily and accurately determined by FAB-MS. The sensitivity of the FAB-MS method also makes it extremely useful for the evaluation of the purity of a peptide. FAB-MS/MS allows the elucidation of the primary structure of the target peptide, even in a mixture, and also permits the rapid identification of synthetic side products. Hence, FAB-MS and FAB-MS/MS aid in the unequivocal characterization of synthetic peptides. Furthermore, the information that is gained from the FAB analysis can help to unravel potential problems that may be associated with the synthesis.







When fibroblasts contract collagen matrices, the cells activate a Ca(2+)-dependent cyclic AMP signaling pathway. We have found that contraction also stimulates uptake of fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran molecules from the medium. Our results indicate that fluorescein isothiocyanate-dextran enters directly into the cell cytoplasm through 3- to 5-nm plasma membrane passages. These passages, which reseal in less than 5 s in the presence of divalent cations, also are likely sites of Ca2+ uptake during contraction and the first step in contraction-activated cyclic AMP signaling. The formation of plasma membrane passages during fibroblast contraction may reflect a general cellular response to rapid mechanical changes.
Neuregulins have several important functions in the development of the peripheral nervous system, acting on both developing Schwann cells and muscle fibers. To determine whether these factors are also important for peripheral nerve regeneration, we have analyzed neuregulin expression in motor and sensory neurons by Northern blots and in situ hybridization. The results of this analysis show that the predominant neuregulin isoform expressed in these neurons is a novel transmembrane splice variant. After axotomy, there is a rapid decline in neuregulin expression in both motor and sensory neurons, but following reinnervation of target tissues, neuregulin expression returns to near normal levels. These results indicate that the normal expression of neuregulins in these neurons is maintained by the interactions with target tissues.
The ability of cell adhesion molecules (CAMs) to transduce cell surface signals into intracellular responses is critical for developing neurons, particularly during axonal pathfinding and targeting. It has been suggested that different CAMs can promote neuronal outgrowth via activation of common neuronal CAM-specific second-messenger pathways, although the elements involved in this cascade could differ. Limbic system-associated membrane protein (LAMP), a member of the Ig superfamily, is a molecule that promotes cell adhesion and neurite outgrowth from specific populations of fetal neurons. In the present study, we show that LAMP can induce several types of calcium (Ca2+) signals. Neurite outgrowth is promoted if fetal hippocampal neurons are grown on lamp-transfected CHO cells. This LAMP-induced outgrowth of neurons is mediated in part through activation of L-type Ca channels. Application of soluble LAMP to cultures of fetal hippocampal neurons caused a sustained (up to 60 min) elevation of intracellular Ca2+ as measured by fluo-3 fluorescence on a confocal microscope. The number of responding hippocampal neurons was initially low, but increased with age in culture and the [Ca2+]i elevation was only partially decreased by an L-type Ca(2+)-channel blocker. In contrast, at all times in culture, only a small fraction of neurons from visual cortex responded to LAMP application and only with transient elevation of cytosolic Ca2+ (&lt; 15 min). Based on these observations, LAMP appears to function primarily through homophilic interactions and acts in part by modulating intracellular Ca2+ levels during neurite outgrowth by increasing the Ca2+ influx through L-type calcium channels, but has additional effects on intracellular Ca2+ signaling at later developmental stages.
The production of cell types in the vertebrate retina follows a stereotyped time course. We have focused on a component of the extracellular matrix that may guide this schedule: the laminin beta 2 chain. Here, we have asked directly whether heterotrimeric laminins containing the laminin beta 2 chain can promote the production of presumptive rod photoreceptors (&quot;rods&quot;) and have correlated changes in rod production with changes in the production of other cell types. In cultures in which few rods, but many Mller and bipolar cells, are produced, the production of rods can be enhanced sixfold and that of bipolar cells can be reduced by 66%, by exposing cells to a laminin beta 2-rich matrix. Substitution of a laminin beta 2-depleted matrix (created with antisense RNA) returns the density of rods and bipolar cells to control levels. These linked alterations in phenotype expression suggest that laminins may control the choice between rod photoreceptor and rod bipolar cell fates.
The transmembrane (TM) subfamily of Eph ligands and their receptors have been implicated in axon pathfinding and in pattern formation during embryogenesis. These functions are thought to involve repulsive interactions but this has not been demonstrated directly. In this study we used a growth cone collapse assay to determine if the TM ligands Lerk2 and HtkL have repellant guidance activity. We show that Lerk2, but not HtkL, is a collapsing factor for a subset of embryonic cortical neurons. Analysis of the effects of Lerk2 on both the morphology and the cytoskeleton of cortical neurons suggests a mechanism of action different from that of AL-1, a GPI-linked Eph ligand having similar repellant activity. Treatment with Lerk2 disrupts the organization of both the actin cytoskeleton and the microtubules and induces the formation of swellings in the center of the growth cone and along the axon. Measurement of the relative F-actin concentrations in the neurites and soma indicated that F-actin levels in the neurites decrease while those in the soma increase, with the net F-actin content of the neuron remaining unchanged. In contrast, we show that prolonged treatment with AL-1 leads to a net loss of F-actin, consistent with the hypothesis that AL-1 acts by perturbing actin polymerization. These results provide evidence that the ectodomain of Lerk2 functions as a repellant guidance cue and show that, despite overlapping specificities in vitro, the biological activities of related ligands are not necessarily overlapping. Further, TM and GPI-linked Eph ligands appear to exert repellant activity by different mechanisms, opening up the possibility that they may have different effects on growth cones in vivo.
Previously we reported that cultured rat Schwann cells express 5-HT2A receptors. In the present study we compared the serotonin-responsiveness of Schwann cells with their stage of differentiation. Serotonin-responsiveness occurred in cells that expressed a myelinating marker but not a nonmyelinating marker. We also examined cells to see if those responding to 5-HT were selectively proliferating or quiescent. This was accomplished by pulsing cells with bromodeoxyuridine (BrdUrd), screening them for serotonin responses, and then immunolabeling the same cells with an antibody recognizing BrdUrd. No BrdUrd+ cells responded to serotonin, whereas most BrdUrd- cells did respond, indicating that serotonin receptors are expressed in Schwann cells after they become quiescent. Moreover, detection of the responses is enhanced by reducing concentrations of mitogen-containing serum in the culture medium. Collectively, these results suggest that postmitotic Schwann cells express serotonin receptors while differentiating along the myelinating lineage.
Primary cultures enriched in neurons dissociated from embryonic rat cerebral cortex, cerebellum, or hippocampus were treated in a chemically defined serum-free media with either vehicle, dodecylglycerol (DDG, 3 microM), or glutamate (75 microM), or preincubated with DDG for 4 or 24 h, and further incubated with glutamate. Their morphological and biochemical assessments (lactate dehydrogenase [LDH] release in the culture media, neuronal viability and intracellular Ca2+ mobilization) were made. Neurotoxic effects of glutamate and glutamate-mediated increases in intracellular Ca2+ were maximal in neurons from cerebellum and minimal in neurons from cortex. Cotreatment of cells with DDG and glutamate failed to provide significant neuronal protection against glutamate in the three brain regions. Pretreatment of cells with DDG for 4 or 24 h prior to glutamate treatment provided significant neuroprotection as judged by morphological changes and a decrease in LDH activity. Neuroprotection of approximately 15-35% was observed following 4 h of DDG pretreatment, increasing to 60-85% protection after 24 h of DDG pretreatment. Although the mechanism of DDG's neuroprotective action remains to be elucidated, these results demonstrate that both glutamate and DDG have differential specificity for anatomical regions of the brain.

To begin to study the importance of dopamine for executive function abilities dependent on prefrontal cortex during early childhood, the present investigation studied children in whom we predicted reduced dopamine in prefrontal cortex but otherwise normal brains. These are children treated early and continuously for the metabolic disorder phenylketonuria (PKU). Untreated PKU is the most common biochemical cause of mental retardation. The root problem is an inability to convert one amino acid, phenylalanine (Phe), into another, tyrosine (Tyr), the precursor of dopamine. Phe levels in the bloodstream soar; Tyr levels fall. Treatment with a diet low in Phe reduces the Phe:Tyr imbalance but cannot eliminate it. We hypothesized that the resultant modest elevation in the ratio of Phe to Tyr in the blood, which results in slightly less Tyr reaching the brain, uniquely affects the cognitive functions dependent on prefrontal cortex because of the special sensitivity of prefrontally projecting dopamine neurons to small decreases in Tyr. In a 4-year longitudinal study, we found that PKU children whose plasma Phe levels were three to five times normal (6-10 mg/dl) performed worse than other PKU children with lower Phe levels, matched controls, their own siblings, and children from the general population on tasks that required the working memory and inhibitory control abilities dependent on dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. The impairment was as evident in our oldest age range (3 1/2-7 years) as it was in the youngest (6-12 months). The higher a child's Phe level, the worse that child's performance. Girls were more adversely affected than boys. The deficit appears to be selective, affecting principally one neural system, since even PKU children with Phe levels three to five times normal performed well on the 13 control tasks. Clinical implications for the treatment of PKU and other neurodevelopmental disorders are discussed.

This article reviews, without mathematics, the important principles governing the acquisition and use of normative data in electrodiagnostic medicine. Common flaws in neurophysiological normative data include vague clinical criteria for establishing freedom from disease, samples that are too small and inadequately stratified, and application of Gaussian statistics to non-Gaussian variables. Other problematic issues concern the trade-off between permissible false-positivity and false-negativity in defining the limits of normative from sample data, test-retest variability, and the use of multiple independent test measurements in each electrodiagnostic examination. The following standards for normative data are proposed: (1) standardized objective determination of freedom from disease; (2) appropriately large sample of normal subjects; (3) proportional statification of normal subjects for known relevant variables; (4) test of Gaussian fit for application of Gaussian statistics; and (5) data presentation by percentiles when Gaussian fit is in doubt. Many existing normative studies in clinical neurophysiology do not meet these standards. High-quality normative data, readily accessible, is essential for the accurate electrodiagnosis of neuromuscular diseases.

Recirculation following 2 h of focal ischemia due to transient middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion has previously been found to be accompanied by an initial, partial recovery of the cellular bioenergetic state and of mitochondrial respiratory functions, with secondary deterioration during the first 2-4 h of reflow. Both the free radical spin trap alpha-phenyl-N-tert-butyl nitrone (PBN) and the immunosuppressant drug FK506 ameliorate the damage incurred by the 2-h period of focal ischemia, even when given 1-3 h after the start of the recirculation. The primary objective of this study was to find out if FK506, like PBN, prevents the secondary deterioration of mitochondrial function, as this can be studied in vitro. Since this proved to be the case, we addressed the question of whether the secondary mitochondrial dysfunction and bioenergetic failure were related to a secondary compromise of microcirculation and cellular oxygen delivery. Six groups of male Wistar rats were studied for measurement of mitochondrial respiratory activity (total, n = 36). One group was used as control (n = 6). In the other groups of animals, MCA occlusion of 2 h duration was induced by an intraluminal filament technique, Neocortical focal and perifocal (&quot;penumbra&quot;) tissues were sampled after 2 h of ischemia (n = 6) and after 1 h (n = 6), 2 h (n = 6 with vehicle), and 4 h (n = 6 with vehicle; n = 6 with FK506) of recirculation. The vehicle or 1.0 mg.kg-1 of FK506 was injected intravenously after 1 h of recirculation. Homogenates were prepared, and stimulated (+ADP), nonstimulated (-ADP), and uncoupled respiratory rates were measured polarographically. The uncoupling agent used was carbonyl cyanide m-chlorophenylhydrazone. Local CBF and tissue oxygen tension were evaluated by laser-Doppler flowmetry and PO2 microelectrodes, respectively, throughout the whole periods of 2 h of ischemia and 4 h of recirculation, using a remote MCA occlusion technique. After 2 h of ischemia, the penumbra showed a moderate decrease and the focus a marked decrease in ADP-stimulated and uncoupled respiratory rates, with a marked fall in the respiratory control ratio, defined as ADP-stimulated divided by nonstimulated respiration. Recirculation (1 h) brought about partial recovery, but continued reflow (2 and 4 h) was associated with a secondary deterioration of respiratory functions. The secondary deterioration was prevented by FK506. The results thus confirm previous findings showing that secondary mitochondrial dysfunction occurs following transient focal cerebral ischemia and demonstrate that FK506, like PBN, improves the in vitro performance of mitochondria in focal and penumbral areas. Following MCA occlusion, local CBF in a penumbral area and tissue PO2 in a focal area decreased to about 30 and 5% of control, respectively. However, recirculation brought about rapid recovery of blood flow and oxygen delivery. During the whole 4-h period of recirculation, local CBF and tissue PO2 were maintained close to 100% and at about 160% of the preischemic level, respectively. The results make it highly unlikely that the secondary bioenergetic failure during recirculation is due to a compromised microcirculation. It follows that oxygen delivery is not rate-limiting for recovery events. Very likely, FK506 (and PBN) acts at the cellular level to improve mitochondrial energy functions.
Intrastriatal 6-hydroxydopamine injections in rats induce partial lesions of the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) system which are accompanied by a delayed and protracted degeneration of DA neurons within the substantia nigra. By careful selection of the dose and placement of the toxin it is possible to obtain reproducible and regionally defined partial lesions which are well correlated with stable functional deficits, not only in drug-induced behaviors but also in spontaneous motoric and sensorimotoric function, which are analogous to the symptoms seen in patients during early stages of Parkinson's disease. The intrastriatal partial lesion model has proved to be particularly useful for studies on the mechanisms of action of neurotrophic factors since it offers opportunities to investigate both protection of degenerating DA neurons during the acute phases after the lesion and stimulation of regeneration and functional recovery during the chronic phase of the postlesion period when a subset of the spared nigral DA neurons persist in an atrophic and dysfunctional state. In the in vivo experiments performed in this model glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has been shown to exert neurotrophic effects both at the level of the cell bodies in the substantia nigra and at the level of the axon terminals in the striatum. Intrastriatal administration of GDNF appears to be a particularly effective site for induction of axonal sprouting and regeneration accompanied by recovery of spontaneous sensorimotor behaviors in the chronically lesioned nigrostriatal dopamine system.
Apolipoprotein E has been shown to be a risk factor for late-onset Alzheimer's disease, with the apolipoprotein epsilon 4 allele conferring the risk. Apolipoprotein E is found in neurofibrillary tangles and senile plaques, the pathological characteristics of Alzheimer's disease. To date there is no direct evidence that human neurons can take up exogenous apolipoprotein E, which is necessary if apolipoprotein E is involved in the formation of neurofibrillary tangles. To examine apolipoprotein E uptake we employed the human NTera2/D1 cell line, which can be induced by retinoic acid to differentiate into postmitotic NTera2-N neurons, which have the characteristics and morphology of human central nervous system neurons. We defined the cell line as genotype apolipoprotein epsilon 3/3 and demonstrated that the cells do not synthesize apolipoprotein E but can take up and internalize exogenous recombinant apolipoprotein E3. We also confirmed the expression of the low-density lipoprotein receptor-related protein, a known receptor for apolipoprotein E. The NTera2/D1 cell line therefore provides a useful human cell model for examining the effects of other apolipoprotein E isoforms with a view to defining intraneuronal interactions of apolipoprotein E.
Areas of striatal grafts which contain neurons that are characteristic of the striatum are called P-zones. We have investigated whether the paucity of P-zones in human xenografts of lateral ganglionic eminence (LGE) tissue in a rat model of Huntington's disease is due (i) to an absence of the appropriate target cells of LGE neurons or (ii) to the persistence of an immature morphology. Striatal tissue from human embryos of varying sizes (21, 24, and 30 mm in crown-to-rump length) was grafted into the ibotenate-lesioned striatum of immunosuppressed rats, which were killed after 15-17 weeks. In most cases, tissue from the LGE and medial ganglionic eminence (MGE) was transplanted together, whereas some rats received grafts of only LGE tissue. Both types of grafts exhibited positive immunostaining for PCNA (proliferating cells), Vimentin (immature astrocytes), and GAP-43 (outgrowing fibers), which indicates that graft maturation is still ongoing up to 4 months after grafting. Graft survival seemed better when MGE was cografted with LGE, suggesting that the MGE may provide trophic support for LGE neurons and can affect the overall survival of human striatal xenografts. However, the extent of P-zone formation was not increased in MIXED, i.e., LGE plus MGE, grafts.
This study investigated the effect of bicuculline methiodide (BMI) microinjection into basolateral amygdala (BLA) on conditioned odor aversion. Bilateral injections of BMI (39 or 59 pmol/0.2 microliter) or artificial CSF were done in the BLA 5 min after the presentation of the conditioned stimulus (water intake at an almond-scented tube). This was followed 30 min later by lithium chloride-induced toxicosis. Whereas under these experimental conditions control rats (CSF injected) did not develop a conditioned odor aversion, BMI-treated rats (59 pmol) did so, suggesting that the blockade of GABAA receptors facilitated this learning. This facilitation was unlikely due to an unconditioned action of BMI, as a group microinjected with 59 pmol of BMI but not intoxicated did not display conditioned aversion. This result suggest that blockade of the GABAA receptors can prolong the olfactory trace duration, making it accessible to association with delayed toxicosis. Combined with previous results, these data support the hypothesis that the GABAergic system of the basolateral amygdala exerts control over the duration of a short-term odor trace in our conditioned odor aversion paradigms.
In order to study the effects of differential housing conditions on recovery from damage to different components of the hippocampal formation, 85 rats received bilateral lesions of the hippocampus, entorhinal cortex, or subiculum or sham surgery and then were housed for 30 days in either an enriched environment or an impoverished environment. Rats were subsequently tested on a battery of tasks for assessing locomotor activity in their home cage, reactivity to novelty, spatial working and reference memory in the Morris water maze, and learning in the Hebb-Williams maze. Rats with the hippocampus removed showed impairments in most of the tasks we used (home-cage and novelty-induced locomotor activity, water maze, and Hebb-Williams maze). Most of the deficits induced by lesions to the entorhinal cortex were similar to those induced by the removal of the hippocampus. Some differences appear to be among the deficits induced by the lesions of these structures when assessing the home-cage locomotor activity, the reactions to novelty, and one aspect of the Hebb-Williams maze learning. Lesions to the subiculum induced only an impairment in the probe trial of the water-maze task. Confirming and extending previous findings in rats with various (but nonexcitotoxic) lesions of the hippocampus, an enriched environment had a beneficial effect on several of the deficits observed in the tasks we used. Further, only the rats with hippocampal lesions benefitted from having been housed in the enriched environment. However, their facilitated recovery was not observed in all tasks. After damage to different components of the hippocampal formation, the beneficial effects induced by the enriched housing conditions were shown to be both lesion-locus- and task-dependent.
Male Wistar rats were given a bilateral or a unilateral transection of the fimbria-fornix; subsequently they were kept in standard laboratory housing conditions or in enriched environments for 6 weeks, after which they were tested in the Morris maze. In the acquisition phase of the experiment rats with a bilateral lesion of the fimbria-fornix were markedly impaired in their ability to locate the hidden platform, while rats with unilateral lesions displayed no such impairment. However, rats with a bilateral lesion displayed a less severe deficit when they had been housed postoperatively in the enriched environment. In the retention phase of the experiment rats with a bilateral lesion swam markedly less time in the platform zone only when they had been housed in standard conditions. They also spent more time in the edge zone than the other groups. Rats with a bilateral lesion that were housed enriched did not swim more in the edge zone. Despite their good performance during acquisition they did not display a clear preference for the platform zone. Thus, it was speculated that enriched rats with a bilateral lesion had learned to leave the side of the pool to search for the platform and with the aid of this different strategy improved their performance.
Polyclonal antibody R-1, raised against a chick synaptic membrane glycoprotein fraction whose synthesis is enhanced following training on a passive avoidance task, produces amnesia when injected into chick forebrain 5.5 h posttraining. The amnestic IgG fraction specifically recognizes a low sialylated isoform of NCAM (Mileusnic Rose, Lancashire, &amp; Bullock, 1995). We have now investigated the effects of this antibody on memory formation in adult rats. R-1, preimmune serum, or saline was injected intracerebroventricularly 5.5 h posttraining through bilaterally implanted cannulae. Rats injected with R-1 and tested 48 h later showed a significant amnesia for avoidance compared with the controls. Amnesia was not apparent at 24 h posttraining. R-1 injections were without effect on spontaneous locomotor or exploratory activity in a holeboard test. The results contribute to the argument that the role of cell adhesion molecules in neuronal plasticity is not limited to the developing nervous system, but they play a more general role in the experience-dependent synaptic remodeling underlying long-term memory.


A polyclonal antibody was generated in rabbits to an idazoxan-albumin antigen. The anti-idazoxan antiserum had high affinity for unconjugated 3H-idazoxan (Kd of 19.8 nM) in a radio-immunoassay (RIA). Of various drugs and native molecules only idazoxan potently (Ki of 24 nM) inhibited 3H-idazoxan binding to the anti-idazoxan antibody. A few drugs weakly inhibited 3H-idazoxan binding (IC50 &gt; 605 microM) with rank order of UK 14304 &gt; guanabenz &gt; cirazoline &gt; amiloride &gt; naphazoline. Neither agmatine, an endogenous clonidine displacing substance (CDS), catecholamines or imidazoles inhibited the binding of 3H-idazoxan to the anti-idazoxan antibody. The anti-idazoxan RIA was 4-6 fold more sensitive than an antibody to para-amino clonidine. The CDS detected by ligand displacement from bovine brain dose-dependently inhibited 3H-idazoxan binding. This immunoreactive (ir-) CDS activity was present in human (0.9-4.1 U/ml) and rat sera (1-2 U/ml) and in the cerebro-spinal fluid of eight patients with serious disease of the central nervous system, but not in controls. We conclude: (1) an anti-idazoxan RIA is a sensitive, selective and clinically applicable RIA for measuring ir-CDS; (2) ir-CDS is not agmatine; (3) CDS represents a family of endogenous ligands for imidazoline receptors including ir-CDS and agmatine.
We examined the effect of Oren-gedoku-to (TJ15), which is a traditional herbal Kampo prescription used as an anti-cerebral apoplexy agent on these changes. Chronic pre- and post-ischemia TJ15 oral administration almost completely abolished the ischemia-induced muscarinic receptor reduction and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid level increase. These results suggest that TJ15 prevents cholinergic synaptic dysfunction and serotonergic presynaptic hyperactivity induced by transient ischemia.

Merosin, also called laminin-2, is an isoform of laminin comprised of the alpha 2, beta 1 and gamma 1 chains. Deficiency of merosin alpha 2 chain was recently identified as the primary cause of the classical form of congenital muscular dystrophy (CMD), an autosomal recessive neuromuscular disorder characterised by muscular dystrophy and brain white matter abnormalities. Interestingly, merosin-deficient CMD and its animal model dy mouse are also accompanied by dysmyelination of peripheral motor nerves. In peripheral nerve, merosin is expressed in the endoneurium surrounding the Schwann cell/myelin sheath, while the putative merosin receptors dystroglycan and alpha 6 beta 4 integrin are expressed in the outer membrane of Schwann cell/myelin sheath. Together with the well known fact that the deposition of laminin in the basement membrane is essential for Schwann cell myelination, these findings indicate that the interaction of merosin with dystroglycan and/or alpha 6 beta 4 integrin plays an important role in peripheral myelinogenesis and that the disturbance of this interaction leads to peripheral dysmyelination in merosin deficiency. The clinical significance of peripheral dysmyelination in merosin deficiency is also discussed.
The N channel is critical for regulating release of neurotransmitter at many synapses, and even subtle differences in its activity would be expected to influence the efficacy of synaptic transmission. Although several splice variants of the N channel are expressed in the mammalian nervous system, their biological importance is presently unclear. Here, we show that variants of the alpha1B subunit of the N channel are expressed in sympathetic ganglia and that alternative splicing within IIIS3-S4 and IVS3-S4 generate kinetically distinct channels. We further show a striking difference between the expression pattern of the S3-S4 variants in brain and peripheral ganglia and conclude that the brain-dominant form of the N channel gates 2-to-4-fold more rapidly than that predominant in ganglia.
The embryonic cerebral cortex contains a population of stem-like founder cells capable of generating large, mixed clones of neurons and glia in vitro. We report that the default state of early cortical stem cells is neuronal, and that stem cells are heterogeneous in the number of neurons that they generate. In low fibroblast growth factor (FGF2) concentrations, most maintain this specification, generating solely neuronal progeny. Oligodendroglial production within these clones is stimulated by a higher, threshold level of FGF2, and astrocyte production requires additional environmental factors. Because most cortical neurons are born before glia in vivo, these data support a model in which the scheduled production of cortical cells involves an intrinsic neuronal program in the early stem cells and exposure to environmental, glia-inducing signals.

Biochemical, behavioral and electrophysiological evidence suggests interactions between pathways containing neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (NAChRs) and excitatory amino acid receptors. Recently, protective effects of nicotine against N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced toxicity in primary cortical cultures were reported. To address possible interactions between NAChR and NMDA receptor containing pathways, several NAChR agonists were evaluated for their effects on NMDA-evoked [3H]acetylcholine ([3H]ACh) release from slices of rat striatum. Nicotine, cytisine and epibatidine had no effect on NMDA-evoked release or basal release of [3H]ACh over a wide range of concentrations. Lobeline and dimethylphenylpiperazinium iodide (DMPP), however, decreased basal [3H]ACh release and attenuated NMDA-evoked [3H]ACh release with EC50 values of 35 and 155 microM, respectively. The NAChR antagonists, dihydro-beta-erythroidine (DH beta E) and d-tubocurarine had no effect on NMDA-evoked [3H]ACh release, whereas mecamylamine attenuated the NMDA-evoked [3H]ACh evoked release with an EC50 value of 144 microM. Methyllycaconitine (MLA), a highly selective and potent antagonist of the alpha-bungarotoxin-sensitive alpha 7 NAChR subtype, also had no effect on NMDA-evoked [3H]ACh release at concentrations upto 10 microM. The inhibitory effects of DMPP and lobeline on NMDA-evoked [3H[ACh release were relatively insensitive to mecamylamine, d-tubocurarine, MLA and DH beta E. In addition, DMPP or lobeline-induced attenuation of basal [3H]ACh release was insensitive to blockade by sulpiride, a dopamine (D2) receptor antagonist. In contrast to their effects on NMDA-evoked striatal [3H]ACh release, both DMPP and lobeline increased basal release of striatal [3H]DA and hippocampal [3H]norepinephrine ([3H]NE) and did not attenuate NMDA-evoked release of these two transmitters. Instead, DMPP and lobeline appeared to have an additive effect on both NMDA-evoked hippocampal [3H]NE release and striatal [3H]DA release. These pharmacological results suggest that the inhibitory effects on lobeline and DMPP on striatal [3H]ACh release are independent of their interactions with classical NAChRs or the NMDA receptor complex itself.
The effects of cocaine withdrawal on the latency of the P300 cognitive event-related potential were studied in 36 subjects. All subjects had used cocaine within 48 h of admission to an inpatient unit. P300 was recorded in a traditional auditory oddball paradigm 2 and 6 days following admission. P300 latency decreased from day 2 to day 6 in subjects with a history of intravenous use, but was unchanged in subjects who had only used cocaine orally. The neurotransmitter systems mediating this effect, and the differential cognitive effects of route of administration are discussed.
In this report, we investigated the relationship between depressive symptoms and plasma interferon (IFN)-alpha-like immunoreactivity, cyclic GMP (cGMP) and soluble interleukin-2 receptor (sIL-2R) levels during IFN therapy. An altered mood state was observed in 5 of 26 patients. IFN-alpha-like immunoreactivity in the depressed group tended to be elevated. cGMP levels of depressed patients were significantly greater than those of control subjects before and 6 weeks after IFN therapy. However, sIL-2R levels were not different between the two groups. These results suggest that a number of patients suffered from depression during IFN therapy and that patients had greater concentrations of cGMP levels.
Transforming growth factor beta s (TGF beta s) are potent immunosuppressive molecules released in the brain after injury. We hypothesized that TGF beta levels in cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) of schizophrenic patients would be altered because TGF beta can influence neural cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) expression in vitro. The levels of TGF beta 1 and beta 2 in CSF of patients with schizophrenia and normal controls measured by ELISA showed no differences. There was evidence that the stability of TGF beta in CSF may be altered in schizophrenia. For a limited sample, TGF beta 1 and N-CAM concentrations were significantly correlated in normal patients (r = 0.98) but not in schizophrenics. The results do not support an active neurodegeneration or anti-inflammatory response in the central nervous system, which is reflected in the CSF of chronic schizophrenics.
Olanzapine is a new antipsychotic drug with affinity for 5-HT2, D2, D1, and muscarinic receptors. Positron emission tomography and the radioligands [11C]raclopride and [11C]NMSP were used to measure D2 and 5-HT2 receptor occupancy in three healthy subjects after 10 mg olanzapine orally. After seven hours D2 receptor occupancy was 63%, 62% and 59%, respectively. After 9.5 hours 5-HT2 receptor occupancy was 74%, 86% and 92%. D2 and 5-HT2 receptor occupancy was comparable to that found in patients continuously treated with clozapine. Clinical efficacy has been demonstrated for olanzapine in the dose range 5 to 15 mg per day. Extrapolation from our present observations after a 10 mg single-dose suggest, that at the lower end of the clinically examined dose range the D2 and 5-HT2 receptor occupancy should be similar to that induced by standard doses of clozapine. Detailed evaluation of the dose-response characteristics of olanzapine and direct clinical comparison to clozapine will thus provide valuable leads to the clarification of atypical antipsychotic action.



To study the regulation and function of the growth-associated protein B-50/growth-associated protein-43 (mol. wt 43,000) in Xenopus laevis, B-50/growth-associated protein-43 complementary DNAs were isolated and characterized. The deduced amino acid sequence revealed potential functional domains of Xenopus B-50/growth-associated protein-43 that may be involved in G-protein interaction, membrane-binding, calmodulin-binding and protein kinase C phosphorylation. The expression of B-50/growth-associated protein-43 at the RNA and protein level during development was investigated using the Xenopus complementary DNA and the monoclonal B-50/growth-associated protein-43 antibody NM2. The antibody NM2 recognized the gene product on western blot and in whole-mount immunocytochemistry of Xenopus embryos. Moreover, visualization of the developmentally regulated appearance of B-50/growth-associated protein-43 immunoreactivity showed that this mode of detection may be used to monitor axonogenesis under various experimental conditions. In the adult Xenopus, XB-50/growth-associated protein-43 messenger RNA was shown to be expressed at high levels in brain, spinal cord and eye using northern blotting. The earliest expression detected on northern blot was at developmental stage 13 with poly(A) RNA. By whole-mount immunofluorescence, applying the confocal laser scanning microscope, the protein was first detected in embryos from stage 20, where it was expressed in the developing trigeminal ganglion. Also later in development the expression of the B-50/growth-associated protein-43 gene was restricted to the nervous system in Xenopus, as was previously found for the mouse. In conclusion, we find that XB-50/growth-associated protein-43 is a good marker to study the development of the nervous system in Xenopus laevis.
Intracellular microelectrodes were used to examine the active and passive membrane properties of neurons in the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig small intestine. Neurons of two types were examined: S neurons, which have prominent fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials and in which action potentials are not followed by long-lasting afterhyperpolarizations, and AH neurons, which have long-lasting afterhyperpolarizations following soma action potentials. In preparations in which the myenteric ganglia and longitudinal muscle, but no mucosa, were present, most S neurons (59/64) responded to intracellular depolarizing current with brief bursts of action potentials. Regardless of the strength of a depolarizing current of 500-ms duration, these neurons never fired action potentials beyond the first 250 ms. S neurons in this state were called rapidly accommodating. In contrast, within 600 microm circumferential to the intact mucosa, 26/58 S neurons fired action potentials for most or all of the period of a 500-ms insightful depolarizing pulse. S neurons in this state were called slowly accommodating. Depolarization of S neurons in the rapidly accommodating state caused a rapidly developing reduction in membrane resistance (outward rectification; onset about 7 ms). This rectification was absent from S neurons in the slowly accommodating state. Tetraethylammonium blocked the early rectification and the changed neuronal state from rapidly accommodating to slowly accommodating. Application of tetrodotoxin to neurons in the slowly accommodating state revealed the early rectification, indicating that its absence from these neurons before tetrodotoxin was applied had been due to ongoing activity in axons providing synaptic input to the neurons. After the mucosa was disconnected from the other layers and laid back in its original position, all S neurons close to the mucosa were in the rapidly accommodating state (17/17). Slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials, evoked by electrical stimulation of nerve tracts, converted 17 of 43 S neurons from rapidly accommodating to slowly accommodating and eliminated the early outward rectification in these neurons. These results indicate that the action potential firing properties of S neurons can be changed by external influences, including the activity of synaptic inputs that release a slowly acting transmitter. Spontaneous antidromic action potentials were recorded in 8/62 AH neurons within 600 microm circumferential to the intact mucosa. It is concluded that, when the mucosa is intact, a background firing of sensory neurons occurs which leads to a state change in many S neurons innervated by the active sensory neurons. We conclude that this state change is caused by the block of a voltage-sensitive outward rectification.
After-effects of preceding movement on the activity of primary spindle afferents of de-efferented cat hindlimb muscles were examined during the dynamic phases of slow linear test movements. These dynamic after-effects were compared with the static after-effects observed in the spindle activity during steady-state of the parent muscle and with hysteresis after-effects of the muscle proper. According to their pattern, the dynamic phases of the spindle and muscle reactions can be divided into two parts. During the first part (at the beginning of movement), both spindle responses and muscle state (either length or load depending on the mode of the test movement) strongly depended on the previous history of movement, being completely independent of the direction of preceding movement in the second part of the dynamic phase. These two parts were treated in terms of interaction of the movement-dependent after-effects in muscles and muscle spindle afferents. These findings allowed us to suppose that, during rather slow single-joint movements, the spindle afferents from the passive antagonist muscles can provide signals free from the effects of preceding movement.
We attempted to identify the invariant kinematic properties of multijoint arm reaching movements in the horizontal plane to explore the planning variable(s) involved in their coordination. Different targets were placed near the perimeter of the workspace boundary, thereby causing variation of size and orientation of the hand stroke. We have a special interest in the trajectory characteristics of the most massive point within the arm system, the center-of-mass of the entire arm system, in addition to those of the hand or joints. The motion of the individual segments (the forearm plus hand and the upper arm) or joints (shoulder and elbow) was modulated in a different way depending on the tasks; thus, there was no invariance in the relationships between paired variables (displacement or velocity) for segment or joint motions. For relatively short hand strokes, the trajectory of the hand and the center-of-mass of the entire arm system were characterized by a nearly straight path, and a smooth, bell-shaped velocity curve along the path, symmetrical about the mid-portion of the movement, starting from nearly zero, growing to a single peak and declining again to nearly zero. However, in large hand strokes the hand path was highly curved and the velocity curve was asymmetric. Although the path of the center-of-mass of the entire arm system also tended to be curved with the increase of the hand stroke, a bell-shaped velocity curve along the path and its typical symmetry were preserved over a wide range of stroke sizes and orientations, and its peak was scaled in proportion to movement distance and movement time. Our findings indicate that it is not valid to postulate solely the joint- or hand-based planning strategies which have been proposed previously. Rather, the planning of the spatial aspects of the motion is largely dependent on the interaction of multiple variables, including those not analysed in this study. The bell-shaped pattern of the center-of-mass velocity profile represents a certain efficiency of movement, since it corresponds to a single accelerative and a decelerative phase of a mass over the movement, with no intermediate force reversals. The simple structure of the center-of-mass velocity profiles may reflect a fundamental organization principle underlying the temporal aspects of movement planning.
Agrin, a synaptic basal lamina protein, is essential for the formation of the vertebrate neuromuscular junction. Agrin's role in synaptogenesis in the central nervous system has, however, not been elucidated. Therefore, we performed immunohistochemical analysis of agrin localization in adult rat brain using agrin-specific polyclonal antibodies. Our results show that agrin immunoreactivity is detected in neuronal cells throughout the brain, and that agrin is expressed in many morphologically and neurochemically distinct neuronal populations. Within neurons, agrin-immunoreactive material is present in dendrites. To determine agrin isoform expression in the central nervous system, we analysed the pattern of expression of several isoforms during development of the rat brain. Our results indicate that alternative splicing of agrin is specifically regulated in the nervous system; isoforms of the Y=4 (i.e. Ag x,4,0, Ag x,4,8 and Ag x,4,19), Z=8 and Z=19 type are expressed exclusively in the nervous system. Agrin expression precedes synaptogenesis and is developmentally regulated in neural tissues. To evaluate stimuli that may be involved in the regulation of agrin expression, we monitored the patterns of isoform expression following a depolarizing stimulus. Our results show that agrin expression in the adult hippocampus is regulated in an activity-dependent manner, with kinetics of induction resembling a delayed early response gene.
After unilateral labyrinthectomy in rats, Fos-like immunoreactive neurons appeared in the ipsilateral medial vestibular nucleus, contralateral prepositus hypoglossal nucleus and contralateral inferior olive beta subnucleus. and thereafter gradually disappeared in accordance with the development of vestibular compensation. This finding indicated that the activation of these nuclei is the initial event of vestibular compensation. In the present study, retrograde tracing experiments revealed that these Fos-like immunoreactive neurons project a proportion of their axons to the vestibulocerebellum (uvula-nodulus, flocculus). Before vestibular compensation was accomplished, right, left or bilateral flocculectomy was performed in right-labyrinthectomized rats. All these treatments caused reappearance of unilateral labyrinthectomy-induced behavioral deficits and Fos expression in the left medial vestibular nucleus and right prepositus hypoglossal nucleus. Since floccular efferents are GABAergic, these results indicate that the neurons in which Fos expression was detected by flocculectomy had been inhibited after unilateral labyrinthectomy by floccular Purkinje neurons and that disinhibition of these neurons induced by flocculectomy caused decompensation. Based on our present findings, we propose a hypothesis that the bilateral flocculus serves the restoration of balance between intervestibular nuclear activities to induce vestibular compensation after unilateral labyrinthectomy.
Basic fibroblast growth factor is a biologically active polypeptide with mitogenic, angiogenic and neurotrophic properties. In the present study, the temporal and spatial expressions of basic fibroblast growth factor in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats were compared to two related strains of rat: spontaneously hypertensive rats and normotensive Wistar Kyoto rats. Higher levels of total RNA concentration were found in cerebral cortex of four-week-old stroke-prone rats compared to spontaneously hypertensive rats and Wistar Kyoto rats. Northern blot analysis showed no changes in levels of basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA with increasing age in cerebral cortex of Wistar Kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats. However, significant increases were found in 26- and 38-week-old stroke-prone rats compared to four-week-old stroke-prone rats. Although messenger RNA increases were also found in subcortical and cerebellar regions, a significant difference in levels of basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA was observed only in cerebral cortices among these three strains. This age-related increase in basic fibroblast growth factor messenger RNA correlated with the increase incidence of stroke in stroke-prone rats. Immunohistochemical study further revealed a dramatic increase in levels of basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity in cerebral cortex of 30-week-old stroke-prone rats as compared to young stroke-prone rats, as well as age-matched Wistar Kyoto and spontaneously hypertensive rats. This increase in basic fibroblast growth factor immunoreactivity therefore appears very specific to aged stroke-prone rats. However, immunoreactivity decreased once severe tissue damages were observed in the cerebral cortex. Basic fibroblast growth factor-positive cells were diffusely expressed in cerebral cortex; double staining with glial fibrillary acidic protein showed the majority of these basic fibroblast growth factor-positive cells to be astrocytes. In summary, although young stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats showed significantly higher RNA concentration, significant increases in levels of basic fibroblast growth factor, including both messenger RNA and protein expression, were observed in aged stroke-prone rats with a high incidence of stroke. These findings suggest the possibility that basic fibroblast growth factor may play a role in the developmental sequelae of cerebral lesions in stroke-prone spontaneously hypertensive rats.
The occurrence of high-frequency gamma activity (30-60 Hz) and its relationship to other frequency band activities were examined by spectral analysis of the electroencephalogram in association with sleep wake states and spontaneous behaviors in the rat. In the electroencephalogram, gamma wave activity was evident in unfiltered and high-frequency filtered recordings, in which it was prominent during attentive or active Wake episodes and during Paradoxical Sleep, when theta-like activity was also apparent. In amplitude spectra from these episodes, multiple peaks were evident within the gamma frequency band, indicating broad-band high-frequency activity, in association with a single low-frequency peak in the theta band. gamma peaks were attenuated during quiet Waking, in association with a low-frequency peak between theta and delta, and during Slow Wave Sleep, in association with a low-frequency peak in the delta band. In coherence spectra from ipsilateral cortical leads, peaks were also present within the gamma range and were significantly higher in Waking moving and Paradoxical Sleep than in Waking quiet and Slow Wave Sleep. In measures of frequency band amplitude, gamma activity (30.5-58.0 Hz) varied significantly across the sleep waking cycle, being similarly high during Wake and Paradoxical Sleep and lowest during Slow Wave Sleep. Across these states, gamma was negatively correlated with delta (1.5-4.0 Hz). In contrast, high beta (19.0-30.0 Hz) was significantly lower in Wake than in Slow Wave Sleep and was positively correlated with delta. gamma differed significantly across specific behaviors, being highest in Paradoxical Sleep with twitches and during Waking eating and moving behaviors, slightly lower in Waking attentive, lower in Waking grooming and as low in Waking quiet as during Slow Wave Sleep. These results indicate that the reciprocal variation of high-frequency gamma activity (and not beta) with low-frequency delta activity reflects the sleep waking cycle of the rat. Moreover, gamma activity reflects the degree of behavioral arousal, since it is high during active Waking, when the electromyogram is high, and low during quiet Waking, when the electromyogram is low. It also reflects cortical arousal, independent of motor activity, since it attains high levels in association with attentive immobility and maximal levels only during particular active behaviors (eating and moving and not grooming), and it also attains maximal levels during Paradoxical Sleep, when the nuchal electromyogram is minimal, but small twitches evidence dreaming. The co-variation of gamma and a slow oscillation in the theta band across states and behaviors suggests that a common system may modulate these fast and slow electroencephalogram rhythms, and that such modulation, potentially emanating from the basal forebrain, could predominate during certain states or behaviors, such as Paradoxical Sleep.
Fast thermal waves spreading over the cerebral cortex were found in the white rat by infrared neuroimaging (thermoencephaloscopy) in the range of 3-5 microm. Thermal waves appeared under visual stimulation (the probability of their appearance = 0.92), and under background conditions (probability of appearance = 0.42). Typically, they moved during the period from 15 s before to 25 s after each light flash that was presented rhythmically (1.5-3 per min). The waves spread over the cerebral cortex along the limited number of typical trajectories, which are specific for the hemisphere of their origin (ipsilateral or contralateral with the side of stimulation). The waves were never recorded in a dead animal or in a thermal standard. The amplitude of the thermal waves was in the range of 0.005-0.1 degrees C, with the extent of the pathway of 2-56 mm, length of 10-15 mm, duration of 1.2-11.4 s, and velocity of 1-33 mm/s. In about half of the cases the waves appeared in the contralateral visual cortex (areas 17 and 18a), spread to the midline and crossed to the ipsilateral hemisphere (areas 17, 18a and 7). Local waves moving along a circular trajectory and rotating around the central part of the contralateral area 17 were also revealed, as well as wave rotation around the dorsal (mainly parietal) cortical fields. Possible biophysical and neurophysiological mechanisms and the functional significance of the revealed effects are discussed.
The release of noradrenaline and neuropeptide Y appears to be regulated by estrogen in a co-ordinated fashion within specific brain regions. The present study has used double and triple-labelling immunocytochemical procedures to determine the patterns of nuclear estrogen receptor and neuropeptide Y expression by brainstem A1 and A2 noradrenergic neurons in the female rat. Estrogen receptor-immunoreactive cells were detected within the ventrolateral medulla, nucleus tractus solitarius, area postrema and, in the very caudal medulla, the reticular nuclei and spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve. Cells double labelled for the estrogen receptor and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase were identified in largest numbers (up to seven double-labelled cells per 30-microm-thick coronal section) in the caudal-most medulla, where approximately 30% of A1 and 60% of A2 neurons were immunoreactive for the estrogen receptor. These percentages reduced in a linear fashion in more rostral sections and at the level of the area postrema, no co-expression was evident in the ventrolateral medulla and only 10% of A2 neurons displayed estrogen receptor immunoreactivity. Fluorescence double-labelling studies undertaken in colchicine-treated rats revealed that 50% and 90-100% of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive cells were positive for neuropeptide Y in the rostral ventrolateral medulla and nucleus tractus solitarius (up to 15 double-labelled cells per section), respectively. This pattern of co-expression also showed a rostrocaudal bias, but in the opposite direction, such that none of the caudal-most A1 and only 10% of caudal A2 neurons were immunoreactive for neuropeptide Y. Triple-labelling experiments revealed the presence of a total of only three triple-labelled cells in the ventrolateral medulla and none in the nucleus tractus solitarius of four rats. Double-labelling studies examining estrogen receptor and neuropeptide Y co-expression similarly found only three double-labelled cells in the ventrolateral medulla. These findings provide immunocytochemical evidence for a clear rostrocaudal topography in nuclear estrogen receptor synthesis by A1 and A2 neurons and show a reverse rostrocaudal bias in neuropeptide Y expression by these cells. The absence of any substantial neuropeptide Y and estrogen receptor co-expression in A1 and A2 neurons indicates that these two proteins are very likely to be differentially expressed by brainstem noradrenergic neurons. Such observations provide further evidence for the biosynthetic and functional heterogeneity of brainstem noradrenergic cells and suggest that A1 and A2 neurons transmitting information on estrogen status within the brain are unlikely to utilize neuropeptide Y as a co-transmitter.
The postnatal development of inhibitory GABAergic circuits in the thalamic reticular and ventrobasal nuclei was studied in rats ranging from the day of birth to the end of the third postnatal week by means of a postembedding immunogold staining procedure to visualize GABA. In the reticular nucleus, GABA labeling was present from birth in cell bodies, dendrites, growth cones and a few synaptic terminals, whereas in the ventrobasal nucleus it was exclusively in axonal processes identifiable as growth cones, vesicle-rich profiles and synaptic terminals. In both nuclei, GABA-labeled synaptic terminals were, however, very scarce and immature in neonatal animals and they became numerous and morphologically mature only after the end of the second postnatal week. These findings suggest that inhibitory synaptic responses in the somatosensory thalamus are not yet fully mature throughout the first two postnatal weeks and support the hypothesis that GABA may initially play trophic roles. The relatively late maturation of the thalamic GABAergic system may have important functional consequences, as the reticulothalamic circuits are responsible for the generation of spindle wave oscillations whose cellular mechanisms are also involved in the generation of spike-and-wave (absence) seizures in humans and in animal models.
The distribution of GABAergic elements and their synaptic contacts in the nucleus submedius, a specific nociceptive relay in the medial thalamus of the cat, was studied using light and electron-microscopic postembedding immunohistochemical methods. About one-fourth of the neurons in nucleus submedius were GABA immunoreactive. These neurons were generally smaller than the unlabeled neurons and are probably local circuit neurons. Electron microscopy showed GABA immunoreactivity in two types of vesicle-containing profiles, F-terminals and presynaptic dendrites. F-terminals formed simple synapses with the dendrites of presumed thalamocortical relay cells. Presynaptic dendrites were involved in more complex synaptic arrangements that included ascending trigeminothalamic and spinothalamic tract terminals and thalamocortical relay cell dendrites. Analysis of single sections showed that about 40% of the trigeminothalamic and spinothalamic tract terminals, identified by anterograde transport of horseradish peroxidase, were presynaptic to GABAergic presynaptic dendrites. These results show that GABAergic neurons are frequent in nucleus submedius and that the GABAergic elements make synaptic connections similar to those described for other sensory relay nuclei, including the somatosensory ventroposterior nucleus. This suggests that GABAergic mechanisms play an important role in the processing of nociceptive and thermoreceptive information.
Competitive polymerase chain reaction assays following reverse transcription have been developed for quantitative analysis of delta and mu opioid receptor gene expression. The assay was used to obtain quantitative measurements of mu and delta opioid receptor expression levels in different brain regions and sensory and sympathetic ganglia in the rat. The assays provide accurate estimates of the relative levels of receptor messenger RNAs by the inclusion in the assays of known amounts of internal standards with the same sequence, except for a small deletion, as the target complementary DNA. The amplification products of target and competitor can be distinguished by size, and their amounts measured by densitometry. Expression of mu and delta opioid receptor messenger RNAs in different regions of the rat brain, somatic and visceral sensory and sympathetic ganglia was investigated using this method. In the brain the highest density of delta receptor messenger RNA was detected in the olfactory bulb, followed by the striatum. The mu receptor was expressed at highest levels in the midbrain-hypothalamic region. All the sensory ganglia studied expressed both mu and delta opioid receptor messenger RNAs. In the nodose ganglion we observed the highest level of mu receptor messenger RNA of any structure studied; in the trigeminal ganglion the level was about 10 times lower than that in the nodose ganglion. Among the dorsal root ganglia, mu receptor messenger RNA density was highest in the lumbar region, followed by the thoracic and cervical regions. The sympathetic superior cervical ganglion expressed a very low level of mu message. Delta receptor messenger RNA was detected only in the sensory ganglia, at levels that were considerably lower than in the striatum. The reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction assay is quantitatively reliable for comparison of messenger RNA levels between different RNA extracts, and sensitive enough to permit the detection and assay of mu and delta opioid receptor gene expression in a single pair of sensory or autonomic ganglia from the rat.
Sigma (sigma) receptors have generated a great deal of interest on the basis of their possible role in psychosis and on locomotor behaviors. The effects of sigma drugs on these various functions are apparently mediated by different sigma receptor subtypes (sigma1 and sigma2). However, little information is currently available on the discrete anatomical distribution of these putative sigma receptor subtypes in the rat brain. The aim of the present study was to investigate, by quantitative autoradiography, the respective distribution of purported sigma1 and sigma2 receptor subtypes in the rat brain using [3H]1,3-di(2-tolyl)guanidine, a universal sigma ligand, and [3H](+)pentazocine, a selective sigma1 ligand. Putative sigma2 receptor sites were visualized using [3H]1,3-di(2-tolyl)guanidine in presence of a saturating concentration of (+)pentazocine. Specific [3H]1,3-di(tolyl)guanidine and [3H](+)pentazocine binding sites were found to be widely but discretely distributed in the rat brain. The highest densities of specific labeling were seen in various cranial nerve nuclei, followed by certain hippocampal sub-fields and laminae, the red nucleus, the interpeduncular nucleus and mid-layers of primary and secondary motor cortices. Lower amounts of specific binding were present in various other structures including most thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei, and the cerebellum. Interestingly, [3H]1,3-di(2-tolyl)guanidine binding in the motor cortex was found to be particularly resistant to a saturating concentration of (+)pentazocine suggesting an enrichment in the putative sigma2 receptor subtype. This also applies for a few other structures such as the nucleus accumbens, substantia nigra pars reticulata, central gray matter, occulomotor nucleus and cerebellum. On the other hand, the sigma1 subtype is more abundant in most other regions with the highest densities seen in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampal formation, facial nucleus, and various thalamic and hypothalamic nuclei. The comparative localization of the sigma1 and sigma2 receptor binding sites probably relates to the differential effects of sigma1 and sigma2 drugs in the rat brain.
The protective effect of diphenyliodonium, known as an inhibitor of flavin enzymes including nitric oxide synthases, was examined against the neurotoxicity of excitatory amino acids on cultured spinal neurons of the rat. Diphenyliodonium reduced the neuronal damage induced by 15-min exposure to glutamate or N-methyl-D-aspartate in a dose-dependent manner; half effective concentrations (EC50) were about 3 microM for both. Protection was only observed when diphenyliodonium was added into the exposure medium. Diphenyliodonium showed no effect on the toxicity induced by 24 h exposure to non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonists. Using a microfluorometry technique with Fura 2, we observed that diphenyliodonium reversibly inhibited the N-methyl-D-aspartate-evoked intracellular Ca2+ elevation. The amount of 45Ca2+ influx induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate was also inhibited by diphenyliodonium in a dose-dependent manner; EC50 was about 3 microM. Furthermore, we examined the effect of diphenyliodonium on an opening activity of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors estimated by binding of dizocilpine maleate to membrane fractions from whole brain of adult rat and from cultured spinal neurons. Diphenyliodonium inhibited the binding of dizocilpine maleate dose-dependently; EC50 was 5-8 microM. These results suggest that diphenyliodonium is a new antagonist to the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors and that diphenyliodonium protects neurons against glutamate toxicity due to a direct blocking of the Ca2+ influx. This conclusion is supported by the similarity of the stereochemical structures predicted by computer between diphenyliodonium and dizocilpine maleate.
Low Mg2+-induced epileptiform activity in the entorhinal cortex is characterized by an initial expression of seizure-like events followed by late recurrent discharges. Both these forms of activity as well as the transition between them were blocked by serotonin. In contrast, serotonin had little effect upon the epileptiform activity in areas CA3 and CA1 of the hippocampus. Both forms of epileptiform activity in the entorhinal cortex are sensitive to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonists and it is shown here that serotonin blocked both types of epileptiform activity through an effective concentration-dependent reduction of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potentials in deep layer entorhinal cortex cells. Serotonin also prolonged or even prevented the transition between the two types of epileptiform activity and we suggest that this may be through activation of the Na+/K+-ATPase. The resistance of epileptiform activity in CA1 and CA3 to serotonin was most likely related to the inability of serotonin to reduce Schaffer collateral-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials. Given the strong serotonergic inputs to both the hippocampus and entorhinal cortex, the differential sensitivity of the two regions to serotonin suggests functional differences. In addition since the late recurrent discharges in the entorhinal cortex are resistant to all clinically used anticonvulsants, serotonin may open new avenues for the development of novel anticonvulsant compounds.
Serotonin and glucocorticoids interact at the hippocampus to alter neuronal function. Serotonin and antidepressant drugs increase glucocorticoid receptor and mineralocorticoid receptor gene expression in hippocampal neurons over a few days. The effects of serotonin are mediated via ketanserin-sensitive &quot;serotonin-2 type&quot; receptors and induction of cyclic AMP, although the subsequent molecular mechanisms are unclear. Recently, we have shown that chronic environmental manipulations which induce glucocorticoid receptor gene expression in specific hippocampal subfields of the rat are associated with congruent induction of the transcription factor NGFI-A (zif268, krox24, egr-1) and repression of AP-2; both factors may bind to the glucocorticoid receptor gene promoter. However, any relationship between serotonin and these transcription factors is unknown. Here, we show that acute restraint stress, which causes serotonin release at the hippocampus, induces hipppocampal NGFI-A, but represses activator protein-2 and mineralocorticoid receptor gene expression within 90 min. These changes are sustained for 4 h, but not 12 h. Ketanserin attenuates the stress-induced rise in NGFI-A and fall in mineralocorticoid receptor gene expression, and partly also the fall in AP-2 messenger RNA expression. These data suggest that restraint stress, acting via serotonin release and ketanserin-sensitive serotonin receptors, produces rapid, transient and specific changes in transcription factor gene expression in hippocampal neurons. Any link between these effects and the control of glucocorticoid and mineralocorticoid receptor expression with chronic serotonin or antidepressant treatment remains to be elucidated.
Several prohormone convertases that are involved in the posttranslational processing of precursor proteins, including neuropetides, hormones and neurotrophic factors, are produced in the central nervous system. These include enzymes named furin, PC1, PC2, PC5 and PACE4. To understand better the potential role played by prohormone convertases in the central nervous system we studied the expression of their messenger RNAs in the hippocampus of rats with pilocarpine-induced seizures. Moreover, we compared their expression patterns with those of neurotrophins such as nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor, which are up-regulated in the hippocampus during seizures. Pilocarpine (380 mg/kg, i.p.) induced seizure activity that appeared within the first hour and persisted for approximately 8 h. In situ hybridization showed transient increases in messenger RNA for nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor that peaked at 120 min in the hippocampus. Among the convertases studied, only PC1 messenger RNA displayed up-regulation, with temporal and topographic features comparable to those of nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA. The expression of furin, PC2 and PC5 messenger RNA changed little, while PACE4 was not expressed at all, both before and after pilocarpine administration. The highest increase in PC1 messenger RNA expression was found in granule cells of the dentate gyrus and, to a lesser extent, in the pyramidal layer of CA1 and CA3 subfields. Thus, in the rat hippocampus, the epileptiform activity induced by pilocarpine mediates a co-ordinated expression of messenger RNAs for PC1, nerve growth factor and brain-derived neurotrophic factor. Our findings suggest the involvement of PC1 in the processing of precursor proteins during seizure activity.
Hippocampal slices prepared from neonatal rats were cultured for several weeks, and excitotoxicity induced in CA1 pyramidal neurons by N-methyl-D-aspartate was evaluated at different culture stages. CA1 neurons cultured for one week exhibited cell death predominantly within 1-3 h after a 15-min N-methyl-D-aspartate insult (early death), whereas those cultured for three weeks showed cell death mainly a few hours to 24 h after the insult (delayed death). CA1 neurons cultured for two weeks were in a transitional state, expressing only weak early and delayed forms of cell death in response to N-methyl-D-aspartate. The N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced early cell death observed in the one-week group depended on external Cl- but did not require external Ca2+; rather, early cell death was enhanced in Ca2+-free solution. This early cell death was accompanied by cell swelling, but cell swelling alone produced by osmotic changes failed to induce cell death. There was no evidence that CA1 neurons in the one-week group were more responsive to N-methyl-D-aspartate than those in the two other groups. Delayed cell death examined in the three-week group depended on external Ca2+ but was independent of Cl-. The density of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced whole-cell currents recorded from CA1 neurons in Mg2+-free solution remained unchanged during three weeks of culture. However, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channel in the three-week group was more resistant to Mg2+ block than that in the one- or two-week group. The incidence of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced delayed cell death was higher in the three-week group than in the two-week group in normal solution but not in Mg2+-free solution. Thus, Mg2+ block-resistant properties of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channel acquired during prolonged culture may account for the high incidence of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced delayed cell death in the three-week group. However, the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunits expressed in the CA1 subfield did not show any feature specific to the three-week group. These results show that two mechanistically distinct modes of N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced neuronal death are manifested differentially at different culture stages, depending on the intrinsic neuron properties (i.e. early cell death) and on the properties or the responsiveness of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor (i.e. delayed cell death).
Recent data suggest that gp120, a human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) coat glycoprotein that is secreted by HIV-infected cells, is neurotoxic, and that this toxicity is mediated, at least in part, by activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate-type excitatory amino acid receptors. To test this hypothesis in vivo, we examined the neurotoxicity of gp120 injected intrahippocampally, alone or co-injected with the selective excitatory amino acid agonist N-methyl-D-aspartate, in seven-day-old rats. Severity of injury in the lesioned hippocampus was assessed five days later, using three outcome measures: histopathology, hippocampal atrophy (derived from regional cross-sectional area measurements) and loss of [3H]glutamate receptor binding (based on in vitro autoradiography assays). To confirm that any observed effects were attributable to gp120 bioactivity, each group of experiments included controls that received equal amounts of heat-treated gp120. Gp120 (200 ng) elicited minimal focal pyramidal cell loss immediately adjacent to the injection track; there was no hippocampal atrophy or loss of [3H]glutamate binding. Co-injection of 50 ng gp120 with N-methyl-D-aspartate (5 nmol, threshold excitotoxic dose) increased the severity of hippocampal injury; hippocampal atrophy was greater in animals that received injections of 5 nmol N-methyl-D-aspartate in combination with 50 ng gp120 than in those that received either N-methyl-D-aspartate alone (5 nmol) or 5 nmol N-methyl-D-aspartate+50 ng heat-treated gp120 (mean+/-S.E.M. percentage reduction in injected hippocampal volume vs contralateral: N-methyl-D-aspartate, -19+/-3; N-methyl-D-aspartate+gp120, -26.8+/-2.1; N-methyl-D-aspartate+heat-treated gp120, -14.0+/-2.2; P&lt;0.001, ANOVA). Treatment with the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist 3-((RS)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonic acid (20mg/kg) markedly reduced the severity of injury elicited by the combination of gp120 with N-methyl-D-aspartate. These data support the hypothesis that locally secreted gp120 could exert neurotoxic effects, mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation, in vivo in the immature brain.
The aim of the study was to use immunohistochemistry to identify, in the hippocampal region of human brain. the distribution of neuronal and endothelial isoforms of the enzyme nitric oxide synthase. Numerous pyramidal neurons and small, presumed GABAergic interneurons throughout the pyramidal cell layer of CA1-CA3 exhibited neuronal nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity. Comparable immunopositive cells were seen in the granule cell and polymorphic layers of the dentate gyrus and in the stratum oriens. A dense plexus of immunopositive fibres was seen in the granule cell layer of the dentate gyrus. In contrast, endothelial nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity was localized specifically, and with a pronounced punctate distribution, to the cell bodies of CA1 pyramidal neurons. The endothelial isoform was also present in blood vessels and in cells which resembled astroglia. These latter cells had a similar appearance and distribution to astroglia identified by their positive reaction to glial fibrillary acidic protein. The most frequently used method for identifying nitric oxide synthase-containing cells in brain, the NADPH-diaphorase reaction, was also applied to hippocampal sections. Only occasional NADPH-diaphorase-positive cells were seen in the hippocampus where, in contrast to their nitric oxide synthase-like immunoreactivity, the pyramidal cells did not stain for NADPH-diaphorase. Similarly, only occasional NADPH-diaphorase-reactive varicose axons were found in the hippocampus in these experiments. This study is the first to identify mostly separate populations of cells containing neuronal and endothelial nitric oxide synthase isoforms in human hippocampus. The data show that NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry, which is frequently used to show the presence of nitric oxide synthase, greatly underestimates the potential for hippocampal cells to produce nitric oxide. The fact that human hippocampus has a great many nitric oxide synthase-containing cells implies that nitric oxide has a role in human hippocampal functions although, at the present time, these actions are not clear. Whether those stimuli known to produce nitric oxide, such as activation of glutamate N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors, cause both enzyme isoforms in CA1 pyramidal cells to produce nitric oxide remains to be determined.
The loss of the calcium binding protein, Calbindin-D28k, from dentate granule cells has been observed in different animal models of epilepsy and in ischaemia. This decrease is accompanied by alterations of calcium and N-methyl-D-aspartate currents, which may explain the hyperexcitability of the dentate gyrus. In the present study, we found a loss of calbindin immunoreactivity from over 90% of the dentate granule cells in lobectomy samples from four of 10 temporal lobe epilepsy patients. In another four patients, over 50%, of dentate granule cells were devoid of calbindin immunoreactivity, whereas the remaining two cases showed a 20-30% decrease. Electron microscopy revealed a normal ultrastructure both in calbindin-containing and calbindin-negative granule cells. Both calbindin-positive and -negative mossy fibre collaterals participated in supragranular sprouting. As inferred from data in animal models, the lack of calbindin in dentate granule cells of human epileptic subjects is likely to result in hyperexcitability of the dentate gyrus, which may then function as a &quot;motor&quot; for seizures.
Fmr1 knockout mice constitute a putative model of fragile X syndrome, the most common form of heritable mental disability in humans. We have compared the performance of transgenic mice with an Fmr1 knockout with that of normal littermates in hidden- and visible-platform water maze learning, and showed that knockouts exhibit subnormal spatial learning abilities and marginal motor performance deficits. During 12 training trials of the hidden-platform task, escape latency and path length decreased significantly in knockouts and control littermates, and no effect of genotype was found. During four ensuing reversal trials, however, significant differences were found between knockouts and control littermates both in escape latency and path length. During the visible-platform condition, the reversal trials also revealed a difference between knockouts and normal littermates in escape latency, but not in path length. Possibly due to marginal motor incapacity, knockouts swam significantly slower than controls during these latter trials. During both probe trials of the hidden-platform task, knockouts as well as normal littermates spent more time in the target quadrant than in the other quadrants, and percent of time spent in the target quadrant was the same in both groups; swimming velocity was not significantly different between knockouts and normal littermates during these trials. Entries in the target area during the probe trials did show a significant effect of genotype on number of entries. The present results largely confirm and extend our previous findings. Impaired spatial abilities in Fmr1 knockouts might have been due to relatively low response flexibility or high memory interference in Fmr1 knockouts. It remains unclear, however, which brain region or neurochemical system might be involved in these disabilities. We conclude that Fmr1 knockout mice might be a valid model of fragile X mental retardation.
Auditory filial imprinting in the domestic chick is an established experimental model for investigating basic mechanisms of learning-related synaptic plasticity. In in vivo electrophysiological studies, we analysed whether imprinting alters the responsiveness of neurons to acoustic imprinting stimuli in the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale. We compared the response characteristics of neurons in the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale in freely behaving or anesthetized acoustically imprinted, non-imprinted (naive controls) and passive control chicks (stimulus-exposed) during presentation of either the imprinting stimulus or an unfamiliar discrimination stimulus. In acoustically imprinted chicks, the multiunit activity in anesthetized chicks and the fast Fourier transform power spectrum in freely behaving chicks in the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale were significantly changed during playback of the learned stimulus in comparison to spontaneous activity and compared to the activity during playback of the unfamiliar discrimination stimulus. In anesthetized non-imprinted and passive control chicks, the multiunit activity showed slightly enhanced activity during playback of either the imprinting or the discrimination stimulus in comparison to spontaneous activity. However, in both control groups there were no significant differences between the responses towards the imprinting and the discrimination stimuli. These results indicate that neurons in the mediorostral neostriatum/hyperstriatum ventrale change their responsiveness towards learned, behaviorally relevant stimuli during auditory filial imprinting.
A variety of N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid receptor antagonists, and the antiepileptic drug lamotrigine, were examined for their ability to restore locomotion and other behaviours when injected stereotaxically via indwelling cannulae into the striatum or substantia nigra pars reticulata of rats rendered akinetic with reserpine (5 mg/kg i.p. 24 h beforehand). Only the competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonists 3-((+)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)-propyl-1-phosphonate and R-DL-(E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentanoate stimulated locomotion from the striatum, whereas 2-amino-phosphonopentanoic acid, the N-methyl-D-aspartate channel blockers dizocilpine maleate and phencyclidine, and the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid antagonist 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulphamoyl-benzo(f)-quinoxaline-dione, were additionally effective in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. The N-methyl-D-aspartate glycine site antagonist (RS)-3-amino-1-hydroxypyrrolidin-2-one and the glutamate release inhibitor lamotrigine failed to restore locomotion at these sites, and the N-methyl-D-aspartate polyamine site antagonist eliprodil was ineffective in the substantia nigra pars reticulata, although all compounds tested (except lamotrigine) induced orofacial, head and/or limb movements to some degree. Except for 2,3-dihydroxy-6-nitro-7-sulphamoyl-benzo(f)-quinoxaline-dione, locomotion was accompanied dose-dependently by increasingly pronounced ataxia and postural abnormalities. These results show that the monoamine-depleted substantia nigra pars reticulata has a broader spectrum of responsitivity to the antiparkinsonian actions of N-methyl-D-aspartate and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid antagonists than does the striatum, and that the harmful as well as the beneficial effects of these compounds on locomotion arise from these two structures.
In the late 1980s, a functional and anatomical model of basal ganglia organization was proposed in order to explain the clinical syndrome of Parkinson's disease. According to this model, the pathological overactivity observed in the subthalamic nucleus and the output station of the basal ganglia plays a crucial role in the pathophysiology of the motor signs of Parkinson's disease. The hyperactivity of subthalamic neurons in Parkinsonism is viewed as a direct consequence of a pathological hypoactivity of the external segment of the pallidum. This article reviews recent data from different experimental approaches that challenge the established model of basal ganglia organization by reinterpreting the functional interaction between the external segment of the pallidum and the subthalamic nucleus in both the normal and pathological state. Indeed, recent neurobiochemical studies have rather unexpectedly shown that the GABAergic and metabolic activities of the external pallidum are not decreased in human and non-human primates with Parkinsonism. This absence of any decrease in activity might be explained by the functionally antagonistic influences of the striatal and subthalamic afferences within the external pallidum, as suggested by several anatomical studies. In addition, there are clues from electrophysiological studies to suggest that the hyperactivity found in the subthalamic neurons in Parkinsonism may not depend solely on the level of activity in the external pallidum. In such a framework, the hyperactivity of the subthalamic neurons would have to be explained, at least in part, by other sources of excitation or disinhibition. However, any explanation for the origin of the subthalamic overactivity in Parkinsonism remains speculative.
The present study was designed to test the hypothesis that prenatal morphine, which differentially affects hypothalamic norepinephrine content and turnover in male and female rats, has sexually dimorphic effects on the density of hypothalamic norepinephrine uptake sites in adult offspring. The binding characteristics of norepinephrine transporters were examined in the hypothalamus, preoptic area and frontal cortex of adult male and female rats exposed to morphine (5-10 mg/kg, twice daily) or saline on gestation days 11-18. There was a gender-related difference in the density of norepinephrine uptake sites measured by [3H]nisoxetine binding in the frontal cortex of saline controls, with control males having significantly fewer binding sites than control females. Prenatal morphine administration did not reverse or eliminate this difference. Additionally, prenatal morphine exposure had no effects on either the binding capacity or the affinity of norepinephrine uptake sites in the hypothalamus, preoptic area or frontal cortex of adult progeny. Thus, alterations in hypothalamic norepinephrine content and turnover following prenatal morphine exposure are not reflected in alterations in norepinephrine uptake sites. However, recent immunocytochemical work in our laboratory correlated reductions in hypothalamic norepinephrine content and turnover rate with reductions in tyrosine hydroxylase and dopamine-beta-hydroxylase fiber density in the hypothalamus of morphine-exposed female rats. Therefore, the present results may suggest that compensatory mechanisms increase the density of norepinephrine uptake sites in hypothalamic terminal fields of morphine-exposed females.
The 5-hydroxytryptamine-2B receptor is the most recent addition to the 5-hydroxytryptamine-2 family of G-protein-coupled receptors. In the rat stomach fundus, 5-hydroxytryptamine-2B receptor activation causes contraction; however, its distribution and function in the rat CNS are unclear. By performing immunohistochemistry with an antiserum raised against the N-terminus of the 5-hydroxytryptamine-2B receptor protein, this study identifies receptor expression in longitudinal and circular smooth muscle in the rat stomach fundus and in neurons in discrete nuclei in the cerebellum, lateral septum, dorsal hypothalamus and medial amygdala. The potential function of this receptor in the CNS is discussed.
Immunocytochemical methods revealed the presence of GABA in cell bodies and terminals in the nucleus of the optic tract-dorsal terminal nucleus, the medial terminal nucleus, the lateral terminal nucleus and the interstitial nucleus of the superior fasciculus of the opossum (Didelphis marsupialis aurita). Moreover, after unilateral injections of rhodamine beads in the nucleus of the optic tract-dorsal terminal nucleus complex and processing for GABA, double-labelled cells were detected in the ipsilateral complex, up to 400 microns from the injected site, but not in the opposite. Analysis of the distributions of GABAergic and retrogradely-labelled cells throughout the contralateral nucleus of the optic tract-dorsal terminal nucleus showed that the highest density of GABAergic and rhodamine-labelled cells overlapped at the middle third of the complex. Previous electrophysiological data obtained in the opossum had suggested the existence, under certain conditions, of an inhibitory action between the nucleus of the optic tract-dorsal terminal nucleus of one side over the other. The absence of GABAergic commissural neurons may imply that this inhibition is mediated by an excitatory commissural pathway that activates GABAergic interneurons.
While systemic capsaicin in adult rats is known to reduce substance P and somatostatin in primary sensory nerves, it is still unknown if it also affects the production of these peptides at the genetic level. Therefore, we examined the effects of systemically administered capsaicin on the expression of the beta-preprotachykinin, gamma-preprotachykinin, somatostatin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, galanin, neuropeptide Y and neurotrophin receptor family (trkA, trkB, trkC) genes in dorsal root ganglion neurons by in situ hybridization in adult rats. Nerve growth factor is thought to be involved in the regulation of some of these genes. In the control animals, beta-preprotachykinin, gamma-preprotachykinin, calcitonin gene-related peptide, somatostatin, trkA, trkB and trkC messenger RNAs were found in about 30%, 30%, 40%, 10%, 40%, 5% and 20% of the lumbar dorsal root ganglion neurons, respectively. The number of neurons expressing beta/gamma-preprotachykinin and calcitonin gene-related peptide messenger RNAs decreased to about 50% and 70% of the control values, respectively, six days after subcutaneous administration of capsaicin (950 mg/kg). Simultaneously, the number of trkA messenger RNA-expressing neurons also decreased to about 70% of the control level, while the number of neurons expressing trkB and trkC messenger RNAs was unaffected. On the other hand, vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and galanin messenger RNAs, but not neuropeptide Y messenger RNA, began to be expressed in about 10% of dorsal root ganglion neurons after administration of capsaicin, although their messenger RNAs were not detected in the controls. However, the expression of somatostatin messenger RNA was unaffected by the systemic administration of capsaicin. The somatostatin messenger RNA was not co-expressed with vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and galanin messenger RNAs in the sensory neurons of rats given capsaicin. Electron microscopic analysis revealed a few degenerating unmyelinated afferents in sural nerves of the treated rats. The number of small-sized dorsal root ganglion cells labeled with Fluoro-Gold, a retrograde-tracing dye which was injected into the sural nerve of the treated rats, decreased to half of the control number. Our results suggest that systemic administration of capsaicin in adult rats depresses the expression of beta/gamma-preprotachykinin, calcitonin gene-related peptide and trkA messenger RNAs, and induces expression of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide and galanin messenger RNAs in sensory neurons, which may be due to the capsaicin-induced degeneration of a subpopulation of sensory afferents. We also demonstrated that the regulation of somatostatin gene expression in mature sensory neurons is not affected by systemic capsaicin.
The effects of pretreatment with a protein kinase C activator, phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate, on antinociception induced by i.c.v.-administered mu-opioid receptor agonist (D-Ala2, NMePhe4, Gly(ol)5) enkephalin (DAMGO) or morphine and epsilon-opioid receptor agonist beta-endorphin were studied in male ICR mice. The tail-flick responses were used for antinociceptive tests. I.c.v. pretreatment with phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (50 pmol) for 30 or 60 but not 10 min attenuated antinociception induced by i.c.v.-administered DAMGO. I.c.v. pretreatment with phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (10 and 50 pmol) for 60 min caused a dose-dependent attenuation of DAMGO (19.5 pmol)- or morphine (6.0 nmol)-induced antinociception. The dose-response curve for DAMGO-induced antinociception was shifted to the right by 7.3-fold by i.c.v. pretreatment with phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (50 pmol) for 60 min. However, the i.c.v.-administered beta-endorphin-induced antinociception was not affected by the same pretreatment with phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate. The attenuation of i.c.v.-administered DAMGO- and morphine-induced antinociception by phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate was reversed by concomitant i.c.v. pretreatment with a selective protein kinase C inhibitor calphostin C. These results suggest that activation of protein kinase C by phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate leads to the desensitization of mu-, but not epsilon-opioid receptor-mediated antinociception. These findings also provide additional evidence for differential intracellular modulation on antinociceptive action of mu- and epsilon-opioid receptor agonists.
To compare changes in primary afferent nociceptors associated with inflammatory versus neuropathic hyperalgesia, we evaluated in rats the mechanical stimulus-response function of isolated C-fiber primary afferent nociceptors to 10-s stimuli of differing mechanical strengths; 36 fibers after prostaglandin E2, 28 fibers from streptozotocin-diabetic rats and 46 fibers from control, non-treated rats were examined. Intradermal injection of prostaglandin E2 decreased mechanical threshold of 19 of 35 (54%) C-fibers. C-fibers that demonstrated a decrease in the mechanical threshold after prostaglandin E2 also showed an increased response to suprathreshold stimuli. The increase in the number of action potentials in prostaglandin E2-treated C-fibers was greatest at lower magnitude stimulus intensities, i.e. near threshold; the response to higher magnitude stimulus intensities was unchanged from that in control animals. In contrast, an increase in the number of action potentials seen in C-fibers from streptozotocin-diabetic rats was not seen at low-magnitude stimulus intensities; rather, a pronounced increase in response was seen at high-magnitude stimulus intensities. The von Frey hair thresholds for C-fibers in streptozotocin-diabetic rats were not different from those in control C-fibers. These data suggest that the changes in mechanical stimulus-response function of C-fibers are different in inflammatory compared to neuropathic mechanical hyperalgesia. These differences may underlie some of the differences in clinical features between inflammatory and neuropathic hyperalgesias.
In order to study a possible involvement of substance P in the processing of chemonociceptive input from the nasal mucosa and the dura mater encephali in the spinal trigeminal, the release of immunoreactive substance P was measured in the trigeminal brain stem nuclear complex in anaesthetized rats. Microprobes coated with antibody to substance P were inserted into the lateral area of the brain stem up to 1 mm posterior to the obex corresponding to the trigeminal subnucleus caudalis. When the nasal mucosa was stimulated by topical administration of mustard oil (1% and 5%) into the nostrils, immunoreactive substance P was mainly detected in the dorsal region of the trigeminal brain stem nuclear complex with a maximum in the superficial gray matter. When the dura mater encephali was stimulated by topical administration of Tyrode's solution (pH 6.2), immunoreactive substance P was mainly released in the ventral region of the trigeminal brain stem nuclear complex; with pH 5.5 the release was more diffuse extending from the ventral to the dorsal part of the spinal trigeminal nucleus. Release was maximal rather after than during the administration of the stimuli, and it considerably outlasted the stimulation periods. These data suggest that substance P plays an important role in the processing of chemonociceptive inputs from the nasal mucosa and the dura mater encephali in the trigeminal brain stem nuclear complex. Substance P may be important, therefore, in the generation of those headaches that are caused by affections of the nasal mucosa and the dura mater encephali. Since enhanced levels of immunoreactive substance P were present for considerable time periods beyond the administration of the stimuli, substance P and neurokinin-1 receptors may be involved in long-lasting neuronal events following noxious stimulation.
The distributions of alpha 2C adrenoceptor messenger RNA and high-affinity [3H]rauwolscine binding sites were characterized in developing rat brain. Using in situ hybridization with 35S-labeled riboprobes directed against the third intracellular loop, alpha 2C messenger RNA expression appeared in an adult-like pattern during the first and second postnatal weeks, in the anterior olfactory nucleus, caudate-putamen, olfactory tubercles, islands of Calleja and hippocampus, following the time-course of maturation of these structures. Only in the cerebellum was alpha 2C messenger RNA transiently expressed during the critical period of granule cell development. High-affinity [3H]rauwolscine binding sites were detected using receptor autoradiography and revealed a similar spatial and temporal time-course of appearance during rat brain development. The highest numbers of binding sites were detected in the olfactory tubercles and islands of Calleja, and moderate numbers in the anterior olfactory nucleus, caudate-putamen and hippocampus. Like alpha 2C messenger RNA expression, high-affinity [3H]rauwolscine binding sites were transiently expressed in the cerebellum. In some areas (e.g., the substantia nigra), [3H]rauwolscine binding sites were detected even though alpha C2 messenger RNA expression was absent. The strong spatial and temporal correspondence between messenger RNA expression and radioligand binding supports the conclusion that [3H]rauwolscine selectively labels alpha 2C adrenoceptors in the rat brain. The developmental pattern which was observed is in marked contrast to the early, transient expression of the alpha 2A adrenoceptor. Thus, the alpha 2A and alpha 2C receptor types may serve distinct functional roles in the developing brain.
The distribution of alpha 2A adrenoceptor messenger RNA expression in developing rat brain was characterized using in situ hybridization with 35S-labeled riboprobes. Intense hybridization signal was detected as early as embryonic day 14 in several areas adjacent to the forebrain and hindbrain germinal zones and in central noradrenergic neurons. A marked increase in messenger RNA expression was observed throughout the brain during late prenatal development, consistent with the migration and maturation of neurons in developing brain structures. In embryonic brain, there was a temporal and spatial correspondence in the appearance of alpha 2A messenger RNA expression and binding sites labeled with [3H]idazoxan or p-[125I]iodoclonidine, indicating translation into receptor protein at an early stage of development. Whereas the presynaptic expression remained constant throughout development, there was an early postnatal decline of alpha 2A receptor expression in many brain regions, including the olfactory bulb, cortex, caudate-putamen, hippocampus, thalamus, hypothalamus and medulla. Thereafter, messenger RNA expression increased, establishing an adult-like pattern during the second postnatal week, but remained low in areas such as the caudate-putamen, thalamus and hippocampus, which do not exhibit extensive expression in the adult. The transient perinatal expression of this alpha 2 adrenoceptor type, which coincides with a period of hyperreactivity to sensory stimuli in the locus coeruleus, may indicate a specific functional role for the alpha 2A receptor in the developing rat brain. The early and intense expression in olfactory structures suggests an involvement in early olfactory learning. The pattern of widespread, transient expression of alpha 2A receptors in the fetal brain is in marked contrast to the postnatal development of the alpha 2C receptor type.
The neuropeptide somatostatin is widely distributed in the CNS and is believed to play a role as a neurotransmitter or a neuromodulator. Somatostatin mediates its actions by the binding of the peptide to high affinity membrane receptors. The genes for five somatostatin receptor types have been cloned recently and Northern blotting and in situ hybridization studies have shown that the transcripts of all five types are expressed in the CNS. Here we report the cellular distribution of somatostatin sst2(a) receptor protein in the adult rat CNS, using a polyclonal anti-peptide antibody directed against a portion of the C-terminal domain of the receptor. The specificity of the affinity-purified antibody was demonstrated by Western blotting and immunolabelling of cells transfected with a hemagglutinin epitope-tagged version of the sst2(a) receptor. Immunohistochemistry showed a distinct distribution of the receptor protein in the rat brain. Cells and processes were labelled in a number of areas, including the basolateral amygdala, the locus coeruleus, the endopiriform nucleus, the deep layers of the cerebral cortex, the subiculum, the claustrum, the habenula, the interpenduncular nucleus, the hippocampus and the central grey. In the spinal cord, the substantia gelatinosa showed strongly-labelled cell bodies and their processes. This study provides an improved understanding of the distribution of the sst2(a) receptor in rat brain.
The distribution of neuropeptide Y Y1 and Y2 receptors has been extensively studied in the rat using selective masking of [125I]peptide YY binding by Y1- and Y2-selective peptides. In the present study, we characterized the binding of the subtype-selective radioligands [125I](Leu31-Pro34)-peptide YY and [125I]peptide YY3-36 to rat and guinea-pig brains and identified differences in Y1 and Y2 distribution. [125I](Leu31Pro34)-peptide YY and [125I]peptide YY3-36 bound to single sites in rat and guinea-pig brains with pharmacologies consistent with the Y1 and Y2 receptors, respectively. Autoradiographic studies were conducted using adjacent sections from rat and guinea-pig brains. Compared to the rat, the distribution of both Y1 and Y2 receptors was markedly different in the guinea-pig. For example, a high level of Y1 binding was detected within the thalamus of the rat while, in the guinea-pig, very little Y1 binding was observed in this region. Y1 binding was very low in the rat hippocampus, while the guinea-pig hippocampus contained high levels of Y1 binding. High levels of both Y1 and Y2 binding were observed in the guinea-pig cerebellum while, in the rat, only low levels of Y2 binding were visible. Therefore, the guinea-pig brain exhibits dramatic differences in the pattern of Y1 and Y2 receptors when compared to the rat. It is likely that Y1 and Y2 receptors perform different roles in the central nervous system of guinea-pigs and rats.
As a first step towards elucidating mechanisms involved in neuroendocrine synaptogenesis, we developed a model of co-culture based on hypothalamic-intermediate pituitary interactions. Dissociated hypothalamic neurons from fetal rats at embryonic day 15 were cultured in a defined medium together with melanotrope cells of the pituitary intermediate lobe from neonatal rats. In these co-cultures, establishment of synaptic contacts between GABAergic or dopaminergic neurons and an endocrine target cell the melanotrope cell, was studied by morphofunctional approaches. Using double immunostaining with antibodies directed against glutamate decarboxylase or tyrosine hydroxylase and alpha-melanocyte-stimulating hormone, we demonstrated morphological contacts between GABAergic or dopaminergic neurons and melanotrope cells as early as three days in vitro. Furthermore, using an antibody directed against synapsin I, we showed a modification of synapsin I immunoreactivity from diffuse to punctate distribution correlated with the establishment of contacts and the observation of characteristic neuroendocrine synapses by electron microscopy. These results were further confirmed by electrophysiological studies. Patch-clamp recordings demonstrated that, at six days in vitro, some melanotrope cells displayed GABAergic synaptic currents, which occurred either spontaneously and/or could be evoked chemically by 50 mM KCl or 100 microM kainate. The proportion of the melanotrope cells receiving functional synaptic inputs increased until 10 days in culture, a stage at which virtually all melanotrope cells in contact with neurons possessed functional synapses. The results presented here describe the establishment of neuroendocrine synapses in vitro, studied by combining morphofunctional and electrophysiological approaches.
A set of well-defined antisera against neuronal and glial proteins were used to characterize patterns of protein expression in rat hippocampus following transection of the fimbira-fornix and perforant pathways or after administration of the selective neurotoxicant trimethyltin (8 mg/kg, i.p.). SNAP-25 (synaptosomal protein, mol. wt 25,000) is a neuron-specific, developmentally regulated presynaptic protein, stannin is a protein enriched in cells sensitive to trimethyltin, and GAP-43 (growth-associated protein, mol. wt 43,000) is associated with axonal growth and regeneration. Glial fibrillary acidic protein is an astrocyte-specific intermediate filament protein and a marker for reactive gliosis. SNAP-25 immunoreactivity was altered following both neurotoxicant and mechanical injury. Three days after fimbria-fornix/perforant path lesions, there was a loss of SNAP-25 immunoreactivity in hippocampal efferent pathways and in the lesioned entorhinal cortex. By day 12, there was evidence of reinnervation of hippocampal subfields by SNAP-25-immunopositive commissural afferent fibers. On day 3, immunoblots showed the appearance of SNAP-25a, a developmental isoform produced by alternative splicing of nine amino acids in exon 5, in lesioned tissues. This isoform declined by day 12 and was not found in contralateral control hippocampus or non-lesioned brain regions. Stannin immunoreactivity was unchanged, while GAP-43 was prominent on day 12 post-lesion. Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity indicated gliosis near the site of pathway transection. In contrast, trimethyltin induced a marked loss of stannin immunoreactivity in hippocampal neurons seven days after injection. Trimethyltin increased glial fibrillary acidic protein staining in the hippocampus and other damaged regions. SNAP-25 immunoreactivity was markedly increased in mossy fibers and other hippocampal fields seven days following trimethyltin. Immunoblot analysis showed that only the adult SNAP-25b isoform was expressed after trimethyltin intoxication. These data suggest that SNAP-25 is a useful marker for presynaptic damage. Furthermore, reexpression of developmental isoforms of SNAP-25a may precede functional reinnervation when the postsynaptic target remains intact.
The cholinergic cells of the tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus monosynaptically excite dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra. In vivo electrochemical methods were used to monitor dorsal striatal dopamine efflux in awake rats following intraperitoneal scopolamine injections and following the direct application of scopolamine to the tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus. Systemic injections of scopolamine (1.0, 3.0 or 10.0 mg/kg) resulted in dose-related increases in peak striatal dopamine oxidation currents of between 1.1 and 2.0 nA. Increases began within 10-20 min after injection and peaked after 40-90 min. Unilateral microinjections of scopolamine into the tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus (10, 50 or 100 micrograms/0.5 microliter) resulted in dose-related increases in dopamine oxidation currents that peaked 60-90 min postinjection (2.9-5.0 nA). Carbachol (4.0 micrograms/0.5 microliter) injected unilaterally into the tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus 20 min before 100 micrograms tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus scopolamine, or injected bilaterally 20 min before 3.0 mg/kg systemic scopolamine, attenuated the increases produced by scopolamine alone. The carbachol preinjection tests suggest that the effects of both systemic and tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus scopolamine treatments are mediated largely by muscarinic receptors near the tegmental pedunculopontine nucleus. These findings are consistent with the proposal that enhanced activation of substantia nigra dopamine cells results from scopolamine-induced disinhibition of the tegemental pedunculopontine nucleus cholinergic cell group via blockade of their inhibitory autoreceptors.
Protracted changes in basal &quot;steady-state&quot; opioid peptide gene expression in the brain may represent adaptations underlying the behavioral effects of drugs of abuse, observed long after drug exposure. Here, we have studied the long-term effects of two distinct regimens of morphine administration (&quot;intermittent&quot; vs &quot;chronic&quot; morphine treatment) on behavioral sensitization and &quot;steady-state&quot; striatal preprodynorphin and preproenkephalin gene expression in rats. Opioid peptide gene expression was investigated using in situ hybridization at three rostrocaudal levels (rostral, intermediate and caudal) of the caudate-putamen and the nucleus accumbens. Behavioral studies showed that the intermittent morphine treatment resulted in a significantly greater enhancement of morphine-induced locomotion than the chronic morphine treatment three weeks after cessation of opiate exposure. The intermittent morphine treatment resulted in an initial decrease of preprodynorphin gene expression of about 5-10% in the caudate-putamen and the nucleus accumbens at the rostral and intermediate levels one day after the last morphine administration. In contrast, a protracted increase of preprodynorphin gene expression of about 20% throughout the caudate-putamen and of about 6% in intermediate sections of the nucleus accumbens was observed 21 days after cessation of intermittent morphine treatment. Although the chronic morphine treatment induced a decrease of preprodynorphin messenger RNA levels one day after the last administration, no significant changes were observed three weeks after cessation of chronic morphine treatment. No long-term changes were observed in preproenkephalin gene expression after either morphine treatment. Since the intermittent morphine administration induced long-term behavioral sensitization much more effectively than the chronic morphine treatment, we tentatively suggest that the protracted increase of preprodynorphin gene expression may play a facilitative role in the long-term character of opiate-induced behavioral sensitization.
When grown for seven days in a medium containing nerve growth factor (100 ng/ml), 10% horse serum and 5% fetal bovine serum PC12 cells stopped dividing, extended neurites and assumed a neuronal phenotype. Withdrawal of nerve growth factor from these cells resulted in loss of neurites and apoptotic changes in many cells. The apoptotic changes were exacerbated if the cells were also exposed to 1-2 microM S-100, a calcium binding protein purified from bovine brain. After exposure to S-100, the PC12 cells underwent characteristic apoptotic changes. Within 2 in neurites retracted, the cell body shrunk and submembranous accumulation of condensed cytoplasmic material was observed. DNA ladders were present after 24-48 h and 60% of the cells became hypodiploid after 72 h. S-100 induced apoptosis by binding to specific sites (Kd = 189 nM) on PC12 cells and this caused a rise in [Ca2+]i due to a transmembrane capacitative flux followed by the depletion of internal stores. This increase was reversed if 5 microM nifedipine, a specific L-type Ca2+ channel inhibitor, was added to the medium after S-100 and completely abolished if the cells were pretreated with 5 microM thapsigargin, an inhibitor of endoplasmic reticulum Ca(2+)-ATPase. The presence of nerve growth factor in the culture medium completely blocked the apoptotic changes induced by S-100, probably due to interaction of nerve growth factor and S-100 at the same binding sites. These data indicate that nerve growth factor not only prevents apoptosis during cell development, but also apoptosis induced by endogenous substances such as S-100.
The normal development of the central nervous system is regulated by glia. In this regard, we have reported that astrocytes, stimulated by epidermal growth factor or transforming growth factor alpha, suppress the biochemical differentiation of rat medial septal cholinergic neurons in vitro, as evidenced by a decrease in choline acetyltransferase activity. In this study, we found that, in contrast to astrocytes, microglia enhance rather than suppress this aspect of cholinergic cell expression. When in excess, microglia can revert the effects of epidermal growth factor on the septal cholinergic neurons without altering the astroglial proliferative response to this growth factor. In the absence of growth factors or other glial cell types, microglia increase choline acetyltransferase activity above control levels and thus, may be a source of cholinergic differentiating activity. The increase in enzyme activity induced by microglia is rapid in onset, detected as early as 2 h after their addition to the septal neurons and maintained up to six or seven days in vitro. Furthermore, in the absence or presence of other glial cell types, microglia also influence septal GABAergic neurons by significantly increasing glutamate decarboxylase activity. As microglia affect neither septal cholinergic nor GABAergic neuronal cell survival, they appear to enhance the biochemical differentiation of these two neuronal cell types. Specific immunoneutralizing antibodies were used to identify the microglia-derived factors affecting these two neuronal types. In this regard, we found that the microglia-derived cholinergic differentiating activity is significantly suppressed by antibodies raised against interleukin-3. Furthermore, interleukin-3 was detected in both conditioned media and cell homogenates from septal neuronal-microglial co-cultures by western blotting. Finally, although basic fibroblast growth factor and interleukin-3 significantly increase septal glutamate decarboxylase activity, neither appears to be implicated in the GABAergic cell response to the microglia. In conclusion, these results demonstrate that microglia can enhance the biochemical differentiation of developing cholinergic and GABAergic neurons in vitro.
Increasing evidence indicates that heparan sulfate proteoglycans have a critical role in the regulation of the activity of basic fibroblast growth factor by interacting with it or its receptor. In this study we examined the possibility that heparan sulfate can modulate the basic fibroblast growth factor system at a more fundamental level than activity regulation, by influencing the synthesis of basic fibroblast growth factor and its receptor messenger RNAs. Previous studies in vitro indicate that basic fibroblast growth factor promotes proliferation and differentiation of astrocytes. Accordingly, we examined the possibility that the action of heparan sulfate on the basic fibroblast growth factor system could have a critical role in the modulation of reactivity and/or proliferation of astrocytes in vitro and in vivo. We report that basic fibroblast growth factor applied to pure astrocyte cultures or rat neocortex promoted an increase in the messenger RNA for basic fibroblast growth factor itself and for its receptor. Furthermore, basic fibroblast growth factor applied directly into the brain elicited an increase in messenger RNA for the astrocytic marker glial fibrillary acidic protein. All of these actions, both in vitro and in vivo, were highly potentiated when heparan sulfate was applied in combination with basic fibroblast growth factor. These results suggest that basic fibroblast growth factor regulates astrocytic proliferation or reactivity via an autocrine cascade that involves induction of its own receptor and that this action is modulated by heparan sulfate.
In order to determine functional roles of basic fibroblast growth factor (FGF-2) in the peripheral nervous system we have analysed the expression of FGF-2 and FGF receptor 1 (FGFR1) in spinal ganglia and the sciatic nerve under normal conditions and after nerve crush using RNAse protection assay and in situ hybridization. In intact spinal ganglia, both FGF-2 and FGFR1 messenger RNAs are expressed, albeit at different levels. In situ hybridization identifies satellite cells as the source of FGF-2 and sensory neurons as the source of FGFR1 suggesting a paracrine mode of action of FGF-2 on sensory neurons. One day after crush lesion FGF-2 is significantly up-regulated in sensory ganglia L4-L6. Highest levels are found at day 7; control levels are approached after 28 days. FGFR1 messenger RNA, which is strongly expressed in intact spinal ganglia, displays no significant change after lesion. In the intact sciatic nerve, FGFR1 messenger RNA is detected at higher levels than FGF-2 messenger RNA. After injury, both transcripts display a time-dependent up-regulation in both the proximal and distal nerve stump. Schwann cells, as a putative source of the sciatic nerve-derived FGF-2, express both FGF-2 and FGFR1 messenger RNAs in vitro. The FGFR1 transcript level is increased in the presence of forskolin. FGF-2 does not affect expression of FGFR1 messenger RNA but stimulates its own expression. These results show that during peripheral nerve regeneration FGF-2 is up-regulated in both the crushed nerve and the respective spinal ganglia suggesting a possible physiological function of FGF-2 during the regeneration process.
Insulin-like growth factor I participates in the cellular response to brain insult by increasing its messenger RNA expression and/or protein levels in the affected area. Although it has been suggested that insulin-like growth factor I is involved in a variety of cellular responses leading to homeostasis, mechanisms involved in its possible trophic effects are largely unknown. Since activation of c-Fos in postmitotic neurons takes place both in response to insulin-like growth factor I and after brain injury, we have investigated whether this early response gene may be involved in the actions of insulin-like growth factor I after brain insult. Partial deafferentation of the cerebellar cortex by 3-acetylpyridine injection elicited c-Fos protein expression on both Purkinje and granule cells of the cerebellar cortex. This neurotoxic insult also triggered gliosis, as determined by an increased number of glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells (reactive astrocytes) in the cerebellar cortex. When 3-acetylpyridine-injected animals received a continuous intracerebellar infusion of either a peptidic insulin-like growth factor I receptor antagonist or an insulin-like growth factor I antisense oligonucleotide for two weeks through an osmotic minipump, c-Fos expression was obliterated while reactive gliosis was greatly increased. On the contrary, continuous infusion of insulin-like growth factor I significantly decreased reactive gliosis without affecting the increase in c-Fos expression. These results indicate that insulin-like growth factor I is involved in both the neuronal (c-Fos) and the astrocytic (glial fibrillary acidic protein) activation in response to injury.
Recently, erythropoietin has been shown to be produced by astrocytes and its production is hypoxia-inducible. In the present study, we demonstrated, using a reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction assay and immunostaining of the cells, that the erythropoietin receptor was expressed in cultured hippocampal and cerebral cortical neurons of day 19 rat embryo. Erythropoietin protected the cultured neurons from glutamate neurotoxicity. Neurons cultured for seven to 10 days were exposed to glutamate for 15 min and after culture for a further 24 h in the absence of glutamate the neuron survival was assayed. Significant protection was observed with erythropoietin from 3 pM (c. 100 pg/ml) in a dose-dependent manner. The protection was completely reversed by co-application of a soluble erythropoietin receptor, an extracellular domain capable of binding with erythropoietin. For exhibition of the neuroprotective effect, exposure of neurons to erythropoietin approximately 8 h prior to exposure to glutamate was required. Experiments with the inhibitors indicated that RNA and protein syntheses were necessary for the protection. However, exposure to erythropoietin for a short period (5 min or less) was sufficient to elicit the protective effect. The protective effect of erythropoietin was blocked by the simultaneous addition of EGTA. These findings and the previous finding that erythropoietin induces a rapid and transient increase in intracellular Ca2+ concentration in neuronal cells suggest that erythropoietin plays a neuroprotective role in brain injury caused by hypoxia or ischemia and that erythropoietin-induced Ca2+ influx from outside of the cells is a critical initial event yielding an enhanced resistance of the neurons to glutamate toxicity.
Endogenous thyrotropin-releasing hormone has been hypothesized to modulate seizure activity, possibly by subserving an anticonvulsant function in limbic brain. A specific and sensitive radioimmunoassay was utilized to quantitate thyrotropin-releasing hormone levels in dorsoventrally dissected hippocampal subregions after partially (an experimental paradigm of complex partial epilepsy) or fully kindled (repeated generalized) seizures, to define specific seizure-related limbic pathways that may contain thyrotropin-releasing hormone. Samples were taken from electrode controls and 1, 6, 24, 48 and 144 h after a fully kindled seizure or 24 h after the first occurrence of a stage 3-4 (partially kindled) seizure in rats. Thyrotropin-releasing hormone levels were below controls in all subregions taken 1 h after a fully kindled seizure. They resembled control values 6 h after seizure, were substantially elevated at 24 and 48 h, and then returned to control levels by 144h. Low thyrotropin-releasing hormone levels seen shortly after the seizure presumably indicate peptide depletion during the ictus. The higher levels seen at later times occurred during a postictal period coinciding with refraction to additional seizure-generating stimulation. These values probably reflect enhanced synthesis since the largest increases were seen in subregions (dentate gyrus, hilus/CA4, CA3) that contain perforant path terminals, and where previously observed intrinsic hippocampal thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA increases were seen. The thyrotropin-releasing hormone response was less robust in ventral hilus/CA4 and CA3 areas, leading to speculation that this smaller response could, in part, explain why the ventral (temporal) hippocampus may be more susceptible to seizure-induced damage. No changes in thyrotropin-releasing hormone were detected after partially kindled seizures, suggesting that thyrotropin-releasing hormone is not involved in epileptogenesis or its stereotypic motor behavior. The time-course and distribution of thyrotropin-releasing hormone elevations seen after a fully kindled (repeated generalized) seizure, and the lack of effect of partial kindling (complex partial seizure) are consistent with previous observations concerning postictal thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA expression. These neurochemical results support the hypothesis that endogenous thyrotropin-releasing hormone can serve an anticonvulsant neuromodulatory function in specific limbic pathways relevant to temporal lobe epilepsy.
Thyrotropin-releasing hormone and its receptor are differentially distributed throughout the limbic forebrain. In addition to its neuroendocrine function, several non-endocrine central nervous system effects of thyrotropin-releasing hormone and its analogs have been reported, including anticonvulsant effects in animals and humans. Kindling, as a model of temporal lobe epilepsy, produces elevations of endogenous thyrotropin-releasing hormone specifically in seizure-prone limbic regions. The present study used semi-quantitative in situ hybridization to characterize changes in thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA that occurred during the kindling process (partial kindling), as well as after fully kindled seizures. No significant change in thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA was detected 1 h postictally, whereas significant elevations were detected in the granule cell layer of the hippocampal dentate gyrus, diffuse nuclei of the amygdala and in layers II and III of piriform and entorhinal cortices from 3 to 48 h after a single generalized seizure in fully kindled rats. Peak messenger RNA expression occurred from 6 to 12 h postictally, with a decline at 24 h, followed by a precipitous return to undetectable levels by 48 h, except in the dentate gyrus. In marked contrast, partial kindling produced no detectable change in thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA by 6 h after the first occurrence of stage 1-5 seizures. Electrode placement, a single afterdischarge, or a 20-microA stimulation of the amygdala was not associated with accumulation of thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA. Thus, only full kindled generalized seizures increased thyrotropin-releasing hormone messenger RNA expression in identical limbic regions which also showed postictal elevations in thyrotropin-releasing hormone. However, this enhancement followed a more immediate and shorter lasting time-course than previously demonstrated increases in the tripeptide. These results support the hypothesis that thyrotropin-releasing hormone is an important neuromodulator in epileptic foci.
Changes in the distribution of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-immunoreactive neurons were examined in the amygdaloid complex at different time-intervals following a single training session of active shock avoidance in a two-way shuttle-box. Muscarinic acetylcholine receptors were visualized using M35, a monoclonal antibody raised against purified muscarinic acetylcholine receptor protein. Both in naive animals and 2 h after active shock avoidance training, muscarinic acetylcholine receptor immunoreactivity was high in the central nucleus, and only low to moderate in other amygdaloid regions. Twenty-four hours after training, however, the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor immunoreactivity distribution pattern was reversed, showing a dramatic increase in the corticomedial nucleus, while in contrast, in other amygdaloid regions including the central nucleus, muscarinic acetylcholine receptor immunoreactivity was reduced to only a few scattered neurons. Additional studies with a modified experimental design indicated that fear conditioning mechanisms in association with the severity of the aversive stimuli, and not the learning of the avoidance response, may account for the changes in muscarinic acetylcholine receptor immunoreactivity in the amygdala. These results are consistent with the prominent role of the central nucleus in the conditioning and expression of the fear response. A closer examination revealed that 8 h after training the changes in both the central and corticomedial nuclei became significant. The differences still existed after 25 days, but three months after the training session the receptor distribution was returned to normal. The long-lasting, but reversible nature of these changes indicates that fear conditioning is accompanied by a dynamic plasticity of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor immunoreactivity in the amygdaloid complex.
This study examined the distribution of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-immunoreactive neurons in the amygdaloid complex of the rat, with emphasis on the central nucleus. The monoclonal antibody M35 raised against purified muscarinic acetylcholine receptor protein was used to visualize muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-immunoreactive cells. Muscarinic acetylcholine receptor immuno-reactivity was high in the central nucleus and low to moderate in all other regions of the amygdaloid complex. Within the central nucleus, the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-immunoreactive neurons were found predominantly in the lateral subdivision. This region contained medium-sized neurons (largest diameter ranging from 10 to 15 microns), with a round or slightly ovoid cell shape. At the subcellular level, however, the labeled neurons revealed relatively few muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-immunoreactive postsynaptic densities. Immunofluorescent double-labeling demonstrated that nearly all of the muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-immunoreactive neurons (98.6%) in the central nucleus expressed abundant amounts of nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, further substantiating the cholinoceptive character of these cells. In addition, the vast majority of these muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-immunoreactive neurons (94.3%) were GABAergic neurons. The muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-immunoreactive neurons expressed moderate levels of protein kinase gamma, one of the likely intracellular mediators between muscarinic acetylcholine receptors and their elicited physiological response. The number and staining intensity of muscarinic acetylcholine receptor-immunoreactive neurons in the central nucleus varied dramatically among rats. This individual variation correlated positively with the rat's expression of conditioned immobility and correlated negatively with active shock avoidance performance. These results suggest that the GABAergic/cholinoceptive neuronal elements in the central nucleus are involved in the expression of fear-induced behaviors. This interpretation is further elaborated in a forthcoming paper.
In semithin, Toluidine Blue-stained plastic coronal sections, we have observed hyperchromatic granule cells in the dorsal crest of the adult rat dentate gyrus following passive avoidance learning. These exhibited a time-dependent, twenty- to thirty-fold increase in their frequency at the 5-7 h post-training time. The hyperchromatic cells formed a rostral-caudal ribbon, 250 microns in diameter and 60 microns in depth, in sections obtained from -2.6 to -4.5 mm with respect to bregma. This was not observed in passive animals or yoked controls. Ultrastructural analysis revealed their cytoplasm and dendrites to be enriched in ribosomes and microtubules, respectively. Dendrites associated with the hyperchromatic cells exhibited a two-fold increase in spine number as compared to those of normochromatic cells in the same region of the dorsal mid-molecular layer. These changes are suggested to be associated with modulation of L1 and neural cell adhesion molecule-mediated neuroplastic change within this discrete post-training period of memory consolidation.
Current knowledge of spinal processing of sensory information is largely based on single-cell recordings; however, temporal correlation of multiple cell discharges may play an important role in sensory encoding, and single electrode recordings of several neurons may provide insights into the functions of a neuronal network. The technique was applied to the lumbar spinal dorsal horn of pentobarbital-anaesthetized rats during background activity, steady-state noxious heat stimulation (48 degrees C, 100 s), cold block spinalization or radiant heat-induced inflammation of the skin, and the recordings were evaluated by means of auto-correlation, autospectral and cross-correlation analysis. Background patterns obtained by these three methods were extremely stable in time. Autocorrelation with short lag peaks was observed in 72.2% of neurons (n = 223). Background correlated discharges were found in 83.6% of the neuron pairs (n = 134). Cross-correlation with a central peak, suggestive of common input to the recorded cells, was the most common pattern observed in almost all laminae and was associated with high incidence (91.8%) of overlapping receptive fields and with neurons with initial peak autocorrelation pattern. Cross-correlations with central trough were associated with increase autocorrelation patterns. Bilateral peaks in cross-correlation, suggestive of reverberating circuitry, were observed only for pairs of neurons located in laminae IV and V and were associated with rhythmic discharges in one or in both simultaneously-recorded neurons. Lagged peaks or troughs were observed in 4.6% and 2.2% of neuronal pairs, respectively. Long-lasting skin heating induced qualitative changes (pattern changes) in the cross-correlation of 21.6% of the neuron pairs and quantitative changes in 85.7% of them. During skin inflammation qualitative changes in the cross-correlation pattern were observed in 30.8% of the neuron pairs, and quantitative changes (strength and/or synchronization time) in about 57.7% of them. Spinalization induced quantitative changes in cross-correlation in the vast majority of neuron pairs. The results of the present study suggest that discharges of neighbouring spinal dorsal horn neurons are strongly synchronized probably by propriospinal and primary afferent sources. The existence of functional reverberating circuitry was also evidenced. Finally, the functional synchronicity in the spinal dorsal horn presents stimulus-induced plasticity which consists mainly of changes on the strength and/or time of the synchronization and rarely of activation of new connectivities.
We have studied the variations in the degree of correlated firing within the low-frequency sleep rhythms (&lt; 15 Hz) between cortical, thalamic reticular and thalamocortical neurons during changes in the amplitude and frequency of brain electrical activity in anaesthetized cats. Extracellular discharges of neuronal groups of two to five physiologically identified cortical and thalamic units were recorded simultaneously with independent microelectrodes. The firing patterns and the temporal correlation between spike-trains were evaluated by auto- and crosscorrelograms. Although the animals were under deep anaesthesia, additional doses of the same or different anaesthetics were able to alter the electroencephalographic pattern, inducing waves with higher amplitude. Similar transitions occurred spontaneously. We found that the presence of rhythmic behaviour in cells of corticothalamic networks, as well as their degree of correlated firing, was extremely sensitive to even slight alterations in the state of the electroencephalogram. Cells belonging to the same functional system, but located distantly, became highly synchronized upon the increased amplitude of brain waves. Thus, an electroencephalogram characterized by slow waves corresponds to a state of rhythmic and correlated firing among cortical and thalamic neurons. The highly coherent activity during sleep patterns transcends the borders which limit the functioning during the waking brain.
We have investigated the degree of synchronization between cortical, thalamic reticular and thalamocortical neurons of cats during low-frequency (&lt; 15 Hz) sleep-like oscillations, as they appear under anaesthesia. We have also studied the effects exerted by cortical stimulation on the synchronization among thalamic units. Parallel experiments [Steriade et al. (1996) J. Neurosci. 16, 392-417] in this laboratory have demonstrated the similarity between the slow oscillation (&lt; 1 Hz) under ketamine-xylazine anaesthesia and that occurring during the natural state of resting sleep. Spontaneous activity was recorded simultaneously, with independent microelectrodes, from groups of two to five physiologically identified neurons. The rhythmicity of spontaneous activity and the temporal relations between cellular discharges were statistically evaluated by auto- and crosscorrelation techniques. We have found no topography in the distribution of synchronization between thalamic reticular and thalamocortical cells. Only the slow, cortical-generated oscillation (&lt; 1 Hz) displayed a stable frequency and correlation among groups of cortical and thalamic cells. The other two sleep oscillations (thalamic-generated spindles at 7-14 Hz and clock-like delta at 1-4 Hz) fluctuated in frequency and the degree of correlation between neurons varied. Cortical volleys entrained and synchronized thalamic cells, and triggered synchronized spindling in the thalamus. These results extend for large populations of cortical and thalamic neurons the phase relations found in intracellular recordings.
In the adult CNS, proliferating cells persist only in the olfactory epithelium, olfactory bulb and subventricular zones. The cells of the subventricular zone are believed to constitute the cells in the adult mammalian brain, including the human brain, which can be stimulated to proliferate in response to epidermal growth factor or basic fibroblast growth factor. These cells are of particular interest, as they may be amenable to genetic engineering with markers such as tyrosine hydroxylase, and they may represent a long-term source of modified neurons suitable for transplantation therapy. Recent work by Lois and Alvarez-Buylla, in the mouse, has shown that labelled subventricular zone cells can migrate from the subventricular zone to the olfactory bulb, where they contribute to the granule cell population. In this study we have used an antibody we raised recently against the carboxy-terminal sequence of the vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (also known as the synaptic vesicle monoamine transporter) to detect vesicular monoamine transporter 2-like immunoreactive subventricular zone cells in the rat, and to visualize them as they migrate from the edge of the ventricle, through the olfactory bulb to locate them as differentiated neurons in the granule cell layer of the olfactory bulb. These data show that the subventricular zone cells express a vesicular monoamine transporter 2-like antigen and demonstrate that this protein may be a useful developmental marker for rat neuronal stem cells.
Nitric oxide is a ubiquitous cellular messenger that plays a role in a variety of biological mechanisms. Within the central nervous system, it is formed in glia and neuronal cells and can diffuse away from its site of origin to modulate membrane conductances, neurotransmitter release, behavior, or to control the blood flow within its region of action. Nitric oxide has been shown to modulate gap junction conductance in the retina and cortex, an action it shares with a number of neurotransmitters. In this study, we found that the activation of cortical afferents increased dye coupling between rat neostriatal neurons recorded in vitro. This effect was mimicked by a nitric oxide donor and prevented by a nitric oxide synthase inhibitor, suggesting that activation of corticostriatal fibers may open putative gap junctions in the striatum via release of nitric oxide. This is the first report showing that synaptic modulation of gap junctions can be mediated by nitric oxide, and may provide a mechanism to explain cortical modulation of subcortical pattern formation within this highly integrative structure.
The many procedures performed for the treatment of trigeminal neuralgia require an extensive knowledge of the brainstem and spinal nuclei anatomy and physiology, their projections, central and peripheral connections, the trigeminal autonomic elements, and autonomic effects of trigeminal injury. Recent advances in the understanding of the anatomy and physiology complex as presented in the neuroscience literature are reviewed.



Manganese chloride (Mn) was dissolved in the drinking water (0, 2, or 10 mg/ml) of dams and their litters from conception until postnatal day (PND) 30. Parturition was uneventful in the Mn-exposed rats and no physical abnormalities were observed. The rats exposed to 10 mg/ml Mn showed a 2.5-fold increase in cortical Mn levels. Their weight gain was attenuated from PND 9-24 and they were hyperactive at PND 17. Neither the 2 nor the 10 mg/ml Mn-exposed groups differed from the controls on the elevated plus apparatus or on the Morris water maze and the radial arm maze. Brain monoamine levels and choline acetyltransferase activity were affected. Tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry showed that dopamine cells of the substantia nigra were intact. Glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity was not increased in cortex, caudate, and hippocampus. However, both the low- and high-dose Mn-exposed groups showing thinning of the cerebral cortex. This could have resulted from perinatal malnutrition or from a direct effect of Mn on cortical development.
Trimethyltin chloride (TMT) treatment in adult rats leads to limbic brain lesions that are detectable with classical neuropathological techniques 3 days after exposure. In particular, the hippocampal cells of the CA3c region are affected. The temporal and regional characteristics of TMT toxicity as reflected in changes of activity-dependent factors were studied in adult male Sprague-Dawley rats using quantitative in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry. No significant alterations in the BDNF mRNA were detected in hippocampus and cerebral cortex 1 and 4 h after 8 mg TMT/kg. Three days after TMT, a significant increase in BDNF mRNA was detected in CA1, and increases in BDNF mRNA were also seen in cortical layers. An increase in BDNF hybridization signal was seen over scattered neurons within and outside CA3c at 3 days. Four h after 8 mg TMT/kg, BDNF immunoreactivity was reduced in the pyramidal cells of the CA3c and CA1 regions as well as in the dentate gyrus. No significant change in BDNF immunoreactivity was seen in hippocampus or cerebral cortex 3 days after TMT. BDNF interacts with the high-affinity receptor tyrosine kinase B (trkB). No immediate alteration in trkB mRNA was seen in hippocampus or cerebral cortex after 8 mg TMT/kg, while at 3 days trkB mRNA was significantly reduced in the CA3c pyramidal cell layer. No changes could be detected in neurotrophin-3 mRNA at either 1, 4 h or 3 days after TMT. Three days after 8 mg TMT/kg, a major induction of hsp70 mRNA occurred in a subset of neurons in the CA3c region, concomitant with an increased expression of c-fos mRNA as well as Fos protein in the hilar region of hippocampus. Hence, an early and transient decrease in BDNF appears to occur after TMT exposure, which is succeeded at 3 days by increases in BDNF, c-fos and hsp 70 mRNAs, concomitant with a decrease in trkB mRNA in regions known to be vulnerable to TMT. These results demonstrate that TMT causes a delayed, spatially restricted increase in activity-dependent gene expression, making TMT-induced disturbances an interesting model of neurodegenerative events.
9-methoxy-N2-methylellipticinium acetate (MMEA) is representative of a series of quaternized ellipticine derivatives that are selectively cytotoxic to human brain tumor cell lines derived from non-neuronal (glial) cells (Acton et al, 1994). In an attempt to determine whether MMEA may exhibit toxicity to normal brain cells, we have examined the effect of the drug, in vitro, using sagittal slices of rat brain. Incubation of rat brain slices in an artificial cerebrospinal fluid medium containing MMEA resulted in dose-dependent leakage of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) into the surrounding medium. However, other subcellular marker enzymes such as Na(+)-K+ATPase (plasma membrane), cytochrome c oxidase, isocitrate dehydrogenase, NADH-dehydrogenase (mitochondrial), N-acetylglucosaminidase, acid phosphate (lysosomal), glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase and enolase (glycolytic enzymes) were unaffected even at the highest tested concentrations of MMEA (10 and 100 microM). Preincubation of slices with reserpine (1 nM) or, dopamine or serotonin-specific reuptake inhibitors abolished MMEA-induced toxicity in brain slices. Pretreatment of slices with piperonyl butoxide and metyrapone, inhibitor of cytochrome P-450, also prevented the toxicity of MMEA. Further, brain slices prepared from phenobarbital-treated rats showed enhanced sensitivity to MMEA; significant leakage of LDH was observed at MMEA concentrations as low as 1 nM. The present studies demonstrate the toxicity of MMEA in rat brain slices, in vitro, and suggest a role for brain cytochrome P-450 in the neurotoxicity of MMEA [corrected].
9-Methoxy-N2-methylellipticinium acetate (MMEA) exhibits selective cytotoxicity towards glial-derived human brain tumor cell lines comprising the U.S. National Cancer Institute preclinical drug screen. Neurotoxic potential of MMEA has been demonstrated in an in vitro model employing sagittal slices of rat brain. Histochemical staining of rat brain slices for lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) activity revealed decreased staining intensity following incubation with increasing concentrations of MMEA (0.1-100 microM). Cytological evaluation of paraffin sections stained with Cresyl Fast Violet revealed neuronal damage delineated by cytoplasmic vacuolation, and distention and fraying of the plasma membrane. No glial or vascular pathology could be discerned. Autoradiography, following exposure to 14C-MMEA, revealed distinct labelling of the large neurons of the brain stem, neurons in the thalamus and pyramidal neurons of the hippocampus, indicating neuronal uptake of the drug.
Elevated nerve growth factor secreted by bladder smooth muscle may be associated with noradrenergic hyperinnervation of the bladder and hyperactive voiding in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHR) and rats with bladder outlet obstruction. The present study was undertaken to determine if changes occur in efferent and afferent pathways supplying the SHR bladder similar to those in rats with bladder outlet obstruction. Fluoro-Gold (FG) retrograde tracing studies were conducted to examine the postganglionic efferent limb (major pelvic ganglion; MPG) and sensory afferent limb (L1, L2, L6, and S1 dorsal root ganglion; DRG) of the micturition reflex pathway of the SHR and Wistar-Kyoto (WKY) normotensive rat. A significant increase in cross sectional area profiles for labeled neurons in the MPG was observed in SHRs (830.5 +/- 9.0 microns2) as compared to WKYs (736.3 +/- 16.6 microns2). Neuronal cell areas in L2 (1,010.9 +/- 18.6 microns2) and S1 (1,024.6 +/- 28.3 microns2) of SHRs were significantly larger than those of WKYs (L2, 865.3 +/- 12.6 microns2, S1, 778.3 +/- 11.2 microns2). There was an increase in number of labeled cells in L6 within SHRs over WKYs. These results provide evidence that both efferent and afferent changes in neuronal innervation of the bladder occur in SHRs. The SHR strain may represent a genetic model to study changes in micturition reflex pathways that result from alterations in neuronal morphology such as those that occur with urethral outlet obstruction.
Although levodopa is the most effective therapeutic agent for Parkinson's disease (PD) and has improved the QOL and increased the life expectancy of patients with PD, its beneficial effects are not permanent. Long-term levodopa therapy has many problems, including wearing-off, on-off phnonena, dyskinesia and psychotic symptoms, and has created serious problems for patients with PD. New therapeutic strategies are therefore needed to treat patients with PD. Given the well-known imbalance between dopaminergic and cholinergic activities in brain of PD patients, recent drug therapy has consisted of a multi-drug regimen, with low doses of levodopa, dopamine agonists, amantadine and anti-cholinergics. The most important is combination therapy with a dopamine agonist and low dose levodopa. This combination therapy is likely to create a better balance between postsynaptic D2- and D1-receptors and to maintain a normal dopamine neurotransmission for longer periods.
It took approximately one century to discover the neuropathologic lesion responsible for Parkinson's disease, of which clinical manifestations were originally described in 1817. Namely, the lesion is located in the substantia nigra pars compacta and is histologically characterized by loss of pigmented nerve cells, formation of Lewy bodies and proliferation of astrocytes. The neuronal loss is observed predominantly in the lateral portion of the pars compacta, more conspicuously in its ventral region where immunoreactivity to tyrosine hydroxylase is also decreased. The formation of Lewy bodies, which are found to be peculiar in Parkinson's disease, may hold a clue to the elucidation of the mechanism of neuronal degeneration. An animal model induced by MPTP stimulates a search for environmental factors capable of initiating the disease.

The opioid antagonist, naloxone, produces equivocal effects on the magnitude of nociceptive responses in several animal models of persistent pain, including the formalin test. Hindpaw injection of dilute formalin produces not only inflammation but also phasic (Phase 1) and persistent (Phase 2) behavioral and cardiovascular nociceptive responses in the rat. To test the hypothesis that endogenous opioid systems contribute to the magnitude of responses to intraplantar formalin injection, we evaluated the effects of continuous naloxone administration (0.01-100 mg/kg per h, i.v.) on formalin-evoked hindpaw inflammation, on behavioral indices of pain, flinching and licking pain behavior, and on changes in mean arterial pressure and heart rate. We report that naloxone, at doses less than 100 mg/kg per h, did not change any formalin-evoked response. Although the 100 mg/kg per h dose significantly decreased these responses, it also produced muscle rigidity and profound bradycardia. We conclude that endogenous opioids do not significantly modulate the nociceptive processing induced by subcutaneous formalin.
We demonstrated immunohistochemically an abnormal expression of the neural cell adhesion molecule L1 in 10 developing brains of children with hemimegalencephaly (HM) aged from 36 weeks gestation to 10 years of age, comparing them with 23 controls aged from 13 weeks of gestation to 14 years. There was dense L1 expression in focal regions of the molecular layer beneath leptomeningeal glioneuronal heterotopia, in areas of cerebral cortex with large neurons, and in the disorganized or neuronal heterotopic sites in the white matter in HM. L1 was also heterogeneously enhanced in the abnormal cortex after 1 year of age, suggesting that axonal growth was delayed. These changes persisted into the older age group in the abnormal areas of cortex in HM. The cell bodies of many enlarged neurons in HM were immunopositive for L1, whereas L1 was usually localized to the processes of normal neurons. The delayed L1 immunoreactivity and enlarged L1-immunopositive neurons may be closely related to the pathogenesis of unilateral megalencephaly with cortical dysplasia and heterotopia.
Miller-Dieker syndrome (MDS) is a prototype of brain malformations characterized by abnormal neuronal migration. To clarify the pathomechanisms underlying these anomalies, we performed immunohistochemical studies using specific antibodies against the protein product of LIS-1, the candidate gene responsible for the MDS phenotype. The LIS-1 protein was present abundantly and ubiquitously in normally developing brains. Loss of LIS-1 immunoreactivity was observed in brains with MDS, but not in brains with other malformations, such as isolated lissencephaly, holoprosencephaly, Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy, and Zellweger syndrome. These results suggest that the pathomechanism underlying abnormal neuronal migration in MDS may be specific to this particular type of malformation.
We evaluated protocols for the extraction of calcitonin gene-related peptide, neuropeptide Y, substance P, peptide YY and beta-endorphin from rat lung tissue for subsequent radioimmunoassay. The effects of varying acidity of the extraction solution and repeating extraction on the recovery of peptide immunoreactivity and non-specific tracer-binding were compared by analysis of variance. Moreover, variability of immunoreactivity was quantified for comparison. Considering all three criteria, the optimal acidity for extraction was: 0.1 M or 1 M acetic acid for CGRP and beta-endorphin, 0.1 M acetic acid for NPY, 1 M acetic acid for substance P and phosphate buffer for peptide YY. Double or combined extraction unambiguously improved assay results only for substance P. Reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatography of CGRP-, NPY- and SP-immunoreactivity obtained from selected extracts suggested that differences in recovery of these peptides are not explainable by differential peptide fragmentation during extraction.
N-hydroxysuccinimide (NHS) esters of biotin are reported to react specifically with amino groups of peptides and proteins. However, we have found that these reagents can readily acylate other functional groups in specific peptide sequences under relatively mild conditions. We have extended our inquiry of sequence-dependent acylation by evaluating the reactivity of a variety of commonly employed biotinylation reagents typically used for amino group modification. These included the p-nitrophenyl ester of biotin, NHS-esters of biotin containing aminohexanoic acid spacer arms, and a sulfonated NHS-biotin ester that contained a disulfide bond within its spacer. The decapeptide [D-Lys6]gonadotropin releasing hormone was employed as a model peptide. Reaction products were characterized by high-performance liquid chromatography, amino acid compositional analysis, reaction with hydroxylamine, and mass spectrometry. In addition to the O-acylation of Ser4 and Tyr5 in this peptide, we have also identified a novel biotinylation of the Arg8 side chain.
The cloning of brain melanocortin (MC) receptors, the mapping of their expression pattern and the identification of MC receptor selective ligands have opened a new avenue towards elucidating the role of the melanocortin system in the brain. MC receptors have now been implicated in melanocortin-induced grooming behavior in rats, in the melanocortin-induced lowering of blood pressure and in the control of weight homeostasis. Functional opioid antagonism and the anti-pyretic and anti-inflammatory effects of melanocortins are probably also mediated via MC receptors. However, the effects of melanocortins on avoidance behavior and the effect of gamma 2-MSH on increasing blood pressure are not mediated via one of the cloned brain MC receptors. The structure of brain MC receptors, their expression pattern, the MC receptor selective ligands and the function of MC receptors are briefly reviewed.
Two new proopiomelanocortin (POMC)-derived beta-endorphin (BE)-containing proteins were detected in the human pituitary, using HPLC, trypsin digestion, and a high sensitivity search with liquid secondary ion mass spectrometry (LSIMS) for the protonated molecule ion, (M + H)+, of tryptic peptides that are unique to BE. Proteins were extracted from pituitary tissues and were purified by solid phase extraction (SPE) chromatography and RP-HPLC. Each HPLC fraction was treated with trypsin, and each unseparated peptide mixture was analyzed by LSIMS to detect the two selected marker peptides (BE 20-24 and BE 10-19) that have excellent LSIMS desorption-ionization properties. The detection of both of those peptides indicated the presence of BE-containing proteins in two HPLC fractions (number 47 and 51). Tandem MS determined the amino acid sequence of the marker peptide BE 20-24 (NAIIK), and those sequence data optimized the specificity of the method. The two new BE-containing proteins derive from the C-terminal region of POMC, and were minor components in the two HPLC fractions. The major component in fraction 51 derived from the vasopressin-neurophysin 2-copeptin precursor.
To map the proteolytic enzymes metabolizing dynorphins in brain structures, size-exclusion chromatography linked to electrospray ionization mass spectrometry was used. Enzymes extracted from rat hippocampus, striatum, and substantia nigra were tested for their capability of converting dynorphin-related peptides. Dynorphin A was the most resistant to proteolytic conversion, whereas Big dynorphin and dynorphin B-29 were slowly converted to dynorphin A and dynorphins A and B, respectively. Dynorphin B and alpha-neoendorphin were the least resistant. Dynorphin B was rapidly converted to Leu-enkephalin in the striatum and hippocampus but to Leu-enkephalin-Arg6 in the substantia nigra. alpha-Neoendorphin was converted to Leu-enkephalin in all tissues investigated.
The heptadecapeptide, orphanin FQ or nociceptin (Phe-Gly-Phe-Thr-Gly-Ala-Arg-Lys-Ser-Ala-Arg-Lys-Leu-Ala-Asn-Gln), originally isolated from rat brain has been identified as an endogenous ligand for the orphan opioid-like receptor. Although orphanin FQ shares some sequence and structural homology with kappa-opioid peptides, it has been speculated to exert its effects through novel nonopioid mechanisms. Kappa opioids have also been suggested to have nonopioid actions in rodents involving the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor. The present study examined the effects of the competitive NMDA antagonist, NPC 12626, on the antinociceptive effects of the specific kappa-opiate receptor agonist, U69,593, and the pronociceptive effects of orphanin FQ in an invertebrate system, the land snail, Cepaea nemoralis. NPC 12626 had no effect on the basal nociceptive sensitivity of snails, as measured by the latency of response to a thermal (40 degrees C) surface. As reported for rodents, NPC 12626 dose-dependently reduced U69,593-induced antinociception in a manner comparable to that produced by the specific kappa-opiate antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine, while slightly enhancing the antinociceptive effects of the predominately mu-opiate agonist, morphine. Similarly, NPC 12626 dose-dependently reduced the pronociceptive effects of orphanin FQ. These findings with the snail, Cepaea, indicate that NMDA systems/receptors are associated with the mediation of the nociceptive effects of both kappa opioids and orphanin FQ. They suggest an early evolutionary development and phylogenetic continuity of NMDA opioid and related neuropeptide interactions in the mediation of nociception.
The occurrence of islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) in the gut and pancreas of several species and during ontogeny of the rat, was studied using immunocytochemistry. Effects of IAPP on rat ileal smooth muscle were assessed in vitro. Islets of most, but not all, species examined, displayed IAPP in insulin cells and, in some species, also in somatostatin- and peptide YY (PYY)-containing cells. In the gut, expression of IAPP varied among species; when present, IAPP was most abundant in the proximal part and co-localized with somatostatin, PYY, gastrin/cholecystokinin, enteroglucagon or serotonin. IAPP was first demonstrated at embryonic day 12 and 16 in islet and gastrointestinal endocrine cells, respectively. IAPP relaxed gut muscle and reduced electrical field stimulation-evoked contractions, presumably by inhibiting acetylcholine release. Thus, IAPP expression in islets is consistent with an important role for IAPP in fuel metabolism; the gastrointestinal expression and motor effects of IAPP suggest that IAPP may modulate gastrointestinal function.
Single Light Green Cells (LGC) of Lymnaea stagnalis, expressing four genes encoding insulin-related peptides (MIPs) and C-peptides, and sections from the median lip nerve (MLN) were subjected to MALDI-MS. Mass spectra of LGCs and MLNs were almost identical. Masses corresponding to those of the MIPs and some C alpha-peptides could be distinguished. ProMIP III C alpha-peptide and C beta-peptides were not found. The spectra showed additional masses matching those of carboxyterminally truncated C alpha-peptides. Peptides with similar masses were isolated from MLN extracts by HPLC, using electrospray-MS screening. Amino acid sequence analysis revealed intact proMIP I, II and V C alpha-peptides and I, II C alpha-peptide 1-24, 1-22 and 1-15.
A highly sensitive dot immunoblot assay (DIA) for the detection and quantitative measurement of small peptides in single cells is presented. This DIA protocol is simple, rapid, and produces no radioactive waste. Its femtomole sensitivity is 100 fold greater than previously described DIAs. This DIA method is sufficiently sensitive to allow reliable peptide measurements to be obtained from a single cell in a manner than is faster and easier than other peptide detection procedures. This method can also be used for several other purposes, including assessing antibody specificity and peptide quantification.
A brief exposure to a pulsed magnetic field (Cnp: patent pending) had significant antinociceptive or &quot;analgesic&quot; effects in the land snail, Cepaea nemoralis, as evidenced by an increase in the latency of response to a warmed (40 degrees C) surface. This analgesia was in part opioid mediated being significantly reduced, but not eliminated: by the prototypic opiate antagonist, naloxone; the mu (mu) opioid receptor directed antagonists, naloxazine or beta-funaltrexamine, and the delta (delta) opioid receptor directed antagonists, naltrindole-5'-isothiocyanate or ICI 174,864. However the Cnp induced analgesia was unaffected by the kappa (kappa) opioid receptor directed antagonist, nor-binaltorphimine. The delta 1 and delta 2 opioid receptor directed agonists, (DPDPE, [D-Pen2,D-Pen5]enkephalin), (deltorphin, [D-Ala2,Glu4]), respectively, also had significant differential analgesic effects, supporting a functional delta opioid receptor mediated enkephalinergic mechanism in Cepaea. These results suggest that this specific pulsed magnetic field (Cnp) elicits significant analgesic effects through mechanisms that, in part, involve delta and, to a lesser extent mu opioid receptors.
Cloned receptors for the PP-fold peptides are subdivided into Y1, Y2, PP1/Y4, Y5 and Y6. NPY and PYY have similar affinity for Y1, Y2, Y5 and Y6 receptors while PP has highest affinity for PP1. Pro34-substituted analogs of NPY and PYY have selectivity for Y1 and Y1-like receptors over Y2 receptors. In the present study, we found the putative Y1-selective radioligand, [125I]Leu31, Pro34-PYY, also binds with high affinity to the rat PP1 receptor in cell lines expressing the receptor. However, in rat brain sections, [125I]Leu31, Pro34-PYY does not appear to bind to the interpeduncular nucleus, a brain region containing a high density of [125I]-bPP binding sites. Therefore, it appears there is additional heterogeneity in receptors recognizing PP.
To understand the visual analysis of biological motion, subjects viewed dynamic, stick figure renditions of a walker, car, or scissors through apertures. As a result of the aperture problem, the motion of each visible edge was ambiguous. Subjects readily identified the human figure but were unable to identify the car or scissors through invisible apertures. Recognition was orientation specific and robust across a range of stimulus durations, and it benefited from limb orientation cues. The results support the theory that the visual system performs spatially global analyses to interpret biological logical motion displays.
The present study was aimed at analysing the effects of a lack of visual experience in human subjects on the detection and identification of a spatial change brought about to a configuration of objects displayed in manipulatory space. Exploratory patterns and performance levels were recorded. Learning effects were observed in different types of change and condition of presentation only in the early-blind and blindfolded sighted groups, but not in the late-blind group. Early blindness affected both exploratory patterns and performance levels. In addition, significant correlations were found between performance level and the use of systematic patterns of exploration. These data are discussed in relation with the importance of early vision during the development of spatial cognition.
Triangle completion (ie homing to the starting point after completing two legs of a triangle) is a widely used method for examining path-integration abilities in animals and humans. Two experiments are reported in which homing was used to examine the efficiency of purely visual mechanisms (eg optical flow) for spatial-information coding and integration. Adult observers had to complete triangles in an interactively simulated three-dimensional environment which consisted of two critical objects and a homogeneous set of white cylinders serving as background. Each participant completed twenty-seven triangles corresponding to a factorial combination of three geometrical fields of view (40 degrees, 60 degrees, or 80 degrees) and nine triangle layouts (with variations of the first turning angle and the second leg). Homing performances revealed strong effects of triangle layout, but no effect of geometrical fields of view: variations in the amount of simultaneous visible spatial information did not influence the acquisition of spatial knowledge in the environments used. Applying the encoding-error model to the data revealed severe systematic errors of picking up directional information while moving through visually simulated environments. These results are discussed with respect to informational differences between situations of purely visual and nonvisual navigations in space.

Neurotrophins are structurally related molecules which regulate the survival and differentiation of various populations of neurons during development. In the cerebellum, the neurotophins and their Trk receptors are expressed at a relatively high level, suggesting an important function for these factors during development. There is also a tight age-dependent and spatial regulation of the molecules in the various cerebellar neurons. Previous studies have shown that BDNF and NT-3 have distinct biological effects on survival and differentiation of cerebellar granule neurons and Purkinje cells. Aside from acting as survival and differentiation factors, the neurotrophins could also have more subtle effects on neuronal function. It is also becoming increasingly evident, not the least from studies in neurotrophin deficient and in cerebellar mutant mice, that the neurotrophins act in concert with other factors and molecules in controlling neuronal development. We will here review some of the recent developments in the neurotrophin field with regard to cerebellum and also discuss what is known about the signaling event following stimulation of cerebellar neurons with BDNF and NT-3. The characterization of specific maturation stages and of genes which are involved and regulated by neurotrophins in developing cerebellum will help us to understand the processes of neuronal survival and differentiation in general.
Previously, we reported that the spike frequency adaptation and slow afterhyperpolarizations (sAHP) in hippocampal pyramidal neurones are best preserved during whole-cell recording with a methylsulfate (MeSO4-)- based internal solution, but undergo a fast rundown when gluconate- (Gluc-)- based internal solution is used. Here we show, with internal perfusion of patch pipettes, the reversibility of the inhibitory effects of Gluc- on spike frequency adaptation and sAHP, and extend these observations to fast and medium-duration AHPs. Contrary to what might be expected based on Gluc- binding of Ca2+, the sAHP and its underlying current could be temporarily enhanced by adding 1-3 mM of the calcium chelator BAPTA to the internal solution in the presence of Gluc-. Replacement of internal MeSO4- with Gluc- did not affect the membrane resting potential or the amplitude and duration of action potentials, but reversibly increased the cell input resistance and decreased the threshold current for spike generation. Gluc- reversibly inhibited the hyperpolarization-activated non-selective cationic current (Ih), the depolarization-activated delayed rectifier K+ current (IK), the high-voltage-activated Ca2+ current and the Ca2+-activated K+ current that underlies the sAHP. The combination of these effects of Gluc- significantly alters the electrophysiological &quot;fingerprint&quot; of the neurone.
It has recently been shown that oximes can amplify the ability of cholinesterases to scavenge organophosphorus (OP) agents. Since both OP agents and oximes can disrupt performance, behavioral evaluation of bioscavenger therapies using oximes can be hindered. Therefore, we investigated the ability of three oximes, administered alone, to disrupt performance. The effects of trimedoxime bromide (TMB-4) (3.16-56.2 mg/kg), pralidoxime chloride (2-PAM) (10.0-237.1 mg/kg), and, 1-([[4-amincarbonyl)pyridino]-methoxy]-methyl)-2, 4-bis[(hydroxyimino)methyl] pyridinium dichloride monohydrate (HI-6) (10.0-237.1 mg/kg) were evaluated in rats using a variable-interval 56 (VI 56) s schedule of food reinforcement. Under control conditions, the VI 56 s schedule produced a constant rate of responding (i.e., lever-pressing). All three oximes produced dose-dependent decreases in responding, and the largest doses of TMB-4 and 2-PAM produced complete or nearly complete suppression of responding in all rats. Only the largest dose of HI-6 suppressed responding. Analysis of the dose-effect functions demonstrated that TMB-4 was substantially more potent than 2-PAM, which was slightly more potent than HI-6, for producing response suppression. These results establish doses of each oxime that will not contribute to disruption of responding, and thus, facilitate future evaluation of bioscavenger therapies against OP toxicity.

Recent advances in neuroscience have made it possible to investigate the pathophysiology of alcoholism at a cellular and molecular level. Evidence indicates that ethanol affects hormone- and neurotransmitter-activated signal transduction, leading to short-term changes in regulation of cellular functions and long-term changes in gene expression. Such changes in the brain probably underlie many of the acute and chronic neurological events in alcoholism. In addition, genetic vulnerability also plays a role in alcoholism and, perhaps, in alcoholic medical disorders.

Motor control is defined as the process of restricting the output of the motor nervous system so that meaningful and coordinated behavior ensues. The high dimensionality of the computation underlying motor control is presented and a simplifying framework is outlined. Evidence that movements are performed non-continuously is reviewed as is the construct of the 'motor synergy' as a fundamental unit of control. It is proposed that the pulsatile nature of movement and the tendency of muscle collectives to be activated as synergies reflect processes that the nervous system has evolved to reduce the dimensionality of motor control. We propose that the inferior olive simplifies the computation underlying motor control by biasing the activities of spinal and cranial motor systems so that discrete collectives of muscles are predisposed to contract at specific times during movement. The well-characterized oscillatory activity of olivary neurons is postulated to provide a pacemaking signal and to restrict the control process to particular moments in time while the process of electrotonic coupling and uncoupling of assemblies of olivary neurons is proposed to underlie the spatial distribution of synergic muscle activations. It is proposed that the olivocerebellar contribution to the control process is to allow movements to be executed rapidly in a feedforward manner, so that the need for sensory guidance and feedback is minimized.
In a series of studies, the functional organization of cerebellar regions contributing to the control of forelimb movements via the rubro- and corticospinal tracts has been characterized in the cat. The system consists of the cerebellar cortical C1, C3 and Y zones and their efferent intracerebellar nucleus, the interpositus anterior. Based on analyses of cutaneous and muscle afferent climbing fibre input, of corticonuclear connections and of limb movements controlled, a modular organization of this cerebellar control system is proposed. Each module consists of a number of cortical microzones, defined by their homogeneous climbing fibre input, and a group of neurones in nucleus interpositus anterior on which these microzones converge. The input to climbing fibres is multi-modal and originates from cutaneous A beta (tactile), A delta and C (nociceptive) fibres and from muscle afferents. The cutaneous receptive fields have spatial characteristics suggestive of a relation to elemental movements. For most climbing fibres, the spatial relationship between cutaneous and muscle afferent input is such that the muscle afferent input originates from muscles that, if activated, would tend to move the cutaneous receptive field of the climbing fibre towards a stimulus applied to the skin. By contrast, the limb movement controlled by the module often has the opposite direction, and would thus tend to move the cutaneous receptive field away from a stimulus applied to the skin. Functional implications of this organization for the involvement of these regions in acute and adaptive motor control of limb movements are discussed.

The success of axon regeneration in the adult mammalian brain depends on the presence of growth-permissive environmental conditions as well as on specific properties of the affected neurons. To investigate the relative contribution of extrinsic cues and intrinsic determinants to reparative processes we have investigated the regenerative properties of olivocerebellar and Purkinje cell axons. When these axon populations are severed in the cerebellar white matter and confronted with embryonic neural grafts of cerebellar or extracerebellar origin, the former vigorously regenerate into the transplant, whereas the latter invariably fail to do so (Rossi et al., 1995). The same response occurs when dissociated Schwann cells are implanted in the lesion site: Purkinje cell axons fail to regrow, whereas olivocerebellar fibres regenerate for considerable distances. Within the graft, regenerating fibres follow tortuous courses along Schwann cell bundles and sometimes end with poorly developed terminal plexuses. Some of them, however, succeed in crossing the graft and grow further into the host cortex, where they break into fine terminal branches confined to the granular layer. The remarkable regenerative response of olivocerebellar axons revealed by these experiments might be an intrinsic reaction of the affected neurons to axon injury or it might be elicited by growth promoting cues derived from the grafts. To elucidate this point we have undertaken the investigation of cellular changes occurring in adult inferior olivary neurons following the transection of the inferior cerebellar peduncle. Our results show that axotomy induces a series of cellular changes, or reparative and regressive character, which ultimately lead to cell death. Interestingly, however, these modifications are not uniformly distributed throughout the whole inferior olive. (i) Neuronal atrophy and degeneration progress more rapidly in the PO and DAO than in the MAO. (ii) A subpopulation of inferior olivary neurons become reactive for NADPH-diaphorase histochemistry, and their preferential localisation in the MAO suggests that this modification is related to the longer survival of these cells after axotomy. (iii) The developmentally regulated calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is reexpressed by a subset of neurons in the caudal nuclear compartments. These results further emphasise the conclusion that the dissimilar regenerative response of Purkinje cell and olivocerebellar axons confronted with permissive environmental conditions is due to different intrinsic properties of these neuronal populations. The reexpression of developmentally regulated substances by axotomised inferior olivary neurons suggests that their reparative reaction is triggered by axon injury. However, the pattern of growth of regenerating olivocerebellar axons is strongly conditioned by environmental constraints, which, in the present experimental conditions, do not allow them to reattain denervated Purkinje cells.
In the adult cerebellum both the climbing fibre arbour and the Purkinje cell are very plastic and each element is able to exert a remarkable action on the other one. The adult phenotype of the Purkinje cell is strictly dependent on the presence of its climbing fibre arbour. When the climbing fibre is missing, the Purkinje cell undergoes a hyperspiny transformation and becomes hyperinnervated by the parallel fibres. However, this change is fully reversible. The climbing fibre-deprived Purkinje cell is able to elicit sprouting of nearby located intact climbing fibres and the new arbour is able to fully restore synaptic connections which appear normal both morphologically and functionally. Multiple climbing fibre innervation of a single Purkinje cell persists in the adult hypogranular cerebellum. The different fibres are distributed to separate dendritic regions, suggesting a local competition between the different arbours for their territory. It is postulated that in the intact rat, an activity dependent mechanism of the parallel fibre favours the predominance of one arbour with the elimination of its competitors. When the Purkinje cell is deleted, the climbing fibre arbour becomes heavily atrophic and reduced in size. The analysis of the pattern of this atrophy indicates that the climbing fibre arbour is made by two compartments: a proximal one, whose survival depends on the integrity of the inferior olive, and a distal one, which represents the true pre-synaptic site, which strictly depends on the target. The climbing fibre terminal arbour is able to extend its territory of innervation not only when adult intact climbing fibres are confronted with nearby denervated Purkinje cells, but also when an embryonic cerebellum is grafted onto the surface of an adult unlesioned cerebellum. In this case, collaterals of intact climbing fibre arbours elongate through the pial surface, enter the graft to innervate the Purkinje cells. This growth is likely under the influence of a tropic signal released by the embryonic Purkinje cells. This suggests that the sprouting observed in the adult rat following a subtotal inferior olive lesion is also triggered by a similar factor. The axonal elongation and the consequent synaptogenesis are likely guided by local cues. In this condition, the distribution of the new collateral reinnervation occurs within its projectional map. In addition, when the inferior cerebellar peduncle is sectioned at birth, the climbing fibres of the non-deafferented hemicerebellum emit collaterals which cross the midline and innervate cerebellar strips which are symmetrically positioned relative to the intact side. In the grafting experiments, both the migrated and non-migrated Purkinje cells show the typical electrophysiological properties of the mature cerebellum. These data show that the disappearance of neuronal elements is not a necessary prerequisite to allow new neurones to become fully morphologically and functionally integrated into an adult brain. The reciprocal trophic influence between the climbing fibres and the Purkinje cells shown in the present series of experiments are likely operative in the adult brain not only in pathological conditions and they could give a basic contribution to the synaptic plasticity underlying learned behaviour.
The unipolar brush cell (UBC) is a novel type of small neuron that is characterized by sets of morphological and chemical phenotypes. UBCs occur in the granular layer of the mammalian cerebellar cortex, particularly in folia of the vestibulocerebellum, and in the granule cell domains of the dorsal cochlear nucleus. The UBC is characterized by a single dendrite that terminates with a brush-like tip of dendrioles. The soma, the dendritic stem, and especially the dendrioles emit short, non-synaptic appendages. The dendrioles represent the main synaptic apparatus of the UBC and articulate tightly with a single mossy fiber rosette forming a glomerular array characterized by an extraordinarily extensive synaptic contact. Electron microscopic and electrophysiological observations indicate that the unusual synaptic ultrastructure may produce entrapment of neurotransmitter in the synaptic cleft. While ionotropic glutamate receptors are enriched in correspondence of the postsynaptic density, metabotropic glutamate receptors are situated extrasynaptically and are particularly enriched at the appendages, which usually do not bear synaptic junctions. Some of the UBCs receive their input from choline acetyltransferase-positive mossy rosettes originating from the vestibular nuclei, suggesting that ACh and glutamate are co-released at these synapses. The UBC brush occupies a glomerulus where granule cell dendrites are intermixed with the UBC dendrioles, both of which receive synapses from the same mossy fiber rosette and portions of the Golgi axonal plexus. In addition, the dendrioles are presynaptic to granule cell dendrites, forming dendrodendritic contacts that display features of excitatory synapses. Branches of the UBC axon in the granular layer bear large endings resembling mossy fibers. The UBCs may represent an extraordinary device for feedforward, excitatory links along the mossy fiber pathways of cerebellum and dorsal cochlear nucleus.
Abnormality of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis has been one of the most consistently demonstrated biological markers of depressive disorder. It has also been proposed that abnormality of monoamine function plays a role in the pathogenesis of the disorder. In order to examine the interrelationships of the HPA axis with the dopaminergic, noradrenergic, and serotoninergic systems, we studied, in 52 medication-free inpatients with DSM-IV nonpsychotic major depressive disorder, the relationship between dexamethasone suppression test (DST) status and a series of multihormonal responses to apomorphine (APO), clonidine (CLO), and D-fenfluramine (FEN) tests. DST nonsuppressors did not present any difference compared with suppressors in growth hormone (GH) and cortisol stimulation by APO suggesting that a chronic elevation of cortisol did not lead to an alteration of dopaminergic activity in this population of nonpsychotic depressed inpatients. Cortisol and prolactin responses to FEN were comparable in nonsuppressors and in suppressors. In contrast, GH response to CLO was lower in DST nonsuppressors than in suppressors (p &lt; .03), suggesting that the HPA abnormality indicated by a positive DST may be related to alpha 2-adrenoreceptor dysfunction.
This study of 47 patients with low- and high-grade gliomas retrospectively focuses on the patients' history with regard to affective and cognitive disturbances as well as to the presence of epileptic manifestations. Early emotional changes with a sudden onset were common in both patient groups, especially panic-like anxiety. It is suggested that patients with a high-grade glioma may present with affective disturbances with a sudden onset, while such disturbances in patients with low-grade gliomas could be of epileptiform origin. It is also suggested that the biochemical bases of anxiety and epilepsy in glioma patients could be analyzed to understand underlying biopsychological mechanisms of malignant brain tumors.
The most common major comorbid disorders associated with eating disorders include substance use disorders, personality disorders, mood disorders, anxiety disorders, and obesity. To test conceptual models of the relationship between the eating disorders and these comorbid disorders, complex research paradigms are needed, including epidemiological studies, behavior-genetic studies, and longitudinal research designs. Comorbidity may be a significant factor to consider as approaches to the treatment of eating disorders continue to evolve.
For over 200 years, the relationships between neuroendocrine systems and mental illness have been studied. Research has focused in substantial part on mood disorders and thyroid axis function. This review presents a brief examination of the history and the progress in this area of investigation. Consideration is given to mood states in thyroid disorders, as well as to thyroid function in mood disorders. Thyroid hormones, usually in conjunction with standard medications, can be used to treat both manic and depressed phases of mood disorders. The review with a presentation of some of the many issues that merit further investigation.
We studied the effect of nimodipine (1000 ppm mixed in food), an L-type calcium-channel antagonist, administered for 4 months, on the cortical EEG activity in young and aged rats. Nimodipine treatment decreased cortical high voltage spindles (HVSs) in aged rats, but did not prevent the diminution of spontaneous locomotor activity. The threshold dose of metrifonate, a cholinesterase inhibitor, for suppression of HVSs was lower in nimodipine compared to placebo treated aged rats (30 mg/kg versus 60 mg/kg; p.o.). In young rats, nimodipine did not decrease HVSs, protect from scopolamine (0.1 or 0.8 mg/kg, i.p.) induced EEG slowing or augment the effect of metrifonate to suppress slow waves induced by scopolamine. The present results suggest that a chronic nimodipine treatment modulates thalamocortical arousal and thereby adds to the therapeutic effects of metrifonate to restore normal cortical electrical arousal in aged rats.

The ability of atrial natriuretic peptide, salbutamol, sodium nitroprusside and isosorbide dinitrate to protect against challenge with methacholine in bovine isolated bronchi was compared in different O2 tensions. Perfusing the Krebs-Henseleit solution with gas mixtures containing 95% O2 (hyperoxia), 20% O2 (approximately normoxia) and 0% O2 (hypoxia) produced O2 tensions in the organ-baths of 524, 147 and 26 mm Hg, respectively. In hyperoxia, pre-incubation of atrial natriuretic peptide at concentrations of 3 x 10(-7) M and 10(-6) M significantly attenuated responses to methacholine, whereas in normoxia, these concentrations of atrial natriuretic peptide had no effect. Furthermore, in hypoxia, 3 x 10(-7) M and 10(-6) M atrial natriuretic peptide significantly enhanced responses to methacholine. Salbutamol, at concentrations of 3 x 10(-7) M and 10(-6) M significantly attenuated responses to methacholine in hyperoxia, whereas in normoxia and hypoxia, pre-incubation of salbutamol did not alter the methacholine response. Pre-incubation of 10(-5) M sodium nitroprusside significantly attenuated methacholine-induced contractions in hyperoxia and when the oxygen tension in the gas mixture was lowered to 20% or 0%, the ability of sodium nitroprusside to protect against methacholine challenge was enhanced. In hyperoxia, isosorbide dinitrate, at the 10(-4) M level, evoked a rightward shift of the methacholine response curve. Lowering the oxygen tension to either 20% or 0% enhanced the protectant effect of isosorbide dinitrate, with the effect being greater in 20% O2. Thus, the effect of these bronchodilators on methacholine-induced challenge in hyperoxia O2 differed from those in normoxia and hypoxia, although the direction of the changes varied among the agents used. This suggests that the responses evoked by bronchodilators in 95% O2 may not necessarily predict those in the physiological range of oxygen tensions and that the relative effectiveness of bronchodilators may vary between normoxic and hypoxic conditions.
The cloning of melanocortin receptors opened new avenues to identify selective ligands for this receptor family. gamma-MSH was characterized as a melanocortin-3 receptor selective agonist, [D-Arg8]ACTH-(4-10) and [Pro8,10, Gly9]ACTH-(4-10) were characterized as melanocortin-4 receptor antagonists. The application of these ligands in vivo revealed that melanocortin-4 receptors mediate melanocortin-induced grooming behaviour in the rat. Since we still lack potent and selective melanocortin receptor ligands, we performed homology modelling and site directed mutagenesis of the melanocortin-4 receptor, in order to understand how melanocortins bind melanocortin receptors. A histidine at position 260 in the melanocortin-4 receptor is important for normal receptor function. However this residue is not forming a salt bridge with a glutamate at position 92 to keep the receptor in an inactive conformation, nor with the glutamate in the melanocortin peptides as had been suggested before.
We examined (i) the capacity of transplants of embryonic neocortex to restore corticofugal systems disrupted following neonatal damage to the occipital cortex and (ii) the influence of the embryonic origin of the transplanted neurons on the reconstruction of the corticofugal circuitry. Transplants of embryonic occipital or frontal cortex were grafted homo- or heterotopically into the damaged occipital cortex of newborn rats. Several months after grafting, an anterograde tracer was injected into each category of transplants. Homotopic transplants developed a set of projections directed exclusively towards most of the cortical and subcortical visual targets normally contacted by occipital cortical neurons. Heterotopic transplants formed a hybrid system of efferent projections that reflected both their embryonic origin and their new location within the host cortex. These findings are consistent with previous results indicating that fetal frontal and occipital neurons are not interchangeable. Consequently, transplantations aiming at the reconstruction of neural circuits disrupted following neonatal damage affecting a given cortical area should only use fetal cortical cells taken from the same cortical locale.

Following brain injury there is an excessive release of glutamate, a reduction in levels of cellular Mg+ +, and the generation of oxygen free radicals. These processes may contribute to the severity of the behavioral impairments seen following brain injury by leading to secondary neuronal degeneration. The present experiment investigates the relative effects of three drugs (MK-801, an NMDA antagonist; magnesium chloride, an NMDA antagonist; and N-tert-butyl--phenylnitrone (PBN), an anti-oxidant and free radical scavenger) which disrupt different aspects of the pathophysiological process, in reducing these impairments. Direct comparisons of these drugs may determine if one treatment is more effective than another, or if one is detrimental. In addition, the effects of combination treatments including PBN and MK-801 or MgCl2 were examined. These combination treatment were aimed at the possibility of potentiating the beneficial effects observed after administration of these agents alone. Rats received unilateral electrolytic lesions of the somatic sensorimotor cortex followed by a regimen of MK-801 (1 mg/kg), MgCl2 (1 mmol/kg), PBN (100 mg/kg), MK-801 + PBN (1 mg/kg, 100 mg/kg), MgCl2 + PBN (1 mmol/kg, 100 mg/kg), or saline (1 ml/kg) beginning 15 min following injury. Rats were tested on several sensorimotor tasks (i.e. forelimb placing and foot-fault) for 43 days following the cortical lesions. Rats receiving any of the single or combination drug treatments showed a significant facilitation of recovery on the sensorimotor tasks compared to saline control rats. On one behavioral test (i.e. foot-fault) there was a significant further enhancement of the recovery by combination treatments compared to the single treatment groups. These data are consistent with the idea that excessive release of glutamate, reduction in Mg+ + levels, and free radical generation contribute to the severity of the behavioral impairments following cortical injury, and that arresting these processes results in a facilitation of behavioral recovery. Anatomical analysis showed that all drug treatments decreased the amount of atrophy seen in the ipsilateral striatum.

The gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is one of the most important inhibitory transmitter in the CNS. When GABA is released in the synaptic cleft, it can act on two types of receptors, type A (GABAA-R) and type B. The GABAA-R is an ionotropic receptor whose subunits form a chloride channel. It contains specific binding sites at least for GABA, benzodiazepines, picrotoxin, barbiturates, anesthetic steroids, divalent cations such as Zn2+ and other compounds. Neurotransmitters and neuropeptides that regulate intracellular second messengers may modulate the responses of GABAA-R in the post-synaptic membrane and thus affect the synaptic plasticity. While consensus sites for several kinases are present on many subunit-subtypes, the functional consequences of these phosphorylations are unclear. However, the maintenance of normal GABA currents required the activity of a unique kinase specific for the GABAA-R. This intracellular regulation site might be involved in synaptic plasticity and considered as a site of vulnerability for epileptogenesis. The generation of epileptic discharge, synchronized burst firing and interictal spikes, can be subsequent to the alteration of GABAA-R function. A consequence of GABAergic disinhibition is the formation of new polysynaptic pathways leading to a network of neurons that were previously not connected. Cell loss and plasticity are currently observed in most patients with temporal lobe epilepsy. CA1 pyramidal cells are missing and mossy fibers of dentate granule cells project back through the granule cell layer to form recurrent terminals on granule cell dendrites. This mossy fiber sprouting leads to the destruction of most dentate hilar somatostatine interneurons. Nevertheless, local circuit neurons containing glutamic acid decarboxylase survive in this layer and in all regions of the sclerotic hippocampus. A decrease of the GABA release has been proposed as a basis for disinhibition temporal-lobe epilepsy is partially characterized by a loss of glutamate-stimulated GABA release that is secondary to a reduction in the number of GABA transporters. A molecular reorganization of GABAA-R subunits has been suggested in the kindling model of temporal lobe epilepsy because the zinc released from abberantly sprouted mossy fiber terminals is responsible for a collapse of augmented inhibition by GABA. These results support the concept of a loss of inhibition in chronic epilepsy models and probably in human epilepsies.
Neurotrophic factors are traditionally viewed as secretory proteins that regulate long-term survival and differentiation of neurons. The role of neurotrophic factors in the structural integrity of the nervous system makes them attractive candidates as therapeutic agents for neurodegenerative diseases. However, the fact that expression of many neurotrophic factors in the central nervous system is rapidly enhanced by neuronal activity suggests a new role for these factors in activity-dependent processes, such as synaptic development and plasticity. A series of recent studies has provided strong evidence for this novel function of neurotrophic factors. The neurotrophin family of proteins has been shown to acutely potentiate synaptic transmission at the neuromuscular junction and in the brain. These factors are also involved in the maturation of the neuromuscular synapses and in the development of synapses in the visual system. Gene targeting and physiological experiments demonstrate that brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) plays an important role in long-term potentiation (LTP), a cellular model for learning and memory. These findings have brought together two hotly pursued areas of neuroscience, namely, the function of neurotrophic factors and the mechanisms for synaptic plasticity. Continuous studies in this new field will help understand how synapses develop and function in the brain, and may have significant implications in treating learning disorders in both children and adults.
The purpose of this study was to investigate the attitudes towards attempted suicide patients among registered nurses involved in the somatic care of such patients, and to compare them with those of psychiatric nurses. The attitudes were measured on a newly constructed scale, the Understanding of Suicide Attempt Patients Scale (USP-Scale), and three brief clinical vignettes with the answer format of a visual analogue scale (VAS). The nurses working within the psychiatric services were more understanding and more willing to nurse suicide attempt patients than nurses in somatic disciplines. Among all the nurses, older personnel were more favourably disposed than the younger, and more frequent contact with suicide-prone patients was related to more positive attitudes. The perceived need for further training in suicidology was significantly stronger among the nurses in the general hospitals. This suggests that their 'negative attitudes' may to some extent be a result of lack of knowledge and uncertainty rather than a hostile attitude. The nurse has a responsibility to create a positive climate in the patient's encounter with the health services. Knowledge and understanding are needed to enable the nurse to provide professional care for a difficult and challenging patient group.
The aim of the present study is to describe elderly people's performance of some daily activities in relation to their need for mobility support in their living environment. Two groups of individuals, over the age of 65 and living in an old urban area with access to elevators in their housing, were compared, as regards mobility, shopping, hobbies and social contacts. The first group (n = 284) comprised persons who needed assistance from another person in using the elevator. The subjects in the second group (n = 325) were able to manage the elevator independently. The subjects in the first group experienced more problems in carrying out the activities than those in the second group. Weekly shopping was the only action in which the findings demonstrated no main differences between the groups. Throughout all the activities of daily living (ADL), and in both groups, there were persons who were rated as having the capacity to perform the activities, but did not do so and did not want to do so. The elderly, especially in the first group, wanted to engage in more activities than they were judged to have the capacity for and/or the environmental support to do. The implications of the result for the assessment of the homes of the elderly in relation to their environment are discussed.
Twelve outpatients, all women, who fulfilled the criteria for both fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome were rated on 15 items of the Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale (CPRS-15). These items were chosen to constitute a proper neurasthenic subscale. Blood laboratory levels were generally normal. The most obvious finding was that, in all the patients, the homocysteine (HCY) levels were increased in the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF). There was a significant positive correlation between CSF-HCY levels and fatiguability, and the levels of CSF-B12 correlated significantly with the item of fatiguability and with CPRS-15. The correlations between vitamin B12 and clinical variables of the CPRS-scale in this study indicate that low CSF-B12 values are of clinical importance. Vitamin B12 deficiency causes a deficient remethylation of HCY and is therefore probably contributing to the increased homocysteine levels found in our patient group. We conclude that increased homocysteine levels in the central nervous system characterize patients fulfilling the criteria for both fibromyalgia and chronic fatigue syndrome.
Patients with epilepsy develop psychosis or schizophrenia at a rate exceeding that expected if the two disorders were independent. Similarly, patients with schizophrenia are more prone to seizures than the general population. This excess vulnerability may be conferred by the neuropathological substrate of schizophrenia itself or by the secondary effects of the illness, including exposure to psychotropic medications that lower the seizure threshold. Neuropathological investigations into the anatomic substrate of seizures in patients with psychosis or schizophrenia are consistent with the notion that there are neurodevelopmental abnormalities involving the mesial temporal lobe. Finally, clinical recommendations for the evaluation and pharmacological management of patients with schizophrenia who have one or more seizures are described.
Although the new generation of atypical antipsychotic agents could some day eliminate concerns about tardive dyskinesia (TD), this disorder remains a significant clinical problem for both patients and physicians. Fortunately, many, if not most, cases of TD are mild. For patients with mild to moderate TD, therapeutic efforts are primarily directed at minimizing neuroleptic exposure or, when possible, changing to atypical agents. Most cases of TD do not seem to progress, suggesting that the risk of remaining on typical neuroleptics is probably small. Patients with moderate to severe forms of TD present greater challenges. These patients frequently require medication to suppress their dyskinesias. A variety of suppressive agents have been tried with limited success. No treatment strategy has emerged that is clearly superior or even successful in most patients. Increasing doses of typical neuroleptics may be useful for short-term suppression; however, the long-term efficacy and risk of this strategy have not been studied carefully. Data on atypical neuroleptics are scant. Clozapine's short-term suppressive effects seem, at best, weak, but patients may improve with long-term treatment. Medications with relatively few side effects that may have suppressive efficacy for some patients include calcium channel blockers, adrenergic antagonists, and vitamin E. Gamma-amino-butyric acid agonists agents and dopamine depleters are frequently useful, but have troubling side effects of their own. A variety of other medications have been employed, but are not well studied. For patients with tardive dystonia, anticholinergic agents or botulinum toxin has been particularly effective. Efforts to understand the neurobiology of TD may shed light on this persistent clinical conundrum.
Many brain regions and circuits have been implicated in the neuropathology of schizophrenia. Drs. Bogerts and Jones have reviewed the evidence that links the disorder to temporal limbic structures and to frontal-thalamic circuits, respectively. Each article is an important update on what we know about the relevance of these brain regions to schizophrenia. In addition, each article, in summarizing the accumulation of relevant research data, is a testament to the likelihood that these structures play a role in the disease. In light of their compelling arguments, this commentary emphasizes incompleteness in the data and inconsistencies in published findings. The principal weaknesses of the temporal limbic findings are that most have been reported in chronically ill patients and that the only qualitative finding of cytoarchitectural disorganization has not been replicated convincingly. Problems of replication also compromise the interpretation of neuropathological findings in prefrontal cortex and thalamus. Despite the loose ends, I agree with the conclusions of Drs. Bogerts and Jones that brain circuits involving thalamus, prefrontal, and temporolimbic cortices are involved in the basic biology of schizophrenia.
This commentary on recent postmortem investigations suggests that schizophrenia may involve alterations of corticothalamic and temporolimbic regions of the brain. Although studies of this type are beginning to provide unique insights into the underlying pathophysiology of this disorder, all such investigations are generally hampered by the inability to differentiate between primary and secondary changes within complex macro- and microcircuitry. To overcome this basic epistomological problem, it will be necessary to develop novel strategies for determining how the communication between and within these various brain regions is decompensating, and later, compensating at different stages of the life cycle in schizophrenia.
The experimental association psychology approach to mental associations has been the conceptual background for the concept of schizophrenia. Cognitive neuroscience methods and concepts can be used to study various forms of schizophrenic thought disorder. In particular, the concepts of semantic associative and working memory can be applied fruitfully to schizophrenia research. Semantic associative networks can be simulated with self-organizing feature maps. Dysfunctional lexical access can be modeled in terms of low signal-to-noise ratio in intra- or between-network information processing. Evidence for the crucial role of dopamine in this function is presented, and a general neurocomputational model of schizophrenic thought disorder is developed. This model capitalizes on basic aspects of neural information processing (i.e., neuromodulation and neuroplasticity) and allows a parsimonious explanation of a number of otherwise inexplicable or unrelated clinical phenomena and experimental results.
Sexual behavior involves the complex integration of higher intellectual function, such as associative memory and the experience of drives and motivations, with basic instinctual or reflexive physiological responses coordinated at the spinal level. Previous research in diabetic sexual dysfunction has largely focused on diabetic male erectile dysfunction, emphasizing a peripheral vasculopathy or neuropathy as etiologic factors, although ignoring the more complex neuropsychiatric components of sexual behavior. Following a review of the basic physiology of sexual behavior and evidence in support of a peripheral vasculopathy and/or a peripheral autonomic neuropathy in the cause of diabetic sexual dysfunction, emphasis will then shift to the role of a &quot;central&quot; neuropathy as a contributing component of diabetic sexual dysfunction. Evidence in support of such a view will come from a variety of studies, ranging from basic neuroscience research on forebrain mechanisms of sexual function to the functional brain imaging of human rapid eye movement (REM) sleep, a brain state known to be associated with the periodic occurrence of penile tumescence. An integrative perspective of this research will identify major candidate structures within the brain that may be dysfunctional in diabetic patients and may contribute to the profound sexual dysfunction that characterizes this condition. Major findings as well as deficits in our understanding of the effects of diabetes on female sexual dysfunction will also be highlighted, followed by suggestions for future research in this largely understudied area.

Pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide(PACAP) is a new bioactive polypeptide originally isolated from ovine hypothalamus. It is widely distributed in the central and peripheral nervous systems, and some non-nervous tissues as well. Mediated by PACAP receptors, it stimulates adenylate cyclase and subsequently increases the cAMP level in target cells. PACAP is not only a new type of hypophysiotropic hormone, but also functions as a neurotransmitter and neuromodulator. In addition, it plays a role in paracrine and autocrine regulation of certain types of cells.
The changes of mRNA expression level control cell function. Many factors such as individual development, cell proliferation and differentiation, and even apoptosis, physiological stimuli, and drug treatment will change the level of gene expression. Comparisons of gene expression in different cell types provide the underlying information for analyzing the molecular and cellular mechanisms of the physiological processes. A method of mRNA differential display is developed recently, providing a powerful and useful tool, which can efficiently and rapidly isolate the genes that display a difference in transcription. These genes may play important role in cell function.
Psychophysically, spatial summation can be demonstrated as a decrease in threshold accompanying an increased field of stimulation. The present study examined to what extent different mechanically evoked percepts (pressure, sharpness, and pain) show spatial summation. Various probes were used to apply prescribed forces to the dorsal surface of the digits of 19 healthy subjects. The threshold for three perceptual qualities showed differing degrees of spatial summation: sharpness showed no statistically significant spatial summation; pain demonstrated some significant summation (46% on average); pressure showed the greatest degree of spatial summation (76% on average). The lack of significant spatial summation for sharpness threshold is consistent with the theory that perceived sharpness can be evoked by near threshold activity of a single nociceptor. The modest amount of spatial summation for pain implies that distinctly suprathreshold activation of nociceptors is required for mechanically evoked pain perception, and such input summates centrally, but not completely. The greater spatial summation observed for pressure vs. pain thresholds implies a greater degree of central summation for slowly adapting mechanoreceptors vs. nociceptors.

The alpha-D-galactose specific isolectin I-B4 from Griffonia simplicifolia (GS-I-B4) labels CNS microglia and certain peripheral neurons, including a subpopulation of small dark, type B dorsal root ganglion cells, some post-ganglionic sympathetic axons, and nearly all peripheral gustatory axons. The innervation patterns of GS-I-B4 reactive sensory ganglion cells are unknown for many peripheral target tissues, including their probable primary target, the skin. The present study describes the distribution of GS-I-B4 reactive axons in hairy and glabrous hindpaw skin and in the glans penis of rats, using both single and double-labelling histochemical techniques. Neuronal processes were identified using (1) histochemistry with horseradish peroxidase conjugated GS-I-B4 or (2) immunohistochemistry against PGP 9.5 to identify all axons, and biotinylated lectin histochemistry with avidin-FITC to identify the subpopulation of GS-I-B4 reactive axons. GS-I-B4 strongly labelled unmyelinated cutaneous sensory afferents, as well as some sympathetic efferents and visceral afferents. lectin reactive axons were seen to innervate the upper hair shaft epidermis in hairy skin, and were abundant in the shallow dermis in hairy and glabrous skin and glans penis. Lectin reactive axons were also abundant in the lamina propria and distal urethral epithelium of the penis. These results provide new evidence for the cutaneous sensory role of GS-I-B4 reactive primary afferents, as well as evidence to support the contention that the lectin is a specific marker for a subpopulation of unmyelinated axons and not simply a marker for the myelination state of an axon.



A novel complication of the illicit use of cocaine, a spontaneous acute subdural hematoma, is described. This case represents another addition to the growing literature on the negative effects of cocaine on the central nervous system. Photographic documentation of the lesion responsible for the hematoma is presented, along with a discussion of the possible pathophysiologic mechanism.
The purpose of this study was to devise a simple technique to analyse the metal content of permanent dental prostheses without damaging the constructions. Metal debris was collected on grinding wheels for subsequent analysis by energy-dispersive X-ray fluorescence (EDXRF). We discuss the importance of being able to qualitatively ascertain the composition of the alloys, as such information makes it possible to perform a detailed allergological investigation. Furthermore, we tentatively put our findings in a broader context with regard to the emerging knowledge of the relationship between the immune and central nervous systems as well as the known fact that certain metal ions can produce various cutaneous reactions.
A series of recent postmortem investigations of the anterior cingulate cortex in schizophrenic brain have suggested that there may be a loss and/or impairment of inhibitory interneurons in layer II. It has been postulated that changes of this type could secondarily result in a relative increase of dopaminergic inputs to GABAergic interneurons. To test this hypothesis, an immunoperoxidase technique was developed to extensively and reliably visualize tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-IR) varicose fibers in human postmortem cortex. This method has been applied to the anterior cingulate (ACCx; Brodmann area 24) and prefrontal (PFCx: Brodmann area 10) cortices from a cohort of 15 normal control and 10 schizophrenic cases. The number of TH-IR varicosities in contact with large neurons (LN), small neurons (SN), and neuropil (NPL) was blindly analyzed using a computer-assisted microscopic technique. There was no significant difference in density of TH-IR varicosities in apposition with either LN or SN cell bodies observed in either ACCx or PFCx of schizophrenics when compared to normal controls. The density of varicosities was significantly reduced in NPL of layers V and VI in ACCx, but 2 neuroleptic-free cases did not show this change, suggesting that these decreases of TH-IR varicosities may be related to antipsychotic effects on corticostriatal projection cells in this region. When the density of TH-IR varicosities on SNs was compared to that observed on LNs, both groups showed a higher density on SNs. In ACCx, this pattern was much more pronounced for the schizophrenic group, particularly in layer II where the density on SNs was three times higher than that for LNs (P = 0.01). Unlike the changes in layer V, this latter change in layer II showed no relationship to neuroleptic exposure. There was a positive correlation between age and the density of TH-IR varicosities on SNs of layer II in ACCx; however, the patients were younger than the controls and would have been expected to show a lower density, rather than a higher one, if age considerations had accounted for the group differences. Overall, the results reported here suggest that there are no gross differences in the distribution of TH-IR varicosities in various laminae of the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex. In the anterior cingulate region, however, there may be a significant shift in the distribution of TH-IR varicosities from large neurons to small neurons that occurs selectively in layer II of schizophrenic subjects. Using size criteria, the majority of small neurons are likely nonpyramidal, while the majority of large neurons are predominantly pyramidal in nature. Taken together with other accumulating evidence of preferential abnormalities in this lamina of the cingulate region, the findings reported here are consistent with a model of schizophrenia in which a subtle &quot;miswiring&quot; of ventral tegmental inputs may result in a relative, though not absolute, hyperdopaminergic state with respect to an impaired population of GABAergic interneurons.
This study compared the effects of dopamine receptor stimulation in the entorhinal cortex on dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens, measured by in vivo microdialysis in conscious Sprague-Dawley rats, with and without oestradiol and progesterone priming. Nonselective dopamine receptor stimulation with apomorphine reduced dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens, an effect which was prevented by injection of cis-flupenthixol into the entorhinal cortex. Selective D1 receptor stimulation with SKF38393 increased dopamine release, whereas selective D2 receptor stimulation with quinpirole did not affect dopamine release. Combined administration of oestradiol and progesterone potentiated the response to apomorphine and prevented the response to SKF38393. The effects of single hormone administration on the response to apomorphine suggested that the modulation was primarily due to oestradiol enhancing effects of progesterone. Experiments with high [K+] suggested these hormonal effects were exerted predominantly in the entorhinal cortex. The present experiments have demonstrated that dopaminergic modulation of transmission in a cortico-striatal loop linking temporal and prefrontal cortex is regulated by oestradiol and progesterone. Dysfunction in this system in humans may give rise to affective and cognitive symptoms which may, if initiated by a postpartum fall in oestrogen and progesterone concentrations, constitute the core pathophysiology of puerperal psychosis.

Antipsychotic drugs used in the treatment of schizophrenia have in common the property of being dopamine-receptor antagonists. However, the rapid timecourse of receptor blockade produced upon drug administration does not correlate with the emergence of clinical actions, which typically require weeks of treatment to become manifest. Studies in rats have shown that repeated antipsychotic drug treatment results in a delayed inactivation of dopamine-neuron firing in the midbrain due to depolarization block. Furthermore, the therapeutic efficacy of antipsychotic drugs in humans correlates with their ability to induce depolarization block of mesolimbic dopamine neurons, whereas their potential to produce extrapyramidal side effects correlates with their propensity for inducing depolarization block in the nigrostriatal dopamine system. Therefore, dopamine-cell depolarization block is an effective model for evaluating antipsychotic drug efficacy, and provides a potential mechanism to account for their therapeutic impact on a dysregulated dopamine system.
The effect of acute air-hyperbarism (maximal 520 kPa), normobaric low and high FIO2 levels (minimal 0.1, maximal 1.0) and hyperbaric oxygen (HBO2) on the red-green sensitivity ratio (rgSR) and on color discrimination for foveal vision were studied. Effects were quantified by measuring the red-green flicker (16 Hz) fusion point for normals with the Oscar tester (Am J Optom Physiol Opt 1983; 60:892-901). Color discrimination was examined with the Lanthony's Desaturated 15 Hue test After 15-20 min of exposure rgSR is enhanced 4% (relatively increased red sensitivity) by normobaric acute hypoxia, and reduced 4% by normobaric hyperoxia (FIO2 = 1.0), but HBO2 gives a smaller reduction, and air-hyperbarism (FIO2 = 0.21) has no effect. Hypercapnia (increased FICO2), normobaric hypoxia (reduced FIO2), and HBO2 increase the duration of the Lanthony's test about 20-40%, but the number of errors were practically unchanged. The reduced effect during HBO2 upon rgSR is attributed to an opposing effect of hypercapnia. The absence of an effect during air-hyperbarism is probably due to a suppression by nitrogen of the effect of high PO2. In general, during moderate air-hyperbarism and HBO2 color vision seems to be normal, but evaluation of the colored scene is probably less stable and slightly slower.
The influence of old age on mechanical properties of the urinary bladder was investigated using smooth muscle strips from urinary bladders of control (14-16 weeks) and old-age (104 weeks) female Sprague-Dawley rats. Bladder weight of the aged rats had increased by about 30%. The maximal shortening velocity and stiffness in skinned activated urinary bladder fibers from old animals were unchanged compared to controls. The relative content of intermediate filament proteins to actin and the relative content of myosin to actin was unchanged. The concentration of myosin was unchanged (about 6.5 microg/mg wet weight). The results suggest that old age is not associated with pronounced changes in the cellular contractile and cytoskeletal proteins or in the mechanical properties of the contractile machinery. The age-related changes in mechanical properties previously reported for intact smooth muscle from urinary bladder are most likely due to alterations in the activation systems.
Although no visual inputs arise from the blind spot, the same visual attribute there as in the visual field surrounding the blind spot is perceived. Because of this remarkable &quot;perceptual filling-in,&quot; a hole corresponding to the blind spot is not perceived, even when one eye is closed. Does the same phenomenon occur in the case of a scotoma in which visual inputs are lost postnatally due to a retinal lesion? We report that it did: in the macaque monkey, behavioral evidence for filling-in at a scotoma produced by a laser-induced monocular retinal lesion was obtained. The visual receptive fields of neurons in the primary visual cortex (V1) in and around the representation of the visual field corresponding to the scotoma were also mapped, and no clear difference between the retinotopic organization of this part in V1 and that found in the normal visual field was found. Also, perceptual filling-in was found to occur only two days after the lesion. These findings suggest that the normal visual system possesses a mechanism that yields filling-in when some part of the retina is damaged, and that such a mechanism requires no topographical reorganization in V1.
Intrathecal(i.t.) injection of 10 microliters of dynorphin A(1-17) 20 nmol.L-1 per rat resulted in irreversible hind limb paralysis and suppression of the tail-flick reflex lasting for up to 40 h. The dual effects of dynorphin appeared 5-10 min after the i.t. administration. Histologic examination of the spinal cord in the rats demonstrated dead and/or dying and degenerated motor-neurons in the ventral horn located predominately in the lumbar segment(a 87.2% reduction of the number of motor neurons, P &lt; 0.01) and also in a lesser degree in sacral segment(-69.6%, P &lt; 0.05). The thoracic segment was essentially normal(-8.2%, P &gt; 0.05).
Immunoreaction between acetylcholine receptor antibody (AChRab) derived from myasthenia gravis (MG) and neuronal nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (AChR) and the action of AChRab on rat brain stem auditory transmission were investigated by immunocytochemistry and brain stem auditory evoked potential (BAEP) in a search for abnormalities indicating central nervous system (CNS) involvement in this disorder. 25 microliters of AChRab were injected into the ventricular system of rats once every 48 hours for periods of up to a week BAEP examination was taken before and after injection of AChRab. Immunocytochemical investigation of the rat brain sections provided evidence that the neuronal nicotinic AChR like immunoreactivity is widely distributed throughout the rat CNS such as cerebral cortex, hippocampus, motor neurons in brain stem, auditory nucleus cerebellar cortex, etc. Analysis of the immunocytochemical results showed that the distribution property of AChRab in rat CNS correlated well with known neuronal nicotinic AChR subtypes e.g., alpha 7 and alpha 4. BAEP inter peak latency was significantly prolonged in rats after injection of AChRab as compared with the control rats and the rats prior to injection of AChRab. The results indicated that cerebroventricular administration of AChRab not only cause dysfunction of brain stem auditory transmission but also leads to development of experimental autoimmune MG symptoms. It is concluded that AChRab influences the rat brain stem auditory transmission and it is suggested that the pathogenic effect of AChRab is not only limited at neuromuscular junction, but also involves the central neuronal nicotinic AChR.
The rat model with a unilateral 6-OHDA-induced lesion of the dopaminergic system was used for experimental study on gene therapy for Parkinson's disease (PD). The plasmid pCMVTH (6.04 kb) was constructed as a vector containing the gene of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and transferred into cultured primary muscle cells by lipofection ex vivo. After expression of TH was determined in vitro, the intracerebral grafting (ICG) of these genetically modified cells was made in the striatum of PD rat model. The results showed that TH-expressing muscle cells had a long-term survival in the brain and induced a marked decrease in abnormal locomotion and increase in striatal dopamine levels for rat model.
This study compares the effect of lithium (Li+) and electroconvulsive stimuli (ECS), two treatments commonly used in the treatment of affective disorders, on CCK mRNA expression in the rat brain. Two groups of rats receiving either 4 week Li+ or vehicle food supplementation and two groups receiving 6 ECS or 6 sham ECS during 2 weeks were studied. A significant decrease in CCK mRNA levels was seen in the caudate putamen both after Li+ as compared to vehicle and ECS as compared to sham ECS, 27 and 25%, respectively. A small (10%), yet significant, decrease was also seen in the inner entorhinal cortex after Li+. The results indicate that both Li+ and ECS inhibit CCK synthesis in the caudate putamen and are consistent with other findings of presumed decreased dopaminergic action in this part of the brain following these treatments.
Neurotrophins have long been thought to act as target-derived factors that regulate the survival and differentiation of afferent neurons. Recently, brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) was shown to elicit rapid increases in synaptic activity of cultured hippocampal neurons by enhancing responsiveness to excitatory input. These findings suggest a postsynaptic localization of neurotrophin receptors. In this study, we examined the expression of trkB, a high-affinity receptor for BDNF, in the postsynaptic density (PSD), a proteinaceous specialization of the postsynaptic membrane. Western blot analyses with antibodies to trkB revealed localization to the PSD in adult rat cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Only the full-length, active form of trkB was detected in PSD samples. BDNF treatment of the adult cortical PSD resulted in a 5-fold increase in trkB autophosphorylation, supporting the contention that the PSD contains functional trkB. Truncated trkB, which does not contain the tyrosine kinase signaling domain, though present in membrane fractions, was undetectable in the PSD. The presence of trkB in the PSD is consistent with a role for neurotrophins in the regulation of synaptic activity via direct postsynaptic mechanisms.
Antisense oligodeoxynucleotides (ODNs) of c-fos and/or c-jun were used in this study to investigate the role of Fos and Jun proteins in electroacupuncture (EA)-induced transcription of the opioid genes, preproenkephalin (PPE), preprodynorphin (PPD) and proopiomelanocortin (POMC). As the results showed, EA-induced Fos and fun expression was blocked efficiently and specifically by e-fos and c-jun antisense ODNs, respectively. This treatment significantly prevented EA-induced PPD, but not PPE, mRNA expression. These results suggest that Fos and Jun proteins are involved in PPD rather than PPE gene transcription activated by EA stimulation.
Low and high frequency electroacupuncture (EA)-produced analgesia have been shown to be mediated by different brain substrates and different opioid peptides. In this study, Fos-like immunoreactivity (FLI) and in situ hybridization of the three opioid mRNAs were used to examine the effect of low (2 Hz) and high (100 Hz) frequency EA on neuronal activities, and the expression of opioid genes. 2 Hz and 100 Hz EA induced a markedly different spatial patterns of Fos expression in the rat brain, suggesting there are distinct neuronal pathways underlying EA of different frequencies. Likewise, 2 Hz and 100 Hz EA exert differential effects on opioid gene expression: while 2 Hz EA induced a more extensive and intensive preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA expression than 100 Hz EA, it had no effect on preprodynorphin (PPD) mRNA expression which was significantly increased by 100 Hz EA stimulation. In contrast, EA of both frequencies did not affect POMC mRNA expression.
Cerebral ischemia is known to induce the expression of several immediate early genes (IEGs), including c-fos and c-jun, which subsequently regulate a number of late effector genes. In this study, we examined the expression of NGFI-B (or nur 77) mRNA in a rat focal cerebral ischemia-reperfusion model. NGFI-B is a member of the IEGs which encodes for a nuclear receptor and is rapidly induced by nerve growth factor (NGF). Northern blot analysis showed a rapid but transient enhancement of NGFI-B mRNA, a peak level for which was observed at 30 min of reperfusion following 60 min ischemic insult. At the peak level, quantitative analysis of the blot indicated a 12-fold and 4-fold increase of NGFI-B mRNA in the ischemic cortex and ipsilateral hippocampus, respectively, as compared to the sham-operated control. No apparent changes in mRNA levels were observed within contralateral sites of the cortex. Results from in situ hybridization showed that severe ischemia (60 min) resulted in a marked increase of NGFI-B mRNA throughout the entire ischemic cerebral cortex. The increase was particularly notable in the frontal, occipital, perirhinal and piriform cortical regions and in the dentate gyrus and CAI-3 regions of the ipsilateral hippocampus. A marked induction was also noted in the ipsilateral caudate putamen. Unlike the induction profile of NGFI-B mRNA, severe ischemia resulted in bilateral increases of its family gene, NGFI-A mRNA. The spatial induction profile is similar to that of NGFI-B mRNA in both hemispheres, except within the region of the contralateral dentate gyrus which showed low levels of NGFI-A mRNA. The expression pattern of NGF and BDNF mRNA, upstream genes of NGFI-B, were also examined. Interestingly the temporal and spatial expression patterns of BDNF mRNA were very similar to that of NGFI-A mRNA under the same conditions, whereas increased NGF and NGFI-B mRNA were observed only in the ipsilateral hemisphere. It is likely that multiple and/or overlapping pathways are activated subsequent to ischemic challenge which in turn are crucial for cel survival and/or functional recovery following focal cerebral ischemia.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) is metabolised to produce A beta, a peptide found aggregated in Alzheimer's disease neuritic plaques. APP is a member of a multigene protein family which includes amyloid precursor-like protein 2 (APLP2). Since A beta accumulation can be triggered by factors acting up- or downstream of APP processing, we investigated whether APP mRNA expression was altered in Alzheimer's disease post-mortem cerebral cortex. In addition, we characterised cortical APLP2 mRNA levels. Quantitative RNA-RNA solution hybridisation-RNase protection was used to assay total APP. APP containing the Kunitz-type protease inhibitor (KPI) insert and APLP2 mRNA in mid-temporal and superior frontal cortices from apolipoprotein E-genotyped subjects with Alzheimer's disease, other neurological diseases and non-demented controls. Approximately 3 times more APP than APLP2 mRNA was detected and about 70% of total APP mRNA contained the KPI insert in the control subjects. Total APP and APLP2 mRNA levels were significantly reduced in Alzheimer's disease mid-temporal, but not superior frontal cortex, suggesting that regional reductions in these mRNA correlate with severity of disease pathology. A small significant increase in the proportion of APP KPI mRNA was seen in both cortical regions in Alzheimer's disease. Apolipoprotein E genotype did not influence cortical levels of total APP, APP KPI or APLP2 mRNA. Alzheimer's disease-related increases in tissue DNA content were seen in both regions studied, while tissue RNA levels were reduced in the positive disease controls. In summary, these results indicate that Alzheimer's disease is not associated with over-expression of either APP or APLP2 mRNA. Our findings reveal a disease-associated increase in the proportion of APP KPI-containing isoforms, and further investigation should clarify whether this predisposes affected individuals to A beta production and aggregation, or reflects later events such as gliosis and neuronal cell death.
Amyloid precursor protein (APP) and amyloid precursor-like protein 2 (APLP2) are members of a multigene family of proteins implicated in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease. We describe the development of an RNA-RNA solution hybridisation-RNase protection assay to quantify APP mRNA. APP mRNA splice forms containing the Kunitz-type protease inhibitor (KPI) insert, and APLP2 mRNA in total nucleic acid extracts from a range of tissue types. Solution hybridisation-RNase protection assay enables absolute quantification of target mRNA, by conversion of the hybridisation signal to pg mRNA using a standard curve. The assay is sensitive, capable of detecting 1 pg target mRNA, and reproducible, with an inter-assay variability of less than 10% and an intra-assay variability of 3-4%. We quantified APP and APLP2 mRNA in cell lines and post-mortem human brain tissue samples. To test whether we could detect physiological differences in APP mRNA levels, a fibroblast cell line with a paternal chromosome 21 deletion of the region including the APP gene was analysed and found to express half as much APP mRNA as control fibroblasts. In addition, a reversible, approx. 30% increase in APP mRNA levels was detected in human lymphoblastoid cell lines following heat shock, a physical stimulus previously shown to increase APP expression. Regional differences in the expression of APP and APLP2 were seen in human post-mortem cerebral cortex and cerebellum. Levels of APP and APLP2 mRNA were highest in the temporal cortex, slightly lower in frontal and occipital cortices, and lowest in the cerebellum. The highest proportion of KPI-containing APP was seen in the frontal and temporal cortices. The ratio of APP:APLP2 mRNA was 1:0.3 in the cortical tissue and 1:0.8 in the cerebellum. In conclusion, quantitative solution hybridisation-RNase protection assay of total APP. APP KPI and APLP2 mRNA provides a new tool to improve the resolution of studies of potentially subtle alterations in the expression of these genes in both cell culture model systems and Alzheimer's disease post-mortem human brain tissue.
1-Aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) is a high affinity partial agonist for the glycine binding site within the NMDA receptor complex. Chronic treatment with ACPC in vivo appears to reversibly desensitize the NMDA receptor complex, prompting suggestions that it might provide an effective means of ameliorating degenerative mechanisms mediated through this ligand-gated ion channel. In the present experiments, cultured rat spinal cord neurons were used to further examine the effects of acute and sustained ACPC exposures on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-induced neurotoxicity. Cell damage was quantitatively assessed using a tetrazolium salt colorimetric assay. With coincubation, 1 mM ACPC significantly reduced the neuronal cell damage caused by 30 min exposure to 25 or 50 microM concentrations of NMDA, but, in contrast to other competitive and non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonists (D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV), dizocilpine maleate (MK-801) and 7-chlorokynurenic acid (7-CK)), it failed to alter the cell injury induced by 100 microM NMDA. The protective effect of ACPC was competitively abolished by coaddition of glycine, verifying that it was mediated through glycine binding sites. Sustained 20 h exposure to 1 mM ACPC (which was removed 30 min before addition of 25 microM NMDA) also caused cells to be significantly less responsive to the neurotoxic effects of NMDA. Pre-exposure to ACPC for shorter intervals ( &lt; 1 h) failed to alter subsequent NMDA toxicity. Acute or sustained exposures to ACPC alone did not affect cell viability. These results support earlier indications that: (1) ACPC provides an effective means of antagonizing excitotoxic phenomena, and (2) sustained exposure to ACPC desensitizes the NMDA receptor complex.
Contractile responses of the circular muscle of the isolated vas deferens to electrical stimulation (10-80 Hz) and to noradrenaline significantly decreased with increasing age in 3-week-, 10-week- and 18-month-old guinea pigs, observed by the cannula insertion method. There were no significant differences in the contractile responses induced by alpha,beta-methylene ATP or BaCl2 between 3 and 10 weeks old, but the responses to alpha,beta-methylene ATP or BaCl2 decreased in 18-month-old guinea pigs. The contractile response to electrical stimulation was monophasic in 3-week-old guinea pigs, a small portion of which remained after the treatment with prazosin. Desensitisation of P2X-purinoceptors with alpha,beta-methylene ATP significantly inhibited the contractile responses to stimulation with relatively low frequencies, and the combination of both prazosin and alpha,beta-methylene ATP abolished the stimulation-induced contractions. In 10-week- and 18-month-old guinea pigs electrical stimulation evoked a transient contraction followed by a second contraction at the offset of the stimulation (the after-response). The after-responses were blocked by prazosin. These results show that the dominant component of sympathetic cotransmission is noradrenaline; a purinergic component also exists in the sympathetic contraction in the circular muscle of the vas deferens in young guinea pigs, but is virtually absent in the later stages of development. The sympathetic contractions of the circular muscles significantly decrease with increasing age and this appears to be due to changes in postjunctional, rather than prejunctional, mechanisms.
In a previous structure-activity analysis we have shown that the gamma-melanocyte-stimulating hormones (gamma-MSHs) and structurally related adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH) fragments share an amino-acid sequence which is determinant for the effects of these peptides on peripheral hemodynamics, viz. a pressor and a tachycardiac response, in conscious rats. We now investigated whether these structural features are also important for the effects of these peptides on cerebral hemodynamics in urethane-anesthetized rats. After intracarotid and intravenous administration, the 'mother' peptides, Lys-gamma2-MSH and gamma2-MSH, and, with a 10-fold lower potency, ACTH-(4-10), caused a dose-dependent pressor and tachycardiac response, as well as an increase in extra- and intracranial blood flow and microcirculatory cerebrocortical blood flow. Removal of C-terminal amino acids resulted in gamma-MSH-fragments which were devoid of effects on peripheral and central hemodynamics. Fragments of gamma2-MSH which were shortened at the N-terminal side (gamma-MSH-(4-12) and gamma-MSH-(5-12)) were less potent than gamma2-MSH, but had an intrinsic activity similar to that of gamma2-MSH with respect to the pressor and tachycardiac effect. However, the potency and intrinsic activity of these shortened fragments on intracerebral hemodynamic parameters were the same as those of gamma2-MSH. This suggests that different mechanisms (e.g., site of action and/or melanocortin receptor subtype) are involved in the cerebral hemodynamic effects of the melanocortins and in their peripheral hemodynamic effects. Surprisingly, removal of an additional residue, His5, resulting in the fragment gamma-MSH-(6-12), led to full restoration of potency with respect to extracranial blood flow, blood pressure and heart rate. Neither the structurally related analog, [Nle4,D-Phe7]alpha-MSH (NDP-MSH), nor ACTH-(1-24) was able to induce a pressor effect or cerebral hemodynamic effects. In contrast, both compounds had a depressor effect. It is concluded that the C-terminal amino acids in the structure of gamma-MSH/ACTH-like peptides are essential for efficacy for the central hemodynamic effects, i.e., the increase in intracerebral (microcirculatory) blood flow. However, in contrast to what holds for the peripheral hemodynamic features, the N-terminal sequence has hardly any influence on potency or efficacy. The results with NDP-MSH and ACTH-(1-24) and the other fragments lead us to postulate that it is not one of the five known subtypes of melanocortin receptors which mediates the hemodynamic effects of the melanocortins, but an additional, still unidentified subtype. A clue for the elucidation of such a receptor might be found in the structural features of gamma-MSH-(6-12) that appear to be very important determinants for the effectiveness to alter peripheral and central hemodynamics.
Cocaine was administered repeatedly to rats and striatal microdialysis performed 1, 7, 14, or 21 days after the last cocaine injection. Local perfusion of 10 microM serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) increased basal dopamine levels approximately 7-fold (664 +/- 79%, 813 +/- 104% and 669 +/- 22%, n = 6, P &lt; 0.0001) in saline-treated controls, whereas in cocaine-treated animals the effect was significantly attenuated (432 +/- 55%, 465 +/- 61% and 497 +/- 48% n = 6-10, P &lt; 0.03) at 1, 7 and 14 days of withdrawal. The 5-HT effect on dopamine release returned to control levels 21 days after cocaine exposure and was not altered by acute cocaine treatment (30 mg/kg, i.p. 24 h prior). The results suggest that repeated cocaine administration attenuates the effectiveness of 5-HT on striatal dopaminergic activity.
The present study investigated if short-term treatment with an L-type Ca2+-channel inhibitor, nimodipine, can stimulate cognitive functioning and cortical electroencephalograph (EEG) arousal, and potentiate the effect of a cholinesterase inhibitor, metrifonate. Pretraining administration of nimodipine (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg, p.o.) had no effect on water maze and passive avoidance behavior of young neurologically intact controls, or water maze and passive avoidance performance failure induced by scopolamine pretreatment (i.p.; 0.4 mg/kg during the water maze and 2.0 mg/kg during the passive avoidance study), medial septal lesioning, or aging. Furthermore, nimodipine (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg, p.o.) had no effect on the improvement by metrifonate (10 mg/kg, p.o.) of the water maze and passive avoidance failure induced by scopolamine pretreatment or medial septal lesioning, nor did it affect the potential of metrifonate (30 mg/kg. p.o.) to improve the water maze or passive avoidance behavior of aged rats. Finally, nimodipine (3, 10 and 30 mg/kg, p.o.) had no effect on spontaneously occurring thalamically generated neocortical high-voltage spindles or spectral EEG activity of young controls, nor did it alleviate the spectral EEG abnormality induced by scopolamine (0.2 mg/kg, i.p.) administration. Also, the combination of nimodipine 3 or 10 mg/kg and a subthreshold dose of metrifonate 10 mg/kg could not suppress high-voltage spindles or scopolamine treatment-induced spectral EEG activity abnormalities. According to the present results, short-term treatment with nimodipine does not stimulate cognitive functions or increase cortical EEG arousal, and does not block or potentiate the propensity of metrifonate to improve cognitive performance of rats.
This paper describes a suite of routines using IgorPro, a powerful analysis and graphing software package for the Macintosh computer, to enhance the ability to analyze, manipulate, and display data recorded with the Discovery acquisition software marketed by DataWave Technologies. The routines are able to time-align fast and slow data channels, and are especially useful for analyses that involve both neural and behavioral data. The software was designed for eyeblink conditioning and vocalization experiments, but it can easily be used for analyzing other types of neurobehavioral data. The data are first prepared on the PC with routines that inspect the header of the data file and translate the data file into a compact binary format that can be read by IgorPro. An option is also available to splice out data from unnecessary portions of an intertrial interval. The new file is then put on the Macintosh computer for display and analysis by IgorPro. These routines enable both neural and behavioral data to be quickly and easily reduced, manipulated, and statistically and graphically summarized.

The aim of this study was to evaluate macrocirculatory disturbances in relation to the reduced sciatic nerve blood flow seen in diabetic rats. Therefore, both femoral blood flow, the macrocirculatory arterial blood supply to the sciatic nerve, and the microcirculatory neuronal blood flow were measured. In order to differentiate between a direct vascular or a neuronal defect as a cause for the disturbed macrocirculatory blood flow the effects of the adrenocorticotropic hormone [ACTH]-(4-9) analogue, Org 2766, a neurotrophic compound without cardiovascular effects, were investigated on the femoral flow under basal as well as adrenergic-stimulated conditions. Adrenergic responsiveness to tyramine and phenylephrine effect on femoral flow was determined. Basal sciatic nerve and femoral blood flow were reduced by 48% and 42%, respectively, after 12 weeks of diabetes, without effect on blood pressure. Treatment with Org 2766, beginning 6 weeks after the induction of diabetes, had no influence on these basal haemodynamic variables. Femoral flow in diabetic rats showed a smaller response to tyramine and phenylephrine compared to the control. Org 2766 restored this disturbed flow response to that of the control rats. In conclusion, the decrease in basal femoral flow might be responsible for the lowered sciatic nerve blood flow. Although neuronal disturbances due to diabetes had a very minor role in the reduction of basal femoral blood flow the adrenergic-stimulated flow responsiveness was seriously affected in diabetic rats.
Semaphorin (also known as collapsin) members are thought to be involved in axon guidance during neural network formation. Here, we report the isolation of a novel member, mouse semaphorin G (M-sema G), which encodes a semaphorin domain followed by a single putative immunoglobulin-like domain, a transmembrane domain, and a cytoplasmic domain. M-sema G is most closely related to M-sema F, which we previously reported, and semB and semC. These four members appear to constitute a transmembrane type subfamily in mouse semaphorins. In contrast to the predominant expression of M-sema F mRNAs in the nervous tissues, M-sema G mRNAs are strongly expressed in lymphoid tissues, especially in the thymus, as well as in the nervous tissues. The mRNAs are also detected in various cell lines from hematopoietic cells. By generating specific antibodies, we confirmed the strong expression of M-Sema G proteins on the surface of lymphocytes. These results provide the first evidence that semaphorin is expressed on lymphocytes and suggest that semaphorins may play an important role in the immune system, as well as in the nervous system.
This study demonstrates the presence of positive and negative regulatory elements within a 2336-base pair-long region of the rat choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) gene promoter that cooperate to direct cell type-specific expression in cholinergic cells. A 21-base pair-long neuron-restrictive silencer element (NRSE) was identified in the proximal part of this region. This element was recognized by the neuron-restrictive silencer factor (NRSF), previously shown to regulate expression of other neuron-specific genes. The ChAT NRSE was inactive in both cholinergic and non-cholinergic neuronal cells, but repressed expression from a heterologous promoter in non-neuronal cells. Specific deletion of this element allowed ChAT gene promoter activity in non-neuronal cells, and overexpression of NRSF repressed ChAT gene promoter activity in cholinergic cells. The distal part of the ChAT gene promoter showed cholinergic-specific enhancing activity, which stimulated promoter activity in cholinergic cells, but was inactive in non-cholinergic neuronal and non-neuronal cells. This enhancer region suppressed the activity of the ChAT NRSE in cholinergic cells, even after NRSF overexpression. Thus, at least two kinds of regulatory elements cooperate to direct ChAT gene expression to cholinergic neurons, namely a neuron-restrictive silencer element and a cholinergic-specific enhancer.
Spreading depression (SD) is a propagating depolarization of populations of neurons induced by intense electrical, chemical, or mechanical stimulation, which has been proposed to be an important mechanism in the aura of migraine. SD is characterized by a transient loss of synaptic transmission and thus may involve signal transduction mechanisms known to modulate synaptic strength. To examine the underlying pathophysiological molecular mechanisms of SD, we analyzed the regulation of eight protein kinase C (PKC) isoforms by immunoblot during SD induced by a high-intensity stimulus of synaptic afferents in the CA1 region of hippocampal slices. We observed a downregulation of the conventional (alpha, beta I, beta II, gamma) and the novel (delta, epsilon, eta) PKC isoforms in SD, but no change in the atypical isozyme (zeta). The coordinate downregulation of multiple PKC isoforms may be important in the functional depression of neuronal activity in SD. In contrast, the atypical zeta, and its constitutively active fragment PKM zeta, is a specific PKC isozyme that has been implicated in the maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD), widely studied models for the mechanism of memory. The stability of PKC zeta and PKM zeta in SD indicates that a molecular mechanism for the maintenance of LTP/ LTD is relatively resistant to alterations that occur during pathophysiologically large ionic fluxes. This result could help to explain the retention of information stored in the cortex despite the massive release of excitatory neurotransmitter and neuronal depolarization that may occur during the migrainous aura.



Prosaposin is a 66 kDa glycoprotein which has neurotrophic activity in vitro and in vivo. The neurotrophic sequence (8CEFLVKEVTKLIDNNKTEKEI29L) within prosaposin has been located to the amino terminal portion of the saposin C domain. This 22-mer peptide, prosaptide, has neurotrophic activity equivalent to prosaposin. We present binding studies using 125I-prosaposin and 125I-prosaptide which revealed a single class of specific binding sites with a Kd of 2.5 nM and 18.3 nM, respectively. Both prosaposin and prosaptide rapidly stimulated protein tyrosine phosphorylation in PC12 cells and increased phosphorylation of MAPK 20-fold especially of p44 MAPK which peaked at 5 minutes of stimulation and then rapidly declined. Treatment of PC12 cells with a mutant 22-mer prosaptide (21Asn to 21Asp) did not induce phosphorylation. These findings suggest a role for MAPK in signal transduction by prosaposin.
The mRNA encoding the alpha 1 subunit of soluble guanylyl cyclase (alpha 1sGC) was identified in a different-display screening for genes spatially and temporally regulated during the development of fetal rat brain. The initially isolated fragment of the 3' untranslated region was used for in situ hybridization and to produce full-length cDNA clones by hybridization screening of cDNA libraries and by RACE (rapid amplification of cDNA ends), respectively. In situ hybridization analysis that alpha 1sGC was absent at embryonic day 12 (E12), but by E14-E15, the forebrain exhibited dense expression in the developing striatum, medial cerebral wall containing the presumptive hippocampus, cerebellar neuroepithelium, and roof plate. Weaker expression was observed in the septum, epithalamus, ventral thalamus, pineal gland and retina. This pattern is largely maintained and refined at E18, with additional expression domains in the olfactory tubercle, nucleus accumbens, zona incerta and neocortex. During early postnatal development, the adult pattern is expressed, as previously reported. The unexpected, early expression of alpha 1sGC, in conjunction with the known absence of its heterodimeric partner, the beta subunit of sGC, from the developing rodent brain during fetal ages raises potentially novel functional roles of the alpha 1 subunit during ontogeny, and might imply the existence of an alternative beta subunit specific for the prenatal brain.
Many major diseases of human brain involve deficiencies of select neuronal populations. As one approach to repair, we examined regulation of neurogenesis directly in vivo, employing postnatal day 1 (P1) cerebellar cortex, which is composed primarily of granule neurons and dividing precursors. We focused on basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF), which stimulates precursor mitosis in culture and which is highly expressed in cerebellum during neurogenesis. Subcutaneous injection of bFGF increased [3H]thymidine ([3H]dT) incorporation, a marker for DNA synthesis, by 50% in whole cerebellar homogenates, suggesting that peripherally administered factor altered ongoing neural proliferation. Further, assay of isolated granule precursors revealed a 4-fold increase in [3H]dT incorporation following in vivo bFGF treatment, indicating that granule neuroblasts were the major bFGF-responsive population. Morphologic analysis indicated that twice as many granule precursors were in S-phase of the mitotic cycle after peripheral bFGF. To determine whether other neurogenetic populations respond to peripheral bFGF, we examined additional brain regions in vivo. bFGF stimulated DNA synthesis by 68% in hippocampus, and by &gt; 250% in pontine subventricular zone (SVZ). In contrast, incorporation was not altered in basal pons or cerebral cortex, regions in which neurogenesis has already ceased. To define potential direct actions of peripherally administered factor, 125I-bFGF was used to study distribution. Intact 18 kDa 125I-bFGF was recovered from brain following peripheral injection, suggesting that the factor acted directly to stimulate mitosis in dividing neuroblasts. The stimulation of neuronal proliferation by exogenous bFGF suggests that the factor normally regulates neurogenesis, and provides new therapeutic approaches to promote functional recovery from nervous system diseases.
The distribution and hormonal regulation of androgen-receptor-immunoreactive (AR-ir) cells in the male European ferret forebrain were examined. AR-ir cells were found in many limbic and hypothalamic structures, and their distribution was similar to that reported for cells that either bind androgen or contain AR protein or mRNA in other species. Regulation of brain AR immunoreactivity by gonadal steroids was brain-region dependent. In most regions examined, including the preoptic area, amygdala, and several hypothalamic nuclei, castration reduced the density of AR-ir profiles and the intensity of immunocytochemical staining, and long-term (days) androgen, but not estrogen, replacement restored these parameters of AR immunoreactivity. Other areas, such as the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, appeared to be relatively resistant to modulation of AR immunoreactivity by castration and long-term androgen treatment. The ability of testosterone to increase AR-ir profile density is not a simple consequence of translocation of AR from the cytoplasm to the nucleus, because short-term (hours) treatment with testosterone did not result in an increase in AR-ir profile density equivalent to that seen after 10 days of testosterone treatment. Thus, androgens appear to be able to increase AR levels within certain brain cell groups, thereby altering target tissue responsiveness to their own action.
The epitope on tau protein recognized by the monoclonal antibody Alz50 was defined through internal deletion mutagenesis and quantified by affinity measurements. The epitope is discontinuous and requires both a previously identified N-terminal segment and the microtubule binding region for efficient binding of Alz50. The interaction between these regions is consistent with an intramolecular reaction mechanism, suggesting that Alz50 binding depends on the conformation of individual tau monomers. The results suggest that tau adopts a distinct conformation when polymerized into filaments and that this conformation is recognized selectively by Alz50.
Secretory and cytosolic phospholipases A2 (sPLA2 and cPLA2) may contribute to the release of arachidonic acid and other bioactive lipids, which are modulators of synaptic function. In primary cortical neuron cultures, neurotoxic cell death and [3H]arachidonate metabolism was studied after adding glutamate and sPLA2 from bee venom. sPLA2, at concentrations eliciting low neurotoxicity (&lt;/=100 ng/ml), induced a decrease of [3H]arachidonate-phospholipids and preferential reesterification of the fatty acid into triacylglycerols. Free [3H]arachidonic acid accumulated at higher enzyme concentrations, below those exerting highest toxicity. Synergy in neurotoxicity and [3H]arachidonate release was observed when low, nontoxic (10 ng/ml, 0.71 nM), or mildly toxic (25 ng/ml, 1. 78 nM) concentrations of sPLA2 were added together with glutamate (80 microM). A similar synergy was observed with the sPLA2 OS2, from Taipan snake venom. The NMDA receptor antagonist MK-801 blocked glutamate effects and partially inhibited sPLA2 OS2 but not sPLA2 from bee venom-induced arachidonic acid release. Thus, the synergy with glutamate and very low concentrations of exogenously added sPLA2 suggests a potential role for this enzyme in the modulation of glutamatergic synaptic function and of excitotoxicity.
Developmental studies show that the innervation of autonomic targets is accompanied by increases in the density of receptors, maturation of receptor-signalling pathways and changes in receptor subtype. The innervation of the rat mesenteric artery occurs over the first 3 postnatal weeks. In this study, we investigated whether alterations in receptor gene expression may underlie physiological changes recorded during development and maturity in this vessel. Total RNA, from mesenteric arteries of rats at birth and postnatal days 7, 14, 28, 240 and 360, was reverse transcribed and amplified using primers specific for the alpha 1 (A, B, D)- and alpha 2 (A, B, C)-adrenergic, neurokinin (NK1-NK3) and muscarinic (m1-m5) receptors. Results showed that all receptor genes expressed at 28 days, except the alpha 1D-adrenergic receptor, were already expressed at birth. Some receptor subtypes showed no change in their relative expression, always being either strongly (alpha 1A, alpha 2B, NK3) or weakly (alpha 2A, alpha 2C, NK1) expressed. Relative to the expression of these receptors, others showed a developmental increase in expression up to 14 days postnatal (alpha 1B, alpha 1D, m2, m3, m5) but no further change with maturity. These latter changes coincide with the development of sympathetic and sensory nerve plexuses in the mesenteric artery, but do not correlate with the physiological changes seen during development and ageing.
It has long been known that opioids, whether administered exogenously or released endogenously, play a role in feeding behavior, and that blockade of opioid receptors with various antagonists can inhibit feeding. Recently, the orphan opioid receptor, ORL1, and its presumed ligand, orphanin FQ, have been identified in human and rodent brain, and show structural similarity to classical opioid receptors and peptides, respectively. While it has been shown that central administration of orphanin FQ induces hyperalgesia, the effects of this peptide on food intake have not been studied. In the present study, we report that central injection of orphanin FQ induces feeding in satiated rats and that this effect can be blocked by peripheral administration of the opioid antagonist naloxone.
PKC isotypes were studied in rat cortical synaptosomes. Resting synaptosomes, subfractionated into cytosolic and particulate (Triton X100-soluble and insoluble) fractions, containing PKC beta 1, gamma, delta and epsilon isotypes but very little PKC beta 2 or alpha. PKC delta and epsilon were evenly distributed in the cytosolic and particulate fractions; PKC beta 1 was mainly in the cytosol (70%) and PKC gamma was primarily particulate (80%). Triton X-100 extracted most of the PKC delta and epsilon from the particulate fraction but only half of the PKC gamma, indicating PKC gamma association with the cytoskeleton. Following KC1 treatment (30 mM), both the classical PKC isotypes beta 1 and gamma shifted from the cytosolic to the particulate fraction, with PKC beta 1 moving specifically to the detergent insoluble fraction whereas PKC gamma appeared to move to both. It is concluded that PKC beta 1, gamma, delta, and epsilon isotypes can occur presynaptically and suggested that PKC beta 1 and gamma are directly involved in synaptic transmission. Apparent mol. wt changes in translocating forms may be related to phosphorylation and subsynaptosomal location.
Using indirect immunohistochemistry and immunological sympathectomy pituitary adenylate cyclase activating polypeptide (PACAP)-like immunoreactivity (LI) was studied in the adult rat adrenal gland. All PACAP-positive fibres contained choline acetyltransferase (ChAT)-LI and were found in high numbers among noradrenaline chromaffin cells, whereas enkephalin (ENK)/ChAT-immunoreactive (IR) fibres predominantly innervated adrenaline chromaffin cells. After immunological sympathectomy no PACAP-, ChAT- or ENK-IR fibres remained, strongly suggesting a preganglionic origin. A small number of PACAP-IR fibres was also observed in the subcapsular regions both in controls and in sympathectomized animals, presumably representing sensory fibres. These results define a subpopulation of PACAP-containing cholinergic preganglionic fibres in the adult rat adrenal medulla lacking ENK and innervating noradrenaline chromaffin cells. PACAP was also expressed in a few adrenaline chromaffin cells after immunological removal of the preganglionic innervation, suggesting an additional, hormonal role.
Both ice-like protease and calpain have been shown to be involved in apoptosis in non-neuronal cells. Cultured rat cerebellar granule neurons undergo apoptosis when exposed to low potassium-containing medium. Calpain inhibitors 3-(4-iodophenyl)-2-mercapto-(Z)-2-propenoic acid (PD150606) and N-acetyl-Leu-Leu-Met-CHO (calpain inhibitor II) as well as interleukin-beta 1 converting enzyme (ICE)-like protease inhibitor Z-Asp-CH2OC(O)-2,6-dichlorobenzene (Z-D-DCB) protect against such apoptotic death. They also reduce DNA laddering and the number of apoptotic nuclei. Staurosporine treatment also evokes apoptosis in human neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y. While Z-D-DCB is again anti-apoptotic, calpain inhibitors only provide modest effects in this model. Our results suggest that ICE-like protease plays a critical role in neuronal apoptosis whereas the contributions of calpain are more cell-type dependent.
Using in situ hybridization, mRNA coding for the galanin R1 receptor (GAL-R1) was demonstrated in &gt; 20% of all lumbar 4 and 5 dorsal root ganglion neurone profiles, mainly constituting small and medium sized neurones. Almost all of these neurones expressed CGRP mRNA as revealed by analysis of adjacent sections and of the same section using a double-labelling technique. GAL-R1 mRNA levels were down-regulated transiently by inflammation, and more strongly by peripheral nerve injury. These results suggest that DRG neurones are sensitive to galanin and that GAL-R1 receptors are involved in sensory processing.
We examined the effects of chronic ethanol exposure (50 mM; 3 days) on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)- and alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionic acid (AMPA)-induced AP-1 transcription factor DNA binding activity in primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells. Chronic ethanol exposure enhanced NMDA-stimulated AP-1 binding activity, with no corresponding change in AMPA-stimulated AP-1 binding. Supershift analysis with specific antibodies against the members of Fos and Jun protein families showed that the NMDA-induced AP-1 protein complex consisted predominantly of c-Fos and Jun D proteins. Chronic ethanol treatment by itself did not change the protein composition of the AP-1 complex.
Binding sites for [3H]lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD), a serotonin receptor agonist, were identified in planarian membranes by ligand binding studies. The Kd and Bmax values were approximately 4 microM and 0.2 pmol mg-1 protein, respectively. The serotonin (5-HT) receptor antagonists methiothepin and dihydroergocriptine were also efficient displacers of [3H]LSD binding. When planarians were decapitated in the presence of these antagonists, head regeneration was significantly retarded. These results suggest that planarians possess LSD binding sites which are involved in the process of regeneration. Furthermore, we found a putative (5-HT) receptor expressed in planarians by the degenerate primer polymerase chain reaction.
A population of interneurones in the rat striatum contain neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). The nitric oxide (NO)-cGMP pathway may modulate neurotransmission in this brain area but little is known about the physiological stimulator(s) of nNOS in striatal neurones. Exposure of intact striatal slices to N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) (100 microM, 8 min) caused an almost two-fold increase in cGMP levels (EC50 approximately 25 microM), which was inhibited by the nNOS inhibitor N-omega-L-nitroarginine (IC50 approximately 70 nM) and by removing external Ca2+. Neither (S)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole propionate (AMPA) nor the kainate receptor agonist (2S,4R)-4-methylglutamate increased basal cGMP levels. Thus, glutamatergic striatal inputs could stimulate a NO-cGMP pathway in the striatum via NMDA receptors but not via AMPA or kainate receptors.
7-Chlorokynurenic acid (7-Cl-KYNA) and 5,7-dichlorokynurenic acid (5,7-Cl2-KYNA) are of therapeutic interest as potent glycine/N-methyl-D-aspartate NMDA) receptor antagonists, but are excluded from brain by the blood-brain barrier. We examined whether these compounds could be delivered to brain through their respective precursors, L-4-chlorokynurenine (4-Cl-KYN) and L-4,6-dichlorokynurenine (4,6-Cl2-KYN), which are amino acids. 4-Cl-KYN was shown to be rapidly shuttled into the brain by the large neutral amino acid transporter of the blood-brain barrier (K(m) = 105 +/- 14 microM, Vmax = 16.9 +/- 2.3 nmol min-1 g-1) and to be converted intracerebrally to 7-Cl-KYNA. 4,6-Cl2-KYN also expressed affinity for the transporter, but four-fold less than that of 4-Cl-KYN. In summary, the results show that because of their facilitated uptake 4-Cl-KYN and 4,6-Cl2KYN might be useful prodrugs for brain delivery of glycine-NMDA receptor antagonists.
Subsequent to osmotic (mannitol-induced) blood-brain barrier (BBB) opening, [125I]glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) was detected throughout the ventricular system, associated with the ependymal cell layer and extracellular matrix and to some extent penetrated into the cerebral cortex, subcortical gray matter, substantia nigra, septum, eye and optic nerve at 1 and 24 h following an intracarotid administration. Our study indicates that osmotic opening of the BBB allows for extensive distribution of GDNF throughout the central nervous system (CNS).
In vivo rates of incorporation and turnover of palmitate and arachidonate in brain phospholipids were measured in awake rats treated chronically with lithium, following intravenous infusion of radiolabeled palmitate and arachidonate, respectively. Chronic lithium, at a brain level considered to be therapeutic in humans, decreased turnover of arachidonate within brain phosphatidylinositol, phosphatidylcholine and phosphatidylethanolamine by up to 80% (P &lt; 0.001). In contrast, lithium had a minimal effect on turnover of palmitate, causing only a 26% reduction in turnover in phosphatidylcholine (P &lt; 0.01). These results suggest that a major therapeutic effect of lithium is to reduce turnover specifically of arachidonate, possibly by inhibiting phospholipase A2 involved in signal transduction. The effect may be secondary to the known action of lithium on the phosphoinositide cycle, by inhibiting the activity of inositol monophosphatase.
It has been proposed that corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF) released during stress in the region of the locus coeruleus (LC) induces changes in behavior that are typical indices of anxiety. The experiments tested the ability of a CRF antagonist, alpha hCRF9-41, to attenuate stress-induced defensive withdrawal in rats. 1 microgram of alpha hCRF in 300 nl was infused bilaterally in the LC of rats 10 min prior to 30 min immobilization. The apparatus consisted of a small chamber set on one side of a 1 m open field, into which the rat was placed to start the test. Restraint induced defensive withdrawal in rats familiar with the apparatus and significantly increased latency time to emerge from the chamber, total time and mean time spent in the chamber. Infusion of alpha hCRF into the LC prior to restraint significantly decreased total and mean time spent in the chamber comparing to stressed animals. These results are consistent with anatomical, electrophysiological and neurochemical evidence that CRF receptors located in, or close to, the LC region influence behaviors induced by stress.
The effects of ibogaine, a putative anti-addictive drug, on stimulated catecholamine release were examined in cultured chromaffin cells to clarify its mechanism(s) of action. Low concentrations of ibogaine (1-10 microM) had a selective inhibitory action on nicotinic receptor-mediated catecholamine release, while higher concentrations (100 microM) inhibited additional modes of stimulated catecholamine release. These results suggest a selective inhibitory action of ibogaine at the nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, possibly at the receptor ion channel site.
Iloperidone (HP 873; 1-[4-[3-[4-(6-fluoro-1,2-benzisoxazol-3-yl)-1-piperidinyl]propoxy] -3- methoxyphenyl]ethanone) is a compound currently in clinical trials for the treatment of schizophrenia. Iloperidone displays affinity for dopamine D2 receptors and for 5-HT2A receptors and has a variety of in vivo activities suggestive of an atypical antipsychotic. Here we present an examination of the affinity of iloperidone to a variety of human and rat homologs of dopamine and 5-HT receptor subtypes. We employed receptor binding assays using membranes from cells stably expressing human dopamine D1, D2S, D2L, D3, D4 and D5 and 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptors and rat 5-HT6 and 5-HT7 receptors. Iloperidone displayed higher affinity for the dopamine D3 receptor (Ki = 7.1 nM) than for the dopamine D4 receptor (Ki = 25 nM). Iloperidone displayed high affinity for the 5-HT6 and 5-HT7 receptors (Ki = 42.7 and 21.6 nM, respectively), and was found to have higher affinity for the 5-HT2A (Ki = 5.6 nM) than for the 5-HT2C receptor (Ki = 42.8 nM). The potential implications of this receptor binding profile are discussed in comparison with data for other antipsychotic compounds.
Experimental and clinical studies indicate that catecholamines play an important role in the neurobehavioural symptomatology of thiamine deficiency. Given the cerebral region-selective vulnerability and the behavioural impairment commonly encountered in thiamine deficiency, we undertook to investigate regional catecholamine metabolism in the brains of pyrithiamine-induced thiamine-deficient rats. Dopamine metabolism was unaffected in the striatum. In contrast, other regions also known to be involved in sensory processing and intellectual function (e.g., frontal cortex, hypothalamus, thalamus), but having a greater noradrenergic input, had increased levels of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and decreased levels of other dopaminergic metabolites including noradrenaline. In these regions levels of the vesicular amine transporter, defined by tetrabenazine-sensitive [3H]ketanserin binding, were also decreased. Our data suggest a region-selective vesicular dysfunction resulting in intraneuronal release, and subsequent degradation, of dopamine. These disruptions of dopamine and consequently noradrenaline metabolism may account for certain neurobehavioural deficits commonly encountered in thiamine deficiency.
The dose-related effects of the direct dopamine D2 receptor agonist quinpirole [trans-(-)-4aR-4,4a,5,6,7,8,8a,9-octahydro-5-propyl-1 H-pyrazolo[3,4-g]quinoline] on the extracellular concentrations of dopamine and acetylcholine in rat striatum were measured using in vivo microdialysis. Quinpirole was administered intraperitoneally at doses of 3, 30, 300, and 3000 micrograms/kg. Acetylcholine measurements were conducted in the presence of 10 nmol/l of the acetylcholinesterase inhibitor neostigmine in the microdialysis perfusate. The 3 micrograms/kg dose of quinpirole elicited a significant 26% decrease in extracellular dopamine level in striatum whereas the extracellular level of acetylcholine was significantly increased by 15%. At the higher doses tested, quinpirole administration produced significant decreases in the extracellular concentrations of both dopamine and acetylcholine. The maximum inhibition of striatal dopamine efflux by quinpirole was 74% and this effect was observed at the 300 micrograms/kg dose. Inhibition of striatal acetylcholine output reached a maximum of 78% after administration of 3000 micrograms/kg quinpirole. ED50 values (microgram/kg) for quinpirole-induced inhibition of release were 12.4 and 240 for striatal dopamine and acetylcholine, respectively. We conclude from these data that dopamine exerts a tonic inhibitory control over spontaneous acetylcholine efflux in striatum that is directly mediated by dopamine D2 receptors.
Changes in extracellular dopamine concentration in the ventral striatum during repeated amphetamine administration and over the first 7 days of withdrawal were studied by transversal microdialysis in freely moving rats. 2 days after fiber implantation rats were treated with either amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg i.p.) or saline every 12 h for 14 days. In amphetamine-treated rats, the baseline extracellular dopamine concentration, preceding the morning treatment, increased from 0.43 +/- 0.01 on day 1 up to 0.59 +/- 0.02 pmol/40 microliters sample on day 3 of treatment. Thereafter, dopamine fell rapidly on day 5(0.16 +/- 0.01 pmol/40 microliters) and remained at approximately the level reached on day 7(0.11 +/- 0.01 pmol/40 microliters) throughout the treatment and also over the 7 days of withdrawal. In contrast, in control rats, the extracellular dopamine concentration (0.40 +/- 0.01 pmol/40 microliters, on day 1) decreased progressively during the first days of treatment to reach a fairly stable value on day 4 (0.25 +/- 0.01 pmol/40 microliters sample). Thereafter, dopamine remained stable at this level throughout the remaining period of experimentation. Challenge with amphetamine (1.5 mg/kg i.p.) of animals treated with amphetamine for 10 days or withdrawn for 7 days produced a potentiated motor response compared to that in control rats but much less marked dopamine releasing effects. Dopamine synthesis in the ventral striatum, measured as L-dihydroxyphenylalanine formation after blockade of dihydroxyphenylalanine decarboxylase, was found to be reduced by approximately 60% after 2 weeks of amphetamine treatment and in animals withdrawn for 1 day or 7 days. These results indicate that repeated amphetamine treatment causes persistent inhibition of dopamine synthesis and release in the ventral striatum. Such inhibition may be a compensatory response to the repeated stimulation of postsynaptic dopamine receptors by the endogenously released dopamine and also the cause of postsynaptic sensitization to dopamine action.
The effects of the adenosine receptor antagonist 1,3-dimethyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (cyclopentyltheophylline) and the enzyme adenosine deaminase have been examined on paired-pulse inhibition between orthodromic evoked field potentials in the CA1 region of the normal and disinhibited hippocampal slice. In the presence of the GABAA receptor antagonist (-)-bicuculline methobromide, cyclopentyltheophylline suppressed homosynaptic paired-pulse inhibition between stimuli 300 ms apart. Slices treated with (-)-bicuculline and cyclopentyltheophylline together tended to develop spontaneous burst potentials. In slices in which a surgical cut isolated the CA1 and CA3 areas, thereby preventing the development of bursts in CA1, the effect on paired-pulse inhibition was lessened but was still apparent. Adenosine deaminase, in the presence of (-)-bicuculline showed the same effect as cyclopentyltheophylline, decreasing substantially the amount of paired-pulse inhibition. These results suggest that adenosine may contribute to homosynaptic paired-pulse inhibition in disinhibited slices. For comparison, we also examined the effect of cyclopentyltheophylline in normal ((-)-bicuculline-free) slices. At 100 nM, cyclopentyltheophylline increased reversibly the size of orthodromically evoked synaptic population potentials in the CA1 region of the slices and also reduced reversibly the degree of homosynaptic paired-pulse inhibition between two stimuli delivered only 30 ms apart. This suggests that adenosine may also contribute to shorter latency paired-pulse inhibition in the normal hippocampal slice.
Central administration of galanin dose-dependently (minimum effective dose, M.E.D. = 1 nmol) blocked the hypothermia induced by the 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-n-propylamino)tetralin (8-OH-DPAT, 0.5 mg/kg s.c.), in mice. This inhibitory effect was reversed by pretreatment with the galanin receptor antagonist galantide (0.3 nmol) and also by pretreatment with the ATP-sensitive potassium channel blockers glibenclamide (10 nmol) and gliquidone (10 nmol). The hypothermic response to 8-OH-DPAT was also blocked by the 5-HT1A receptor antagonist (N-(2,4(2-methoxyphenyl)-1-piperazinyl)ethyl-N-(2-pyridinyl)cyclohexane, (WAY 100,635, M.E.D. = 0.01 mg/kg s.c.), and the centrally acting muscarinic receptor antagonist scopolamine (M.E.D. = 10 mg/kg i.p.) but not the peripheral muscarinic receptor antagonist N-methylscopolamine. 8-OH-DPAT (0.5 mg/kg s.c.) also decreased cortical and hypothalamic 5-HT (5-hydroxytryptamine, serotonin) metabolism, an effect which was not blocked by pretreatment with galanin (0.3-3 nmol intracerebroventricular, i.c.v.). Neither did galanin (0.03-3 nmol/5 microliters i.c.v.) affect basal 5-HT metabolism in these brain regions. Furthermore, pretreatment in vitro of mouse cortical membranes with galanin (10 or 1000 nM) had no effect on 5-HT1A receptor affinity, Bmax or pharmacology determined using [3H]8-OH-DPAT. These results suggest that the inhibition of 8-OH-DPAT induced hypothermia by galanin is probably not mediated by an interaction with 5-HT1A receptors but more likely by blocking the indirect activation by 8-OH-DPAT of central cholinergic pathways involved in temperature regulation.
Mutations in the glucocerebrosidase gene which result in Gaucher disease can originate from the highly homologous glucocerebrosidase pseudogene. A 55-bp deletion in exon 9, which corresponds to a 55-bp segment absent from the pseudogene, has been identified in patients with Gaucher disease. We have developed a simple polymerase chain reaction (PCR)-based method to detect this 55-bp deletion, and have found this mutation in 3 of 75 DNA samples (4%) collected from patients with Gaucher disease. Commonly used PCR-based screening methods for specific Gaucher mutations frequently make use of primers either within or surrounding the 55-bp gap to selectively distinguish the glucocerebrosidase gene from the pseudogene. However, if the 55-bp deletion in exon 9 occurs, primers will either fail to produce an amplification product or will produce a shortened product which will be falsely attributed to the pseudogene. This could lead to inaccurate genotyping and genetic counseling for some Gaucher patients and their families. We therefore recommended that laboratories using PCR-based screening techniques involving primers in this region initially determine whether this 55-bp sequence is present.

Vestibular afferents to the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) were identified for the first time in the male Sprague-Dawley rat. Cells of vestibular origin were labeled by deposits of cholera toxin B (CT-B) centered on the general viscerosensory division of NTS and dorsal motor nucleus (DMX). Vestibular-visceral afferents derive from neurons concentrated at caudal levels of medial and inferior vestibular nuclei as observed in other species. Vestibular afferent processes were labeled in the NTS and DMX by anterograde transport of the tracer, biotinylated dextran-amine from injection deposits confined to the inferior and/or medial vestibular nuclei. Vestibular axons terminate in the NTS, predominantly at intermediate levels of the dorsal vagal complex. Projections overlapped sites in NTS that receive terminal input from first-order alimentary and cardiorespiratory afferents. The somato-visceral reflex circuit corroborates recent evidence in the rat of increases in functional activity in the vestibular nuclear complex and NTS in response to changes in gravito-inertial force [Kaufman, G.D., Anderson, J.H. and Beitz, A.J., J. Neurosci., 12 (1992) 4489-4500]. Vestibular input to the NTS and DMX may assist in compensating for the effects imposed by movements and gravity on breathing, alimentary reflex function and the systemic circulation.
We studied the distribution of mRNA coding for thyrotropin-releasing hormone (TRH) in the human hypothalamus by means of in situ hybridization. In 10% formalin-fixed paraffin-embedded tissue sections of five hypothalami, TRH mRNA-containing cells were found in several nuclei and areas. Numerous TRH mRNA-containing cells were detected in the medial region of the caudal part of the paraventricular nucleus. These neurons were heavily labeled and mainly small to medium-sized. Few, lightly- and medium-labeled, small cells were detected in the suprachiasmatic nucleus. In addition, heavily labeled single cells were found in the perifornical area and the anterior- and lateral hypothalamic regions. In the latter region, occasional heavily labeled cells were found just dorsal to the supraoptic nucleus. Neither in the supraoptic nucleus nor in the sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area were TRH mRNA-containing cells found. This is the first description of TRH mRNA containing cells in the human hypothalamus.
Activation of group Ib afferents from extensor muscles produces an inhibition in the parent muscle and its synergists in a resting cat. This reflex switches to excitation of the parent muscle and its synergists when the cat walks. This study determined if a similar reflex undergoes the same type of reversal in the intact human. A putative Ib reflex was elicited by conditioning the Hoffmann (H) reflex in the soleus muscle with stimuli to the nerve innervating the medial gastrocnemius muscle. The reflex was observed while subjects: (1) sat quietly; (2) sat and activated the triceps surae muscle isometrically at a low level; (3) stood and activated the triceps surae to the same level as (2); and (4) walked on a treadmill. Condition-test intervals of 1 to 16 ms were used. Ten out of the 15 subjects studied in quiet sitting showed an early, presumably disynaptic inhibition. Walking resulted in a significant reduction in the size of this inhibition at condition-test intervals of 4, 5, 6, and 8 ms for these subjects. No significant differences were observed at longer condition-test intervals. As a group, the inhibition of the conditioned H-reflex was diminished during walking, but not significantly excited. Four out of the 10 subjects, however, showed a significant excitation of the conditioned H-reflex during walking. The inhibition was significantly reduced at a condition-test interval of 7 ms when the triceps surae group was activated isometrically. No differences were seen in the reflex between matched levels of contraction in sitting and standing. It is concluded that the short latency group I inhibition seen at rest is reduced during walking, in a manner similar to that seen in spinal and decerebrate cats. The reduction may be accounted for, at least partially, by activation of the triceps surae.
Consenting melancholic depressives (n = 17) were treated with bilateral ECT under anaesthesia. All patients except two were antidepressant-naive. The auditory P300 event-related potential (ERP) was recorded before and after the ECT course. The latency of P300 in depressives before treatment did not differ from controls, but the amplitude was smaller than in matched controls (n = 15). The P300 amplitude was larger in depressives who had rapid response than in the rest. Rapid responders did not differ from controls on P300 amplitude before treatment. Hence it is suggested that &quot;Normal' P300 predicts rapid therapeutic response to ECT in melancholia.
Mash1 is a transcription factor required during embryogenesis for the development of multiple neural lineages. It is expressed in restricted domains at specific stages in the developing central and peripheral nervous systems and in the developing olfactory epithelium. We have investigated the regulation of Mash1 expression during embryogenesis using transgenic mice containing Mash1/lacZ reporter constructs. Cis-acting regulatory elements controlling Mash1 expression in the central nervous system are located within an 8-kb sequence upstream of the Mash1 coding region. This 8-kb sequence does not contain elements directing expression to the peripheral nervous system, olfactory epithelium, or retina. Sequences outside this 8 kb but within 36 kb of the Mash1 locus contain elements responsible for expression in the autonomic division of the peripheral nervous system. However, transgene expression in embryos containing the 36-kb sequence was never detected in the olfactory epithelium and retina. Thus, regulatory elements driving expression in these lineages may be at even greater distances from the Mash1 coding region. These data provide evidence for complex regulation of Mash1 expression in which multiple lineage-specific cis-acting regulatory regions span greater than 36 kb of the Mash1 locus. Further characterization of these regions will facilitate the study of factors that regulate the temporal and spatial expression of Mash1 during development. In addition, the regulatory sequences identified here can direct expression of heterologous genes to developing neural lineages that normally express Mash1, thus providing an important tool for examining the function of candidate regulatory genes in mammalian nervous system development.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a relatively common, autosomal recessively inherited neurodegenerative disorder that maps to human chromosome 5q13. This region of the human genome has an intricate genomic structure that has complicated the evaluation of SMA candidate genes. We have chosen to study the mouse region syntenic for human SMA in the hope that the homologous mouse interval would contain the same genes as human 5q13 on a simpler genomic background. Here, we report the mapping of such a region to mouse chromosome 13 and to the critical interval for Lgn1, a mouse locus responsible for modulating the intracellular replication and pathogenicity of the bacterium Legionella pneumophila. We have generated a mouse YAC contig across the Lgn1/Sma interval and have mapped the two flanking gene markers for the human SMA locus, MAP1B and CCNB1, onto this contig. In addition, we have localized the two SMA candidate genes, SMN and NAIP, to the Lgn1 critical region, making these two genes candidates for the Lgn1 phenotype. Upon subcloning of the YAC contig into P1s and BACs, we have detected a large, low copy number repeat that contains at least one copy of Naip exon 5. Identification of the Lgn1 gene will either provide a novel function for SMN or NAIP or reveal the existence of another, yet uncharacterized gene in the SMA critical region. Mutations in such a gene might help to explain some of the phenotypic variability among the human SMAs.
As part of efforts to identify candidate genes for disorders mapped to 21q22.3, we have constructed a 405-kb cosmid contig encompassing five tightly linked markers mapping to this region. A subset of these cosmids was used to identify cDNA fragments by the method of hybrid selection. We present here the cDNA sequence of one such gene (GT335) mapping to this region. The gene is expressed as a 1.7-kb transcript predominantly in heart and skeletal muscle, potentially displays alternate splicing, and is predicted to encode a protein 268 amino acids in length. GT335 spans an estimated 13 kb of genomic DNA and is split into seven exons. Five of the six introns conform to the GT . . . AG consensus for intronic splice junctions; the sixth contains nonconventional (AT . . . AC) intronic junctions. We screened this gene for single-basepair mutations using single-strand conformation polymorphism and sequence analysis of both cDNA and genomic DNA from a number of unrelated individuals and have identified several sequence variations, two of which cause conservative amino acid substitutions. This gene is well conserved evolutionarily, with homologs identified in zebrafish and Escherichia coli, suggesting that it plays an important role in basic cellular metabolism.
The suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) is a circadian oscillator and a critical component of the mammalian circadian system. It receives afferents from the retina and the mesencephalic raphe. Retinal afferents mediate photic entrainment of the SCN, whereas the serotonergic afferents originating from the midbrain modulate photic responses in the SCN; however, the serotonin (5HT) receptor subtypes in the SCN responsible for these modulatory effects are not well characterized. In this study, we tested the hypothesis that 5HT1B receptors are located presynaptically on retinal axon terminals in the SCN and that activation of these receptors inhibits retinal input. The 5HT1B receptor agonists TFMPP and CGS 12066A, administered systemically, inhibited light-induced phase shifts of the circadian activity rhythm in a dose-dependent manner at phase delay and phase advance time points. This inhibition was not affected by previous systemic application of either the selective 5HT1A receptor antagonist (+)WAY 100135 or by the 5HT2 receptor antagonist mesulergine, whereas pretreatment with the nonselective 5HT1 antagonist methiothepin significantly attenuated the effect of TFMPP. TFMPP also produced a dose-dependent reduction in light-stimulated Fos expression in the SCN, although a small subset of cells in the dorsolateral aspect of the caudal SCN were TFMPP-insensitive. TFMPP (1 mM) infused into the SCN produced complete inhibition of light-induced phase advances. Finally, bilateral orbital enucleation reduced the density of SCN 5HT1B receptors as determined using [125I]-iodocyanopindolol to define 5HT1B binding sites. These results are consistent with the interpretation that 5HT1B receptors are localized presynaptically on retinal terminals in the SCN and that activation of these receptors by 5HT1B agonists inhibits retinohypothalamic input.
We studied the influences of competing visual and auditory stimuli on horizontal gaze shifts in humans. Gaze shifts were made to visual or auditory targets in the presence of either an irrelevant visual or auditory cue. Within an experiment, the target and irrelevant cue were either aligned (enhancer condition) or misaligned (distractor condition) in space. The times of presentation of the target and irrelevant cue were varied so that the target could have been presented before the irrelevant cue, or the irrelevant cue before the target. We compared subject performance in the enhancer and distractor conditions, measuring reaction latencies and the frequency of incorrect gaze shifts. Performance differed the most when the irrelevant cue was presented before the target and differed the least when the target was presented before the irrelevant cue. Our results reveal that, in addition to the spatial and temporal register of the stimuli, the experimental context in which the stimuli are presented also influences multisensory integration: an irrelevant auditory cue influenced gaze shifts to visual targets differently than an irrelevant visual cue influenced gaze shifts to auditory targets. Furthermore, we observed patterns of influence unique to either visual or auditory irrelevant cues that occurred regardless of the modality of the target. We believe that subjects adopted a state of motor readiness that reflected the unique demands of target selection in each experiment and that this state modulated the influences of the irrelevant cue on the target.
The CNS of Lymnaea stagnalis contains two populations of egg-laying hormone (ELH)-producing neurons that differ in size and topology. In type I neurons, all peptides located C-terminally from the cleavage site Arg-Ser-Arg-Arg180-183 are sorted into secretory large dense-core vesicles (LDCV), whereas N-terminal-located peptides accumulate in a distinct type of vesicle, the large electrondense granule (LEG). Via immunoelectron microscopy, we now show that the second population of ELH-producing neurons, type II neurons, lack LEG and incorporate all proELH-derived peptides into LDCV. This finding provides the first example of a cell type-specific sorting of neuropeptides into LDCV. Furthermore, we provide evidence that LEG are formed through a differential condensation process in the trans-Golgi network and that these bodies are ultimately degraded. Analysis of the endoprotease composition of the two types of proELH-producing neurons suggests that the formation of LEG, and consequently the retention of N-terminal peptides from the secretory pathway, requires the action of a furin-like protein.
There are significant Ca2+-independent increases in extracellular glutamate and aspartate during various CNS insults such as ischemia and anoxia. However, the cellular sources of such presumed nonvesicular excitatory amino acid (EAA) release have not been established. To further explore potential mechanisms and sites for EAA release, we studied the release of preloaded [3H]-D-aspartate from primary cultured astrocytes prepared from the cerebral cortices of rat pups. Two phases of release were seen in response to raised KCl. The first phase was small and transient, and the second phase was slower and increased progressively. The initial phase of [3H]-D-aspartate release was greatly enhanced by ouabain pretreatment and was inhibited when astrocytes were preexposed to the EAA transport inhibitor threo-hydroxy beta-aspartic acid (THBA). Neither of these manipulations affected the second release component. The second phase of release was inhibited by an anion channel blocker, L-644,711, which is known to inhibit hypotonic swelling-induced release of EAA. Ouabain also resulted in the first phase of release occurring at lower [K+]o. Omission of Ca2+ had no effect on either phase of [3H]-D-aspartate release. These results support the hypothesis that the first component of release in cultured astrocytes is a reversal of the glutamate transporter, and the second component is a result of high KCl-induced swelling. Because marked increases in [K+]o are well established in CNS pathologies such as ischemia, such release may represent a significant source for the increased extracellular EAAs seen in such conditions.
Several meta-analyses are presented that address the issue of brain and/or cranial size reductions in schizophrenia. Separate meta-analyses were conducted for brain size (n = 27 studies), intracranial size (n = 18) or extracranial size (n = 8). For each meta-analysis, the weighted composite effect size (d) was tested for statistical significance (the direction of the effect size was negative if patients with schizophrenia had smaller structure size than controls). The influence of several potential modifiers of effect size (age, methods, region, gender) was individually evaluated. The composite effect sizes for studies of brain, intracranial and extracranial measures were d = -0.26, (p &lt; 0.0001), d = -0.18, (p = 0.0012), and d = +0.14, (p = 0.16), respectively. Thus, the review found evidence for a small, but statistically significant reduction in brain and intracranial size in schizophrenia, but no evidence for a reduction in extracranial size. Studies based on axial image slices had significantly larger effects (d = -0.60) than the studies based on sagittal images (d = -0.09) (chi(2) = 14.0, p = 0.0002). In summary, the findings clearly support a small yet highly significant reduction of brain and intracranial size in schizophrenia.
Firing properties of single sudomotor axons were studied via tungsten microelectrodes inserted percutaneously into cutaneous fascicles of the peroneal nerve in awake subjects. Sweating was induced by radiant heat and measured by changes in skin electrical resistance within the innervation territory on the dorsum of the foot. Eight units were classified as sudomotor neurones because spike-triggered averaging revealed a time-locked relationship between the unitary discharge and the subsequent decrease in skin resistance (1.12 +/- 0.05 s), but no relationship to skin blood flow (measured by a laser-doppler probe). Sudomotor units usually fired only one (maximum six) spike(s) in a sympathetic burst. The mean firing rate was 0.62 Hz, but instantaneous frequencies above 50 Hz could be generated. R-wave triggered histograms and coherence analysis revealed significant coupling between the firing of three sudomotor neurones and the ECG. Moreover, the firing of four sudomotor neurones showed a weak but significant correlation with the spontaneous fluctuations in cardiac interval, diastolic pressure, or the rate of fall in arterial pressure. We conclude that the discharge of human sudomotor neurones is modulated by baroreceptor input.

Two widely different paradigms of stress, hypoxia and nutrient deprivation, were observed to trigger apoptosis in a clonal neuronal (hippocampal) cell line (HN2-5) as judged by DNA laddering analysis and chromatin condensation. Since according to its original definition, apoptosis is concomitant with a dramatic change in cell morphology, the composition of major phospholipids that determine morphological properties of cells was analyzed in this study. We observed a significant increase (10-20%) in the proportion of saturated fatty acid side chains only in phosphatidylethanolamine (PE), phosphatidylserine (PS) and phosphatidylinositol (PI) but not in phosphatidylcholine (PC). This increase was independent of the paradigm of stress used (hypoxia or nutrient deprivation) to initiate apoptosis. Since phospholipids constitute the fabric of both plasma membranes as well as the membranes surrounding the intracellular organelles such as the lysosomes, endoplasmic reticulum and the nuclei, such an apoptosis-associated, selective change in phospholipid composition could cause a dramatic and overall change in membrane fluidity, thus producing the typical shrinking, deformation and porosity of both nuclear as well as plasma and lysosomal membranes as observed in apoptotic cells. Leakiness of lysosomal and nuclear membranes could cause diffusion of deoxyribonucleases into cell nuclei, thus resulting in the characteristic cleavage and laddering of chromosomal DNA which accompany apoptosis.

In order to localize amyloid protein precursor (APP) in nerve terminals, we have immunoisolated vesicular organelles from nerve terminal preparations using antibodies to Rab5 and synaptophysin. These immunoisolates were then analyzed by electron microscopy and by immunoblotting. The synaptophysin immunoisolates represented a nearly homogeneous population of small synaptic vesicles, with less than 10% contamination by other organelles, and very little APP. In contrast, Rab5 immunoisolates contained, in addition to small synaptic vesicles, substantial numbers of large uni- and bilamellar vesicles and high levels of APP. Thus, it appears that nerve terminal APP is contained predominantly in large vesicular organelles, distinct from synaptic vesicles and from the synaptic vesicle recycling pathway.


This study investigated the properties of a novel piperidine ether-based tachykinin NK1 receptor antagonist L-733,060, ((2S,3S)-3-((3,5-bis(trifluoromethyl)phenyl)methyloxy)-2-phenyl piperidine and its 2R,3R-enantiomer L-733,061 on [Ca2+]i mobilisation in Chinese hamster ovary cells transfected with human tachykinin NK1 receptors, compared to their effects in rodent cardiovascular and neurogenic plasma extravasation assays. Using FURA-2-imaging techniques, L-733,060 inhibited substance P-induced [Ca2+]i mobilisation with an estimated affinity of 0.8 nM whereas L-733,061 (30-300 nM) did not. No significant effects of L-733,060 were observed on mean arterial blood pressure or heart rate in conscious or anaesthetised rats at doses of &lt; 3000 micrograms kg-1 i.v. L-733,060 also stereoselectively inhibited neurogenic plasma extravasation in rat dura produced by electrical stimulation of trigeminal nerves with an ID50 of 212 +/- 19 micrograms kg-1 i.v. Thus, L-733,060 is a novel antagonist of human tachykinin NK1 receptors which stereoselectively inhibits neurogenic plasma extravasation at doses that do not cause adverse cardiovascular effects.

Using in situ hybridization and immunohistochemistry the expression of, respectively, prepro-galanin (pre-pro-GAL) mRNA and GAL receptor-1 mRNA, as well as GAL-like and GAL message-associated peptide-like immunoreactivities, were studied in rats from embryonic day 14 (E14) to postnatal day 1. GAL expression was observed already at E14 in trigeminal and dorsal root ganglion neurons and at E15 in the sensory epithelia in developing ear, eye, and nose, as well as at E19 during bone formation. Also, GAL receptor-1 mRNA was expressed in the sensory ganglia of embryos but appeared later than the ligand. These findings suggest that GAL and/or GAL message-associated peptide may have a developmental role in several sensory systems and during bone formation.
Alzheimer's disease is characterized by the extracellular deposition of beta-amyloid peptide (Abeta) in cerebral plaques and evidence is accumulating that amyloid is neurotoxic. Abeta is derived from the beta-amyloid precursor protein (APP). Proteolytic processing of APP by the enzyme, beta-secretase, produces the N terminus of Abeta, and releases a secreted ectodomain of APP (beta-s-APP). To develop animal models for measuring beta-secretase activity in specific brain cells in vivo, we have targeted the expression of the full-length human APP to either neurons or astrocytes in transgenic mice using the neuron- specific enolase (NSE) promoter or a modified glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) gene, respectively. The APP cDNAs expressed were mutated (KM to NL at 670/671) to encode amino acid substitutions that enhance amyloidogenic processing in vitro. Western analyses revealed abundant production of beta-s-APP in the brains of NSE-APP mice and enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay analyses showed production of Abeta in fetal primary mixed brain cultures and brain homogenates from these transgenic animals. Because the NSE promoter drives expression primarily in neurons, this provides in vivo evidence that the beta-secretase cleavage necessary for generation of beta-s-APP and Abeta is efficiently performed in neurons. In contrast, only little beta-s-APP was detected in brain homogenates of GFAP-APP mice, indicating that astrocytes show very little beta-secretase activity in vivo. This provides strong in vivo evidence that the major source of Abeta in brain is from neurons and not from astrocytes.
Cytokines such as interleukin-1beta (Il-1) are produced in the brain during development and during inflammatory processes that result from lesions or disease. One function of Il-1 in the brain appears to be the stimulation of astrocytes to proliferate and produce a variety of cytokines and trophic factors, including nerve growth factor. The mechanisms by which Il-1 exerts its actions on astrocytes remain poorly defined. We present evidence that this cytokine elicits activation of the NFkappaB transcription factor and that this transcription factor mediates effects of Il-1 on nerve growth factor mRNA expression. Elucidation of the processes by which cytokines activate astrocytes and influence trophic factor expression may provide insight into mechanisms governing inflammatory processes within the central nervous system.
The principal neuropathological hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are plaques containing amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) and tangles with hyperphosphorylated tau. Tau is predominantly found in the nervous system but has been reported in fibroblasts from individuals with and without AD. Abeta is also found outside the nervous system and is released three times more from cultured fibroblasts carrying the Swedish Alzheimer mutation in the amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene. In the present study, we determined tau levels in fibroblasts from carriers of the Swedish Alzheimer mutation and controls. We also characterized the expression of tau in these cells. Primary fibroblast cell lines from six individuals with and six without the mutation were investigated. ELISA measurements showed no statistically significant difference in tau levels between mutation-carrying cell lines and controls. On Western blot, four bands in the range of 47-67 kDa, corresponding to traditional tau isoforms, were detected with the Tau-l and AT 120 antibodies. Furthermore, four bands between 110-125 kDa were detected. We thus conclude that increased levels of Abeta do not seem to increase the levels of tau in human fibroblasts. We also suggest that several of the traditional tau isoforms as well as isoforms of higher molecular weights, big tau, are expressed in this cell type.
The novel antiepileptic and neuroprotective drug felbamate (1 mM) caused a marked inhibition of voltage-dependent Na+ currents expressed in Xenopus oocytes upon injection of the cRNA encoding alpha-subunits from rat and human brain. This inhibition was present only if felbamate was perfused on the intracellular side of the membrane. In addition, felbamate seems to preferentially bind to and stabilize the inactivated state of the channel, resembling the action of local anesthetics. This study provides an additional mechanism by which felbamate might exert its wide-spectrum anticonvulsant and neuroprotective action.
In membrane preparations from rat striatum, where adenosine A2A and dopamine D2 receptors are coexpressed, stimulation of adenosine A2A receptors was found to decrease the affinity of dopamine D2 receptors for dopamine agonists. We now demonstrate the existence of this antagonistic interaction in a fibroblast cell line (Ltk-) stably transfected with the human dopamine D2 (long-form) receptor and the dog adenosine A2A receptor cDNAs (A2A-D2 cells). In A2A-D2 cells, but not in control cells only containing dopamine D2 receptors (D2 cells), the selective adenosine A2A agonist 2-[p-(2-carboxyethyl)-phenethylamino]-5'-N-ethyl-carboxamido adenosine (CGS 21680) induced a 2-3-fold decrease in the affinity of dopamine D2 receptors for dopamine, as shown in competition experiments with dopamine versus the selective dopamine D2 antagonist [3H]raclopride. By contrast, activation of the constitutively expressed adenosine A2B receptors with 5'-N-ethyl-carboxamidoadenosine (NECA) did not modify dopamine D2 receptor binding. In A2A-D2 cells CGS 21680 failed to induce or induced only a small increase in adenosine-3',5'-cyclic-monophosphate (cAMP) accumulation. In D2 cells NECA- or forskolin-induced adenylyl cyclase activation was not associated with any change in dopamine D2 receptor binding. These results indicate that adenylyl cyclase activation is not involved in the adenosine A2A receptor-mediated modulation of the binding characteristics of the dopamine D2 (long-form) receptor.

The central helix of troponin C is highly conserved in length and amino acid sequence. In this region, D89 is conserved and specific to TnC. To investigate its significance, three mutations were made in avian fast troponin C: (1) D89 was replaced with A (D89A); (2) the central helix was replaced with a designed alpha-helix (alpha h89A) consisting of 87AEAALKAAMEA97; and (3) A89 of alpha h89A was replaced with D (alpha h89D). D89A and alpha h89A activated the regulated actomyosin ATPase poorly in the presence of Ca2+ (24 +/- 1.0% and 14 +/- 2.0%, respectively, of the wild type maximal activity) whereas alpha h89D had higher activity (113 +/- 3%). Both alpha h89A and D89A had apparently normal interactions with TnI and TnT whereas alpha h89D formed a complex with TnT even in the absence of Ca2+. The central helix was also replaced with a flexible random coil and rigid polyproline linkers in which D89 was Arg or Pro, respectively. Like alpha h89A and D89A, both mutants were defective in activation of the actomyosin ATPase in the presence of Ca2+. Changes in regulatory function of the mutants did not correlate with altered Ca2+ affinity, altered conformational changes upon binding divalent cations, or Ca(2+)-dependent binding to TnI or TnT. The results suggest that D89 is required for Ca(2+)-dependent signal transduction, an event that can be dissociated from Ca(2+)-dependent binding to TnC targets on the thin filament.
Microdialysis studies were conducted on prenatally saline-treated and prenatally cocaine-treated rats, either as pups (10-30 days old) or young adults (40-190 days old), to study the effects of prenatal cocaine exposure on the mesolimbic dopamine (DA) system. In the n. accumbens of saline-treated rats, basal dialysate concentrations of DA were similar in pups and adults; however, the levels of DA metabolites, DOPAC, HVA, and the serotonin metabolite, 5-HIAA, were markedly lower in pups. In pups, prenatal cocaine exposure led to basal dialysate levels of DA in the n. accumbens that were twice control levels; however, there was no difference in response to a period of intermittent tail pinch or an acute injection of cocaine (20 mg/kg). In the adult, basal levels of DA, DOPAC, HVA and 5-HIAA in n. accumbens did not differ across prenatal treatments. However, in prenatally cocaine-treated adults a cocaine injection led to an enhanced rise in extracellular DA compared to controls. In frontal cortex of adult rats, basal levels of DA, DOPAC and HVA did not differ across prenatal treatments; however, basal levels of 5-HIAA in this region were significantly elevated in prenatal-cocaine rats. No group differences were observed in the frontal cortex in response to either tail pinch or cocaine. Thus prenatal cocaine exposure produces an increase in basal extracellular DA in the n. accumbens of pups which returns to normal with aging. While this initial difference normalizes, prenatal cocaine exposure induces other persistent changes in adulthood.
The vasopressin (VP) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)-expressing neurons in the human suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) were morphometrically determined with or without microwave (MW) treatment. Both an enlarged volume and an increased number of neurons were found in the VP and VIP subnucleus of the SCN following MW treatment. The staining of VIP neurons by MW treatment improved much more than that of the VP neurons. Without MW treatment the VP- and VIP-expressing neurons were localized mainly in the central part of the subnuclei, whereas by increasing the sensitivity of the staining by MW treatment more neurons became visible, particularly in the peripheral areas of the subnuclei.
Mice infected with the LP-BM5 murine leukemia virus (MuLV) mixture develop severe immunosuppression, neurotransmitter abnormalities and cognitive impairments in the absence of significant viral or macrophage invasion of the CNS. The time-course of the changes in glial activation have been characterized in an effort to understand the cellular basis of the neurobehavioral abnormalities observed in these mice. Glial activation was determined by measuring the relative changes in F4/80 protein and GFAP immunoreactivity using immunoblots. Augmented F4/80 expression preceded that of GFAP, with global elevations of 4-6-fold at 3 weeks, sustained for up to 12 weeks after inoculation. GFAP immunoreactivity increased 2-fold only in the cerebral cortex and striatum 5 weeks postinfection, declining to control levels by 12 weeks. Immunohistochemistry revealed significant increases in microglial size and staining intensity in the cortex, corpus callosum and striatum, with the development of a unique population of highly ramified, intensely stained microglia and microglial nodules in the corpus callosum and striatum. No evidence of ameboid microglia was found. Astrocyte size and degree of ramification was increased in the hippocampus, cortex, striatum and corpus callosum. Thus, microgliosis is an early event in LP-BM5 infection, preceding astrocytosis, neurotransmitter loss, and development of cognitive deficits. Activated microglia may secrete neurotoxins leading to the neurochemical alterations and cognitive deficits observed in these mice. Because gliosis and microglial nodule formation are hallmarks of HIV-1 encephalopathy, LP-BM5 MuLV-infected C57/B16 mice may afford insights into the mechanisms contributing to the early stages of this syndrome.
We report the effects of physiological stimuli on extracellular dopamine (DA) in the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) of the rat determined on-line in dialysates obtained every 5.5 min. The detection limit for DA was 0.03-0.1 pg/5 microl injection using a conventional HPLC set-up. Basal levels in PFC were at the detection limit, therefore 3 microM nomifensine was included in the Ringer perfusion fluid, producing readily detectable DA levels of 0.9 pg/injection. Perfusion with 3 microM TTX for 30 min decreased DA within 11 min to 10% of control. The routine use of rapid sampling of extracellular DA was applied to study cortical DA release in relation to behaviour. Exposure to a novel environment for 5.5 min led to an increase to 135%. Presentation of a food pellet to food-deprived rats resulted in a rapid increase to 150% within 5.5 min, which lasted 30-40 min, which is 10-20 min more than the time spent eating. Handling the rat for 5.5 min increased DA in PFC within 5.5 min to 160% and in 11 min to 190% of control followed by a 25-min period of a 50% increase, probably reflecting increased arousal. The results suggest that emotional arousal is a common denominator of increased cortical DA release and that responses are graded depending on the intensity of the stimulus.
The sexually dimorphic nucleus of the preoptic area (SDN-POA) is the most striking structure displaying a morphological sex difference in the rat brain. A potentially homologous nucleus has been identified in the human hypothalamus. The objective of the present study was to pursue the putative homology of the rat and human SDN-POA by determining whether they express the same transmitter phenotype. We employed in situ hybridization histochemistry for GAD mRNA to show whether the neurons of the SDN-POA produce GABA. In both the rat and human, high levels of GAD65 and GAD67 mRNA are present in most, if not all, SDN-POA neurons. No sex difference is evident in the level of expression in either the rat or human. The data indicate that neurons of the SDN-POA in both the rat and human are GABA-producing and argue for the homology of these nuclei in the rat and human hypothalamus.
Cytochalasin D (CD) interferes with the morphogenesis of outer segment disc membrane in photoreceptors. Disruption of either the actin network in the ciliary stalk, where membrane evagination is initiated, or the actin core of the calycal processes, whose position could define the disc perimeter, could be responsible. We have attempted to determine which of these local F-actin populations is involved in membrane morphogenesis and what step in the process is actin-dependent. Biocytin accumulation in nascent discs, detected by fluorescent avidin and laser scanning confocal microscopy (LSCM), provided a means of labeling abnormal discs and a measure of disc membrane addition. F-actin content and distribution were assessed using fluorescent phalloidin and LSCM. First, we examined the effects of a range of CD dosages (0.1, 1.0, or 10.0 microM) on rod photoreceptors in Xenopus laevis eyecup cultures. Ectopic outgrowth of discs, evaluated by LSCM and transmission electron microscopy (TEM), occurred at each concentration. Phalloidin labeling intensified in the ciliary stalk with increasing CD concentration, indicating F-actin aggregation. In contrast, it diminished in the calycal processes, indicating dispersal; TEM showed that calycal process collapse ensued. Disruption was evident at a lower concentration in the ciliary stalk (0.1 microM) than in the calycal processes (1.0 microM). TEM confirmed that the calycal processes remained intact at 0.1 microM. Thus, CD's action on the ciliary stalk network is sufficient to disrupt disc morphogenesis. Second, we examined the effect of CD on temperature-induced acceleration of the rate of disc formation. In the absence of CD, a 10 degrees C temperature shift increased the disc formation rate nearly three-fold. CD (5 microM) caused a 94% inhibition (P &lt; 0.025) of this response; yet, the rate of membrane addition to ectopically growing discs exhibited the expected three-fold increase. Thus, CD's action interferes with the generation of new discs.
Previous studies of the primate cerebral cortex have shown that neurofilament protein is present in pyramidal neuron subpopulations displaying specific regional and laminar distribution patterns. In order to characterize further the neurochemical phenotype of the neurons furnishing feedforward and feedback pathways in the visual cortex of the macaque monkey, we performed an analysis of the distribution of neurofilament protein in corticocortical projection neurons in areas V1, V2, V3, V3A, V4, and MT. Injections of the retrogradely transported dyes Fast Blue and Diamidino Yellow were placed within areas V4 and MT, or in areas V1 and V2, in 14 adult rhesus monkeys, and the brains of these animals were processed for immunohistochemistry with an antibody to nonphosphorylated epitopes of the medium and heavy molecular weight subunits of the neurofilament protein. Overall, there was a higher proportion of neurons projecting from areas V1, V2, V3, and V3A to area MT that were neurofilament protein-immunoreactive (57-100%), than to area V4 (25-36%). In contrast, feedback projections from areas MT, V4, and V3 exhibited a more consistent proportion of neurofilament protein-containing neurons (70-80%), regardless of their target areas (V1 or V2). In addition, the vast majority of feedback neurons projecting to areas V1 and V2 were located in layers V and VI in areas V4 and MT, while they were observed in both supragranular and infragranular layers in area V3. The laminar distribution of feedforward projecting neurons was heterogeneous. In area V1, Meynert and layer IVB cells were found to project to area MT, while neurons projecting to area V4 were particularly dense in layer III within the foveal representation. In area V2, almost all neurons projecting to areas MT or V4 were located in layer III, whereas they were found in both layers II-III and V-VI in areas V3 and V3A. These results suggest that neurofilament protein identifies particular subpopulations of corticocortically projecting neurons with distinct regional and laminar distribution in the monkey visual system. It is possible that the preferential distribution of neurofilament protein within feedforward connections to area MT and all feedback projections is related to other distinctive properties of these corticocortical projection neurons.
Gonadotropin releasing-hormone (GnRH) regulates the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal axis in vertebrates. The regulation of GnRH is intimately related to information from the olfactory system. Additionally, GnRH neurons are thought to be derived from progenitor cells in medial olfactory placodes. The present experiments were conducted to characterize the earliest development of GnRH neurons in lamprey and to determine their relationship to cells and fibers derived from the olfactory system. Eggs from fertile adult sea lamprey were fertilized in the laboratory, and larvae were maintained for up to 100 days. GnRH neurons were visualized within the lamprey preoptic area and hypothalamus as soon as GnRH was detectable (22 days after fertilization). The number of neurons increased with age through day 100. GnRH neurons were never seen within the olfactory system. The cells and fibers of the olfactory system were identified using the lectin, Grifonia Simplicifolia-1 (GS-1). Overlap between the olfactory and GnRH systems were at the level of fiber projections. GS-1 reactive cells of apparent placodal origin did not enter the region of the preoptic area or hypothalamus that contained GnRH neurons. Recently divided cells were labeled with the thymidine analog, bromodeoxyuridine (BrdU). The positions of BrdU-labeled cells after different survival times suggest a predominant medial-lateral radial neuron migration with a small number in positions suggestive of migration between the olfactory epithelium and the telencephalic lobes. Regardless of survival time, these cells were always found close to their entry point into the brain, suggesting minimal rostral-caudal migration. Based on these results, we hypothesize that GnRH neurons in developing lamprey originate within proliferative zones of the diencephalon and not in the olfactory system. Based on the overlap of olfactory- and GnRH-containing fibers from prolarval stages to metamorphosis, olfactory stimuli may play a major role in the regulation of GnRH secretion in lamprey.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) and the amygdala are involved in a number of common functions, such as emotional and social behavior, stress, visceral functions, ingestive behavior, self-stimulation, and certain aspects of learning and memory. The amygdala massively projects to the PFC and may play a role in the developmental plasticity reported for several of these functions. We have studied the normal postnatal development of the amygdaloid projections to the rat prefrontal cortex by using the retrogradely transported fluorescent dye fast blue and the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L). Shortly after birth some fibers were observed in the frontal pole of the rat brain. These fibers were scattered throughout all prefrontal cortical areas. The majority of the amygdaloid cells contributing to this pattern at that stage of development were located in the anterior and ventral basolateral nuclei, whereas a minority were located in the posterior basolateral nucleus. The transition from a diffuse fiber distribution to a characteristic bilaminar pattern occurred around postnatal day 12 in the lateral and rostral medial PFC. The PHA-L injections confirmed the existence of a topographical organization of the amygdalo-prefrontocortical projections. Our observations suggest that the development of amygdala innervation of the PFC parallels the emergence of PFC cytoarchitectural organization.
We have recently shown, by using immunoelectron microscopy, that the mu-opioid receptor (mu OR) is prominently distributed within noradrenergic perikarya and dendrites of the nucleus locus coeruleus (LC), many of which receive excitatory-type (i.e., asymmetric) synaptic contacts from unlabeled axon terminals. To characterize further the neurotransmitter present in these afferent terminals, we examined in the present study the ultrastructural localization of an antipeptide sequence unique to the mu OR in sections that were also dually labeled for the opioid peptide leucine-enkephalin (L-ENK). Immunogold-silver labeling for mu OR was localized to extrasynaptic portions of the plasma membranes of perikarya and dendrites. The mu OR-labeled dendrites were usually postsynaptic to axon terminals containing heterogeneous types of synaptic vesicles and forming asymmetric synaptic specializations characteristic of excitatory-type synapses. The majority of these were immunolabeled for the endogenous opioid peptide L-ENK. Some mu OR-labeled dendrites received synaptic contacts from unlabeled axon terminals in fields containing L-ENK immunoreactivity. In such cases, the mu OR-labeled dendrites were in proximity to L-ENK axon terminals that contained intense peroxidase labeling within large dense core vesicles along the perimeter of the axoplasm. These results indicate that L-ENK may be released by exocytosis from the dense core vesicles and diffuse within the extracellular space to reach mu OR sites on the postsynaptic dendrite or dendrites of other neighboring neurons. The present study also reveals that unlabeled terminals apposed to mu OR-labeled dendrites may contain other opioid peptides, such as methionine-enkephalin. These data demonstrate several sites where endogenous opioid peptides may interact with mu OR receptive sites in the LC and may provide an anatomical substrate for the LC's involvement in mechanisms of opiate dependence and withdrawal.
This report concerns a notable case of progressive supranuclear palsy exhibiting asymmetric dentate nucleus and thalamic degeneration with numerous torpedoes. The neuronal loss in the ventral lateral nucleus of the thalamus was predominant on the right side, while in the cerebellum, a quantitative study revealed the contralateral predominance of the neuronal loss in the dentate nuclei and torpedo formation, with preserved Purkinje cells. The abnormal tau-protein-related profiles in the two nuclei did not show any laterality in their distribution, indicating that the dentatothalamic tract may have been affected in a non-specific way in this case. In addition, the fact that the prominent sites of torpedo formation and loss of dentate nucleus neurons are identical supports the hypothesis that the torpedoes may be formed in association with neuronal loss in the dentate nucleus because of a plausible metabolic change in Purkinje cells through synaptic detachment of their axon terminals.
Little is known about the neuropathology of Cornelia de Lange syndrome. We report a unique type of cerebral malformation combined with Cornelia de Lange syndrome in a 5-year-old female child. At autopsy, the optic systems, hypothalamic nuclei, corpus callosum and cerebellar vermis were hypoplastic, and the septum pellucidum, fornix and anterior commissure were rudimentary. The brain had malformative features of septo-optic dysplasia combined with commissural dysplasia and cerebellar vermian hypoplasia. This case suggests an interrelationship between Cornelia de Lange syndrome and midline development of the brain.
Observations have been made on the structure of the paranodal region at nodes of Ranvier in the sural nerve of patients with diabetic sensory polyneuropathy. The structure of the paranodes was examined with particular attention to the definition and assessment of axoglial dysjunction, which has been claimed to be a characteristic feature of both human and experimental diabetic neuropathy and which has been related to paranodal swelling. In the present series of cases it was not possible to confirm that axoglial dysjunction is a distinctive feature of diabetic polyneuropathy in fibres not undergoing active demyelination or wallerian-type degeneration, neither was excessive paranodal enlargement found.
The offspring of nine women who had abused alcohol and drugs during pregnancy were studied. Of the 30 children, 10 had fetal alcohol syndrome (FAS) or fetal alcohol effects (FAE). Ophthalmological impairments associated with FAS--impaired vision, optic nerve hypoplasia, cataract, increased tortuosity of retinal vessels--were common. The severity of teratogenic lesions varied among the children and was often related to the level of abuse during pregnancy. Most women were unable to take care of their children during periods of substance abuse. All children with FAS/FAE had learning difficulties. Four mothers abstained from alcohol or drugs during some of their pregnancies and gave birth to children without birth defects.

To investigate in more detail concordance between the recently developed Comprehensive Psychopathological Rating Scale (CPRS) and the recently developed Self-Rating Scale for Affective Syndromes (CPRS-S-A), a total of 101 psychiatric out-patients were assessed using these procedures and a diagnostic interview according to DSM-III-R. Depressive and anxiety syndromes were the most common diagnoses on Axis I. Approximately one-third of the patients had a diagnosis of clinical personality disorder on Axis II. The majority of the patients were assessed as predominantly manifesting either Cluster B or Cluster C traits. In general, the correlation between self- and expert-ratings was strong (0.83 for the Montgomery-Asberg Rating Scale (MADRS) depression subscale and 0.76 for the Brief Scale for Anxiety (BSA) anxiety subscale), but it tended to be weaker in the group of patients with clinical personality disorders. The correlation between the two ratings was also weaker in the group with predominantly Cluster B character traits than in the group with predominantly Cluster C traits or the group with no predominant traits, and weaker in the depressive group than in the anxiety group. However, personality disorder diagnoses were over-represented in the depressive group. The weaker correlations in the groups mentioned above may have been attributable to psychological factors and qualitative differences in cognitive and communicative style. The CPRS-S-A is considered to be a useful and reliable instrument for quantitative rating of symptoms in out-patients. Our results highlight the potential value of using appropriate self-assessment forms as complementary tools in clinical practice and research.
Effects of chronic ethanol treatment (CET) on muscarinic acetylcholine receptor (mAChR) binding properties were investigated via quantitative autoradiography in rats maintained on an ethanol-containing liquid diet for 28 weeks and withdrawn from ethanol for 8 weeks before harvesting of tissues. Controls received an identical diet in which sucrose was substituted isocalorically for ethanol. Maximal binding of the radiolabeled mAChR antagonist quinuclidinyl benzilate ([3H]QNB) was not reduced in hippocampal area CA1, dentate gyrus, neocortex, striatum, or thalamus, suggesting that CET results in no significant mAChR loss in these regions. Binding affinities of the cholinergic agonist carbachol to mAChRs were unaffected by CET in each of these regions, as determined by competitive displacement of [3H]QNB labeling. These results suggest that CET-induced functional deficits in brain cholinergic responses are not due to direct effects of CET on mAChR binding properties.

The amino- and carboxyl-terminal properties of the amyloid-beta (A beta) peptides deposited in diffuse plaques, one of the earliest forms of A beta deposition, were examined in the brains of patients with Down's syndrome and Alzheimer's disease and in aged individuals without dementia by immunocytochemistry. This was done using a panel of antibodies that specifically discriminate the terminal structures and modifications at the amino and carboxyl termini of A beta. Diffuse plaques found in the cerebral and cerebellar cortex, neostriatum, and hypothalamus of Down's syndrome, Alzheimer's disease, and nondemented brains were strongly immunoreactive for A beta N1(L-Asp), A beta N1(L-isoAsp), A beta N1(D-Asp), and A beta N3(pyroGlu) and weakly positive for A beta N11(pyroGlu) and A beta N17(Leu). Diffuse plaques also were positive for A beta 42(43) but negative for A beta 40, using carboxyl-terminal-specific anti-A beta antibodies. These results suggest that the amino termini of the A beta species that initially deposit in diffuse plaques begin with A beta N1(Asp) with or without structural modifications (isomerization and racemization), as well as with A beta N3(pyroGlu), and terminate preferentially at A beta 42(43) rather than A beta 40.
The introduction of a formal debate was used to stimulate discussion of neuroscience in our graduate program. The debate had several advantages for encouraging student participation. Several students actively participated in the debate: four debaters and five judges. Faculty coaches helped provide background knowledge and guidance before the debate but were not debaters. Faculty directed the judges in methods of evaluation but were not judges. It was felt that this method of teaching was not only fun, but also provided an opportunity to learn current topics in neuroscience, method of presentation, and critical evaluation.
The activity of neurons in the posterior hypothalamus (PH) is thought to contribute to the production of wakefulness and electroencephalograph desynchronization. Inactivation of neuronal activity in this area is known to induce sleep. Most PH neurons decrease unit discharge during slow-wave sleep (SWS) relative to wake and rapid eye movement sleep. In the present study, we sought to examine potential sources of inhibition or disfacilitation underlying the reduction of PH unit activity during SWS in the cat. We employed the microdialysis technique in conjunction with high-performance liquid chromatography methods for the quantification of glutamate, glycine, and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release. We found a selective increase in GABA release during SWS in the PH. Glutamate and glycine levels were unchanged across the sleep-wake cycle. microinjection of the GABAA-receptor agonist muscimol, into the same areas from which microdialysis samples were collected, increased SWS time. Our studies support the hypothesis that GABA release in the posterior hypothalamus mediates inhibition of posterior hypothalamic neurons, thereby facilitating SWS.
Changes in membrane potential associated with alpha-adrenoceptor-mediated contraction of rat iris arterioles after nerve stimulation (10 Hz, 1 s) have been measured with conventional intracellular recording techniques. Two different types of intracellular responses were recorded. Cells that show a depolarization are proposed to represent the arteriolar smooth muscle cells because the characteristics of the depolarization are correlated with those of the contraction. Cells that show no response or a small hyperpolarization in response to nerve stimulation are proposed to represent the endothelial cells of the arteriole. Both the depolarization and the contraction were abolished by tetrodotoxin (1 microM), benextramine (10 microM), and prazosin (0.1 mM), indicating that they result from nerve-mediated activation of alpha-adrenoceptors. A small but significant part of the contraction (30%) and the depolarization (11%) was nifedipine sensitive (10 microM). Caffeine (1 mM) abolished the contraction and reduced the depolarization by one-half. Reducing the external chloride concentration also abolished the contraction and reduced the depolarization by 90%. Flufenamic acid (250 mM) abolished both the contraction and the depolarization. It is suggested that, in iris arterioles, the activation of synaptic alpha-adrenoceptors leads to the release of intracellular calcium that activates both the chloride channels in the cell membrane leading to depolarization and the intracellular contractile apparatus leading to vasoconstriction.
Islet amyloid polypeptide (IAPP) is a novel amyloid-forming beta-cell hormone with putative roles in glucose metabolism and non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM) pathogenesis. To study how IAPP and insulin expression are regulated by glucose, rats were fasted for 48h followed by administration of glucose at repeated 4-h intervals; IAPP and insulin mRNA levels were determined by quantitative in situ hybridization. Fasting markedly reduced IAPP and insulin mRNA levels. Two (6 h) and four (14 h) glucose injections dose dependently increased both mRNA levels; the effects were matched by similar changes in plasma glucose levels. Actinomycin D blocked the glucose-induced increase in IAPP expression. IAPP and insulin mRNA levels were significantly correlated over the range of glucose levels. The parallel regulation of IAPP and insulin gene expression by glucose is consistent with a role for IAPP in glucose homeostasis. Thus, under hyperglycemic conditions such as NIDDM, IAPP gene expression is likely to increase. Hence, IAPP could, by elevated local concentrations, contribute to amyloid formation and/or affect metabolism unfavorably by inhibition of insulin release and action.


The role of calcium in the etiology of anxiety has been proposed for several decades. Calcium channel blockers profoundly influence calcium metabolism and the transport of calcium. Even though the evidence for the role of calcium remains weak, drugs affecting calcium might be useful in the treatment of anxiety disorders. One of these compounds, verapamil, has been used to treat mood disorders. Calcium channel blockers have also been tried in other indications such as premenstrual syndrome, irritable bowel syndrome, schizophrenia, tardive dyskinesia, and Tourette's syndrome. However, the number of articles on the use of calcium channel blockers in the treatment of anxiety disorders is low. Three reports (two open, one double-blind) described some success in the treatment of panic disorder with verapamil, diltiazem, or nimodipine and one open-label study described unsuccessful treatment of anxiety and phobia with nifedipine in patients with various anxiety disorders. Further double-blind placebo-controlled studies of calcium channel blockers in the treatment of anxiety disorders are warranted to determine a possible role of these compounds in the armamentarium of antianxiety drugs.
Severe schizophrenics as a group show subtle abnormalities of cerebral structure. Cerebral ventricular enlargement is the best replicated finding, and this tends to be associated with impairment of neuropsychological performance. The idea that these abnormalities have a neurodevelopmental origin gains indirect support from the, admittedly less consistent, evidence of abnormalities of cerebral asymmetry and of neuronal migration in adult schizophrenics, as well as from the better established behavioural, psychomotor, and cognitive impairments reported in preschizophrenic children. However, the relationship between childhood and adult neuropsychological and brain structural findings has not been proven, and we don not know whether only some schizophrenia has a developmental origin, or whether patients differ only in the degree of developmental impairment that they show.


The purpose of this descriptive study was to determine the degree of congruence between parents' satisfaction with nursing care on a pediatric neurosciences unit and nurses' perceptions of parent satisfaction. Convenience samples of 20 pairs (20 parents and 20 nurses) from the neurosciences unit participated in this study. Data were collected by means of a 25-item self-administered satisfaction with nursing care instrument and socio-demographic tools. Satisfaction with nursing care is a reliable predictor of overall hospital satisfaction (Abramowitz et al., 1987; Cleary et al., 1989). Satisfied health care consumers are known to show better rates of compliance with treatment regimens and be more willing to seek health care services (Greeneich et al., 1992; McMillan, 1987; Naylor, Munro, &amp; Brooten, 1991). The findings of this research study support the need for nurses to explicitly ask consumers (patients and families) whether or not their expectations of nursing care are being met. For unless nurses ensure that the care they provide is consistent with what consumers want, nurses risk basing nursing interventions on assumptions and erroneous perceptions and consumers are unlikely to be satisfied.
Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) was first tried as a treatment for seizure patients in 1988. The idea to stimulate the vagus nerve and disrupt or prevent seizures was proposed by Jacob Zabarra. He observed a consistent finding among several animal studies which indicated that stimulation of the vagus nerve could alter the brain wave patterns of the animals under study. His hypothesis formed the basis for the development of the vagus nerve stimulator, an implantable device similar to a pacemaker, which is implanted in the left chest and attached to the left vagus nerve via a stimulating lead. Once implanted, the stimulator is programmed by a physician to deliver regular stimulation 24 hours a day regardless of seizure activity. Patients can also activate extra 'on-demand' stimulation with a handheld magnet. Clinical studies have demonstrated VNS therapy to be a safe and effective mode of treatment when added to the existing regimen of severe, refractory patients with epilepsy. Efficacy ranges from seizure free to no response with the majority of patients (&gt; 50%) reporting at least a 50% improvement in number of seizures after 1.5 years of treatment. The side-effect profile is unique and mostly includes stimulation-related sensations in the neck and throat. The mechanism of action for VNS is not clearly understood although two theories have emerged. First, the direct connection theory hypothesizes that the anticonvulsant action of VNS is caused by a threshold raising effect of the connections to the nucleus of the solitary tract and on to other structures. The second is the concept that chronic stimulation of the vagus nerve increases the amount of inhibitory neurotransmitters and decreases the amount of excitatory neurotransmitters. Additional research into the optimal use of VNS is ongoing. Animal and clinical research have produced some interesting new data suggesting there are numerous ways to improve the clinical performance of vagus nerve stimulation as a treatment for refractory patients.
The behavioral capacities of the rhesus monkey for several sensory and cognitive tasks appear quite similar to those of humans. To evaluate the monkey's attentional capacities, we have compared monkey and human performance on a visuospatial attentional task, the cued target detection (CTD) paradigm. Animals were trained to fixate a small spot of light while a cue and a subsequent target, are flashed in the visual periphery. In valid trials, the cue and target appeared in the same spatial location; in invalid trials, the cue and target appeared in the opposite location; in double trials, two cues were presented and the target appeared in one of their locations; in no-cue trials, the cue was omitted and the target appeared in one location. In addition, we varied cognitive control over the task initiation by making the trial onset either self-paced or computer-paced. Reaction times (RTs) to target presentation, response accuracy, and frequency of aborted trials were measured for all subjects. No significant species differences were found for the patterns of RTs for different trial types or for attentional dynamics, as indexed by the decreases in RT with increasing cue-target interval. However, humans and non-human primates reacted differently to changes in cognitive control. Humans shows significant increases in no-cue trial RTs in the auto-paced task compared to the self-paced, but no differences in overall RT between tasks; monkeys showed a significant faster overall RT for the self-paced than the computer-paced task, but no difference between no-cue RTs. The performance differences between species may be related to the training history of the animals or to known anatomical differences in cortical organization, especially in the parietal lobe.
Sex differences in rats' performance on a stationary hidden-platform task (spatial task) in the Morris water maze and the effects of initial nonstationary hidden platform training (NSP training) were examined. The NSP training was designed to familiarize rats with the general requirements of the water-maze task without providing spatial information. NSP training led to faster acquisition and improved retention of the subsequent spatial task in both males and females. There was a sex difference favoring males on acquisition and retention of the spatial task only in rats that had not received previous NSP training. Moreover, there was an apparent reversed sex difference favoring females on some measures of spatial performance in NSP-trained rats. These results suggest that performance on the water-maze task, including the expression of sex differences, can be altered by previous familiarization with nonspatial aspects of the task.
The involvement of the dopamine (DA) innervation of the medial prefrontal cortex (PFC) in attention was studied in a latent inhibition (LI) paradigm in rats. LI becomes evident by a retardation of conditioning to a stimulus after nonreinforced preexposure to that stimulus. LI is thought to reflect an animal's ability not to attend to irrelevant stimuli and is often used as an animal paradigm modeling schizophreniclike attentional deficits. In the present study the effects of bilateral infusions of the DA receptor agonist apomorphine (APO, 9.0 micrograms/side) and the DA receptor antagonist cis-flupenthixol (FLU, 12.0 micrograms/side) into the medial PFC on LI were assessed. Although in comparison with vehicle both APO and FLU infusions attenuated response suppression in nonpreexposed animals, the drugs differentially affected LI in preexposed animals. After infusions of APO animals failed to show conditioned suppression, whereas FLU-treated animals displayed as much suppression of responding as nonpreexposed animals. The abolition of LI induced by FLU infusions into the medial PFC suggests that prefrontal DA is involved in attentional processes in a way opposite to the established role of subcortical DA systems in these processes.
We report the use of cysteine-substituted mutants in conjunction with in situ oxidation to determine the physical proximity of a pair of engineered cysteines in the pore region of the voltage-gated K+ channel Kv2.1. We show that the newly introduced cysteine 1379C, located near the outer end of the narrow ion-conduction pathway, renders the K+ channel sensitive to oxidation by H2O2, but only if the native cysteine at position 394 in S6 remains in place. Conservative substitutions in S6 for cysteine 394 abolish H2O2 sensitivity in the Kv2.1 mutant 1379C. Comparative immunoblot analysis of wild-type and 1379C Kv2.1-expressing HEK293 cells demonstrates the presence of subunit dimers for 1379C, but not for wild-type Kv2.1. At the single-channel level, the probability of opening of 1379C channels, unlike wild-type, is reduced in the presence of H2O2; however, oxidation of 1379C does not alter unit current. These findings imply that cysteine 379, located near the outer end of the narrow ion-conduction pathway, participates in disulfide bridge formation, locking the channel in a nonconducting state from which it cannot undergo conformational transitions required for opening.
Spinal ependymomas are rare intramedullary tumours, usually with a benign biological nature. They have, however, a known potential for recurrence and metastatic spread through the CSF pathways. Traditionally, radiotherapy has been employed as an adjuvant to surgery. Recently, however, this view has been increasingly questioned. Thirty-eight adult patients operated in the West Midlands between 1956 and 1994 were reviewed. Mean age at presentation was 37.8 years. Of all tumours 45% (17) were situated in the conus/cauda equina region, 26% (10) in the thoracic and 29% (11) in the cervical region. All patients underwent surgery as primary treatment. Postoperative mortality was 2.6% (one patient). Complete macroscopic excision of their tumours was performed in 14 patients; of these three received postoperative radiotherapy. Subtotal excision was performed in 18 patients, seven receiving adjuvant radiotherapy. Decompressive laminectomy and biopsy was performed in five patients with either no radiotherapy in one, radiotherapy in three or radiotherapy and chemotherapy in one. The overall survival rate was 87% at 5 years and 73% at 10 years for the whole series. In patients treated after the 1970s, the cumulative 10-year survival was 95%. Patients over the age of 40 years at diagnosis had a 10-year survival of 61% compared to 78% of those under the age of 40. Intramedullary tumours had a worse outcome with 68% survival at 10 years, compared to 89% of tumours at the cauda equina. Total excision carried 86% survival, subtotal excision 80% and biopsy only 25% at 10 years. In those patients treated by administration of postoperative radiotherapy the 10-year survival was 48%, compared to 96% in those in whom radiotherapy was not given postoperatively. Analysis of the recurrence and survival rates demonstrated that radiotherapy did not confer any significant protection against recurrence or disease progression. Whilst complete excision offers the maximal potential for cure, an expectant policy with possible repeat surgery may be appropriate when total excision is not achieved. The main conclusion to be drawn is that a randomized controlled trial of the value of adjuvant radiotherapy is greatly needed.
1. The ability of PD 128907 to activate dopamine receptors in the ventral tegmental area, substantia nigra pars compacta, and striatum was investigated by use of in vitro electrophysiological recording and fast cyclic voltammetry. The affinity of a novel D2 selective antagonist L-741,626 for receptors activated by this agonist was measured to determine if its effects were mediated by D2 or D3 receptors. 2. The active (+) enantiomer of PD 128907 bound with high affinity and selectivity to rat D3 dopamine receptors. The Ki values for (+)-PD 128907 were 620 nM at D2, 1 nM at D3 and 720 nM at D4 receptors. 3. (+)-PD 128907 inhibited cell firing in both the ventral tegmental area and substantia nigra pars compacta with EC50 values of 33 nM (pEC50 = 7.48 +/- 0.10, n = 10) and 38 nM (pEC50 = 7.42 +/- 0.15, n = 5), respectively. No effects of (+)-PD 128907 (100 nM) were observed on glutamate or GABA-mediated synaptic potentials elicited by focal bipolar stimulation. 4. L-741,626 antagonized these effects of (+)-PD 128907 in a concentration-dependent and surmountable manner with an affinity, determined from Schild analysis, of 20 nM (pKB = 7.71 +/- 0.14) in the ventral tegmental area and 11 nM (pKB = 7.95 +/- 0.18) in the substantia nigra pars compacta. 5. (+)-PD 128907 also inhibited dopamine release in the caudate-putamen with an EC50 of 66 nM (n = 5). The affinity of L-741,626 for these nerve terminal autoreceptors (pKB = 7.71 +/- 0.06; = 20 nM) was identical to that observed on midbrain dopamine neurones. 6. These data demonstrate that the D3 receptor ligand (+)-PD 128907 is a potent agonist on rat midbrain dopamine neurones. However, its lack of regional selectivity, and the high affinity of the selective D2 receptor antagonist L-741,626 for receptors activated by (+)-PD 128907, was more consistent with an action on D2 autoreceptors rather than upon a D3 dopamine receptor subtype.
1. After 8 days in vitro, rat cerebellar granule cells were exposed to 1 mM gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) for periods of 1, 2, 4, 6, 8 and 10 days. The effect of the GABA exposure on GABAA receptor alpha 1, alpha 6 and beta 2,3 subunit protein expression and alpha 1 and alpha 6 subunit steady-state mRNA levels, was examined using Western blotting and reverse transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR), respectively. 2. GABA exposure for 2 days decreased alpha 1 (35 +/- 10%, mean +/- s.e.mean), beta 2,3 (21 +/- 9%) and alpha 6 (28 +/- 10%) subunit protein expression compared to control levels. The GABA-mediated reduction in alpha 1 subunit expression after 2 days treatment was abolished in the presence of the GABAA receptor antagonist, Ru 5135 (10 microM). 3. GABA exposure for 8 days increased alpha 1 (26 +/- 10%, mean +/- s.e.mean) and beta 2,3 (56 +/- 23%) subunit protein expression over control levels, whereas alpha 6 subunit protein expression remained below control levels (by 38 +/- 10%). However, after 10 days GABA exposure, alpha 6 subunit protein expression was also increased over control levels by 65 +/- 29% (mean +/- s.e.mean). 4. GABA exposure did not change the alpha 1 or alpha 6 subunit steady-state mRNA levels over and 8 day period, nor did it alter the expression of cyclophilin mRNA over 1-8 days. 5. These results suggest that chronic GABA exposure of rat cerebellar granule cells has a bi-phasic effect on GABAA receptor subunit expression that is independent of changes to mRNA levels. Therefore, the regulation of the GABAA receptor expression by chronic agonist treatment appears to involve post-transcriptional and/or post-translational processes.

Pregnancy and parturition are accompanied by unique behavioral changes. Only some of the neural mechanisms behind the dramatic changes in behavior are understood. Estrogen's action within the medial preoptic nucleus (MPN) is necessary for the induction of maternal behavior around the time of parturition, and estrogen acts within the ventromedial nucleus (VMN) to trigger postpartum sexual receptivity shortly after parturition. We have hypothesized that the sensitivity of various brain regions to estrogen may be altered by pregnancy to support these unique behavioral patterns. Using immunocytochemistry, this study examined whether the levels of estrogen receptor (ER) protein, within behaviorally relevant brain regions, differ among females on day 8, day 16, and day 22 of pregnancy, or on postpartum day 1. On day 16 and day 22 of pregnancy, the MPN contained a significantly greater number of cells expressing high levels of ER-ir compared to day 8 or postpartum day 1. In the VMN, the mean amount of ER-ir per cell was significantly higher on day 22 of pregnancy than on day 16 or postpartum day 1. In the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, ER-ir levels were significantly increased on postpartum day 1 compared to day 22 of pregnancy. There were no significant changes in ER-ir in the medial amygdala. These results demonstrate regionally and temporally specific regulation of ER protein in the brain during pregnancy. Alterations in the levels of ER at critical times in regions such as the MPN and VMN may underlie the unique expression of maternal and sexual behavior that occur during pregnancy and at the time of parturition.
Synthesis of the neurotrophic factor brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor TrkB in the hippocampus have been proposed to be influenced by endogenous glutamate. To test this hypothesis we have investigated if increases in BDNF and trkB mRNAs are associated with changes in the synaptic release of glutamate in the dorsal hippocampus in the conscious rat by combining the technique of in vivo microdialysis with in situ hybridization histochemistry. A 35% and 66% increase in extracellular levels of glutamate in the dorsal CA1 region was detected following injection into the lateral entorhinal cortex of 2.4 and 9.6 microg of the non-NMDA glutamate receptor agonist quisqualate, respectively. The increase in glutamate was attenuated by local administration of tetrodotoxin (TTX) indicating neuronal origin. Levels of BDNF and trkB mRNAs were increased in the hippocampus in a dose-dependent fashion following the stimulations. The extracellular levels of glutamate in individual animals correlated to the levels of BDNF and trkB mRNAs in the dorsal CA1 region of the hippocampus. This study provides for the first time evidence of an entorhinal cortex influenced concentration-dependent relationship between the release of endogenous glutamate in vivo and neuronal expression of mRNAs for BDNF and its receptor trkB in the hippocampus.
1. Serotonin (5-HT) modulates two different responses in the pressure sensitive neurons (P) of the leech: an inhibitory, Cl- dependent synaptic response and a depolarizing extrasynaptic response. 2. Serotonergic Retzius cells (R) in vivo and in culture elicit inhibitory Cl- dependent responses in P neurons. Moreover, at discrete sites of contact between R and P cells, the excitatory response to 5-HT is gradually lost prior to synapse formation. This phenomenon is specifically mediated by R cells. 3. The extrasynaptic response is mediated by cation channels sensitive to protein kinase C (PKC). Cation channels are present at the sites of contact but they become insensitive to PKC. Moreover, cation channels from single P cells are no longer modulated by PKC if they are inserted (by cramming the patch pipette) into the cytoplasm of a P cell in contact with an R cell. 4. Blockers of tyrosine kinases prevent the uncoupling of cation channel modulation and inhibit synapse formation between the R and the P neurons. 5. We suggest that cell contact induces an intracellular, tyrosine kinase-dependent signal as part of the mechanism of neuronal recognition leading to synapse formation.
1. Photoreceptor terminals in the flies Musca domestica and Drosophila melanogaster have been reconstructed in three dimensions from serial EM to reveal the surface distributions of afferent tetrad synapses. 2. The terminals are cylindrical and surround two target cells; they have synaptic sites distributed along their length and around their circumference, except for a strip along the face that lies furthest away from the target cells. 3. Over their inner faces, the terminals have presynaptic sites that are distributed evenly. 4. The distribution of sites in maps plotted from reconstructed membrane surfaces was examined by quadrat analyses. The frequency of sites per quadrat division was not Poissonian, i.e. was non-random. Thus, some form of site selection must exist during synaptogenesis. 5. The sites were shown by variance ratio analysis to be regular (evenly dispersed, not clustered). This suggests that some form of interaction exists, so as to reduce the probability that a synapse will form close to an already existing synaptic site. 6. Distances between nearest-neighbour pairs of synapses had a closest minimum spacing of about 0.8 micron in Musca that was violated by about 5% of pairs, whereas the corresponding distances were about 0.2 micron shorter in Drosophila, which had 13% of pairs situated closer together than 0.8 micron. 7. During synaptogenesis, either initially in the pupa or later in the adult, the probability that a synapse will form is therefore effectively zero within these distances from an existing synaptic site, perhaps through an inhibitory influence exerted by the latter. The nearest-neighbour distances are normally distributed. 8. Unlike the distribution of presynaptic sites, the distribution of postsynaptic sites over the surfaces of the dendrites of the target cells is not even. Although not studied in detail, the corresponding nearest-neighbour distances are much smaller, as little as 0.1 micron. Thus the wider spacing seen between sites over the receptor terminals is a function of the presynaptic cells, and not of their postsynaptic partners, and implies the existence of interactions between synaptic sites.
1. The present study aimed to develop a pharmacological model of catecholamine (CA) depletion in the hypothalamus during the period of its morphofunctional development, i.e. in fetal and neonatal rats of both sexes. 2. In the first series of experiments, pregnant females and, hence, fetuses were systemically treated daily from the embryonic day (E) 13 to E20 with the inhibitor of the CA synthesis alpha-methyl-m-tyrosine. The CA concentrations were subsequently measured in the fetal hypothalamus at E21 by high performance liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection (HPLC-ED). In the second series of experiments, neonatal rats were injected with neurotoxin, 6-hydroxydopamine and/or alpha-methyl-m-tyrosine daily from the 2nd postnatal day (P2) to P10. 3. The HPLC-ED assay of hypothalamic catecholamines (CA's) at E21 and P11 showed that both in fetuses and neonates, alpha-methyl-m-tyrosine caused more than 50% depletion of hypothalamic noradrenaline and adrenaline, while the dopamine (DA) level remained unchanged. The combined treatment of neonatal rats with alpha-methyl-m-tyrosine and 6-hydroxydopamine resulted additionally in a 25% decreased level of DA. 4. The influence of CA deficiency on the developing hypothalamic CA system was further evaluated by measuring [3H]DA uptake by nervous tissue in vitro. 5. The CA deficiency caused a 50% drop of [3H]DA uptake by the hypothalamic tissue in treated fetuses suggesting a stimulating effect of CA's on the early development of the CA system. In pharmacologically treated neonatal rats [3H]DA uptake remained at the control level showing no influence of the CA deficiency on the developing CA system after birth. 6. The usefulness of the proposed pharmacological model for studying of CA influence on differentiating hypothalamic target neurons is discussed.
A case of post-traumatic carotid cavernous sinus fistula complicated by coma-producing intraventricular tamponade in a 6-year-old boy is reported. Urgent surgical treatment included external ventricular draining, trapping and muscle embolization by the Jaeger-Hamby procedure. Follow-up cerebral angiography showed complete obliteration of the fistula. The child made an excellent recovery and now leads a normal life.
OBJECTIVE: To determine moment arm lengths from seven knee muscles and the patellar tendon. The knee muscles were the biceps femoris, semitendinosus, semimembranosus, gracilis, sartorius, and the lateral and medial gastrocnemius muscles. DESIGN: The moment arms were calculated based on MRI measurements. BACKGROUND: Moment arm lengths of different muscles with respect to the joint centre of rotation (CR) or the centre of the contact point between joint surfaces are necessary basic data for biomechanical models predicting joint load. METHODS: Ten male and seven female subjects participated. Using a 1.5 Tesla magnetic resonance imaging system, 3-dimensional coordinates of relevant points were recorded from a 3-D volume reconstruction of the right knee at knee flexion angles of 0, 30 and 60 degrees. Muscular moment arms were calculated in both the sagittal and frontal planes. The recordings were all made during passive mode, which means that no muscular contraction was performed. RESULTS: All muscles except the lateral gastrocnemius showed statistically significant differences (P&lt;0.05) of moment arm lengths between gender in the frontal plane. All muscles except biceps femoris and sartorius showed significant differences (P&lt;0.05) of moment arm lengths between gender in the sagittal plane. Most muscles also showed a linear or quadratic trend of changing moment arms with varying knee angle. CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that for most biomechanical analyses involving knee muscles, gender- and angle-specific moment arms should be used.
1. Cloning and sequencing of cDNA encoding gap junction proteins (connexins) has allowed analysis of tissue- and stage-specific patterns of expression as well as the manipulation of expression of both wild-type and mutant connexin proteins. 2. These studies reveal that the 13 rodent connexins have different biophysical properties, such as unitary conductance and permeability/selectivity, are differentially sensitive to various gating stimuli and couple to one another with variable affinity. Moreover, the physiological roles of gap junction channels are being revealed, as both genetic and epigenetic human diseases are ascribed to aberrant gap junction expression, and as animal models are generated by genetic manipulation. 3. This symposium brought together physiological insights achieved through the use of molecular techniques, resulting in novel appreciation of the roles of gap junction channels in normal and pathological tissue function.
Neurons generate diverse firing patterns to perform a range of specialized tasks. Experiments show that many features of these firing patterns arise from distinctive membrane properties, but theoretical work predicts that differences in neuronal morphology are also important.
A selection of World Wide Web sites relevant to reviews published in this issue of Current Opinion in Neurobiology.

Microgravity provides unique, though experimentally challenging, opportunities to study motor control. A traditional research focus has been the effects of linear acceleration on vestibular responses to angular acceleration. Evidence is accumulating that the high-frequency vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) is not affected by transitions from a 1 g linear force field to microgravity (&lt;1 g); however, it appears that the three-dimensional organization of the VOR is dependent on gravitoinertial force levels. Some of the observed effects of microgravity on head and arm movement control appear to depend on the previously undetected inputs of cervical and brachial proprioception, which change almost immediately in response to alterations in background force levels. Recent studies of post-flight disturbances of posture and locomotion are revealing sensorimotor mechanisms that adjust over periods ranging from hours to weeks.
Humans and non-human primates have several motor areas. Exactly how many is a matter of current debate. A proper parcellation of motor areas must be based on correlated structural and functional differences. Recent studies indicate that the primary motor cortex may be, in reality, two areas (4a and 4p). Similarly, there are undoubtedly two or more cingulate motor areas and perhaps two supplementary motor areas. The homologies between human and monkey brains are striking in some cases, making monkey models of human motor cortices attractive. The doctrine of a strict 'homuncular' somatotopical organization of motor areas will have to be abandoned. The engagement of motor areas in different types of voluntary seems merely a matter of degree of activation rather than exclusive specific contributions.
A current challenge in computational neuroscience is to elucidate the role of cortical circuitry in information processing and in generating motor output. Our understanding of the functional significance of specifically organized feedback connections is progressing rapidly as researchers establish the equivalence of theoretical models to biological neural circuits. Modeling studies of different neural structures, along with quantitative comparisons of model performance to biological data, have recently helped to identify the basic features of synaptic connectivity that may play important roles in cortical operations.
Ataxic syndromes of the upper limbs are observed in various situations but are usually a result of lesions involving the efferent pathways of the cerebellum, the superior cerebellar peduncles and midbrain. The commonest causes are multiple sclerosis, brain injury and focal neoplastic or vascular lesions. Cerebellar tremor, which usually comprises a postural and intentional component, is the commonest clinical form. In this review, we assess the value of the various surgical techniques in the treatment of this particular form of ataxia of the upper limbs.
It has recently been shown that, contrary to long-held beliefs, sensory and motor maps are not stable in the adult cerebral cortex. Alteration of input from the periphery results in changes in topography in the cortex, including the primary visual cortex. Mechanisms involved consist mainly of reshaping the receptive field of cortical cells and increasing the sensitivity of deprived cells in the visual cortex. Cortical plasticity allows the brain to adapt to background modifications or to damage of the nervous system. It also underlies learning and attention processes. Cortical changes occurring after focal visual differentiation modify visual perception by filling in visual field defects with information from the area surrounding the scotoma. This modification causes affected subjects to ignore or underestimate their defects. With visual field defects, cortical plasticity also causes distortion in spatial perception. Although the effects of cortical plasticity are prominent in neuro-ophthalmological daily practice, they are usually unrecognized or greatly underestimated. These effects cause delay in recognizing visual field defects, and hence in receiving therapy, while affecting the results of some procedures for testing the visual field. Affected individuals who are unaware of their defects may have increased difficulty in coping with activities in everyday life. Up to now, phenomena related to plasticity in the visual system have been investigated mainly by psychophysicists and neurophysiologists. It is essential to start considering the various effects of cortical reorganization in clinical practice. It is especially important to introduce into clinics the concept of dissociation between actual and perceived defects in the visual field, resulting from the filling-in process, and the need to measure it. This dissociation should also be demonstrated to the affected subjects.
Acquired nystagmus causes excessive motion of images on the retina, which often reduces visual acuity and produces oscillopsia (illusory motion of the seen world). The pathogenesis of several forms of acquired nystagmus is now better understood and can be related to abnormalities of mechanisms that normally hold gaze steady. Basic research on the pharmacology of the neural pathways responsible for gaze holding has demonstrated an important role for gamma aminobutyric acid and led to new drug treatments for acquired nystagmus and its visual consequences.
Primary central nervous system tumors are the second most common form of childhood cancer and the leading cancer-related cause of death and illness in children. Developments in neuroscience have led to an increasing understanding of these neoplasms, to alternations in their classification system, and to progress (albeit frustratingly slow progress) in their management. Chemotherapy has become an integral part of the treatment of many forms of childhood brain cancer, including medulloblastoma. Increasing evidence indicates that the amount of craniospinal radiation therapy required for diseases control can be reduced, possibly decreasing treatment-related sequelae, when this therapy is combined with postradiation chemotherapy. The value of the use of preradiation chemotherapy remains unproven. For other types of tumors, such as malignant high-grade gliomas and brainstem gliomas, new approaches to therapy have not yet resulted in improved outcomes. However, even for these tumors, advances in neuroimaging and new neurobiologic approaches hold substantial promise.
Mutational analysis can serve both to identify new genes essential for patterning embryonic development and to determine their functions. Here we describe the identification and phenotypic characterization of alleles of valentino, which we recovered in a genetic screen that sought to identify mutations in the zebrafish that disrupt region-specific gene expression patterns in the embryonic brain. valentino is required for normal hindbrain segmentation and the hindbrain of valentino mutant embryos is shortened by the length of one rhombomere. We demonstrate that valentino is required cell-autonomously in the development of rhombomeres 5 and 6, and propose that valentino functions in the subdivision and expansion of a common precursor region in the presumptive hindbrain into the definitive rhombomeres 5 and 6. These results provide genetic evidence for a two-segment periodicity in the hindbrain and suggest that this periodicity arises sequentially, through the specification and later subdivision of a two-rhombomere unit, or 'protosegment'.
The six Dorsal Longitudinal flight Muscles (DLMs) of Drosophila develop from three larval muscles that persist into metamorphosis and serve as scaffolds for the formation of the adult fibers. We have examined the effect of muscle scaffold ablation on the development of DLMs during metamorphosis. Using markers that are specific to muscle and myoblasts we show that in response to the ablation, myoblasts which would normally fuse with the larval muscle, fuse with each other instead, to generate the adult fibers in the appropriate regions of the thorax. The development of these de novo DLMs is delayed and is reflected in the delayed expression of erect wing, a transcription factor thought to control differentiation events associated with myoblast fusion. The newly arising muscles express the appropriate adult-specific Actin isoform (88F), indicating that they have the correct muscle identity. However, there are frequent errors in the number of muscle fibers generated. Ablation of the larval scaffolds for the DLMs has revealed an underlying potential of the DLM myoblasts to initiate de novo myogenesis in a manner that resembles the mode of formation of the Dorso-Ventral Muscles, DVMs, which are the other group of indirect flight muscles. Therefore, it appears that the use of larval scaffolds is a superimposition on a commonly used mechanism of myogenesis in Drosophila. Our results show that the role of the persistent larval muscles in muscle patterning involves the partitioning of DLM myoblasts, and in doing so, they regulate formation of the correct number of DLM fibers.
The gene encoding rat peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) contains 26 protein-coding exons. We identified two non-overlapping genomic clones encoding the 5' untranslated region (UTR) of the PAM gene. Exon 1 has 69 nucleotides flanked by perfect splice acceptor and donor sites, with a TATA motif 25 nucleotides upstream. Exon 0 lacks TATA or CAAT motifs and is embedded in a G + C-rich 800-nucleotide CpG island. The major products identified by RNase protection initiated in exon 0; only a minority of mRNAs initiated in exon 1. 5'-rapid amplification of cDNA ends (RACE) identified the same major transcriptional start sites in exon 0 in the atrium and neurointermediate pituitary. The 2.0-kb fragment upstream of exon 0 and the 1.3-kb fragment upstream of exon 1 were placed upstream of a luciferase-based reporter gene in both sense and antisense orientations. Expression of luciferase was observed in neuroendocrine and nonneuroendocrine cells with both sense constructs. A 0.2-kb fragment of the exon 0 PAM promoter containing multiple GC box elements supported expression of luciferase activity in all cell types. Expression of reporter genes in cells that do not normally express PAM suggests a need for more upstream or intronic information, a role for methylation, or a need for chromatin scaffolding for tissue-specific expression of the endogenous gene.

Neurons containing the decapeptide GnRH originate in the olfactory placodes and migrate into the central nervous system during fetal development. The neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) has been proposed as a trophic factor and may also influence neuronal migration. Immunocytochemical analyses were conducted in fetal rats, mice, and humans to identify potential developmental relationships between cells containing GABA, and GnRH neurons. Cells containing GABA were found along the nasal portion of the GnRH migration pathway in rats, mice, and humans during development. A peak number of cells containing immunoreactive GABA was observed in the nasal compartment of rats at embryonic day 15. At this time (E15), a majority of GnRH neurons were clustered in the region of the cribriform plate. By postnatal day 1, all GnRH neurons had migrated into the CNS and GABA cells were virtually absent from the nasal compartment. Double-label and confocal analyses of GABA and GnRH in mice and rats demonstrated that some olfactory GABAergic neurons coexpress GnRH. This implies that neurons that transiently express GABA originate in olfactory placodes and migrate into the forebrain. Based on the transient dual-label and adjacent relationships between GABA and GnRH containing cells in the nasal compartment, and other data showing migrational and trophic roles for GABA in development, we suggest that GABA may directly influence GnRH neuronal migration and development.
Several protein components that are essential for exocytotic membrane fusion in neurons have recently been identified. The expression and cellular localization of such protein components were examined in the rat pituitary gland. In situ hybridization using isoform-specific oligonucleotide probes to different exocytotic protein messenger RNAs (mRNAs) showed strong hybridization signal for synaptotagmin I, cysteine string protein (CSP), VAMP-2 (vesicle-associated membrane protein), cellubrevin, munc-18 (mammalian homologue of unc-18), SNAP-25a (synaptosomal-associated protein of 25 kDa), syntaxin 1A, syntaxin 4, syntaxin 5, and alpha-SNAP (soluble NSF attachment protein) in the anterior and intermediate, but not in the posterior lobe of the pituitary. Moderate to weak hybridization signal was detected for synaptotagmin III, SNAP-25b, and syntaxin 2 mRNA in the anterior and intermediate, but not in the posterior lobe of the pituitary. Synaptotagmin II, VAMP-1, syntaxin 1B, or syntaxin 3 mRNA expression could not be detected in any part of the pituitary gland. Immunofluorescence histochemistry in combination with confocal laser microscopy revealed that synaptotagmin-, VAMP-, CSP-, NSF-, and alpha-SNAP-like immunoreactivities (-LI) were present in granules of cells in the anterior and intermediate lobe, whereas SNAP-25- and syntaxin-LI were primarily located to the plasma membrane. Synaptotagmin-, VAMP-, CSP-, NSF-, alpha-SNAP-, SNAP-25- and syntaxin-LI were all present in nerve fibers of the posterior lobe. Within cells of the anterior lobe, colocalization could be demonstrated for synaptotagmin I/II- and synaptotagmin III-LI with ACTH-, GH-, PRL- and TSH-, but not FSH- or LH-LI, whereas VAMP, CSP-, NSF-, alpha-SNAP-, SNAP-25- and syntaxin-LI were demonstrated in all hormone-containing cell types of the anterior pituitary. The results show the presence of several protein components and their isoform-specific mRNAs in the rat pituitary gland, suggesting that these proteins, similar to their roles in regulation of synaptic neurotransmitter release, may participate in exocytotic events in endocrine pituitary cells and in neurosecretory nerve endings of the neurohypophysis.
Both neuropeptide Y (NPY) and galanin (GAL) systems have been implicated in the excitatory regulation of pulsatile LH secretion in the ovariectomized rat. The present studies were designed to examine the possible interaction of these two neuropeptides in controlling episodic LH release by testing the effects of central infusion of antibodies (Ab) to NPY and GAL, alone or in combination; additional studies tested the effects of central administration of an antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (ODN) to NPY and GAL messenger RNA. Rats were ovariectomized, implanted with a cannula in the third ventricle, and used in experiments 2 weeks later. Central infusion, via Alzet osmotic minipumps, of IgG purified from an NPY Ab produced a dose-related suppression of pulsatile LH secretion. Although an Ab dilution of 1:10 was ineffective, a maximal inhibitory effect was obtained using an NPY Ab dilution of 1:1, which decreased the mean levels, pulse frequency, and pulse amplitude of LH. These parameters of episodic LH secretion were also significantly reduced by central injection of antisense NPY ODN compared to those in vehicle- or missense ODN-treated controls. Similar dose-related inhibitory effects on the parameters of LH secretion were seen after central infusion of GAL Ab. Furthermore, infusion of a combination of NPY Ab and GAL Ab, each at the ineffective dilution of 1:10, resulted in a profound inhibition of LH secretion equivalent to the pattern seen with the maximally effective 1:1 Ab dilution. These results strengthen the idea of a physiological role for both NPY and GAL systems in the mechanism underlying the LHRH pulse generator activity and further suggest that these two excitatory neuropeptides act in concert to generate pulsatile LHRH release.
To observe the effects of caloric vestibular stimulation on muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSNA) in humans, 14 healthy volunteers were monitored in a supine position by electrocardiogram (ECG), blood pressure (BP), electro-oculogram (EOG). MSNA was monitored by a double recording technique of microneurography from the bilateral tibial nerves. Caloric vestibular stimulation was loaded by injecting 50 ml 44 degrees C warm water and 50 ml 10 degrees C cold water alternately into the external meatus for 1 min. Nystagmus was evoked in all cases by cold stimulation and in some cases by hot stimulation. The nystagmus evoked by cold stimulation was more intense than that by hot stimulation. MSNA was enhanced by either cold or hot stimulation; however, the enhancement mode differed between cold and hot stimulation. Cold stimulation evoked two peaks of MSNA while hot stimulation elicited only one peak. The first peak (404.5 +/- 115.4% with control value set at 100%, mean +/- SE) was estimated to be caused by cold stimulation on the skin of the external meatus while the second peak (379.2 +/- 65.3%) seemed to be the result of vestibular stimulation. With hot stimulation, the response peak of MSNA was 243.3 +/- 28.1%. In general, MSNA was enhanced after vestibular stimulation with MSNA increases was proportional to the stimulated level of the vestibular system.
We designed a method for quantitatively estimating self-motion perceptions during passive body movement on a sled. The subjects were instructed to tilt a joystick in proportion to perceived displacement from a giving starting position during linear movement with varying displacements of 4 m, 10 m and 16 m induced by constant acceleration of 0.02 g, 0.05 g and 0.08 g along the antero-posterior axis. With this method, we could monitor not only subjective position perceptions but also response latencies for the beginning (RLbgn) and end (RLend) of the linear movement. Perceived body position fitted Stevens' power law, where R=kSn (R is output of the joystick, k is a constant, S is the displacement from the linear movement and n is an exponent). RLbgn decreased as linear acceleration increased. We conclude that this method is useful in analyzing the features and sensitivities of self-motion perceptions during movement.
The present study examined the relationship between the patterns and densities of glutamate AMPA receptor sub-units GluR1 and GluR2/3 in the molecular layer of the fascia dentata and aberrant mossy fiber neoinnervation in human and kainate rat hippocampal epilepsy. Because AMPA sub-units modulate the fast glutamate synaptic transmission, we hypothesized that the AMPA receptor densities would be related to the glutamate-secreting mossy fibers, which could then contribute to seizure generation. In human hippocampal epilepsy, we found that the immunocytochemical labeling of GluR1 and GluR2/3 dendrites was positively related to the densities and spatial locations of the densest, aberrant neo-Timm stained supragranular mossy fibers. We used quantitative densitometry for the mossy fibers. However, the relatively faint and punctate immunocytochemical staining of the receptors did not allow true quantitative densitometry of the dendritic trees because in human epilepsy granule cell densities were decreased on average 50% of normal. Nevertheless, visual observations did confirm spatial relations between dense fascia dentata inner molecular layer mossy fibers and dense AMPA receptor staining. In the outer molecular layer, the mossy fibers were present only in the lower portion, were not densely-stained, and the AMPA receptors were only faintly-labeled. Nevertheless, outer molecular layer AMPA receptor densities were usually present more distally than were the mossy fibers. Experiments were done using intrahippocampal kainate epileptic rats to test the time courses for the changes in mossy fibers and AMPA receptors. The upregulation of inner and outer molecular layer AMPA receptors occurred maximally within 5 days post-kainate injection, prior to any mossy fiber supragranular ingrowth. One hundred and eighty days after ipsilateral kainate the AMPA receptors were increased bilaterally in the inner and outer molecular layers despite the fact that the contralateral aberrant supragranular mossy fibers were minor in comparison to the dense ipsilateral mossy fiber hyperinnervation. These results suggest that in hippocampal epilepsy AMPA receptor numbers increase throughout the length of the molecular layer dendrites; however the AMPA receptor densities are greater in rough relation to the greatest aberrant mossy fiber presynaptic inputs. Interestingly, the receptor upregulation precedes the mossy fiber ingrowth and may play a role in initiating axonal sprouting or in maintaining the aberrant mossy fiber synapses.
As increased oxidative stress is probably a pathogenetic factor in the development of diabetic complications, we studied nerve function and endogenous antioxidants in plasma, erythrocytes and sciatic nerve of untreated and insulin-treated streptozotocin-diabetic rats. After 18 weeks, the diabetes-induced sciatic nerve conduction velocity deficits were approximately 65% improved by insulin (P &lt; 0.001). Plasma superoxide dismutase was significantly reduced in diabetes (P &lt; 0.01); smaller decreases in plasma catalase and glutathione levels were observed. These changes were corrected by insulin treatment. In erythrocytes, decreased superoxide dismutase (P &lt; 0.05) and increased total glutathione levels (P &lt; 0.05) were found. All effects of diabetes, including a rise in plasma malonyldialdehyde (P &lt; 0.05), were partially reversed by insulin treatment. In nervous tissue, diabetes caused increased catalase activity, uninfluenced by insulin (P &lt; 0.05). Nerve superoxide dismutase and glutathione did not change. The data suggest that in diabetes, changes in systemic rather than endoneurial oxidative stress lead to nerve dysfunction.
It has been shown recently that embryonic Purkinje cells grafted extraparenchymally into an intact cerebellum, in the absence of any sign of damage, are able to migrate into the host molecular layer where they receive a climbing fibre innervation. Using the same technique, we investigated the development of the electrophysiological properties of the synapses between the grafted cells and their main afferents. Purkinje cells either in the graft or having migrated into the molecular layer of the host were recorded using the whole-cell patch-clamp method in acutely prepared slices 17-112 days after grafting. Spontaneous postsynaptic currents with a single-exponential decay and mediated by GABAA receptors were very similar to those described in normal Purkinje cells. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) evoked by climbing fibre and by parallel fibre stimulation were blocked by an alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole-propionic acid (AMPA)/kainate antagonist, and displayed the linear current-voltage relation typical of postnatal Purkinje cells. The attainment of normal functional properties by the adult axons at the newly formed synaptic sites was shown by the expression of short-term facilitation of parallel fibre EPSCs and of short-term depression of climbing fibre EPSCs. The grafted Purkinje cells showed climbing fibre polyinnervation 17-20 days after grafting which evolved to monoinnervation at 23-45 days, confirming the completion of the developmental programme up to maturation. Our experiments support the view that the adult intact brain is able to accept and integrate an additional number of neurons which show fully mature electrophysiological properties which are electrophysiologically indistinguishable from those of the host neurons.
The gene expression of five NMDA receptor channel subunits, the epsilon(1), epsilon(2), epsilon(3), epsilon(4) and zeta(1) subunits, was examined in cerebellar Purkinje cells of the staggerer mouse at postnatal day 21. In the midline region of the staggerer cerebellum, signals for the epsilon(1), epsilon(4) and zeta(1) subunit mRNAs were distributed in Purkinje cells, which have a large cell body aligned in a monolayer between the granular and molecular layers. In addition to the midline region, labelled neurons in the intermediate cerebellar region were, though at lower levels, aligned almost in a monolayer between the granular and molecular layers. In the hemisphere, most labelled neurons occurred in various locations in the granular layer and the cerebellar medulla. These regions, populated with Purkinje cells expressing the epsilon(1), epsilon(4) and zeta(1) subunit mRNAs, were separated from each other by narrow gap regions that contained neurons without any detectable NMDA receptor channel subunit mRNAs. These results suggest that there is discrete mediolateral heterogeneity in staggerer Purkinje cell populations, in terms of expression properties of the NMDA receptor channel subunits. When compared with wild-type Purkinje cells that express the zeta(1) subunit alone, additional expression of the epsilon subunits presumably explains the persistence of NMDA responses in adult staggerer Purkinje cells (Dupont et al., Neuroscience, 12, 613-619, 1984).
Stereotaxic injection of a limited amount of 6-hydroxydopamine in the lateral part of the rat substantia nigra induces a partial degeneration of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system. This animal model in which the destruction of the dopaminergic nigral cell population reaches approximately 50% could be considered as a preclinical Parkinson's model. Autoradiography of dopaminergic uptake sites performed with a specific marker ([3H]GBR 12935) allowed the precise determination of dopaminergic denervated and non-denervated areas in the striatum 1 month after partial lesion of the substantia nigra pars compacta. In both striatal areas, dopaminergic D1 and D2 receptor densities and dopaminergic D2 and preproenkephalin mRNAs levels were measured by autoradiography and in situ hybridization coupled to an image analysis system. Our results show that in the denervated striatal subregion, none of the dopaminergic targets were modified, contrary to the observations made after complete lesion of the nigrostriatal DA system at the same post-lesion delay. However, striatal Fos activation induced by amphetamine (5 mg/kg i.p., 2 h before killing) revealed that the number of Fos-positive cells detected in the denervated striatal subregion was lower than that observed in the non-denervated one. These data argue in favour of the existence of compensatory mechanisms different from the up-regulation of DA receptor densities, thereby allowing the maintenance of striatal dopaminergic transmission. Such mechanisms could contribute to the delay of the appearance of neurological symptoms (which are reported to be clinically apparent only when depletion of striatal dopamine levels reaches near 80%) in Parkinsonian patients.
Single neurons, acting alone, cannot account for the complex and rapid computations that are routinely accomplished by the behaving nervous system. Recent studies with separable multineuron recordings are showing that neuronal assemblies can indeed be detected and that their organization is very dynamic, depending on variables such as time, physical stimulus, and context. Here we explore both single-neuron and assembly properties in the rat's auditory cortex. Acoustic stimuli are used as a normal, physiological input, and weak electrical intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) as a perturbation that forces a rapid cortical reorganization. In this setting, various aspects of neuronal interactions are changed by the ICMS. We found that cortical neurons exhibited highly synchronous oscillatory firing patterns that were enhanced by ICMS. Cross-correlation studies between two spike trains showed that statistically significant correlations depended on the anatomical distance between the two neurons. ICMS changed the strength and the local number of such correlations. Joint petristimulus analysis and gravity analysis showed that the correlation between neuronal activities varied dynamically at several time scales. We have identified neuronal assemblies in two ways, defined through similarity of receptive field properties and defined through correlated firing. Close anatomical spacing between neurons was conducive to, but not sufficient for membership in, the same assembly with either definition. ICMS changed cortical organization by altering assembly membership. Our data show that neuronal assemblies in the rat auditory cortex can be established transiently in time and that their membership is dynamic.
Many manipulations are able to change or perturb various aspects of single neuron properties and interneuronal relationships. Changes of cerebral cortex organization have been observed in different cortical areas and at different time scales in relation to peripheral stimulation, peripheral damage, associative learning, and electrical stimulation. Here we describe studies on separable multineuron recordings in the rat's auditory cortex under two different anesthetics. Acoustic stimuli were used as a normal, physiological input, and weak electrical intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) as a perturbation that forces a rapid cortical reorganization. ICMS induced fast changes in the cortical map and in the receptive field properties of cells at the electrically stimulated and adjacent electrodes. In effect there was an enlargement of the cortical domain tuned to the acoustic frequency that had been represented at the stimulating electrode. ICMS also incremented afterdischarge responses; these consisted of an initial response to the auditory stimulus followed by less intense repetitive activity that was stimulus-time locked and had a period of 8-12 Hz, similar to that of the spontaneous synchronous activity. Cortical activity under ketamine differed from that under pentobarbital sodium, although in both situations we observed that cortical neurons were highly synchronous.
Members of the TGF-beta superfamily signal through a dual receptor system consisting of a type II receptor protein kinase that binds the ligand, after which this complex associates with a type I receptor to mediate intracellular signaling. In mammals, six type I and five type II receptors mediating responses to different TGF-beta family members have been identified to date. Using primers from conserved regions of the protein kinase domain of the serine/threonine kinase receptors in a low-stringency polymerase chain reaction-based screening procedure, and deselecting known receptors with colony hybridization, we now report cloning a novel receptor member. The novel receptor was found in a cDNA library prepared from the habenular nucleus area and was designated Habrec1. Although only a partial sequence is available, it fits the criteria for a TGF-beta type I serine/threonine kinase receptor. In situ hybridization of Habrec1 reveals mRNA expression in several distinct areas of the developing central nervous system, including cortex cerebri, cerebellum, hippocampus, striatum, and thalamic nuclei. Expression is also seen in the anterior pituitary. In the periphery, strong expression prenatally includes brown fat, the gastrointestinal tract, liver, pancreas, thymus, and nasal cavity epithelium. In the adult brain Habrec1 mRNA is prominently found in cerebellum, cortex cerebri, and striatum, but at lower levels in several additional areas. We conclude that Habrec1 is a member of the TGF-beta type I receptor family with expression patterns in the developing animal, suggesting specific functions in and outside the nervous system, and in the adult CNS, suggesting roles in both cortical and subcortical brain circuitry.
Transforming growth factor (TGF)beta plays a role in injury repair in sites surrounding brain injury. The present study tested the hypothesis that TGFbeta1 and TGFbeta2 levels in the postmortem CSF of patients with neurodegenerative disorders would be elevated compared to those in normal subjects. Free TGFbeta1 and total TGFbeta2 were measured by ELISA in postmortem ventricular cerebrospinal fluid (vCSF) of patients with Parkinson's disease (n = 30), Alzheimer's disease (n = 30), multiple sclerosis (n = 15), and schizophrenia (n = 12) and of normal controls (n = 16). In addition, albumin, IgG, and total protein in vCSF were measured. Both TGFbeta1 and TGFbeta2 were significantly different between groups (P &lt; 0.002 and P &lt; 0.001, respectively). Parkinson's disease vCSF showed significant increases in both TGFbeta1 (P = 0.015) and TGFbeta2 (P = 0.012) compared to normal controls. There was a trend for TGFbeta2 to be elevated in Alzheimer's disease and multiple sclerosis vCSFs, which failed to achieve significance. There were no differences between controls and schizophrenics in TGFbeta1 or TGFbeta2. Alzheimer's disease vCSF showed a significant decrease in protein compared to all other groups, which was not related to blood-brain barrier permeability, age, or autolysis differences. Evidence is presented suggesting that some TGFbeta1 may leak into the vCSF from plasma. Autopsy vCSF levels of TGFbeta isoforms were found to be distinctly different from those reported for human serum, especially for TGFbeta2, which is undetectable in plasma. These results indicate that further in vivo studies of TGFbeta2 in the CSF of Parkinson's disease patients are warranted to determine the relationship between clinical status, medication, and TGFbeta2 concentrations.
The ease with which mutations can be generated in zebrafish makes this vertebrate an important resource for developmental genetics and genome studies. We have developed a PCR-based screening method that allows the efficient identification of gamma-ray induced deficiencies targeted to selected sequences. We describe three mutants characteristic of our findings and show that these mutations include deletions and translocations that can affect as much as 1% of the genome. These deficiencies provide a basis for analyzing the functions of cloned zebrafish genes using noncomplementation screens for point mutations induced by high-efficiency chemical mutagenesis.
The role of the Drosophila homologue of syntaxin-1A (syx) in neurotransmission has been extensively studied. However, developmental Northern analyses and in situ hybridization experiments show that SYX mRNA is expressed during all stages and in many tissues. We have isolated new mutations in syx that reveal roles for syx outside the nervous system. In the ovary, SYX is present in the germarium, but it is predominantly localized to nurse cell membranes. Mitotic recombination experiments in the germline show SYX is essential for oogenesis and may participate in membrane biogenesis in the nurse cells. In the early embryo, a large contribution of maternally deposited RNA is present, and the protein is localized at cell membranes during cellularization. After the maternal contribution is depleted, zygotically produced SYX assists secretion events occurring late in embryogenesis, such as cuticle deposition and neurotransmitter release. However, SYX is also required in larval imaginal discs, as certain hypomorphic mutant combinations exhibit rough eyes and wing notch defects indicative of cell death. Furthermore, recombinant clones that lack syx cause cell lethality in the developing eye. We propose that, similar to its roles in cuticle secretion and neurotransmitter release, SYX may mediate membrane assembly events throughout Drosophila development.
A lesion interface, consisting of a glia limitans lined by a laminin-rich basal lamina and leptomeningeal cells, forms within 2-3 weeks after penetrating wounds to the adult mammalian central nervous system (CNS). This interface prevents the growth of axons across the lesion. We have examined the effects of topically applied steroids on the formation of such an interface after stab wounds to the adult rat cerebral cortex. Immediately after lesioning, the surface of cortex in the region of the wound was treated with a topical application of either 0.1% halcinonide or 0.05% betamethasone dipropionate or their respective placebos. Cryostat sections through the lesioned area were obtained 3 weeks later and assessed by immunofluorescence. Steroid treatment attenuated all components of the lesion. The continuous anti-laminin labeling along the lesion in untreated rats became patchy after steroid treatment. The number of leptomeningeal cells that infiltrated into the wound was reduced in the laminin-negative regions in steroid-treated rats. In addition, astrocytic processes in the laminin-negative regions after steroid treatment were loosely arranged, compared with the tightly packed parallel processes forming the glia limitans in laminin-positive regions in controls. The mechanism of steroid-mediated attenuation of the lesion interface was examined in vitro. Betamethasone but not halcinonide reduced laminin secretion slightly in leptomeningeal cell cultures, but both steroids reduced cell proliferation. These results suggest that steroids modulate the formation of the lesion interface after CNS injury, at least in part by decreasing leptomeningeal cell proliferation. Such modulation of the lesion interface by steroids or other agents may permit the growth of axons across the lesion site and thus could enhance the overall degree of axon regeneration if other factors such as neurotrophic support and neutralization of axon growth inhibitory molecules are optimized.
The gravity-sensing organ of Aplysia californica consists of bilaterally paired statocysts containing statoconia, which are granules composed of calcium carbonate crystals in an organic matrix. In early embryonic development, Aplysia contain a single granule called a statolith, and as the animal matures, statoconia production takes place. The objective of this study was to determine the effect of hypergravity on statoconia production and homeostasis and explore a possible physiologic mechanism for regulating this process. Embryonic Aplysia were exposed to normogravity or 3 x g or 5.7 x g and each day samples were analyzed for changes in statocyst, statolith, and body dimensions until they hatched. In addition, early metamorphosed Aplysia (developmental stages 7-10) were exposed to hypergravity (2 x g) for 3 weeks, and statoconia number and statocyst and statoconia volumes were determined. We also determined the effects of hypergravity on statoconia production and homeostasis in statocysts isolated from developmental stage 10 Aplysia. Since prior studies demonstrated that urease was important in the regulation of statocyst pH and statoconia formation, we also evaluated the effect of hypergravity on urease activity. The results show that hypergravity decreased statolith and body diameter in embryonic Aplysia in a magnitude-dependent fashion. In early metamorphosed Aplysia, hypergravity decreased statoconia number and volume. Similarly, there was an inhibition of statoconia production and a decrease in statoconia volume in isolated statocysts exposed to hypergravity in culture. Urease activity in statocysts decreased after exposure to hypergravity and was correlated with the decrease in statoconia production observed. In short, there was a decrease in statoconia production with exposure to hypergravity both in vivo and in vitro and a decrease in urease activity. It is concluded that exposure to hypergravity downregulates urease activity, resulting in a significant decrease in the formation of statoconia.
In rats, progesterone (P) facilitates sexual receptivity by interacting with intracellular progestin receptors in the ventromedial hypothalamus (VMH). This experiment concerns whether P can also facilitate receptivity in rats by acting extragenomically within the ventral tegmental area (VTA). Ovariectomized rats (n = 10) with bilateral guide cannulas over the VMH and VTA were primed with 2 microg subcutaneous estradiol benzoate 44 hr prior to testing. After a pretest for sexual receptivity, animals received implants to the VMH of P, P conjugated to bovine serum albumin (P:BSA), or cholesterol control (CHOL), and were retested. Two hours later, animals were again tested for receptivity, and P, P:BSA, the P metabolite 5alpha-pregnan-3alpha-ol-20-one (3alpha,5alpha-THP), or CHOL implants were applied to the VTA. Subjects were retested immediately, 30, 90, and 150 min later. Animals that received P in the VMH and had P, P:BSA, or 3alpha,5alpha-THP applied to the VTA exhibited facilitated receptivity at all time points compared with all other combination implants. That P:BSA and P were equally effective when applied to the VTA, but not the VMH, suggests that in the VTA P's membrane-mediated actions are sufficient to facilitate receptivity, whereas in the VMH they are not. Since the steroid (P) and its metabolite (3alpha,5alpha-THP) are similarly effective when applied to the VTA, given P application to the VMH earlier, P's effects in the VTA may be subsequent to metabolism and/or actions at GABA receptors. Overall, these data suggest that in rats P can act at the membrane of neurons within the VTA to modulate lordosis and that these effects may be subsequent to P's metabolism and/or actions at GABA receptors.
Early workers interested in the mechanisms mediating sex differences in morphology and behavior assumed that differences in behavior that are commonly observed between males and females result from the sex specificity of androgens and estrogens. Androgens were thought to facilitate male-typical traits, and estrogens were thought to facilitate female-typical traits. By the mid-20th century, however, it was apparent that administering androgens to females or estrogens to males was not always effective in sex-reversing behavior and that in some cases a &quot;female&quot; hormone such as an estrogen could produce male-typical behavior and an androgen could induce female-typical behavior. These conceptual difficulties were resolved to a large extent by the seminal paper of C. H. Phoenix, R. W. Goy, A. A. Gerall, and W. C. Young in (1959, Endocrinology 65, 369-382) that illustrated that several aspects of sexual behavior are different between males and females because the sexes have been exposed during their perinatal life to a different endocrine milieu that has irreversibly modified their response to steroids in adulthood. Phoenix et al. (1959) therefore formalized a clear dichotomy between the organizational and activational effects of sex steroid hormones. Since this paper, a substantial amount of research has been carried out in an attempt to identify the aspects of brain morphology or neurochemistry that differentiate under the embryonic/neonatal effects of steroids and are responsible for the different behavioral response of males and females to the activation by steroids in adulthood. During the past 25 years, research in behavioral neuroendocrinology has identified many sex differences in brain morphology or neurochemistry; however many of these sex differences disappear when male and female subjects are placed in similar endocrine conditions (e.g., are gonadectomized and treated with the same amount of steroids) so that these differences appear to be of an activational nature and cannot therefore explain sex differences in behavior that are still present in gonadectomized steroid-treated adults. This research has also revealed many aspects of brain morphology and chemistry that are markedly affected by steroids in adulthood and are thought to mediate the activation of behavior at the central level. It has been explicitly, or in some cases, implicitly assumed that the sexual differentiation of brain and behavior driven by early exposure to steroids concerns primarily those neuroanatomical/neurochemical characteristics that are altered by steroids in adulthood and presumably mediate the activation of behavior. Extensive efforts to identify these sexually differentiated brain characteristics over the past 20 years has only met with limited success, however. As regards reproductive behavior, in all model species that have been studied it is still impossible to identify satisfactorily brain characteristics that differentiate under early steroid action and explain the sex differences in behavioral activating effects of steroids. This problem is illustrated by research conducted on Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica), an avian model system that displays prominent sex differences in the sexual behavioral response to testosterone, and in which the endocrine mechanisms that control sexual differentiation of behavior have been clearly identified so that subjects with a fully sex-reversed behavioral phenotype can be easily produced. In this species, studies of sex differences in the neural substrate mediating the action of steroids in the brain, including the activity of the enzymes that metabolize steroids such as aromatase and the distribution of steroid hormone receptors as well as related neurotransmitter systems, did not result in a satisfactory explanation of sex differences in the behavioral effectiveness of testosterone. Possible explanations for the relative failure to identify the organized brain characteristics responsible for behavio
Blood levels of free T4 (thyroxine), cortisol and prolactin over 19 successive days from a single limbic epileptic patient were correlated with daily geomagnetic activity (aa values) for the northern hemisphere. Only thyroxine levels were correlated (r = 0.66) significantly with the daily geomagnetic activity; the strongest association (rho = 0.76) occurred between thyroxine levels and the geomagnetic activity (Kp values) during the previous night (2:00 A.M. to 5:00 A.M. local time). These results support the hypothesis that suppression of (nocturnal) melatonin levels by increased geomagnetic activity attenuates the tonic inhibition by this pineal compound upon thyroidal metabolism.
Alanine and N-methylation scans together with molecular modelling were implemented in order to propose a binding conformation of the minimum active fragment of bombesin (BB), Ac-BB[7-14], to the gastrin releasing peptide (GRP) and neuromedin B (NMB) receptors. These data are also used to critically evaluate the previously proposed binding conformations such as alpha-helix and antiparallel beta-sheets. This shows that the previously reported conformations do not satisfy the experimental data. A new binding conformation of Ac-BB[7-14] is proposed consisting of three consecutive gamma-turns followed by a bend and finishing with two gamma-turns. This low energy conformation (analogous to a fragment of thymidylate synthase, 2TSC) of bombesin stabilized by five internal hydrogen bonds, and with the side chains of residues Trp8 and Leu13 held on the same side of the peptide, is in agreement with the experimentally observed data. This and the results of molecular modelling may aid in the synthesis of conformationally restricted high affinity bombesin analogues and/or high affinity template-based GRP or NMB receptor agonists and antagonists.




A neurocortical-based technique of muscle recruitment is presented to solve the muscle indeterminacy problem for lumbar torso modeling. Cortical recordings from behaving primates have established motor cortex cells that respond to a wide range of task directions, but are tuned to a preferred direction. A characteristic activity pattern of these neurons seems to be associated with effort direction. It was hypothesized that a model which recruits muscles based on a similar distribution would predict antagonistic muscle activity with greater realism than a widely referenced optimization formulation. The predictions of the Distributed Moment Histogram (DMH) method were evaluated under common speed (&lt; 30 degrees s-1) sagittal plane lifting conditions using five subjects. The predicted forces showed high correspondence with agonist and antagonist myoelectric patterns. The mean coefficient of determination for the erector spinae was r2 = 0.91, and 0.41 for the latissimus. For the antagonistic muscles, the rectus abdominus was found to be electrically silent (&lt; 3% MVC) and no activity was predicted by the method. The external oblique muscle was observed to be minimally active (&lt; 16% MVC), and the DMH method predicted its mostly constant activity with a mean standard error of 1.6% MVC. The realistic antagonistic predictions supported the hypothesis and justify this cortical based technique as an alternative for muscle tension estimation in biomechanical torso modeling. A primary advantage of this method is its computational simplicity and direct physiologic analog.
Broiler and leghorn chickens show an extreme difference in ingestive and reproductive behavior. As neuropeptide Y (NPY) influences both behaviors the goal of this study was to elucidate the distribution, expression and affinity of NPY binding sites in broiler and leghorn chicken brain. By means of in vitro autoradiography, sections of chicken brains were incubated with 3H-NPY as tracer and NPY as displacer. Scatchard analysis revealed a curvilinear plot suggesting two subtypes of the NPY binding site in the chicken brain, a high affinity one (KD = 2-4 nM) and one with a lower affinity (KD = 18-24 nM). Binding sites for NPY are localized with high density in the different subdivisions of the neostriatum and the hyperstriatum, the cerebellum, the nucleus septalis lateralis and medialis, the nucleus ruber and the nucleus tractus solitarii. A lower density of NPY binding sites was found in the different subdivisions of the striatum, the nucleus mesencephalicus lateralis pars dorsalis, the paleostriatum, the archistriatum intermedium pars ventralis, the nucleus geniculatus lateralis, the nucleus taeniae, the locus ceruleus, the nucleus rotondus, the nucleus habenularis medialis, the nucleus dorsomedialis anterior (rostralis) thalami, the pituitary and the area of the hypothalamus with its nuclei such as the nucleus paraventricularis magnocellularis and the nucleus preopticus medialis. Comparison of the localization of NPY binding sites in the brains of broilers and leghorns showed no differences but the density of both receptor types is two to three times higher in broilers than in leghorns.
The effect of sedation on ICU patient recall is uncertain. Ensuring suppression of awareness and, particularly, recall, may prevent post-ICU psychological problems. Development of ICU sedation pathways and improved neurophysiologic monitoring techniques may help clinicians provide good levels of recall suppression and sedation when they are most needed by ICU patients.
The American National Adult Reading Test (AMNART) was constructed to provide a valid and stable estimate of premorbid verbal IQ (VIQ) in dementing individuals. However, recent studies have brought into question its validity in patients with dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT). The present study was designed to longitudinally assess the validity of the AMNART in 40 DAT patients and 40 demographically matched normal control (NC) subjects. The results showed that VIQ estimates for patients with DAT were significantly lower than those of NC subjects and declined significantly over time with increasing dementia severity as measured by the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) and the Dementia Rating Scale (DRS). An MMSE-based correction factor was derived for the DAT group which allows for the effective estimation of premorbid VIQ in these patients.
Although numerous studies have examined the families of bulimic individuals, none have explicitly addressed how family factors relate to self-concept among patients with bulimia. This study used L. Benjamin's' structural analysis of social behavior (1974) rating scales to assess how perceptions of parental relationships relate to self-concept. The results indicate that female patients with bulimia perceive both parents as hostilely disengaged. Furthermore, the self-concepts of patients with bulimia were significantly associated with perceptions of paternal attack/friendliness, which differentiated them from control participants. The results are discussed in terms of the possible relations between family factors and self-concept in bulimia.
A survey of fifty-one of the fifty-three dental schools in the continental United States provided information about pharmacology curriculum content and time allocation. Most dental schools offer a traditional didactic course in basic pharmacology, with about 50 percent of the medical school-based (MSB) and 75 percent of the dental school-based (DSB) programs providing additional pharmacology material in other basic and clinical courses. The four combined medical-dental (M-D) student courses have more hours of instruction, clinical conferences and reviews, and number of instructors than either the dental school- or medical school-based courses. DSB and MSB pharmacology courses were similar in most regards, with a relatively low compliance with the current curriculum guidelines. The DSB and MSB courses provided more time for neuropharmacology and less time for agents related to various organ systems than the M-D courses. There is considerable potential to improve pharmacology instruction by expanding the inclusion of pharmacology in other courses, increasing the number of clinical conferences and discussions, and offering problem-based-learning sessions.
The year 1865 was revolutionary in neuroscience. In this year, three papers were published on the topic of cerebral dominance for speech. These papers were authored by Paul Broca, Marc Dax, and Gustave Dax, and they contributed to a priority debate that cannot be easily resolved. Gustave Dax claimed that his long dead father had written a memoir and presented it orally in Montpellier in 1836, thus making him the first person to write about cerebral dominance. He also claimed that he was the second person to write on the subject, the first to support his father's claims, and the first to try to localize the center for speech in just one part the left hemisphere, the middle (temporal) lobe. Paul Broca, however, was now getting much of the credit for these discoveries. To set the record straight, Gustave published several letters. This paper presents translations of Gustave's letters of 1866, 1875, and 1877, as well as the historical note written by Raymond Caizergues in 1879, and recreates the events that triggered the younger Dax's anger.
RESP18 (regulated endocrine-specific protein of 18 KD) is an endoplasmic reticulum (ER) protein that was identified by coordinate dopaminergic regulation with pro-opiomelanocortin in the rat neurointermediate pituitary. Many attributes of RESP18 suggest an important function in neuroendocrine cells. Several neuropeptides, growth factors, and enzymes involved in biosynthesis of classical chemical neurotransmitters, have been identified in germ cells, Sertoli cells, and spermatozoa. In this study, screening of reproductive tissues revealed high levels of RESP18 protein and mRNA in the testes but not in ovaries or epididymis. The testes and sperm expressed 18-KD RESP18 and a unique 19-KD isoform. To better understand RESP18 expression in the testes, we have examined the stages of the cycle of the seminiferous epithelium by immunohistochemistry and Western blot analyses. Immunohistochemical analysis showed that RESP18 protein was expressed exclusively in spermatocytes and maturing spermatids. RESP18 protein was expressed at high levels in Step 1-8 round spermatids, in which the PC4 prohormone convertase, nerve growth factor, and proenkephalin are also expressed. Western blots, Northern blots, and indirect immunofluorescence staining demonstrated RESP18 expression in sperm.
When examining the effects of analogue peptides on changes in response patterns of a human Th0 clone DT13.2 that recognizes a peptide fragment (18RSLRTVTPIRMQGG31) derived from a group I allergen in Dermatophagoides farinae in the context of HLA-DQ6 (DQA1*0102/DQB1*0602), we found that replacement of the 21st residue Arg to Lys resulted in a significant increase in IFN-gamma production, with no remarkable changes either in proliferative response or IL-4 production, at high doses of the peptide. Selective enhancement of IFN-gamma production by the analogue peptide was accompanied by an increased production of IL-12, which was suppressed by an anti-IL-12 Ab down to the level of IFN-gamma production induced by the wild-type peptide. On the contrary, co-incubation with neutralizing Abs to IFN-gamma and IFN-gamma receptor did not affect IL-12 production, indicating that increased production of IL-12 stimulated by the analogue peptide was not due to an effect of IFN-gamma from T cells. Peptide-induced up-regulation of CD40 ligand expression at high peptide concentrations showed no difference between the wild-type and analogue peptides. These data collectively indicate that certain T cell/APC interactions mediated through TCR and altered TCR ligands affect APC responses and that signals transmitted to APC are as indispensable as those to T cells in determining T cell response patterns.
A simple and efficient method for chemical synthesis of lysophosphatidylethanolamine is described. 1-O-hexadecyl diazohydroxyacetone (A. K. Hajra, T. V. Saraswathi and A. K. Das. 1983. Chem. Phys. Lipids. 33: 179-193) was decomposed by benzyloxycarbonyl (CBZ) derivative of phosphorylethanolamine (I) to give 1-O-hexadecyl dihydroxyacetone-3-(N)-CBZ phosphorylethanolamine (II). Compound (II) was reduced by NaBH4 and the product (III), after catalytic transfer hydrogenolysis produced the final compound, 1-O-hexadecyl-rac-glycero-3-phosphorylethanolamine (IV). The yield of (IV), starting from 1-O-hexadecyl diazohydroxyacetone was 53%. The identities of the compounds were verified by NMR and fast atom bombardment mass spectral (FAB-MS) analysis. 1-O-hexadecyl-rac[2-3H]glycero-3-phosphorylethanolamine prepared by the method above was shown to be a good in vitro substrate for plasmanyl delta 1'-desaturase (EC 1.14.99.19). Using this radioactive substrate, a simple and rapid solvent partition assay for this enzyme was developed with results comparable to those obtained by the two-dimensional thin-layer chromatographic assay method. The advantage of this rapid assay system and the applicability of the chemical synthetic method for other phosphoglycerides are discussed.
The programming processes concerned with response duration were studied in a precueing and in a priming reaction time (RT) paradigm. Participants had to produce a motor response of a specified duration as soon as possible after a response signal (RS) preceded by a warning signal (WS), which could deliver information on 2 response parameters (duration and effector). In Experiment I (precueing; N = 12), 3 effectors (the right hand, the left hand, or the knees) and 3 durations (.7, 2.5, or 5.5 s) were contrasted. Two responses differing in their biomechanical features were required in 2 blocks of trials: Subjects had to accurately time the duration of either a sustained button press or an interval between 2 brief presses. The RT patterns revealed a short-long effect: Shorter RTs were produced before the short duration than before the longer, provided that the duration was not precued. This short-long effect occurred whatever type of response and effector were involved. Two conclusions were reached. First, response duration was included in the motor program elaborated before execution, whatever the biomechanical features of the response; and, second, the program for the short duration was activated on all trials and was used as a basis for programming longer durations when needed. These conclusions were tested in Experiment 2 (priming; N = 12), in which a small proportion of invalid trials concerning duration was provided. Thus, the duration required by the RS differed from that primed by the WS. Two durations (.7 or 2.5 s) and 2 effectors (the index or the middle finger) were involved. In the invalid trials, the responses of short and long durations did not yield any RT differences, thus confirming the particular status of the short duration. This suggests that deprogramming operations (which lengthen the RT) are needed after a RS to produce short response durations but not after a RS to produce long response durations in the invalid trials.
Programmed cell death plays a critical role in sculpting the nervous system during embryonic development. In holometabolous insects, cell death also plays an important role in the reorganization of the nervous system during metamorphosis. In Manduca sexta, cell death and the factors that regulate it can be studied at the level of individually identified neurons. The accessory planta retractor (APR) motoneurons undergo segment-specific death during the larval-pupal transformation. APRs in abdominal segments 1, 5, and 6 die at pupation; those in abdominal segments 2, 3, and 4 survive until adulthood. Juvenile hormone and ecdysteroids regulate the metamorphic restructuring of the nervous system, but the factors that determine which APRs will live and which will die are not known. The present study assessed the possible importance of cell-cell interactions in determining APR survival at pupation by removing APR's target muscle or mechanosensory input early in the final larval instar, prior to the hormonal cues that trigger the larval-pupal transformation. The motoneurons showed their normal, segment-specific pattern of death in nearly all cases. These results suggest that target muscles and sensory input play little or no role in determining the segment-specific pattern of APR survival at pupation.
In membranes of rat olfactory bulb, a brain region in which muscarinic agonists increase cyclic AMP formation, the muscarinic stimulation of guanosine 5'-O-(3-[35S]thiotriphosphate) ([35S]GTP gamma S) binding was used as a tool to investigate the receptor interaction with the guanine nucleotide-binding regulatory proteins (G proteins). The stimulation of the radioligand binding by carbachol (CCh) was optimal (threefold increase) in the presence of micromolar concentrations of GDP and 100 mM NaCl. Exposure to N-ethylmaleimide and pertussis toxin markedly inhibited the CCh effect, whereas it increased the relative stimulation of [35S]GTP gamma S binding elicited by pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP). On the other hand, membrane treatment with cholera toxin curtailed the PACAP stimulation of [35S]GTP gamma S binding but did not affect the response to CCh. Like CCh, a number of cholinergic agonists stimulated [35S]GTP gamma S binding in a concentration-dependent and saturable manner. The antagonist profile of the muscarinic stimulation of [35S]GTP gamma S binding was highly correlated with that displayed by the muscarinic stimulation of adenylyl cyclase. These data indicate that the olfactory bulb muscarinic receptors couple to G1/G0, but not to Gs, and support the possibility that activation of G1/G0 mediates the stimulatory effect on adenylyl cyclase activity.
Recent studies have demonstrated that opioid agonists affect the cytosolic Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) either by regulating plasma membrane Ca(2+)-channel activity or by mobilizing intracellular Ca2+ stores. The present report documents the [Ca2+]i increase induced by opioid agonists in a human neuroblastoma cell line, SK-N-BE, expressing delta-opioid receptors. In the presence, as well as in the absence, of extracellular Ca2+, opioid agonists enhanced significantly [Ca2+]i, whereas carbachol, known to mobilize specifically inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate-sensitive intracellular Ca2+ stores, acted only in the presence of extracellular Ca2+. The opioid-induced increase in [Ca2+]i was not affected by treatments modifying the trimeric Gl, Go, and Gs protein transduction mechanisms or the activity of adenylyl cyclase. The Ca(2+)-ATPase pump-inhibiting sesquiterpene lactone, thapsigargin, did not modify the opioid-induced [Ca2+]i response, whereas it abolished the effects of carbachol. The Ryana speciosa alkaloid, ryanodine, at concentrations known to block endoplasmic reticulum ryanodine receptors, decreased significantly the response to opioids without affecting the effects of carbachol. Thus, our results suggest that, in SK-N-BE cells, delta-opioid receptors mobilize Ca2+ from intracellular ryanodine-sensitive stores and the mechanism involved is independent of Gl/Go Gs proteins and protein kinase A activation.

A subset of cerebellar mossy fibres is rich in choline acetyltransferase, the rate-limiting enzyme for the synthesis of acetylcholine. These choline acetyltransferase-positive mossy fibres are concentrated in the vestibulocerebellum and originate predominantly from the medial vestibular nucleus. The granular layer of the vestibulocerebellum is also enriched in unipolar brush cells, an unusual type of small neuron that form giant synapses with mossy fibres. In this immunocytochemical light and electron microscopic study, we explored whether choline acetyltransferase-positive mossy fibres innervate unipolar brush cells of the rat cerebellum. We utilized monoclonal antibodies to rat choline acetyltransferase of proven specificity, and immunoperoxidase procedures with 3,3'-diaminobenzidine tetrahydrochloride as the chromogen. A high density of choline acetyltransferase-positive fibres occurred in the nodulus and ventral uvula, where they showed an uneven, zonal distribution. Immunostained mossy fibre rosettes contained high densities of round synaptic vesicles and mitochondria. They formed asymmetric synaptic junctions with dendritic profiles of both granule cells and unipolar brush cells. The synaptic contacts between choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive mossy fibres and unipolar brush cells were very extensive, and did not differ from synapses of choline acetyltransferase-negative mossy fibres with unipolar brush cells. Analysis of a total area of 1.25 mm2 of the nodulus from three rats revealed that 14.2% of choline acetyltransferase-immunoreactive mossy fibre rosettes formed synapses with unipolar brush cells profiles. Choline acetyltransferase-positive rosettes accounted for 21.7% of the rosettes forming synapses with unipolar brush cells. Thus, the present data demonstrate that unipolar brush cells are innervated by a heterogeneous population of mossy fibres, and that some unipolar brush cells receive cholinergic synaptic input from the medial vestibular nucleus. The ultrastructure of these synapses is compatible with the possibility that choline acetyltransferase-positive mossy fibres co-release acetylcholine and glutamate. As the granular layer of the vestibulocerebellum contains nicotinic binding sites, the choline acetyltransferase-positive mossy fibres may be a model for studying nicotinic neurotransmission in the CNS.
After almost 40 years, there is still no consensus on criteria for identifying different types of synapse seen in electron microscopical thin sections or on methods for counting them unbiasedly in 3D. This review proposes a procedure which meets these aims and could be adopted as a standard best-practice sampling and counting convention. It deals exclusively with unbiased stereological methods for counting particles in 3D space because these are efficient and applicable to arbitrary particles regardless of their size, shape and orientation. Methods based on individual sections are excluded because arbitrary particles cannot be counted unbiasedly with such sections. Model-based methods (e.g. treating synaptic membrane densities as circular disks) are excluded because they are not unbiased in general and now have limited (mainly historical) interest only. For unbiased counting, the absolute minimum requirement is a pair of parallel sections (dissector). The following protocol is recommended for future studies on synapse number: (1) use para(membrane) densities as synaptic counting units, (2) do not qualify definition of the counting unit by reference to a minimum number of synaptic vesicle profiles, (3) sample and count synapses unbiasedly using the dissector, and (4) in preference convert number per volume into absolute number or, in this is not possible, estimate a synapse-to-neuron ratio.
Selective transection of the B or C preganglionic nerve fibres respectively innervating the B and C sympathetic neurons was carried out on the last two ganglia of the sympathetic chain of the frog Rana esculenta. At different times thereafter, the cross-reinnervation of one type of denervated neuron by nerve endings sprouting within the ganglia from intact fibres innervating the other type was investigated by both the quantitative morphology of the synaptic contacts and related structures and electrophysiological recordings of ganglionic transmission. As there are no fine ultrastructural criteria for distinguishing B from C neurons, the overall density of synapse, simple contact, and 'vacated' postsynaptic differentiation profiles was measured in the two cases of selective section and compared with the values for normal ganglia, therefore permitting the progress of cross-reinnervation with time for each type of neuron to be followed. At ten days after section of the C preganglionic fibres, immunocytochemistry showed that there were no anti-LH-RH-like peptide containing fibres within the ganglia. The B myelinated preganglionic fibres were able to reinnervate the denervated C neurons, with return to normal values of synaptic density and fully efficient transmission at two months in all tested C neurons. However, the latency of orthodromic action potentials was close to that of normally innervated B neurons. In contrast, the C non-myelinated preganglionic fibres reinnervated the denervated B neurons with limited efficiency, the synaptic density being two-thirds the normal value after five months, while subthreshold excitatory postsynaptic potentials or action potentials were only recorded in 44% of the tested B neurons. The latency of these orthodromic responses was close to that of normally innervated C neurons. It is postulated that the poor cross-reinnervation of B neurons could be due to insufficient sprouting of C fibres and/or lack of 'affinity' between C fibres and B neurons. In addition, these experiments demonstrated that the subsynaptic apparatus, fairly characteristic of frog ganglionic synapses, is present in both types of sympathetic neurons, although predominantly in B neurons.
This review summarizes what is known about the protein synthetic machinery that is selectively localized beneath postsynaptic sites on the dendrites of CNS neurons. This machinery, made up of polyribosomes and associated membranous cisterns, allows a local synthesis of key proteins at individual postsynaptic sites.
Homozygous mutant mice such as staggerer (sg/sg) or reeler (rl/rl) exhibit a marked ataxia associated with an atrophic cerebellum during the first postnatal weeks and a reduced number of Purkinje cells, the deficit reaching about 75% in sg/sg and 50% in rl/rl as compared to age- and sex-matched mice from the same strain background. These two mutations are classically viewed as recessive, but we have recently shown that heterozygous staggerer (+/sg) mice exhibit a progressive and age-related loss of Purkinje cells between 3 and 12 months of age, despite their apparent clinical normality (Shojaeian-Zanjani et al., 1992). In the present study, we have investigated whether a similar cell loss exists in the cerebellum of heterozygous +/rl mice. The number of Purkinje cells was counted in serial parasagittal sections of the cerebellum of +/rl and their +/+ littermates at 3, 16 and 26 months of age. Our results reveal a 16% deficit in the number of Purkinje cells in 3-month-old +/rl and a 24% one in 16-month-old animals: surprisingly this deficit is only present in the +/rl males, while the females are spared. These results suggest that the reeler gene (D'Arcangelo et al., 1995) exerts its effect on Purkinje cell number in a gender-specific fashion in heterozygous mutant mice.
There is increasing evidence that Schwann cells play an important role in the pathogenesis of autoimmune inflammatory peripheral nerve disease. Schwann cells have been reported to express major histocompatibility complex class I and II (MHC I and II) and intercellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1), and to produce interleukin-1 (IL-1), prostaglandin E2 and thromboxane A2. In this study we investigated freshly dissociated neonatal Lewis rat Schwann cells and a SV40 transfected neonatal rat Schwann cell line (Schwann cell line) for production of mRNA for the immunomodulatory cytokines IL-2, IL-4, IL-6, IL-10, interferon-gamma (IFN gamma), and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha) employing RT-PCR. Primary Schwann cells and Schwann cell line were examined following IFN gamma stimulation and were found to express TNF alpha and IL-6 mRNA. These results further support a role for Schwann cell participation in inflammatory responses within the peripheral nervous system (PNS).
Astrocytes play an important role in initiating and modulating inflammatory responses within the central nervous system. Extensive studies in rodents have shown that TPA, substance P, calcium ionophore A21387, and lipopolysaccharide (LPS) induce formation and release of arachidonic acid metabolites which have immunoregulatory properties. To better understand the immunopathology of brain injury, we studied the role of inflammatory cytokines such as tumor necrosis factor alpha, interleukin (IL) 6, IL-2, interferon gamma and IL-1 beta in the production of arachidonic acid metabolites in cells from fetal human brain. Among these cytokines, only IL-1 beta significantly stimulated production of prostaglandins E2 and F2 alpha but not PGD2, thromboxane B2 and 6-keto-PGF1 alpha. Under our experimental conditions, these astrocyte cultures did not produce metabolites in the lipoxygenase pathway such as leukotrienes B4 and C4 upon IL-1 beta stimulation. The stimulatory effects of IL-1 beta on the induction of arachidonic acid metabolites have been studied in various human cell types but not in astrocytes. Human astrocyte production of PGF2 alpha and PGE2 but not PGD2, 6-keto-PGF1 alpha and TXB2 when stimulated by IL-1 beta, is thus a novel finding. This observation should initiate investigations into the mechanism of arachidonic acid metabolism and the role of its metabolites in inflammation in the human nervous system.


A case of reversible encephalopathy during treatment with Amphotericin-B (AMB) is described. The comparison of the clinical course of AMB encephalopathy with total dose of AMB, cranial radiotherapy and MRI data available in previously reported cases, shows that this complication is characterized by a progressive, dose-dependent course, possibly influenced by cranial irradiation.
The use of the cytostatic agent vincristine (VCR) is limited by the occurrence of peripheral neuropathy. This side-effect is probably caused by interference with axonal microtubules. VCR depolymerizes microtubules and reacts with tubulin to form paracrystals. The potential of a neurotrophic ACTH(4-9) analogue, Org 2766, to counteract peripheral neuropathy caused by cytostatic agents is being investigated. In the present ultrastructural study, modulatory effects of Org 2766 on VCR-induced neurotoxicity were studied in vivo in neurons of the pond snail Lymnaea stagnalis, which has been shown previously to be a suitable test system to investigate neurotoxic side-effects of cytostatic agents. 24 h after treatment with VCR (25 microM), 68.4 +/- 34.7 paracrystals were counted per cross-section of the cerebral commissure and the number of microtubules in the axons had been lowered to 46% of the control level. After a survival period of two weeks all paracrystals had disappeared. By that time, no recovery of the axonal microtubular system could be observed. However, post-treatment with Org 2766 (10(-6) M) on day 6 after VCR treatment had induced a significant increase in the number of microtubules (+55%) on day 7. This beneficial effect lasted for the rest of the experimental period (14 days). These results suggest that post-treatment with Org 2766, i.e. after VCR clearance, can induce long-lasting beneficial effects on VCR-induced neurotoxicity in vivo.
1. Action-potential generation at sites remote from the cell body leads to antidromic firing and occurs in a wide variety of animals and experimental circumstances. Remote sites of spike generation may play a role in the functional subdivision of the axonal branches of a neuron and are also thought to play a role in synaptic integration. 2. Spontaneous ortho- and antidromic firing was investigated by recording the electrical activity of somata and axons of a pair of identified giant neurons [cerebral giant cells (CGCs)] in freely behaving animals. 3. At the soma of each CGC, the shape of the extracellular action potential was not constant but jumped between two well-defined levels. Subsequent recordings of synchronous firing in both cell bodies showed that the shape of the extracellular action potential depended on the firing sequence of the two CGCs. 4. Simultaneous recordings of the cell body and the main axon of a single CGC showed that spontaneous changes in the direction of spike conduction (orthodromic or antidromic) occurred. These changes in the direction of spike conduction coincided with the changes in the shapes of the extracellular action potentials recorded from the somata. 5. These results show that, under physiological conditions, spontaneous switching occurs between ortho- and antidromic spiking in the CGCs, and that action-potential generation at sites remote from the cell body is a physiologically relevant mechanism.
1. Chronic arthritis was produced in rats by the injection of incomplete Freund's adjuvant into one knee joint. By 3-5 days later the rats had developed unilateral swelling of the injected knee and demonstrated bilateral hyperalgesia to radiant heat stimuli applied to the foot. 2. In the same rats anesthetized 3-5 days after the injection, dorsal root reflexes could be recorded bilaterally from the proximal ends of the cut medial articular nerves (MANs) of the knee joint. 3. The dorsal root reflexes consisted of large, medium-sized, and small action potentials evoked in response to phasic mechanical stimulation of the lateral aspect of the knee. The activity was greater in the MAN ipsilateral to the injection than in the contralateral MAN. 4. Local application of capsaicin on the side ipsilateral or contralateral to the arthritis dramatically reduced the dorsal root reflexes recorded from the contralateral MAN, indicating that these dorsal root reflexes depended on activity in fine afferent fibers containing capsaicin receptors, presumably C fibers. Local application of capsaicin on either side did not significantly change the dorsal root reflexes recorded from the ipsilateral MAN. These dorsal root reflexes were presumably conducted in afferent fibers that lacked capsaicin receptors, including A beta- and A delta-fibers.
1. Focal cortical epilepsy was investigated by applying tetanic stimulation repeatedly (100 Hz. 2 s in duration, once every 10 min, 10 episodes) to layer III association fibers in rat piriform cortex slices and recording both extracellular and intracellular responses from the endopiriform nucleus. To promote excitability, piriform slices were incubated in artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) containing 0.9 mM Mg2+ and 5 mM K+, at an initial temperature of 10-12 degrees C, which was allowed to warm passively to room temperature. 2. Responses recorded extracellularly in the endopiriform nucleus consisted of two types: weak stimulation evoked an early-occurring, small-amplitude, negatively deflecting potential; strong stimulation evoked a more complex response comprising both an early potential of maximal amplitude and a later-occurring epileptiform potential of greater amplitude and longer duration. Late-occurring epileptiform potentials were not observed in slices incubated in ACSF at room temperature. 3. Both the early potential and the late-occurring epileptiform responses were abolished by the non-N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (non-NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor blocker, 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX; 10 microM). Application of D(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (APV; 50 microM) to block NMDA receptors was without effect on the early potential but diminished the late-occurring epileptiform potential. The late-occurring potential was unable to follow stimulation delivered at a frequency of 1 Hz. These results suggest that the early potential was generated monosynaptically and dependent solely on the activation of non-NMDA receptors, whereas the late-occurring epileptiform potential was polysynaptic in origin and possessed both a CNQX- and an APV-sensitive component. 4. Responses increased progressively in both amplitude and duration after tetanic stimulation. The threshold intensity required to evoke the complex dual-component potential was reduced by tetanic stimulation. An increase in multiunit spiking activity, indicating an increase in synchronous discharges, was also observed. A residual potential could be evoked in the presence of CNQX (10 microM) after the tetanic stimulation procedure. 5. Spontaneous discharges occurred as early as after the first episode of tetanic stimulation and persisted for the duration of the experiment. Spontaneous discharges were abolished by either CNQX or by a fourfold increase in extracellular Mg2+ concentration, the latter reversibly. APV reduced the frequency of spontaneous discharges by 38.6 +/- 9.3% (mean +/- SE). The conventional anticonvulsant drug 5,5-diphenylhydantoin, the benzodiazepine receptor agonist midazolam, and the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil were without effect on the frequency of spontaneous discharges. Evoked responses were also unaffected by either 5,5-diphenylhydantoin or midazolam. Slices not exposed to cold ACSF, although demonstrating potentiation of evoked responses after tetanization did not produce spontaneous epileptiform discharges. 6. Intracellular recordings from endopiriform neurons revealed the cellular correlates of the extracellular responses. Weak stimulation evoked a small-amplitude depolarizing potential. Increasing the intensity of stimulation increased the amplitude of this response and also evoked a second depolarizing potential of greater amplitude occurring at variable latencies. Maximal stimulation evoked an action potential. After tetanic stimuli, responses resembling a paroxysmal depolarizing shift consisting of a depolarizing potential with superimposed multiple action potentials were evoked reliably. Passive membrane properties after repeated tetanic stimulation were not different when compared with control. 7. This novel model of in vitro focal cortical epilepsy has many features characteristic of conventional kindling including 1) progressive nature; 2) reduced threshold to evoke discharges; and 3) persist
1. Tachykinin-like immunoreactivity is found in the dorsal roots, dorsal horn, and dorsal column of the lamprey. The effect of tachykinins on sensory processing was examined by recording intracellularly from primary sensory dorsal cells and second-order spinobulbar giant interneurons. Modulation of synaptic transmission was examined by making paired recordings from dorsal cells and giant interneurons, or by eliciting compound depolarizations in the giant interneurons by stimulating the dorsal root or dorsal column. 2. Bath application of tachykinins depolarized the dorsal cells. This effect was mimicked by stimulation of the dorsal root, suggesting that dorsal root afferents may be a source of endogenous tachykinin input to the spinal cord. The depolarization was reduced by removal of sodium or calcium from the Ringer, or when potassium conductances were blocked, and was not associated with a measurable change in input resistance. Dorsal root stimulation also caused a depolarization in the dorsal cells, and this effect and that of bath-applied substance P, was blocked by the tachykinin antagonist spantide. 3. The tachykinin substance P could reduce inward and outward rectification in the dorsal cells, the effect on outward rectification only being seen when potassium conductances were blocked by tetraethylammonium (TEA). 4. Substance P increased the excitability of the dorsal cells and giant interneurons, shown by the increased spiking in response to depolarizing current pulses. The increased excitability was blocked by the tachykinin antagonist spantide. 5. Substance P modulated the dorsal cell action potential, by increasing the spike duration and reducing the amplitude of the afterhyperpolarization. The spike amplitude was not consistently affected. 6. Stimulation of the dorsal column resulted in either depolarizing or hyperpolarizing potentials in the giant interneurons. The amplitude of the depolarization was increased by substance P, whereas the amplitude of the hyperpolarization was reduced. These effects occurred independently of a measurable change in postsynaptic input resistance, suggesting that the modulation occurred presynaptically. Paired recordings from dorsal cells and giant interneurons failed to reveal an effect of substance P on dorsal cell-evoked excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), suggesting that the potentiation of the dorsal column-evoked depolarization was due to an effect on other axons in the dorsal column. Dorsal root-evoked potentials could also be increased in the presence of substance P, although this effect was less consistent than the effect on dorsal column stimulation. 7. These results suggest that tachykinins modulate sensory input to the lamprey spinal cord by increasing the excitability of primary afferents and second-order giant interneurons, and also by modulating synaptic transmission. Tachykinins may result in potentiation of local spinal reflexes and also modulation of descending reticulospinal inputs to the spinal locomotor network as a result of potentiation of spinobulbar inputs.
1. Different metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) can modulate synaptic transmission in different regions in the CNS, but their roles at individual synaptic connections have not been detailed. We used paired intracellular recordings from reticulospinal axons and their postsynaptic target neurons in the lamprey spinal cord to investigate the effects of mGluR activation on glutamatergic synaptic transmission. 2. The mGluR agonists (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxyylic acid [(1S,3R)-ACPD] and L(+)-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyric acid (L-AP4) both reduced the amplitude of monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) elicited by stimulation of single reticulospinal axons. The depression of monosynaptic unitary EPSPs occurred without any apparent change in the input resistance of postsynaptic neurons. Furthermore, the mGluR agonists did not affect the amplitude of (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA)-induced depolarizations. Taken together, these results thus suggest that (1S,3R)-ACPD and L-AP4 depress reticulospinal synaptic transmission via presynaptic mechanisms. 3. (2S,1'S,2'S)-2-(carboxycyclopropyl) glycine (L-CCG-I), which selectively activates group II mGluRs, also reduced the amplitude of reticulospinal-evoked EPSPs without any apparent change in the input resistance or membrane potential of the postsynaptic neuron. 4. The mGluR antagonist alpha-methyl-L-AP4 blocked the depression induced by L-AP4 but not that induced by (1S,3R)-ACPD. Furthermore, the effects of coapplication of (1S,3R)-ACPD and L-AP4 were additive, suggesting that they inhibit synaptic transmission by an action on pharmacologically distinct mGluRs. 5. These results provide evidence for the colocalization of at least two different subtypes of presynaptic mGluRs on a single reticulospinal axon in the lamprey. These presynaptic mGluRs could serve as glutamatergic autoreceptors limiting the extent of reticulospinal-mediated excitation of spinal neurons.
1. Measurements were made in four normal human subjects of the accuracy of saccades to remembered locations of targets that were flashed on a 20 x 30 deg random dot display that was either stationary or moving horizontally and sinusoidally at +/-9 deg at 0.3 Hz. During the interval between the target flash and the memory-guided saccade, the &quot;memory period&quot; (1.4 s), subjects either fixated a stationary spot or pursued a spot moving vertically sinusoidally at +/-9 deg at 0.3 Hz. 2. When saccades were made toward the location of targets previously flashed on a stationary background as subjects fixated the stationary spot, median saccadic error was 0.93 deg horizontally and 1.1 deg vertically. These errors were greater than for saccades to visible targets, which had median values of 0.59 deg horizontally and 0.60 deg vertically. 3. When targets were flashed as subjects smoothly pursued a spot that moved vertically across the stationary background, median saccadic error was 1.1 deg horizontally and 1.2 deg vertically, thus being of similar accuracy to when targets were flashed during fixation. In addition, the vertical component of the memory-guided saccade was much more closely correlated with the &quot;spatial error&quot; than with the &quot;retinal error&quot;; this indicated that, when programming the saccade, the brain had taken into account eye movements that occurred during the memory period. 4. When saccades were made to targets flashed during attempted fixation of a stationary spot on a horizontally moving background, a condition that produces a weak Duncker-type illusion of horizontal movement of the primary target, median saccadic error increased horizontally to 3.2 deg but was 1.1 deg vertically. 5. When targets were flashed as subjects smoothly pursued a spot that moved vertically on the horizontally moving background, a condition that induces a strong illusion of diagonal target motion, median saccadic error was 4.0 deg horizontally and 1.5 deg vertically; thus the horizontal error was greater than under any other experimental condition. 6. In most trials, the initial saccade to the remembered target was followed by additional saccades while the subject was still in darkness. These secondary saccades, which were executed in the absence of visual feedback, brought the eye closer to the target location. During paradigms involving horizontal background movement, these corrections were more prominent horizontally than vertically. 7. Further measurements were made in two subjects to determine whether inaccuracy of memory-guided saccades, in the horizontal plane, was due to mislocalization at the time that the target flashed, misrepresentation of the trajectory of the pursuit eye movement during the memory period, or both. 8. The magnitude of the saccadic error, both with and without corrections made in darkness, was mislocalized by approximately 30% of the displacement of the background at the time that the target flashed. The magnitude of the saccadic error also was influenced by net movement of the background during the memory period, corresponding to approximately 25% of net background movement for the initial saccade and approximately 13% for the final eye position achieved in darkness. 9. We formulated simple linear models to test specific hypotheses about which combinations of signals best describe the observed saccadic amplitudes. We tested the possibilities that the brain made an accurate memory of target location and a reliable representation of the eye movement during the memory period, or that one or both of these was corrupted by the illusory visual stimulus. Our data were best accounted for by a model in which both the working memory of target location and the internal representation of the horizontal eye movements were corrupted by the illusory visual stimulus. We conclude that extraretinal signals played only a minor role, in comparison with visual estimates of the direction of gaze, in planning eye movements to remembered targ
We characterized the dependence of motor learning in the monkey vestibulo-ocular reflex (VOR) on the duration, frequency, and relative timing of the visual and vestibular stimuli used to induce learning. The amplitude of the VOR was decreased or increased through training with paired head and visual stimulus motion in the same or opposite directions, respectively. For training stimuli that consisted of simultaneous pulses of head and target velocity 80-1000 msec in duration, brief stimuli caused small changes in the amplitude of the VOR, whereas long stimuli caused larger changes in amplitude as well as changes in the dynamics of the reflex. When the relative timing of the visual and vestibular stimuli was varied, brief image motion paired with the beginning of a longer vestibular stimulus caused changes in the amplitude of the reflex alone, but the same image motion paired with a later time in the vestibular stimulus caused changes in the dynamics as well as the amplitude of the VOR. For training stimuli that consisted of sinusoidal head and visual stimulus motion, low-frequency training stimuli induced frequency-selective changes in the VOR, as reported previously, whereas high-frequency training stimuli induced changes in the amplitude of the VOR that were more similar across test frequency. The results suggest that there are at least two distinguishable components of motor learning in the VOR. One component is induced by short-duration or high-frequency stimuli and involves changes in only the amplitude of the reflex. A second component is induced by long-duration or low-frequency stimuli and involves changes in the amplitude and dynamics of the VOR.
Some thalamocortical pathways display an &quot;augmenting response&quot; when stimuli are delivered at frequencies between 7 and 14 Hz. Cortical responses to the first three stimuli of a series increase progressively in amplitude and are relatively stable thereafter. We have investigated the cellular mechanisms of the augmenting response using extracellular and intracellular recordings in vivo and in slices of the sensorimotor neocortex of the rat. Single stimuli to the ventrolateral (VL) nucleus of the thalamus generate EPSPs followed by feedforward IPSPs that hyperpolarize cells in layer V. A long-latency depolarization interrupts the IPSP with a peak at approximately 200 msec. A second VL stimulus delivered during the hyperpolarization and before the peak of the long-latency depolarization yields an augmenting response. The shortest latency for augmenting responses occurs in cells of layer V, and they appear in dendrites and somata recorded in upper layers approximately 5 msec later. Recordings in vitro show that some layer V cells have hyperpolarization-activated and deinactivated conductances that may serve to increase their excitability after IPSPs. Also in vitro, cells from layer V, but not from layer III, generated augmenting responses at the same stimulation frequencies that were effective in vivo. Control experiments indicated that neither paired-pulse depression of IPSPs nor presynaptically mediated facilitation can account for the augmenting response. Active dendritic conductances contribute to the spread of augmenting responses into upper layers by way of back-propagating fast spikes, which attenuate with repetition, and long-lasting spikes, which enhance in parallel with the augmenting response. In conclusion, we propose that the initiation of augmenting responses depends on an interaction between inhibition, intrinsic membrane properties, and synaptic interconnections of layer V pyramidal neurons.
Pronounced changes in neuronal morphology occur as synapses mature; however, little is known about how synaptic transmission regulates the developing neuronal cytoskeleton. The postsynaptic, microtubule-associated protein MAP2 is a target of multiple, calcium-dependent signaling pathways activated by synaptic transmission. Here we demonstrate that MAP2 phosphorylation is differentially regulated across development. In 32P-labeled hippocampal slices prepared from adult rats, depolarization stimulated a bidirectional change in the phosphorylation of immunoprecipitated MAP2. A transient increase was mediated by metabotropic glutamate receptors (mGluRs) and stimulation of mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs), Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinases (CaMKs), and protein kinase C (PKC). This increase was followed by a persistent dephosphorylation mediated by NMDA receptors and activation of protein phosphatase 2B (PP2B or calcineurin). In contrast, depolarization of neonatal hippocampal slices stimulated exclusively a net increase in MAP2 phosphorylation, which was attenuated by inhibitors of MAPKs, but not CaMKs or PKC. Furthermore, although incubation in NMDA induced a time-dependent decrease in MAP2 phosphorylation in both adults and neonates, this effect was both less robust and less sensitive to calcineurin inhibitors in neonates than in adults. These data indicate that the mechanisms coupling glutamate release to MAP2 dephosphorylation are relatively lacking in the neonatal hippocampus. Highly phosphorylated MAP2 is impaired in its ability to stabilize microtubules and actin filament bundles in vitro. The neonatal propensity toward glutamate-stimulated MAP2 phosphorylation may serve to reduce cytoskeletal stability and permit dendritic arborization early in postnatal development. In mature neurons, the bidirectional control of MAP2 phosphorylation may participate in activity-dependent synaptic remodeling.
We have investigated the developmental regulation of the ability to fire repetitively in the bag cell neurons of Aplysia californica, a neuronal system in which the behavioral effects of repetitive firing are well characterized. Adult bag cell neurons exhibit an afterdischarge, consisting of prolonged depolarization and repetitive firing, which causes the release of several peptides from these neurons that induce egg-laying behaviors. Afterdischarge can be triggered in vitro by a variety of stimuli, including electrical stimulation and exposure to the potassium channel blocker tetraethyl ammonium chloride (TEA). In contrast to adults, juvenile neurons did not exhibit afterdischarge in response to pleural-abdominal connective shock or TEA. Juvenile neurons did exhibit, however, prolonged depolarizations in the presence of TEA, perhaps reflecting the anlage of the mechanism responsible for afterdischarge in the adult. To investigate developmental mechanisms underlying the regulation of repetitive firing, we compared ionic currents in adult and juvenile bag cell neurons. We found that during the period in which these neurons acquire the capacity to fire repetitively, a number of currents are regulated: (1) three K+ currents decrease (Ca2+)-dependent K+ and two components of voltage-dependent delayed-rectifier K+ current); (2) A-type K+ current increases; and (3) two Ca2+ currents increase (basal and PKC-activated). This pattern is consistent with the increase in the ability to fire repetitively that we observe during maturation: our results indicate that developmental control of repetitive firing in this system is accompanied by selective regulation of specific ionic currents which, after maturation, play important roles in generating the afterdischarge and triggering egg-laying behaviors.
Nerve growth factor (NGF)-induced differentiation in PC12 cells is accompanied by changes in the expression of voltage-dependent Ca2+ channels. Ca2+ channels are multimeric complexes composed of at least three subunits (alpha1, beta, and alpha2delta) and are involved in neuronal migration, gene expression, and neurotransmitter release. Although attempts have been undertaken to elucidate NGF regulation of Ca2+ channel expression, the changes in subunit composition of these channels during differentiation still remain uncertain. In the present study, patch-clamp recordings show that in addition to the previously documented L-type and N-type Ca2+ currents, undifferentiated PC12 cells also express an omega-agatoxin-IVA-sensitive (P/Q-type) component. In addition, the corresponding mRNA encoding the pore-forming alpha1 subunits for these channels (C, B, and A, respectively) was detected. Likewise, mRNA for three distinct auxiliary beta subunits (1, 2, 3) were also found, beta3 protein being dominantly expressed. Immunoprecipitation experiments show that the N-type Ca2+ channel is associated with either a beta2 or beta3 subunit and that NGF increases the channel expression without affecting its beta subunit association. These results (1) indicate that the diversity of Ca2+ currents in PC12 cells arise from the expression of three distinct alpha1 and three different beta subunit genes; (2) support a model for heterogenous beta subunit association of the N-type Ca2+ channel in a single cell type; and (3) suggest that the regulation of the N-type Ca2+ channel during NGF-mediated differentiation involves an increase in the number of functional channels with no apparent changes in subunit composition.
Atrial natriuretic peptide (ANP) and its receptors are present in hypothalamic nuclei containing the magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs), which release vasopressin and oxytocin. In the rat, intracerebroventricular injections of ANP inhibit the release of both hormones in response to hypertonicity. Although these findings suggest a role for endogenous ANP in the central control of fluid balance, cellular mechanisms underlying the modulatory actions of ANP are unknown. We therefore examined the effects of ANP on the osmoresponsiveness of MNCs impaled in rat hypothalamic explants. Applications of ANP (75-150 nM) over the supraoptic nucleus did not affect depolarizing responses to local hypertonicity, but they reversibly abolished the synaptic excitation of MNCs after hypertonic stimulation of the organum vasculosum laminae terminalis (OVLT). These effects were associated with decreased spontaneous EPSP (sEPSP) amplitude rather than with changes in sEPSP frequency. Accordingly, application of ANP reduced the amplitude of glutamatergic EPSPs evoked by electrical stimulation of the OVLT (IC50 approximately 3 nM). The inhibitory effects of ANP on EPSP amplitude were mimicked by application of 3'-5'-dibutyryl cGMP, consistent with the guanylate cyclase activity of natriuretic peptide receptors. Although depolarizing responses of MNCs to ionotropic glutamate receptor agonists were unaffected by ANP, the peptide reversibly enhanced paired-pulse facilitation of electrically evoked EPSPs. These results indicate that centrally released ANP may inhibit osmotically evoked neurohypophysial hormone release through presynaptic inhibition of glutamate release from osmoreceptor afferents derived from the OVLT.
An ultrastructural examination of mRNA within adult rat CA1 hippocampal dendrites was conducted using two different methods. The messages for the alpha and beta forms of the calcium-calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II were localized in ultracryosections using silver-intensified gold detection of isoform-specific oligonucleotide probes. Labeling for both isoforms was observed within the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of pyramidal neurons, but only the alpha form was observed in more distal dendrites. Unfortunately, the morphological preservation of the tissue was not sufficient to determine the localization of labeling relative to subcellular features such as dendritic spines. To address this issue, a preembedding peroxidase-based method was developed, resulting in better preservation of the neuropil. The total population of polyadenylated [poly(A)] mRNA was localized in hippocampus using a biotinylated poly(dT) probe. Poly(A) mRNA was present in the nucleus and throughout the cell body of all hippocampal cells and within isolated dendrites and glial processes within the neuropil. Within pyramidal neurons, labeling was distributed in a longitudinal pattern in proximal apical dendrites. More distally, the amount of labeling diminished, and smaller foci of labeling were observed, particularly near the plasma membrane. Concentrated labeling was present at the base of dendritic spines and, less frequently, near synapses onto the dendritic shaft. These results suggest that dendritic mRNA is found in the vicinity of postsynaptic sites and provide additional evidence that local protein synthesis may play an important role in establishing and maintaining synaptic specializations.
In the present study an isolated preparation of the complete anuran central nervous system (CNS) is described which can be kept alive for several days and allows tracing, immunohistochemical and electrophysiological studies. A simple perfusion chamber is being used in which the isolated CNS preparation is superfused with oxygenated Ringer. The use of an isolated CNS has many advantages including: (1) virtually all areas are easily accessible at the same time without having the problem of blood vessels that hinder access; (2) large lesions and massive tracer applications are possible without survival problems of the animal, and tracers will not be translocated by blood circulation; (3) since pulsations caused by the pressure changes of blood circulation do not occur, intracellular recordings are comparatively easy and stable; and (4) this approach offers the possibility of working on the same brain for several days by storing the preparation in a refrigerator overnight at low temperatures, thus allowing extensive utilization of a single preparation and reduction in the number of experimental animals required. Some applications to the anuran auditory system illustrate that the isolated anuran CNS is well-suited for a variety of neuroanatomical and physiological techniques.
The purposes of this study were to develop and test an implantable interface that could be used for repeated temporary electrical connections between implanted stimulating and recording devices and external equipment. The implantable multi-use interface (TIMI) consists of an implanted set of connectors and temporary percutaneous leads. The connector(s) and attached devices are implanted during a sterile surgery. For each experimental session, a percutaneous lead is introduced into each connector with a hypodermic needle. The external ends of the percutaneous leads are then connected to the desired equipment. After the session is finished, the percutaneous leads are removed. TIMIs have been used successfully with nerve cuff stimulating electrodes, a tendon force transducer and an electromyography electrode, and have been implanted with nerve cuffs for up to 14 weeks without failure. The advantages of the TIMI over the standard backpack connector include: (1) the internal location of the connector reduces the risk that the animal will damage the connector and (2) the temporary and relatively controlled nature of the percutaneous connection reduces the risk of infection associated with permanent percutaneous leads. The TIMI provides an inexpensive, simple and reliable electrical connection between implanted devices and external equipment.
To evaluate new pharmacologic agents with potentially beneficial effects on posttraumatic spinal cord function, we used a modified weight drop (WD) technique to induce spinal cord injuries. These contusive spinal cord injuries in the rat closely mimic the human clinicopathologic situation. Especially for drug screening purposes, the moderate and mild injuries are of interest, as both the beneficial and potentially harmful effects of experimental treatment can be detected. In this study, we describe two new functional tests that were particularly designed to detect small differences in spinal cord function after moderate and mild injuries. First, for examination of locomotion, a computer analysis of the thoracolumbar height (TLH) was designed. Second, for investigation of the conduction properties of the injured rat spinal cord, we measured rubrospinal motor evoked potentials (MEP). The efficacy of the new assessment techniques to monitor spinal cord function was compared to Tarlov scores and to morphometric analysis of preserved white matter at the injury site. The results of this study indicated that for behavioral analysis, TLH measurements as compared with Tarlov rating appeared to be more sensitive for exact and objective discrimination between small differences in motor function. Amplitudes of the rubrospinal MEP, but not latencies or the number of peaks, proved to be most sensitive to determine subtle differences in posttraumatic spinal cord function. A significant linear correlation was found between TLH and amplitude of the rubrospinal MEP. We conclude that for objective assessment of the spinal cord after moderate and mild contusive injury, TLH and rubrospinal MEP amplitudes are very valuable measures to demonstrate small functional differences.
In rat frontal cortical astrocytes, 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT), 5-carboxamidotryptamine and 5-methoxytryptamine elicited a concentration-dependent increase of cyclic AMP accumulation, with EC50 values of 137 +/- 7 nM (5-HT), 10.4 +/- 3.9 nM (5-carboxamidotryptamine) and 57.8 +/- 13.6 nM (5-methoxytryptamine). Accumulation of cyclic AMP stimulated by 5-HT (10 microM) was inhibited by methiothepin (IC50 = 21 +/- 13 nM) but not by pindolol, SCH 23390, ICS 205-930 or GR 113808. These pharmacological effects on cyclic AMP formation in astrocytes are consistent with those observed in 5-HT7 receptor binding studies. Indeed, reverse transcription-polymerase chain reaction analysis revealed the presence of 5-HT7 mRNA in astrocytes. Chronic exposure of astrocytes to mianserin (0.05-4 microM) or amitriptyline (1-8 microM) for 3 days produced a concentration-dependent enhancement of 5-HT-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation, with EC50 values of 0.47 +/- 0.04 microM (mianserin) and 2.5 +/- 0.3 microM (amitriptyline). The enhancement of cyclic AMP accumulation was time dependent, reaching maximal levels within 2 days. Mianserin exposure (2 microM, for 3 days) resulted in a comparable enhancement of cyclic AMP accumulation mediated by 5-carboxamidotryptamine and 5-methoxytryptamine, whereas this treatment had no effect on cyclic AMP production induced by G protein-specific stimulators and catalytic subunit-selective stimulators. The mianserin-induced enhancement of 5-HT-stimulated cyclic AMP accumulation was decreased by methiothepin (IC50 = 15 +/- 8 nM) and significantly attenuated by pretreatment with 5-HT7 receptor antisense oligonucleotides, suggesting that chronic mianserin exposure produces an increase in 5-HT7 receptor activity. Chronic exposure to maprotiline, setiptiline or clomipramine (5 microM, for 3 days) mimicked the effect of mianserin. The enhancement of 5-HT7 receptor activity after chronic antidepressant exposure may be a mechanism underlying the therapeutic effects.
Phencylidine (PCP) is a psychotomimetic noncompetitive glutamate antagonist that has been used in studies of the neural substrates of psychosis. Both schizophrenic patients and PCP-treated rats exhibit reduced amounts of prepulse inhibition (PPI) of the startle reflex, which is the normal inhibition of startle that occurs when the starting noise is preceded 30 to 500 msec by a weak prepulse. The present study assessed the effects of seroquel (ICI 204,636), a mixed D2/5-hydroxytryptamine2 antagonist with a preclinical profile suggestive of potential antipsychotic efficacy, on the PCP-induced disruption of PPI. Clozapine, risperidone and haloperidol were also studied as comparison compounds. PCP (1.25 mg/kg) significantly reduced PPI, with prepulses that were 1 to 12 dB above background. Seroquel and clozapine significantly restored PPI in PCP-treated rats, whereas haloperidol and risperidone did not. Similar findings were obtained in studies using separate animals, a slightly lower dose of PCP (1.0 mg/kg) and a high dose of each of these antipsychotics. Separate studies verified that risperidone and haloperidol restored PPI in apomorphine-treated rats. In the present studies, seroquel exhibited a profile consistent with those exhibited by other &quot;atypical&quot; antipsychotics.
The functional effects of a single dual-site intranigral administration (10 micrograms) of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) on dopamine (DA) neurons in the basal ganglia of young Fischer 344 rats were investigated. A combination of behavioral, in vivo electrochemical, microdialysis and high-performance liquid chromatography methods were used to study the effects of this novel peptide. Behaviorally, significant changes in spontaneous locomotor activity were found 1 week, but not 3 weeks, after GDNF treatment. However, the velocity of movements was increased in the GDNF-treated animals 3 weeks after GDNF administration, a result that corresponded to significant enhancement of stimulus-evoked release of DA. Two-fold increases in potassium-evoked DA overflow were seen throughout the striatum by means of high-speed chronoamperometry 3 weeks after GDNF injection. No significant change in basal levels of DA was measured by microdialysis, although both potassium-evoked and d-amphetamine-induced DA overflow were significantly increased 3 weeks after treatment. Finally, significant changes in whole-tissue levels of DA were seen in the substantia nigra 1 week, but not 3 weeks, after GDNF administration. These data represent the first studies demonstrating that GDNF has long-lasting functional presynaptic effects on DA-containing neurons in the rat striatum.
1. Oxytocin is known to act on autoreceptors of oxytocin neurones in the supraoptic nucleus (SON). We investigated whether oxytocin modulates putative oxytocin neurones by suppressing the GABAA receptor-mediated synaptic inputs on these cells. 2. GABAergic inhibitory postsynaptic currents (IPSCs) were recorded from SON neurones in hypothalamic slices from young rats. Oxytocin specifically reduced the amplitude of both spontaneous and evoked IPSCs, without altering their current kinetics. 3. The effect of oxytocin was observed in 70% of the magnocellular neurones recorded from the dorsomedial part of the SON. d(CH2)5OVT, a specific antagonist of oxytocin receptors, blocked the effect of oxytocin on the IPSCs. Vasopressin had no effect on oxytocin-sensitive SON neurones. 4. The intervals between spontaneous IPSCs were not affected by oxytocin. This suggested that oxytocin had a postsynaptic effect on SON neurones. 5. This postsynaptic origin was further substantiated by application of TTX, which blocked all evoked release but did not prevent the suppressive effect of oxytocin on the amplitude of the spontaneous IPSCs still present in the recording. The selective effect of oxytocin on IPSC amplitude was also maintained in nominally zero extracellular calcium. 6. Intracellular perfusion of SON neurones with GTP gamma S mimicked the effect of oxytocin on IPSCs, while GDP beta S, similarly applied, abolished the effect of oxytocin. 7. Application of calcium mobilizers such as thapsigargin and caffeine also reduced the amplitude of spontaneous IPSCs without significantly altering the frequency at which IPSCs occurred. 8. Thus, oxytocin depresses GABAergic synapses in the SON via modulation of the postsynaptic GABAA receptors. This would lead to disinhibition of SON neurones sensitive to oxytocin and could, therefore, be a powerful means of controlling the firing of oxytocin neurones.
Transgenic techniques are generating new strains of animals that are of great importance for many neurological research projects. This includes new animal models of human diseases that should allow analysis of disease etiology and treatment. The insertion of new genetic material into the mouse genome enables the investigator to study the effects of overexpression of normal or mutated genes under a variety of experimental conditions. The use of cell-specific and/or developmentally regulated promoters permits studies on the expression of the specific DNA in selected cells within the nervous system at important developmental stages. This article focuses on the techniques for generating transgenic mice, noting specific advantages or problems that should be considered when designing a transgenic project. The use of reporter genes such as the LacZ gene is discussed, using the particular example of the myelin proteolipid protein promoter directing expression of the LacZ gene in differentiating oligodendrocytes.
Until recently, the mouse was rarely used to study the biology of learning and memory. With advancements in gene-targeting technology, which now allow the structure and expression of a specific protein to be controlled in the intact animal, the mouse provides a powerful new tool to explore cognitive function. In mice, in contrast to other organisms, it is now possible to regulate the expression of a protein in the same neurons that are electrophysiologically and biochemically manipulable and are in a circuit involved in a defined learned behavior. Mouse mutants have been described that alter synaptic physiology, neuroanatomy, neurochemistry, and behavior. The mutants provide the first opportunity to correlate these phenotypes within animals engineered with defined molecular alterations. This review will discuss a range of methodologies that are required to describe the phenotype of mice with synaptic and behavioral abnormalities and focus on the interpretative difficulties of integrating these techniques.
As the mouse genome becomes more accessible to experimental manipulation, it is becoming feasible to assess how genes influence the expression of specific behavioral traits. The mouse mutant coloboma exhibits extreme hyperactivity resulting from an approximately 2-cM deletion on mouse Chromosome 2. This deletion includes the gene encoding SNAP-25, a neuron-specific protein implicated in exocytotic neurotransmitter release. Because a deficit in this gene product might contribute to the expression of hyperactivity, a transgene expressing SNAP-25 was bred into the coloboma mouse genome to replace the missing SNAP-25 and rescue the hyperactivity. The Snap transgene was indeed sufficient to ameliorate the locomotor excesses exhibited by these mice, suggesting that SNAP-25 plays a central role in the expression of hyperactivity. In the course of designing and executing this experiment, several methodologic issues pertinent to manipulating the mouse genome in the context of a behavioral question were presented. These issues are discussed in light of the unique properties of the mouse as a behavioral genetic tool.

The RNase protection assay is a highly sensitive technique developed to detect and measure the abundance of specific mRNAs in samples of total cellular RNA. The assay utilizes in vitro transcribed 32P-labeled antisense RNA probes that are hybridized in solution to their complementary cellular mRNAs. This is followed by digestion of nonhybridizing (single-stranded) RNA species with RNases, removal of the RNases by treatment with proteinase K, phenol extraction of the cRNA:mRNA complexes, and electrophoretic isolation of the hybridizing cRNA fragments. Since one can synthesize &quot;sense&quot; mRNAs having the same sequence as the target cellular mRNA, appropriate standard curves can be generated and used to quantitate the changes in tissue mRNA levels. Because the assay requires perfect sequence complementarity for full protection, it not only serves as a quantitative tool but also provides conclusive evidence for the existence of a specific mRNA in a given tissue. The procedure described here is a modification of that originally described by M. Gilman [1993, in Current Protocols in Molecular Biology (Ausubel, F. M., Brent, R., Kingston, R. E., Moore, D. D., Seidman, J. G., Smith, J. A., and Struhl, K., Eds.), Vol. 1, pp. 4.7.1-4.7.6, Greene and Wiley-Interscience, New York].

NGFI-B, Nurr1, and Nor1 are three closely related orphan members of the steroid/thyroid hormone receptor superfamily. These receptors can bind to DNA as monomers and exhibit constitutive transcriptional activity. Moreover, two of the receptors, NGFI-B and Nurr1, have previously been shown to form heterodimers with the retinoid X receptor (RXR). Such heterodimers as well as complexes formed between RXR and the all-trans retinoic acid receptor bind to DNA response elements composed of direct repeats spaced by five nucleotides (DR5). However, whereas retinoic acid receptor can inhibit ligand-dependent RXR activation, NGFI-B and Nurr1 allow efficient RXR activation through DR5 elements and thus define a distinct pathway for vitamin A signaling. In this study we demonstrate that the most recently identified member of the subfamily, Nor1, shows similar monomer DNA-binding and constitutive transactivation properties as NGFI-B and Nurr1. In contrast, however, Nor1 is unable to promote RXR signaling due to its inability to form heterodimers with RXR. To begin to understand the physiological implications of these functional differences we used in situ hybridization to compare the distribution of Nor1, NGFI-B, and Nurr1 messenger RNAs during different developmental stages. The receptors are expressed in both distinct and overlapping patterns, predominantly in the central nervous system. Notably, Nurr1 is expressed in the prenatal ventral midbrain in a region that gives rise to dopaminergic neurons. Nor1 is also expressed during embryonic development, and all three receptors show a complex distribution in the postnatal brain. Furthermore, Nor1 colocalizes with NGFI-B in the adrenal glands and thymus, two tissues in which NGFI-B has been suggested to be functionally important. These data may indicate redundancy between members of the NGFI-B/Nurr1/Nor1 subfamily and could explain why no phenotypic disturbances have yet been found in mice in which the NGFI-B gene has been inactivated.
We identified a novel azaindole derivative, L-750,667, that has high affinity (Ki = 0.51 nM) and &gt;2000-fold selectivity for D4 dopamine receptors compared with its activity at D2 and D3 dopamine receptors. L-750,667 had little affinity for rat D1/D5 dopamine receptors, sigma binding sites, or 5-hydroxytryptamine1A or 5-hydroxytryptamine2 receptors. In functional studies, L-750,667 exhibited high affinity antagonist activity at D4 receptors, reversing dopamine (1 microM)-induced inhibition of cAMP accumulation in human embryonic kidney (HEK) cells expressing the human D4 receptor (hD4 HEK) with an EC50 value of 80 nM. The radioiodinated form of L-750,667 bound specifically to the human dopamine D4 receptor expressed in HEK cells and saturation analysis revealed a single high affinity binding site for [125I]L-750,667 (Kd = 0.16 +/- 0.06 nM). The maximum number of binding sites (Bmax) estimated using [125I]L-750,667 in hD4 HEK cells was 251 +/- 71 fmol/mg, which correlated well with the Bmax value determined using [3H]spiperone (227 +/- 83 fmol/mg) in the same membrane preparations. The pharmacological profile of [125I]L-750,667 binding to hD4 HEK cells was evaluated using known dopamine receptor agonists and antagonists. The rank order of potencies for dopamine receptor agonists was dopamine &gt; quinpirole &gt; 6,7-aminodihydroxytetralin &gt; 5,6-aminodihydroxytetralin. Dopamine receptor antagonists also showed high affinity, with a rank order of haloperidol &gt; chlorpromazine &gt; domperidone &gt; (+)-butaclamol &gt; (-)-sulpiride = (+)-sulpiride &gt; (+)-SCH23390 &gt; (-)-butaclamol. [125I]L-750,667, bound to D4 receptors in a stereoselective manner with (+)-butaclamol showing higher activity than its respective enantiomer (-)-butaclamol. These results show that [125I]L-750,667 is a novel, highly selective radioligand for dopamine D4 receptors and may be used to investigate the dopamine D4 receptor population in the central nervous system.

The use of aminoglycoside antibiotics is limited by ototoxicity that can produce permanent hearing loss. We report that concurrent administration of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) antagonists markedly attenuates both the hearing loss and destruction of cochlear hair cells in guinea pigs treated with aminoglycoside antibiotics. These findings indicate that aminoglycoside-induced hearing loss is mediated, in part, through an excitotoxic process. The high correlation (Spearman correlation coefficient: 0.928; P &lt; 0.01) obtained between the relative cochleotoxicities of a series of aminoglycosides in humans and the potencies of these compounds to produce a polyamine-like enhancement of [3H]dizocilpine binding to NMDA receptors is consistent with this hypothesis, and provides a simple in vitro assay that can predict this aspect of aminoglycoside-induced ototoxicity.
The effects of ethanol and/or glycine on NMDA-induced enhancement of cytoplasmic free Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i), 45Ca2+ influx, 4-b-[3H]phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate ([3H]PDBu) binding, and neuronal necrosis in cultured rat cortical and cerebellar granule neurons were examined. Using microfluorimetric techniques in combination with rapid perfusion of single brain neurons, we found that glycine (10 microM) was a necessary co-agonist for NMDA-induced depolarization in cerebellar granule cells. In contrast, depolarization with NMDA in cortical cells was observed even without the addition of exogenous glycine as well as in the absence or presence of 1 mM MgCl2. Ethanol (50 mM) inhibited the effects of NMDA in some, but not all, neurons indicative of the existence of ethanol-sensitive and ethanol-insensitive cortical and cerebellar granule neurons. In studies performed in monolayers of cortical and cerebellar granule cells, we observed that the presence of glycine (10 microM) was a necessary prerequisite to unmask inhibitory actions of ethanol on 45Ca2+ influx induced by NMDA. In another set of experiments, we noted that NMDA-induced stimulation of [3H]PDBu binding to monolayers of intact cerebellar granule cells was inhibited by ethanol (50 mM). Finally, we report that ethanol caused a concentration-dependent inhibition of NMDA-induced necrotic cell death, assessed by measuring the ability of cerebellar granule cells to transform 3-[4, 5-dimethylthiazol-2-yl]-2,5-diphenyltetrazolium bromide (MTT) into formazan. In none of the four assays used to demonstrate the inhibitory effects of ethanol on NMDA receptor activity, the ethanol-induced inhibition was reversed by glycine (up to 100 microM). Thus, in contrast to earlier reports, our data suggest that ethanol and glycine produce their effects by acting at different regulatory sites within the NMDA receptor system in brain neurons.
Cerebral amyloid beta protein deposition in Alzheimer's disease is associated with a predominantly local acute phase response that kindles release of various inflammatory and immune system mediators. The molecular events are accompanied by a profound cellular response which is largely orchestrated by microglia. Current evidence suggests microglia are primarily involved in phagocytic activity and may be responsible for inducing further neuronal damage by generating reactive oxygen species and proteolytic enzymes. Antiinflammatory measures that target complement activation as well as microglial-mediated oxidative damage would provide rational therapeutic strategies.
Recent evidence suggests that the neurochemical pathology of Alzheimer's disease includes severe disruptions of the neurotransmitter receptor/G-protein mediated phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis and adenylyl cyclase signal transduction pathways. The present article briefly reviews evidence from postmortem studies describing disruptions to these systems and speculates as to the importance of these changes in terms of contributing to disease pathology and limiting the success of neurotransmitter replacement strategies.
Reduced brain glucose utilization in early stages of Alzheimer disease, as measured with in vivo positron emission tomography, reflects potentially reversible down-regulation of gene expression for oxidative phosphorylation within neuronal mitochondria. Such down-regulation may occur when neuronal energy demand is first reduced by synaptic dysfunction or loss.
Prolactin (PRL) secretion from the anterior pituitary is tonically controlled by the activity of the hypothalamic tuberoinfundibular dopaminergic (TIDA) system. Changes in TIDA activity have been associated with the decrease in basal PRL levels shown by hamsters exposed to a short-day photoperiod. Potential concurrent changes in the sensitivity of pituitary lactotropes to the inhibitory actions of dopamine on PRL release were investigated in tissue harvested from animals that had been preexposed to either a stimulatory, long-day 16-hour-light:8-hour-dark (16L:8D) photoperiod, or to a nonstimulatory, short-day (10L:14D) photoperiod for 8-10 weeks. Tissue was maintained in a perifusion tissue culture system and received a 1-hour pulse of varying concentrations of dopamine (DA) shortly after the equilibration period. Fractions of the media were collected every 1/2 h and PRL concentrations in each sample determined via radioimmunoassay. At the highest concentration of DA (10(-6) M), a highly significant inhibition of PRL levels was seen for both 16L and 10L pituitaries. At both mid range concentrations of DA (10(-7) and 10(-8) M), both tissue types showed a significant suppression of PRL, but the reduction was greater for tissue that had been obtained from 10L animals. At the lowest concentration of DA (10(-9) M), a significant suppression of PRL occurred for tissue harvested from 10L animals, but not for tissue taken from 16L animals. These results indicate that the responsiveness of anterior pituitary tissue to the inhibitory effects of DA are altered by photoperiod exposure, and this change is likely a consequence of changes in the characteristics of the D2 receptor population on pituitary lactotropes. Short-day-induced increases in sensitivity to the inhibitory effects of DA may be due to increases in receptor number, or to increased affinity of the D2 receptor for its ligand.

Functional neuroimaging has assumed an important role in the cognitive and clinical neurosciences. Recently, substantial progress has been made toward developing functional magnetic resonance imaging techniques for the examination of cerebral hemodynamic changes that accompany brain function and toward earlier and better diagnosis of brain disease. Dynamic susceptibility contrast (DSC) MRI offers unique information about cerebral hemodynamics both at rest and in response to brain activation. We review the clinical applications of DSC MRI and present our experience with this modality in the evaluation of patients with neuropsychiatric disorders. Our experience suggests that DSC MRI may afford new insights into the diagnosis and treatment of cognitive disorders.
Functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) first appeared in 1991. Since that time there has been a burgeoning use of the technology by psychiatric researchers and neuroscientists. Our group first used fMRI to study obessive compulsive disorder (OCD) with a symptom provocation paradigm and then moved to the use of circuitry-specific cognitive-behavioral probes. The techniques we utilized for the symptom provocation study remain valid today, but have been supplemented by a wide array of new tools. Functional MRI continues to be a rapidly developing technology which could become the gold standard for neuroimaging research in psychiatry. With this in mind, this paper focuses on the past, present, and future applications of fMRI to one model illness, namely OCD. We examine the strengths and limitations of our initial OCD symptom provocation study and then evaluate the use of fMRI with cognitive-behavioral probes of cortico-striatal circuitry and limbic (amygdala) circuitry. We conclude with a brief summary of foreseeable developments which will influence the implementation of fMRI for psychiatric neuroscience in general.
fMRI has unique potential in the study of psychiatric patients, particularly in characterizing individual variations and changes over time. We have performed four studies of patients with schizophrenia, using three different fMRI acquisition protocols: (1) 3-D echo-shifted FLASH, a multishot volumetric approach; (2) 3-D PRESTO, a hybid of multishot and echo-planar imaging (EPI) methods that also acquires true volumetric data; and (3) a whole-brain isotropic, multislice EPI technique. Patients were studied during sensorimotor activation and during a novel &quot;N back&quot; working memory paradigm. In general, patients show normal sensorimotor activation responses, although motor cortical activation tends to be less completely lateralized. Prefrontal activation during working memory tends to be reduced in patients with schizophrenia even when performance is normal. A major potential confound in studying this patient population with fMRI is the effect of motion. We propose several methodological standards to address this problem, including comparisons of motion corrections parameters, voxel variances, and the use of an &quot;internal activation standard.&quot;


The interweaving here of statistics, image analysis, and neuroscience is a fine example of how neuro-informatics is more than the concentration of its constituent disciplines. Each of the component tools of the morphometric synthesis--the deformation model, Procrustes shape coordinates, the thin-plate spline--gains greatly in power in the context of the others, and enhances, too, great recent strides in the instrumentation leading to the raw image data itself (MR scanner physics, multiple stains, new contrast agents). The modern morphometric tool kit seems better matched to the description of gross brain variation than we had any reason to expect. Now the new tools can be exploited to produce remarkably sharper new findings. At the same time, the demands of neuro-informatics will press the toolmakers to provide equivalently powerful new techniques in areas presently less developed, such as cortical form or correlations of images with parametric experimental designs or with clinical histories.






Immunoprecipitation of human acetylcholine receptor (AChR) is used in the diagnostic assay for myasthenia gravis (MG). We compared human AChR derived from TE671 cells, which express fetal-type AChR, with AChR from TE671-epsilon cells, which we have engineered to express adult-type AChR. Some low-titer MG sera distinguished strikingly between the two subtypes. Four out of seven MG sera that had equivocal titers in standard assays gave positive titers with TE671-epsilon AChR, whereas only one out of seven gave a positive titer with TE671 cells. The new cell line provides a greater concentration of adult AChR than can be obtained from normal human muscle and increases the sensitivity of the diagnostic assay.
Retinal microangiopathy associated with HIV infection is usually asymptomatic and escapes detection unless funduscopic examination is performed when evanescent cotton-wool spots are present. The aim of this study was to assess retinal and optic nerve/retrochiasmal function in HIV infection by means of electrophysiologic techniques that are sensitive to the detection of subclinical visual impairment. We studied transient and steady state pattern electroretinograms grams (PERGs) and pattern-reversal visual evoked potentials (PVEPs) in 21 HIV-negative controls and 33 HIV-positive subjects (16 with CD4 &gt; or = 200/mL and 17 with CD4 &lt; 200/mL) without visual symptoms or infectious retinopathy. HIV-positive subjects with CD4 &gt; or = 200/mL had reduced amplitude of the transient PERG P1 potential, but no other latency or amplitude abnormalities. The HIV-positive group with CD4 &lt; 200/mL had reduced P1 transient PERG amplitude, as well as latency delay of the transient PVEP. These findings suggest that HIV infection is associated with subclinical retinopathy and that, when severe immunosuppression occurs, both retinopathy and optic nerve/retrochiasmal dysfunction are present. Transient PERGs are more sensitive measures of visual system disease in HIV infection than are steady state responses.


Fresh human glioma tissue can be cultured on agarose to form organotypic multicellular spheroids (OMS). The major advantage of OMS is the preservation of the cellular heterogeneity and the tumour architecture, which is lost in conventional monolayer cultures. The present study was undertaken to assess the possibilities of storing frozen OMS from seven gliomas which were frozen to determine the viability after thawing. OMS were frozen slowly to -196 degrees C using a programmable freezing machine in culture medium containing 45% serum and 10% of the cryopreservative agent dimethyl sulphoxide (DMSO). After 2 weeks storage at -196 degrees C, quick thawing, and culturing for another week, it appeared that the frozen-thawed OMS were viable and retained their histological characteristics. In addition, it is demonstrated that the cellular constituents of the OMS resumed metabolic and proliferative activities. It is concluded that it is possible to establish frozen stocks of viable glioma OMS. This will enable extensive studies on OMS, such as investigation of the biological behaviour of gliomas by using OMS obtained from primary and corresponding recurrent gliomas. In addition, cryopreservation of OMS makes it possible to correlate the results of in vitro tests on OMS with the patients' responses to similar therapeutic approaches.
The possible causative role of defective sustained attention and awareness of disability on the persistence of neglect was explored. The study included stroke patients who had had moderate or severe neglect 1-5 years before the start of the present examination. Questionnaire responses showed that the patients were aware of their disability. Impaired sustained attention was associated with poor performance in two out of three tests most sensitive in detecting neglect. This, together with indications of compensation on neglect tests, is interpreted as providing support for the hypothesis that chronic neglect is related to an impaired sustained attention.
Alterations in the level of putative neurotransmitters/neuromodulators and corresponding receptors may be a possible mechanism involved in changes in chemosensitivity of peripheral chemoreceptors in the carotid body during development. Using quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry, levels of messenger RNAs encoding tyrosine hydroxylase, the rate-limiting enzyme for dopamine synthesis, the D2-dopamine receptor and substance P of newborn rats at postnatal days 0, 2, 14 and 21 were determined. For comparison, during the same time points during development, we also determined the level of expression of these messenger RNAs in the cells of the superior cervical ganglion which are not chemosensitive. Tyrosine hydroxylase and D2-dopamine receptor messenger RNAs were co-localized in many of the cells in both the carotid body and the superior cervical ganglion. In the carotid body, the level of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA expression was greatest at birth, significantly decreased by 48 h postnatal age and remained decreased at 14 and 21 postnatal days. In contrast, D2-dopamine receptor messenger RNA levels significantly increased with postnatal age in the carotid body. This profile of an D2-dopamine receptor was not observed in the superior cervical ganglion where tyrosine hydroxylase and D2-dopamine receptor messenger RNAs levels did not significantly change from postnatal days 0 to 21. Lastly, in the rat carotid body, substance P messenger RNA was not detected. However, substance P messenger RNA was abundant in the nodose and petrosal ganglion. The increasing contribution of carotid body on ventilation with increasing postnatal age is associated with changes in levels of gene expression for tyrosine hydroxylase and D2-dopamine receptor in the carotid body.
A strategy has been developed to identify and quantify the different neurochemical populations of myenteric neurons in the guinea-pig ileum using double-labelling fluorescence immunohistochemistry of whole-mount preparations. First, six histochemical markers were used to identify exclusive, non-overlapping populations of nerve cell bodies. They included immunoreactivity for the calcium binding proteins calbindin and calretinin, the neuropeptides vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, substance P and somatostatin, and the amine, 5-hydroxytryptamine. The sizes of these populations of neurons were established directly or indirectly in double-labelling experiments using a marker for all nerve cell bodies. Each of these exclusive populations was further subdivided into classes by other markers, including immunoreactivity for enkephalins and neurofilament protein triplet. The size of each class was then established directly or by calculation. These distinct, neurochemically-identified classes were related to other published work on the histochemistry, electrophysiology and retrograde labelling of enteric neurons and to the simple Dogiel morphological classification. A classification scheme, consistent with previous studies, is proposed. It includes 14 distinct classes of myenteric neurons and accounts for nearly all neurons in the myenteric plexus of the guinea-pig ileum.
Developmental expression of alpha-, beta- and gamma-subspecies of protein kinase C in the dorsal corticospinal tract was immunohistochemically investigated at the cervical level of the postnatal rat spinal cord. On postnatal day 0, immunoreactivity for these subspecies was uniformly distributed throughout the posterior funiculus. On postnatal day 7, immunoreactivity for this enzyme in the posterior funiculus began to decline. On postnatal days 14 and 21, the immunoreactivity in the posterior funiculus became weak, while the dorsal corticospinal tract forming in the most ventral portion of the posterior funiculus exhibited strong immunoreactivity for these three subspecies of protein kinase C. Thereafter, immunoreactivity in the corticospinal tract rapidly declined, and on postnatal days 28 and 35, weak immunoreaction was demonstrated as very fine granular deposits in the tract. Expression of this enzyme in the dorsal corticospinal tract at these stages resembled that in the adult rat. Electron microscopically, growth cones and nascent axonal shafts were first noted on postnatal day 2 in the most ventral portion of the posterior funiculus, and thereafter, the axonal shaft gradually thickened and on postnatal day 14 some axons began to be myelinated. The growth cones and thin axonal shafts randomly exhibited weak immunoreactivity in the axoplasm. The thicker unmyelinated axonal shafts showed distinct immunoreactivity uniformly throughout the axoplasm and along the axolemma as granular deposits. In these developing axons, intensity and distribution of immunoreactivity for all three subspecies were principally similar. In the mature myelinated axons, the intensity and distribution of immunoreactivity for each subspecies of protein kinase C were quite different, i.e. immunoreactivity for alpha-subspecies was randomly distributed on some cytoskeletal elements, and that for beta-subspecies was uniformly detected on most of the cytoskeletal elements. In contrast, immunoreactivity for gamma-subspecies was distributed mainly on the endoplasmic reticulum. These findings suggest that in growing corticospinal axons protein kinase C might be involved in several important aspects of axonal development, and that in mature axons this enzyme might participate in different aspects of axonal function.
We compared the effect of GABA and the serotonin receptor agonist (+/-)-8-hydroxy-dipropylaminotetralin hydrobromide (8-OH-DPAT) on compound action potential amplitudes, latency, and conduction velocity in the spinal cord isolated from young (eight to 13-day-old) Long-Evans hooded rats. Supramaximally activated conducting action potentials and extracellular K+ activity were recorded with microelectrodes from the cuneatus-gracilis fasciculi and corticospinal tract. In the cuneatus-gracilis fasciculi, 8-OH-DPAT (10(-4) M) significantly reduced response amplitudes by 26.1 +/- 10.3% (mean +/- S.D., P &lt; 0.0001, paired t-test, n = 27) and increased latencies by 20.3 +/- 7.9% (P &lt; 0.0001). GABA (10(-4) M) reduced/amplitudes by 31.7 +/- 15.0% (P &lt; 0.0001, n = 28) and increased latencies by 6.1 +/- 5.4% (P &lt; 0.0001). However, neither GABA nor 8-OH-DPAT significantly altered conduction velocities, suggesting that the latency shifts are due to changes in activation time and not conduction velocity. In cortical spinal tract, 8-OH-DPAT (10(-4) M) depressed response amplitudes by 18.9 +/- 9.6% (P &lt; 0.05, n = 5), increased latencies by 23.3 +/- 7.2% (P &lt; 0.0001), but reduced conduction velocities by 19.9 +/- 10.2%. GABA (10(-4) M) reduced amplitudes by 16.4 +/- 7.5% (P &lt; 0.01, n = 5), increased latencies by 5.3 +/- 2.3% (P &lt; 0.05), and did not change conduction velocities. Bicuculline or picrotoxin blocked the GABA effects but did not affect the 8-OH-DPAT effects on both tracts. The potassium channel blocker tetraethylammonium did not alter the 8-OH-DPAT effects. The Na+/K(+)-ATPase inhibitor ouabain (10(-6) M) markedly enhanced the depressive GABA effects from 27.9 +/- 12.0% to 49.4 +/- 24.5% (P &lt; 0.01, n = 9), but had no effect on 8-OH-DPAT-mediated effects. These results suggest that GABA and serotonin agonists depress axonal excitability through different and independent mechanisms.
Using the mouse caudate-putamen, where delta-opioid receptor subtypes have been shown to regulate adenylyl cyclase activity, we show in this study that endogenous enkephalins inhibit enzyme activity through activation of delta 1- and delta 2-opioid receptors. Thus, naltriben or 7-benzylidenenaltrexone as well as the delta-selective antagonist naltrindole (mixed delta 1 and delta 2 antagonist) antagonized inhibition of adenylyl cyclase activity induced by methionine- or leucine-enkephalin, while the micro-antagonist D-Phe-Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Orn-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH2 (CTOP) was without effect. Furthermore, we have previously shown that activation of delta-opioid receptors increases cholecystokinin release in the central nervous system, resulting in a potentiation of micro-opioid antinociceptive responses, and the respective role of delta 1- and delta 2-opioid receptors in this facilitatory effect has now been evaluated. Activation of delta 2-opioid receptors, either by endogenous enkephalins protected from catabolism by the complete enkephalin-degrading enzyme inhibitor N-((R,S)-2-benzyl-3((S)(2-amino-4-methyl-thio) butyldithio)-1-oxopropyl)-L-phenyl-alanine benzyl ester (RB 101), or by the delta 2-selective agonist Tyr-D-Ser(O-tert-butyl)-Gly-Phe-Leu-Thr(O-tert-butyl) (BUBU), potentiated micro-opioid antinociceptive responses in the hot-plate test in mice. This effect was antagonized by a selective cholecystokinin-A antagonist. Activation of delta 1-opioid receptors by endogenous opioid peptides decreased the micro-opioid responses. These results suggest that stimulation of delta 2-opioid receptors potentiates micro-opioid analgesia in the hot-plate test in mice through an increase in endogenous cholecystokinin release, while activation of delta 1-opioid receptors could decrease it. Thus, the pre-existing physiological balance between opioid and cholecystokinin systems seems to be modulated in opposite directions depending on whether delta 1- or delta 2-opioid receptors are selectively activated. This is the first demonstration that endogenous enkephalins, methionine- and leucine-enkephalin, are the natural ligands of delta-opioid receptor subtypes, and that delta 2-opioid receptor activation may facilitate the endogenous cholecystokinin-related modulation of micro-opioid analgesia, while the delta 1-opioid receptors may have an inhibitory role. These results could have important applications for the characterization of opioid delta 1 and delta 2 as subtypes or subsites and in pain alleviation.
The electrophysiological characteristics of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors vary with their subunit composition. The establishment of the subunit distribution is an essential step in the understanding of the function of these receptors. In the spinal cord, AMPA receptors are involved in normal and, possibly, pathological processes. Using in situ hybridization histochemistry with radiolabelled oligonucleotides as probes, we have studied the distribution of AMPA receptor subunit messenger RNAs (spliced flip and flop variants of glutamate receptor subunits A-D) in the human post mortem spinal cord. Transcripts for flip variants were preferentially expressed in the superficial dorsal horn, with a dorsoventral decreasing gradient of the signals. Transcripts for flop variants were also abundantly present in all layers of the gray matter, with the highest signal being observed for glutamate receptor subunit Bflop. Accordingly, flop forms were predominant in areas other than the superficial dorsal horn. This differential distribution of transcripts in the dorsal horn suggests that the subunit composition of AMPA receptors varies with the afferent inputs; AMPA receptors on neurons in the superficial dorsal horn, where terminals of thin primary afferents conducting noxious information are located, contain more flip forms, whereas neurons in the deep dorsal horn, where thick primary afferents mediating innocuous stimuli terminate, have AMPA receptors which are mainly composed of flop forms of glutamate receptor subunits A and B. The relatively high abundance of glutamate receptor subunit B transcripts in the superficial laminae of the dorsal horn indicates that AMPA receptors in these laminae have lower Ca2+ permeability. In addition, the relative abundance of glutamate receptor subunits Bflip and Dflop may show that AMPA receptors in the superficial dorsal horn have slow desensitization, while those of motor neurons have rapid desensitization.
While the crucial role of neurally produced nitric oxide in mediating penile erection is well established, the understanding of the peripheral neuroanatomy of the nitric oxide-ergic pathways is still incomplete. This study was designed to elucidate further the distribution of nitric oxide synthase, and its relation to the distribution of neuropeptides and tyrosine hydroxylase in all penis-projecting neural pathways. A triple-labelling technique was employed, with the retrograde tracer Fluoro Gold combined with neuropeptide immunohistochemistry and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate (NADPH)-diaphorase histochemistry, a marker of nitric oxide synthase. The presence within the penis of scattered nerve cell bodies exhibiting NADPH-diaphorase activity was revealed. Most (76%) of the penis-projecting neurons in the major pelvic ganglion exhibited NADPH-diaphorase activity and immunoreactivity to vasoactive intestinal peptide, while none of them contained tyrosine hydroxylase. Sympathetic paravertebral postganglionic neurons, in turn, contained tyrosine hydroxylase, but did not exhibit NADPH-diaphorase activity. In the afferent, sensory neurons projecting to the penis from the dorsal root ganglia, NADPH-diaphorase activity coexisted with immunoreactivity to both substance P (8%) and calcitonin gene-related peptide (26%). Preganglionic neurons originating in the spinal cord intermediolateral column at the thoracolumbar level T11-L3 terminated, not only in the major pelvic ganglion, but also within the penis. The majority (81%) of the penis-projecting neurons exhibited NADPH-diaphorase activity. The results indicate that the rat penis receives several different nitric oxide-ergic neural projections. It is therefore possible that nitric oxide affects penile erection at several neuronal levels.
The regional distribution of nitric oxide synthase in the central nervous system was assessed by quantitative autoradiography using [3H]L-NG-nitro-arginine binding in wild-type mice (SV-129 and C57black/6) and in mice lacking expression of the neuronal (type 1) and endothelial (type 3) nitric oxide synthase gene. The distribution of nitric oxide synthase binding sites in wild-type mice was similar to that described for rat brain by nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-diaphorase staining and immunohistochemistry, and as determined by quantitative autoradiography. In the wild-type mice, the densest labelling was observed in the granular layer of the olfactory bulb, tenia tecta, rhinal fissure, amygdaloid complex and molecular layer of cerebellum. The islands of Calleja, the hippocampal CA1 and CA3 subfields, dentate gyrus, cortical layers I-II, the superficial gray layer of superior colliculus and the granule layer of cerebellum displayed intermediate binding. Cortical layers III-VI, the striatum and the thalamus were only weakly labelled. Binding was saturable and of high affinity, and was displaced by 7-nitroindazole (100 microM), a potent and selective inhibitor of type 1 nitric oxide synthase, and by unlabelled L-NG-nitro-arginine (10 microM). The density of [3H]L-NG-nitro-arginine binding was dramatically reduced in all brain regions in type 1 mutant mice, whereas there were no detectable binding differences between wild-type and type 3 nitric oxide synthase mutant mice. Hence, type 1 nitric oxide synthase is the major source of [3H]L-NG-nitro-arginine binding in the mouse brain. [3H]L-NG-Nitro-arginine autoradiography may be a useful tool to quantify nitric oxide synthase in different brain areas after pharmacological or physiological manipulations.
Allowing a resident hamster a single &quot;priming&quot; attack on a conspecific induces a transient aggressive arousal as indicated by a reduction in the latency and increase in the probability of attack on a second intruder presented within the next 30 min. We present two lines of evidence identifying the corticomedial amygdala as an important locus mediating this effect. (1) Attack priming significantly increases the number of neurons expressing immunocytochemically identified Fos protein in the corticomedial amygdala, but not elsewhere. Pursuit and biting of an inanimate object does not induce corticomedial amygdala c-fos expression of the same pattern or magnitude. The corticomedial amygdala contribution to the priming effect involves more than a non-specific arousal, since corticomedial amygdala c-fos expression does not correlate with locomotor activity, a standard indicator of such arousal. (2) Radiofrequency lesions of the corticomedial amygdala reduce aggression, the greatest reduction occurring with the more anterior lesions. Other behaviors, including a priming-like locomotor practice effect in a running wheel, are unaffected by corticomedial amygdala lesions. These findings suggest that attack priming is an aggression-specific effect resulting from a Fos-coupled change within neural circuitry of which the corticomedial amygdala is a part. From a theoretical point of view, these experiments suggest a new approach to the analysis of the mechanisms underlying aggressive behavior and the persistence of aggressive arousal. We present a sketch of a quantitative neurobehavioral model which relates attack probability to neural activation within the corticomedial amygdala. From a methodological viewpoint, these experiments extend the utility of mapping c-fos expression as a technique for localizing endogenous, behavior-specific processes within the central nervous system.
In situ hybridization histochemistry with somatostatin sst1-sst5 receptor messenger RNA-selective oligoprobes and quantitative receptor autoradiographic binding studies using [125I]Tyr3-octreotide, [Leu2,D-Trp22,125I-Tyr25]somatostatin-28 and [125I]CGP 23996 ([125I]c[Asn-Lys-Asn-Phe-Phe-Trp-Lys-Thr-Tyr-Thr-Ser]) were performed to determine the level of expression of somatostatin receptor messenger RNA and receptor binding sites in the hippocampal formation, limbic system and cerebral cortex of adult rats electrically kindled in the dorsal hippocampus. In control rats (implanted with electrodes but not electrically stimulated), the somatostatin-1 receptor-selective [125I]Tyr3-octreotide and the non-subtype-selective [Leu3,D-Trp22,125I-Tyr25]somatostatin-28 preferentially labelled the strata oriens and radiatum of the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus, the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, the subiculum and presubiculum of the hippocampal formation, the inner layer of the frontal cortex, and the lateral and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala. The non-subtype-selective radioligand [125I]CGP 23996 (in 5 mM Mg2+ buffer) preferentially labelled the strata oriens and radiatum of the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus, the subiculum and the basolateral nucleus of the amygdala. Under conditions where primarily somatostatin-2 receptors were labelled, [125I]CGP 23996 (in 120 mM Na+ buffer) showed strong binding in the strata oriens and radiatum of the CA1 subfield of the hippocampus and the frontal cortex, whereas the dentate gyrus, subiculum and amygdala showed only weak signals. During and after kindling, no significant differences were observed between the ipsi- and contralateral sides of the hippocampus. A significant decrease (about 40%) of somatostatin receptor binding sites was observed in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus with all radioligands (except [125I]CGP 23996 in Na+ buffer, which did not label this area) at stage 2 (pre-convulsive stage) and one week, but not one month, after stage 5 (generalized motor seizures). In contrast to somatostatin receptor binding, no alterations of the messenger RNA levels for sst1-sst5 receptors were found either at stage 2 or at stage 5. Similarly, no changes in receptor binding or messenger RNA levels were observed in the brain of rats which experienced a single afterdischarge. The present study shows a significant and selective decrease of somatostatin-1 receptor binding sites in the dentate gyrus of kindled rats. This is part of the plastic changes induced by kindling and may contribute to the increased sensitivity for the induction of generalized seizures during kindling.
Western analysis and immunohistochemistry were used to determine the time-course and the distribution of the 27,000 mol. wt heat shock protein, Hsp27, in rat brain following systemic administration of kainic acid. No Hsp27 immunoreactivity was detected in naive control animals or in rats that failed to develop status epilepticus. Hsp27 immunoreactivity was detected as early as 12 h in the parietal cortex, piriform cortex and the hippocampus of rats that developed status epilepticus. The number of cells expressing Hsp27 and the intensity of Hsp27 immunoreactivity were increased 24 h after kainic acid administration. Hsp27 immunoreactivity was still observed seven days post-kainic acid injection. The morphology of the Hsp27-positive cells and double immunofluorescence against Hsp27 and glial fibrillary acidic protein revealed that Hsp27-positive cells were astrocytes. In addition, the distribution of Hsp27 suggested that astrocytic Hsp27 was dependent on excitation-induced metabolic stress rather than the direct effect of kainic acid on astrocytes.
The apparent diffusion coefficient, D*, was measured in rat cortical slices and compared to the free diffusion coefficient, D, for three negatively charged proteins, lactalbumin (mol. wt = 14,500), ovalbumin (45,000) and bovine serum albumin (66,000). The temporal evolution of the spatial distribution of albumin molecules labeled with the Texas Red fluorophore was determined using integrative optical imaging at intervals after a brief pressure injection from a micropipette in slices of adult rat cerebral cortex and dilute agarose gel. Diffusion coefficients were obtained by fitting appropriate equations to the data. In slices at 34 degrees C, the values of D* (10(-7) cm2/s, mean +/- S.E.M.) for lactalbumin, ovalbumin and bovine serum albumin were 2.37 +/- 0.10, 1.60 +/- 0.08 and 1.63 +/- 0.07, respectively. In agarose gel, values of D (10(-7) cm2/s) were 11.87 +/- 0.20, 10.02 +/- 0.25 and 8.29 +/- 0.17, respectively. From these data the tortuosity factors, (D/D*)0.5, were calculated, with 2.24 obtained for lactalbumin, 2.50 for ovalbumin and 2.26 for bovine serum albumin. Previous optical measurements using dextrans with mol. wts of 40,000 and 70,000 gave tortuosities of 2.16 and 2.25, but in contrast previous determinations with ion-selective microelectrodes using the small cation tetramethylammonium (mol. wt = 74.1) give tortuosities of about 1.6. The results show that proteins as large as bovine serum albumin diffuse through brain extracellular space but are more hindered than smaller molecules. A simple model compared the differences in diffusion properties of bovine serum albumin, dopamine and nitric oxide in brain tissue and discussed the implications for volume transmission of chemical information between cells. The results are also relevant to the behavior of diffusible factors in brain development and the delivery of therapeutic agents.
The presence and specificity of axon guidance cues in the mature brain were examined by transplanting several types of xenogeneic neural cells from fetal pig brains into adult rat brains with selective neuronal loss. Committed neuronal phenotypes from cortical, mesencephalic and striatal fetal regions were implanted in homotopic or ectopic central nervous system locations. Using specific neurofilament and neural markers, axonal target selection by transplanted fetal neurons was determined throughout the central nervous system. Different types of donor neurons grew axons specifically to appropriate adjacent and distant host brain regions from ectopic or homotopic brain implantation sites and independent of the pattern of prior selective neuronal loss. Since the fetal donor neurons could orient axonal growth towards their normal synaptic termination zones, it shows that the adult brain also elaborates highly specific signals for axon guidance. These results obtained by xenotransplantation also demonstrate that the adult brain exhibits a latent potential for long-distance axon guidance that is evolutionarily conserved. These and related studies indicate that the necessary processes for connection of specific neurocircuitry also exist in the adult central nervous system, if axonal growth inhibition is overcome.
The metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes mGluR2 and mGluR5, which are thought to be coupled respectively to the inhibitory cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP) cascade and the phosphatidylinositol hydrolysis/Ca2+ cascade, are known to be expressed on Golgi cells in the granular layer of the rat cerebellar cortex. In the present immunohistochemical study with a monoclonal antibody against mGluR2 and a polyclonal antibody for mGluR5, we examined whether or not mGluR2- and mGluR5-like immunoreactivities were both present in single Golgi cells in the rat cerebellar cortex. In double immunofluorescence histochemistry, no Golgi cells showed mGluR2- and mGluR5-like immunoreactivities simultaneously. Of the total number of Golgi cells immunoreactive for mGluR2 or mGluR5, about 90% were mGluR2-like immunoreactive, and about 10% were mGluR5-like immunoreactive. Golgi cells with mGluR2-like immunoreactivity were distributed evenly in the granular layer of all the cerebellar regions, while those with mGluR5-like immunoreactivity were distributed more frequently in the I, II, VII-X lobules of the vermis and the copula pyramidis of the hemisphere than in other cerebellar regions. The results indicate that Golgi cells containing mGluR2 are segregated from those possessing mGluR5. These two populations of Golgi cells, each equipped with a different metabolic glutamate receptor coupled to a different intracellular signal transduction system, may play different roles in the glutamatergic neuronal circuits in the cerebellar cortex.
The spontaneous locomotor behavior of rats receiving subcutaneous administration of either acidic or basic fibroblast growth factors was recorded in an activity cage. We report that doses between 1 and 100 micrograms/kg significantly decreased the horizontal and vertical activity, as well as the exploratory and stereotypy behavior of the rats. These effects of fibroblast growth factors seem to be specific since (i) they were cancelled by protein hydrolysis and anti-fibroblast growth factor antibodies, (ii) they were unrelated to their hypotensive activity and (iii) they were not attributable to their high structural similarity with the cytokine interleukin-1. Thus fibroblast growth factors did not show any thermogenic activity, did not affect the hypothalamic output of corticotropin-releasing factor and did not change the plasma levels of corticosterone. Pretreatment of the rats with a specific inhibitor of brain nitric oxide synthase prevented the effects of fibroblast growth factors, suggesting the involvement of nitric oxide in these behavioral modifications. Our results contribute to the accumulating evidence describing non-mitogenic activities of fibroblast growth factors.
The projection from the limbic system via the subpallidal region to the mesencephalic locomotor region is implicated in limbic-motor integration. The goal of this study was to visualize neurons of the mesencephalic locomotor region which are active during locomotor activity induced by the disinhibition of the subpallidal region. The subpallidal region was disinhibited by picrotoxin, which antagonizes the effects of GABA. The unilateral injection of picrotoxin into the subpallidal region caused a significant increase in locomotor activity. Active tegmental neurons were subsequently visualized by immunocytochemical staining of c-Fos protein. There were significantly more immunostained neurons in the picrotoxin-injected animals than in the saline-treated rats. Heavily stained neuronal nuclei, prevailing on the brain side ipsilateral to the injection of picrotoxin, were localized within a narrow strip of tissue which stretched from the ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (including the dorsal raphe), the cuneiform nucleus, through the region of the dorsal tegmental bundle to the pedunculopontine nucleus. There were 3.5 times more immunostained neurons in the cuneiform/pedunculopontine region and 2.5 times more stained neurons in the periaqueductal region of the picrotoxin-injected rats, as compared to the saline group. This strip of immunostained cells represents neurons which are involved in the initiation and maintenance of locomotor activity due to subpallidal activation (predominantly pedunculopontine and cuneiform nuclei), as well as neurons possibly involved in the inhibition of locomotor activity (ventrolateral periaqueductal gray) and other feedback regulations. This study will help identify the neuronal pool involved in coupling the motivational commands with the locomotor system for execution of behaviour.
Changes in opioid neurotransmission have been implicated in several basal ganglia-related neurological and psychiatric disorders. To gain a better insight into the opioid receptor distribution in the normal human striatum, we examined in post mortem brain the distribution of the mu opioid receptor using ligand binding of [3H]O-ala2-N-methyl-phe4, gly-ol5-enkephalin. Our results indicate at the regional level the presence of a dorsal-to-ventral high-to-low density gradient in the striatum, with lowest densities in the ventral one-third of the putamen and in the nucleus accumbens. At the subregional level, the nucleus accumbens shows two major types of heterogeneities. First, low vs intermediate binding densities distinguish the core and shell subdivisions, respectively. The low-density core and intermediate-density shell regions extend into the putamen and are therefore characteristic for the entire ventral striatum. The second type of heterogeneity is formed by small areas located along the ventral contours of the nucleus accumbens and putamen that display the highest binding density of the entire striatum. Since these areas can also be recognized in the distribution patterns of other markers and in the cytoarchitecture, they appear to possess a separate identity. To emphasize their special neurochemical characteristics we propose the description &quot;neurochemically unique domains in the accumbens and putamen&quot;. The present results, with the difference between core and shell of the ventral striatum as the most prominent outcome, together with the notion that the connectional relationships and neurochemical organization of the striatum are very heterogeneous, suggest a strong regional functional differentiation for mu receptor function in the human striatum.
Dopaminergic modulation of the DNA binding activity of AP-1, Sp1, CREB and AP-2 transcription factors was examined in rat striatal nuclear extracts by gel shift assay. AP-1 binding was selectively increased in the striatum following depletion of dopamine by 6-hydroxydopamine-induced lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway or after reserpine treatment. The D1 agonist SKF 38393 dose-dependently increased AP-1 binding; this effect was significantly increased in reserpine-treated rats and even more markedly enhanced in denervated striatum. The D2/D3 agonist quinpirole, administered alone, did not affect striatal activator protein-1 binding; in combination, quinpirole and SKF 38393 acted synergistically in normal and reserpine-treated rats but not in 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rats, suggesting that mechanisms underlying D1-D2/D3 interactions are altered after dopamine denervation. Most, but not all, of the changes in AP-1 binding activity observed in this study are consistent with changes in levels of Fos/Jun family proteins observed after similar treatments. These results support the hypothesis that D1 receptor stimulation activates striatonigral neurons and modulates expression of AP-1-related genes in these neurons, while D2 receptor stimulation mediates tonic inhibition of AP-1 expression and activity in the striatopallidal neurons. Moreover, the findings provide evidence that the loss of dopaminergic input to the striatum, as occurs in Parkinson's disease, induces long-lasting alterations in the regulation of striatal gene expression which may contribute to the disease's progress.
To localize glycinergic cell bodies and fibers in the rat brain, we developed a sensitive immunohistochemical method combining the use of specific glycine antibodies (Campistron G. et al. (1986) Brain Res. 376, 400-405; Wenthold R. J. et al. (1987) Neuroscience 22, 897-912) with the streptavidin-horseradish peroxidase technique and 3,3'-diaminobenzidine.4HCl-nickel intensification. We confirmed the presence of numerous glycine-immunoreactive cell bodies and fibers in the cochlear nuclei, superior olivary complex, nucleus of the trapezoid body, cerebellar cortex, deep cerebellar nuclei and area postrema. For the first time in rats, we described a large to very large number of cell bodies in the medial vestibular ventral part, prepositus hypoglossal, gracile, raphe magnus and sensory trigeminal nuclei. A large number of cells was also observed in the oral and caudal pontine, parvocellular, parvocellular pars alpha, gigantocellular and gigantocellular pars alpha reticular nuclei. In addition, glycine-immunoreactive cells were seen in the ambiguous and subtrigeminal nuclei, the lateral habenula and the subfornical organ. We also provide the first evidence in rats for a very large number of fibers in the trigeminal, facial, ambiguous and hypoglossal motor nuclei, all nuclei of the medullary and pontine reticular formation, and the raphe and trigeminal sensory nuclei. We further revealed the presence of a substantial number of fibers in regions where glycine was not considered as a main inhibitory neurotransmitter, such as the pontine nuclei, the periaqueductal gray, the mesencephalic reticular formation, the anterior pretectal nucleus, the intralaminar thalamic nuclei, the zona incerta, the fields of Forel, the parvocellular parts of the paraventricular nucleus, the posterior hypothalamic areas, the anterior hypothalamic area, and the lateral and medial preoptic areas. These results indicate that, in contrast to previous statements, glycine may be an essential inhibitory neurotransmitter not only in the lower brainstem and spinal cord, but also in the upper brainstem and the forebrain.
Rapid eye movement sleep deprivation alters behavioral and physiological, as well as cellular functioning and responsiveness. Since intracellular calcium concentration plays an important role in regulating cellular functions, it was hypothesized that such deprivation might induce changes in intracellular calcium concentration. Therefore, in this study, rats were deprived of rapid eye movement sleep by the flower-pot technique, and total, bound and free calcium concentrations were estimated in synaptosomal preparations from the cerebrum, cerebellum, brainstem, midbrain, pons and medulla. Rapid eye movement sleep deprivation was continued for two or four days and suitable control experiments were conducted to rule out the effects of non-specific factors. Total calcium concentration increased in the brainstem but showed a decrease in the cerebellum and cerebrum. After four days deprivation, the free calcium concentration always decreased; however, the bound calcium concentration decreased in the cerebrum and cerebellum but increased in the brainstem. After two days' deprivation, the medulla was the only region where the bound calcium increased while the free form decreased; only the free form decreased in the pons, while the midbrain was never affected. The results suggest that there was a net efflux of calcium in the cerebellum and cerebrum, but a net influx in the brainstem. The findings support our hypothesis and help to explain earlier observations. Since it is known that calcium plays an important role in cellular functioning, these changes in calcium concentration may be the underlying mechanism for rapid eye movement sleep deprivation-induced cellular expressions and behavior of neurons.
In unanaesthetized rats, mechanical stimulation of a single vibrissa increased glucose utilization in one cortical column of the somatosensory area and in several spots in the dorsolateral neostriatum, predominantly on the side contralateral to the stimulation. Two or three peaks of glucose utilization unique to the stimulated animals were seen in cross sections throughout a 1.8 mm anteroposterior extent in the dorsolateral striatum. These observations suggest that one cortical column is functionally related to several neostriatal regions. The distributed modularity may be an important characteristic of the basal ganglia system.
Expression of the neural adhesion molecule L1 and its potential involvement in axonal sprouting were examined in the deafferented rat dentate gyrus. We focused on the dentate gyrus because of its well-defined cytoarchitecture and well-characterized neuronal degeneration and sprouting response following entorhinal cortex lesions. In the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus, a trilaminar staining pattern was observed, with the middle molecular layer exhibiting slightly denser immunolabeling compared to both inner and outer molecular layers. Two to 12 days after a unilateral entorhinal cortex lesion, a progressive loss of L1 immunolabeling was noted in the ipsilateral middle and outer molecular layers, followed by a substantial reappearance of immunostaining 65 days after lesion incidence. The width of the immunostained ipsilateral inner molecular layer revealed a progressive widening and by postlesion day 65 occupied about 50% of the total width of the molecular layer. Immunoelectron microscopy localized L1 to the surface of unmyelinated axons in both normal and deafferented dentate gyrus. In situ hybridization revealed L1 messenger RNA confined to neurons throughout the hippocampal formation, but did not indicate changes in L1 messenger RNA levels in the hippocampus, dentate gyrus, entorhinal cortex or basal forebrain in response to unilateral entorhinal cortex lesions. Changes in L1 immunolabeling in the deafferented dentate gyrus corresponded in a spatial and temporal manner to changes of the synaptic marker synaptophysin and axonal marker phosphorylated tau. Results of the present study are most consistent with the view that L1 is expressed on reinnervating fibers after they make synaptic contacts with other structures. Thus, L1 appears to be involved in the maturation and stabilization of reinnervating fibers and consequently may play an important role in the repair process of the lesioned adult CNS.
Electrophysiological parameters in the hippocampal slices of two experimental (prepared immediately (n = 27) and one week (n = 9) after conditioning) and two control (passive (n = 10) and active (n = 8)) groups of rats have been compared. The experimental rats were trained in a two-way avoidance chamber. The active control rats received the same number of conditioned and unconditioned stimuli without pairing. The threshold and amplitude of population spikes recorded from the CA1 pyramidal cell body layer to the stimulation of stratum radiatum and its modification in a train of 10 pulses (0.2 Hz) were measured. The mean values of the threshold intensity were not significantly different between any pair of these groups. The direction of the changes in the population spike amplitudes following pseudo-conditioning or conditioning was the same. However, the population spike amplitudes decreased more significantly in the slices from the conditioned rats. The increase in the frequency facilitation was specific for the slices of conditioned rats. The modifications in the mechanism of frequency facilitation in the reinforced pathways may represent an important mechanism for behavioural learning.
Prior studies have shown that sublethal anoxic/ischemic insults may &quot;precondition&quot; and thereby protect tissues such as heart and brain from subsequent insults. In hippocampal slices, we examined two hypotheses: (i) that anoxic preconditioning improves the ability of slices to recover synaptic activity following a second anoxic insult and (ii) that anoxic preconditioning involves adenosine receptors. Hippocampal slices were preconditioned by short periods of anoxia prolonged only until the onset of anoxic depolarization. The slices were then reoxygenated for 30 min, after which a second (&quot;test&quot;) anoxic insult was induced. Amplitudes of evoked potentials recovered significantly better after &quot;test&quot; anoxic insults in preconditioned slices. In control slices, transient superfusion with adenosine or an adenosine A1 receptor agonist (2-chloroadenosine) 30 min prior to &quot;test&quot; anoxia markedly improved evoked potential recovery. Administration of 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine, an A1 receptor antagonist, blocked the protection afforded by preconditioning. These data support the hypothesis that adenosine, probably by its activation of A1 receptors, is involved in the neuroprotection afforded by anoxic preconditioning in hippocampal slices. Preconditioning insults may have a significant clinical impact, since certain surgical procedures may require, or produce, multiple periods of brain ischemia.
There was a large release of endogenous glutamate and of pre-accumulated [3H]-D-aspartate from rat hippocampal slices during deprivation of oxygen and glucose (in vitro ischemia). The role of Na(+)-dependent glutamate transporters in this process was investigated. The release of both glutamate and [3H]-D-aspartate was largely blocked by two competitive substrate analogues of the Na(+)-dependent glutamate transporters (L-trans-pyrrolidine-2,4-dicarboxylate and D,L-threo-B-hydroxyaspartate) if the substrate analogues were intracellularly loaded prior to the ischemia. The pre-loaded analogue, D,L-threo-B-hydroxyaspartate, did not block exocytotic release of glutamate, induced by high-potassium. Dihydrokainate, an inhibitor of a subset of the Na(+)-dependent transporters, did not inhibit ischemia-induced release of glutamate or [3H]-D-aspartate. However, it did block release induced by veratridine, which was also blocked by the pre-loaded substrate analogues. Dihydrokainate could still inhibit veratridine-induced release during ischemia, showing that conditions during ischemia did not reduce its efficacy. It is concluded that release of glutamate during ischemia is largely via reversal of the Na(+)-dependent glutamate transport system. The differential effects of dihydrokainate and the competitive substrate analogues on ischemia-induced release indicate that this release occurs via a subset of the glutamate transporters that are present in the hippocampus.
The presence of theta rhythm (5-10 Hz) in the hippocampus has been shown to enable long-term potentiation, a synaptic mechanism which has been proposed to underlie learning and memory. Medial septum cholinergic and GABAergic neurons that project to the hippocampus have been hypothesized to play conjointly a major role in the genesis of this rhythm. Building upon previous studies that have established the electrophysiological criteria for distinguishing cholinergic and non-cholinergic neurons in this area, it is demonstrated here that medial septum non-cholinergic neurons, putatively GABAergic, have the ability to discharge in rhythmic clusters of action potentials occurring at frequencies ranging from 1 to 8 Hz. Within the clusters, the firing frequency of action potentials varied between 13 and 57 Hz in a voltage-dependent manner. In addition, small voltage-dependent subthreshold membrane potential oscillations (16-54 Hz) were observed between clusters. Both subthreshold oscillations and clusters were eliminated by tetrodotoxin at 1 microM. These results indicate that non-cholinergic medial septum neurons could convey to the hippocampus not only theta but also higher frequency rhythmicity in the beta-gamma range (20-60 Hz).
Pyramidal neurons in the CA1 field of the hippocampus die a few days after transient cerebral ischemia. Excessive excitatory synaptic activation following reperfusion is thought to be responsible for such delayed cell death. However, it remains controversial whether excitatory synaptic transmission in the CA1 field is increased following reperfusion. Here we report a novel postsynaptic potential evoked from CA1 pyramidal neurons preceding cell death after transient forebrain ischemia with intracellular recording and staining techniques in vivo. This result indicates the dramatic alteration of synaptic transmission in CA1 neurons after transient ischemia. The ischemia-induced postsynaptic potential may be associated with the postischemic neuronal injury.
The intracranial distribution of [14C]sucrose, an extracellular marker infused for 30 s into one lateral ventricle, was determined by autoradiography of frozen-dried brain sections. Within 3.5 min [14C]sucrose appeared in: (i) the third ventricle, including optic, infundibular and mammillary recesses; (ii) the aqueduct of Sylvius; (iii) the velum interpositum, a part of the subarachnoid space that runs along the roof of the third ventricle and contains many blood vessels; (iv) the mesencephalic and fourth ventricles; and (v) the superior medullary velum, a highly vascular extension of the subarachnoid space that terminates at the walls of the mesencephalic and fourth ventricles. Within 5 min, radioactivity was present in the interpeduncular, ambient and quadrigeminal cisterns, which encircle the midbrain. By 10 min, approximately 11% of the radioactivity had passed into the subarachnoid space via a previously undescribed flow pathway that included the velum interpositum and superior medullary velum. At many places along the ventricular system, [14C]sucrose appeared to move from cerebrospinal fluid into the adjacent tissue by simple diffusion, as reported previously (Blasberg R. G. et al. (1974) J. Pharmac. exp. Ther. 195, 73-83; Levin V. A. et al. (1970) Am. J. Physiol. 219, 1528-1533; Patlak C. and Fenstermacher J.D. (1975) Am. J. Physiol. 229, 877-884; Rosenberg G. A. and Kyner W.T. (1980) Brain Res. 193, 56-66; Rosenberg G. A. et al. (1986) Am. J. Physiol 251, F485-F489). Little sucrose was, however, taken up by: (i) circumventricular organs such as the subfornical organ; (ii) medullary and cerebellar tissue next to the lateral recesses; and (iii) the superior and inferior colliculi and cerebral peduncles. For the latter two groups of structures, entry from cerebrospinal fluid was apparently blocked by a thick, multilayered glia limitans. Although [14C]sucrose was virtually absent from the rest of the subarachnoid system after 1 h, it remained in the perivascular spaces and/or walls of pial arteries and arterioles for more than 3 h. Certain transport proteins, protease inhibitors, growth factors and other neurobiologically active materials are present in cerebrospinal fluid, and their distribution to the brain and its blood vessels may be important. The present work shows, in the rat, that the flow of cerebrospinal fluid and the disposition of its constituents is fairly complex and differs among regions. Flow was rapid throughout the ventricular system and into various subarachnoid velae and cisterns, but was surprisingly slow and slight over the cerebral and cerebellar cortices. The cerebrospinal fluid-to-tissue flux of material was relatively free at many interfaces, but was greatly restricted at others, the latter indicating that the old concept of a &quot;cerebrospinal fluid-brain barrier&quot; may hold at such places. Finally, radiolabeled sucrose was retained longer within the walls and perivascular spaces of pial arteries and arterioles than in other subarachnoid tissues; one function of the cerebrospinal fluid system or &quot;third circulation&quot; may thus be delivering factors and agents to these pial blood vessels.
Bath-applied glutamate (10-1000 microM) produced excitatory and inhibitory responses on numerous identified neurons of the mollusc Lymnaea stagnalis. Using both in situ and in vitro preparations, glutamate or glutamate agonists produced a depolarization in identified neurons right pedal dorsal 1 and right pedal dorsal 2 and 3. However, attempts to block glutamate-evoked responses with glutamate antagonists were unsuccessful. We examined a potential glutamatergic neuron, visceral dorsal 4. Exogenous application of the peptides (GDPFLRFamide and SDPFLRFamide) could mimic the inhibitory, but not the excitatory effects of visceral dorsal 4 on its postsynaptic cells, implying the presence of a second transmitter. We tested the possibility that glutamate is this second neurotransmitter by using excitatory synapses between visceral dorsal 4 and postsynaptic cells right pedal dorsal 2 and 3, right pedal dorsal 1, visceral F group and right parietal B group neurons. Of all the putative neurotransmitters tested, only glutamate had consistent excitatory effects on these postsynaptic cells. Also, the amplitude of the right pedal dorsal 2 and 3 excitatory postsynaptic potentials was reduced in the presence of N-methyl-D-aspartate and other glutamate agonists, suggesting desensitization of the endogenous transmitter receptor. In conclusion, some identified Lymnaea neurons respond to glutamate via a receptor with novel pharmacological properties. Furthermore, a Lymnaea interneuron may employ glutamate as a transmitter at excitatory synapses.
Neurotransmission depends on the availability of transmitter and on the presence of functional, high-affinity receptors at the plasma membrane that are capable of binding ligand. The pathway, mechanism and function of endocytosis and recycling of the substance P or neurokinin 1 receptor in enteric neurons were studied using fluorescent substance P, receptor antibodies and confocal microscopy. In both the soma and neurites, substance P induced rapid, clathrin-mediated internalization of the neurokinin 1 receptor into early endosomes, which also contained the transferrin receptor. After 4-8 h, there was a return in surface neurokinin 1 receptor immunoreactivity in the soma, which was not prevented by cycloheximide, and was thus independent of new protein synthesis. This return was prevented by acidotropic agents, therefore required endosomal acidification. This suggests that the neurokinin 1 receptor recycles in the soma. In contrast, in neurites, substance P and the neurokinin 1 receptor remained in endosomes and recycling was not detected. Neurons of the myenteric plexus were heavily innervated by substance P-containing nerve fibers, and K(+)-stimulated release of endogenous substance P from cultured neurons induced internalization of the neurokinin 1-receptor. Therefore, endogenous substance P may induce endocytosis of the neurokinin 1 receptor. In the soma, endocytosis and recycling correlated with loss and recovery of functional binding sites for substance P. suggesting that this process contributes to the regulation of peptidergic neurotransmission. Thus, ligand-induced endocytosis of the neurokinin 1 receptor in myenteric neurons is associated with a loss of surface receptors and functional binding sites. Since release of endogenous substance P induces neurokinin 1 receptor internalization, and neurokinin 1 receptor neurons are innervated by substance P-containing fibers, endocytosis of neuropeptide receptors may regulate neurotransmission.
The mu-opioid receptor MOR1 is present on primary afferent axons and a population of neurons in the superficial dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord. In order to determine which types of neuron possess the receptor we carried out pre-embedding immunocytochemistry with antibody to MOR1 and combined this with a post-embedding method to detect GABA and glycine in the rat. MOR1 immunoreactivity was seen on many small neurons in lamina II and a few in the dorsal part of lamina III. Although immunostaining was mainly restricted to the cell bodies and dendrites of these neurons, in some cases it was possible to see their axons, and a few of these entered lamina III. One hundred and thirty-nine MOR1-immunoreactive cells were tested with GABA and glycine antibodies, and the great majority of these (131 of 139; 94%) were not GABA or glycine immunoreactive, while the remainder showed GABA but not glycine immunoreactivity. These results suggest that most of the cells in the superficial dorsal horn which possess MOR1 are excitatory interneurons. They support the hypothesis that part of the action of mu-opioid agonists, such as morphine, involves the inhibition of excitatory interneurons which convey input from nociceptors to neurons in the deep dorsal horn, thus interrupting the flow of nociceptive information through polysynaptic pathways in the spinal cord.
Analysis of neuronal development has emphasized the importance of voltage-activated Ca2+ currents during the initial period of differentiation. We investigated non-N, non-L Ba2+ currents through Ca2+ channels in freshly dissociated large diameter embryonic mouse dorsal root ganglion neurons using the whole-cell patch-clamp technique. Two types of omega-agatoxin IVA-sensitive currents were clearly distinguished at embryonic day 13: a sustained P-type current blocked selectively at 30 nM (IC50 = 3nM) and an inactivating Q-type current blocked in the range 50-500 nM (IC50 = 120nM). The P-type Ca2+ current disappeared at day 15 whereas the Q-type Ca2+ current increased two- to three-fold during the same embryonic period. In contrast, the contribution of the non-L, non-N, omega-agatoxin IVA-resistant current (R-type) was constant during this developmental span. In conclusion, our results clearly show that P- and Q-type Ca2+ currents are differentially expressed during ontogenesis in large diameter dorsal root ganglion neurons. The developmental change, which occurs during the period of target innervation, could be related to specific key events such as natural neuron death and onset of synapse formation.
The endogenous nonapeptide bradykinin is a powerful substance which activates nociceptors, resulting in the sensation of pain in man. We used a newly developed non-radioactive method to detect bradykinin binding sites in isolated dorsal root ganglion cells with gold-labelled bradykinin. In a subpopulation of cells, gold-labelled bradykinin was bound in different quantities. The proportion of somata with bradykinin binding markedly depended on the length of time in culture. After 0.75 days, bradykinin was bound to 43% of somata. This proportion increased to 85% after 1.75 days and then decreased to 27% after 5.75 days. Bradykinin was bound to cells of all sizes, ranging from 40 to 2000 microns2 with a maximum of 200-300 microns2. In some cells, binding was also seen along the processes. No correlation was found between the soma size and the density of bradykinin binding. Blocking the bradykinin binding at the B1 receptor with (Des-Arg10)-Lys-bradykinin and at the B2 receptor with D-Arg(Hyp3-Thi5.8-D-Phe7)-bradykinin, respectively, revealed that in 0.75-day-old cultures no or only a very small amount of B1 receptors are present. In 1.75-day-old cultures, the marked increase in the proportion of cells with positive bradykinin binding is due to a de novo expression of the B1 receptor subtype and an up-regulation of the B2 receptor subtype. The selective or combined addition of specific B1 and B2 receptor ligands revealed that both receptor subtypes are co-localized. These data show that cultured sensory neurons express not only B2, but during a short period of time in culture also B1 receptors. The data allow us to hypothesize that a transient increase in bradykinin receptor expression might be caused by cell injury due to disruption of the axon. The injury-induced up-regulation of the receptor in vivo could cause physiological reactions.
In male urethane-anaesthetized rats, activation of neurons in nucleus raphe obscurus and the caudal tip of nucleus raphe magnus by microinjection of 50-100 nl 0.1 M D,L-homocysteic acid produced a 75.6 +/- 5.2% reduction in the firing rate in 25 neurons in the lateral and dorsolateral sectors of the periaqueductal gray matter which lasted for 102.3 +/- 13.3s (mean +/- S.E.M.). The duration of the inhibition was significantly reduced in a dose-dependent manner by intracerebroventricular injection of the inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, N(w)-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester (50-500 micrograms) but not by N(w)-nitro-D-arginine methyl ester (500 micrograms). In contrast, the magnitude of the raphe-evoked inhibition, i.e. the maximum depression of firing rate, was not significantly affected by either isomer. The results suggest that nitric oxide plays a role in the regulation of the excitability of neurons in the midbrain aversive system by the medullary raphe. The selective effect of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor on the duration, but not the magnitude, of the raphe-evoked inhibition suggests that nitric oxide is not involved in initiating the inhibition. Rather, its role appears to be in maintaining the raphe-evoked inhibition once it has been initiated by a non-nitrergic mechanism.
There is substantial evidence that the intra- and intercellular messenger nitric oxide, generated enzymatically from L-arginine by nitric oxide synthase in different isoforms, is involved in the development of nervous tissue. In this study we investigated the nitric oxide expression in the pre- and postnatally developing rat brain. With regard to messenger RNA, all of the basic nitric oxide synthase isoforms (neuronal, endothelial and macrophage nitric oxide synthase) were already expressed at embryonic day 10 and showed a temporary decrease at embryonic day 17. Western blot analysis of the three isoform proteins revealed a time pattern that was different from those of messenger RNAs. Although the endothelial nitric oxide synthase isoform was also expressed at embryonic day 10, no quantitative changes were observed over the whole time period studied. Protein amounts of brain and inducible nitric oxide synthase were first detectable at embryonic day 15, with a tendency to rise. A parallel time pattern was found for the NADPH-diaphorase activity in our light microscopic studies, whereas ultrastructurally the reaction product was seen in the brain pallium even of 13-day-old embryos. The data indicate a permanent presence of the transcripts for all nitric oxide synthase isoforms in the rat central nervous system from embryonic day 10 onwards, although the expression of respective proteins and staining patterns may differ.
C57 BL/6 mice were rendered severely parkinsonian by exposure to high doses of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. The fluorescent retrograde tracer Fast Blue was injected into the neostriatum one (group A) or five weeks (group B) following exposure to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. Neurons located in the substantia nigra pars compacta and in the centre median-parafascicular complex were analysed. There was no variation in the number and distribution of Fast Blue-labelled perikarya located in the centre median-parafascicular complex, which are insensitive to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. No variation was seen in the number of Nissl-stained perikarya located in the substantia nigra pars compacta, indicating that neurons had not degenerated. The number and the density of Fast Blue retrogradely-labelled neurons located in the same region were decreased in group A by 41% and in group B by 55%. Fast Blue labelling provided a measure of functional impairment in viable neurons. The Fast Blue-to-Nissl cell ratio was 55% in controls and declined to 20% in group A and to 17% in group B mice. The present study shows that (1) functional inactivation of viable neurons can be measured by using a fluorescent retrograde tracer following exposure to 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine and (ii) inactivation of retrograde axonal transport progresses from one to five weeks following withdrawal of the toxin. Fluorescent retrograde probes may be used to measure the anatomical substrate of recovery induced by drugs or by brain grafts in parkinsonian animals.
Behavioural sensitization to the locomotor stimulating effects of (+)-amphetamine or quinpirole was induced in rats by intermittent drug administration. Following expression of sensitization, locomotor activity scores on day 9 were: vehicle 87 +/- 9, (+)-amphetamine 1441 +/- 227 and quinpirole 2078 +/- 214. Electrically stimulated dopamine release was measured on day 12 in ventral tegmental slices using fast cyclic voltammetry. Dopamine release was significantly elevated in the (+)-amphetamine- and quinpirole-treated groups when compared to vehicle-treated controls over a wide range of stimulation frequencies (5-200 Hz) and pulses (1-200). Quinpirole (1 microM) in the perfusion fluid attenuated dopamine release following 40-pulse, 200-Hz electrical stimulation, by 31.6 +/- 2.8% in the ventral tegmental area of the vehicle-treated group, by 14.8 +/- 5.6% in the (+)-amphetamine-treated group and 8 +/- 7.3% in the quinpirole-treated group. This study shows that dopamine release is increased in the ventral tegmental area following sensitization with either a direct or indirectly acting dopamine agonist. The findings that dopamine release was elevated at all stimulation frequencies in sensitized animals, and that quinpirole only attenuated this release at the highest stimulation frequency, would suggest that in addition to D2 autoreceptor subsensitivity, other mechanisms contribute to the enhanced release of dopamine in these animals.
Dorsal root ganglia (L4 and L5) with attached spinal roots and nerve stumps were isolated from young adult mice and cultured in a layer of extracellular matrix material (matrigel). Within one day, a large number of axons grew out from the cut ends of the nerve and the dorsal root. The average outgrowth length was more than doubled by nerve growth factor, which also strongly increased the number of fibres, showing extensive branching. There was also a significant outgrowth stimulation by neurotrophin-3, but no observable effect by brain-derived neurotrophic factor. In preparations isolated and cultured six days after peripheral nerve transection in vivo, there was an increase in both the outgrowth length (about 1.5- to 2-fold) and in the number of axons. Stimulation of axonal outgrowth, which concerned outgrowth from both the peripheral nerve and the dorsal root, could be further enhanced by the addition of nerve growth factor to the culture. K-252a, a selective inhibitor of neurotrophin receptor-associated tyrosine kinase activity, did not affect either the normal outgrowth or the increased outgrowth in pre-axotomized preparations, at a concentration which abolished the stimulating effects by exogenous nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3. Under the culturing conditions used, spontaneous apoptosis occurred, but none of the neurotrophins tested, nor K-252a, affected the number of apoptotic neuronal cells analysed by nick-labelling DNA breaks at the end of a 48-h culturing period. Altogether, the present data suggest that for most dorsal root ganglia neurons, signalling through the trk receptors does not influence the apoptosis in vitro and is not required for either the spontaneous axonal outgrowth in matrigel or the increased outgrowth which occurs after prior axotomy in vivo.
Intracellular recording of abducens motoneurons in vivo has shown that ionophoretic applications of N-methyl-D-aspartate produced long-lasting membrane potential oscillations including a slow depolarization plateau with a burst of fast action potentials. This complex N-methyl-D-aspartate pattern was reproduced in the model of abducens motoneuron in vivo identified, intracellularly stained with horseradish peroxidase and reconstructed at high spatial resolution. The excitable soma of the simulated cell contained voltage-gated Ca, Na and K conductances, N-methyl-D-aspartate-gated voltage-sensitive Ca-Na-K conductance and Ca-dependent K conductance. The dendrite was passive either completely or with the exception of branching nodes containing N-methyl-D-aspartate conductances of the same slow kinetics but of lower values than at the soma. In the completely passive case, the N-methyl-D-aspartate pattern decayed with different rates along different dendritic paths depending on the geometry and topology of the reconstructed dendrite. The branches formed four clusters discriminated in somatofugal attenuations of steady voltages, and were correspondingly discriminated in attenuation of the complex N-methyl-D-aspartate pattern. Fast spikes decayed more than the slow depolarization plateau so that the prevalence of slow over fast components in the transformed pattern increased with somatofugal path distance. As a consequence, the lower the electrotonic effectiveness of a branch in the cluster or in the whole arborization, the lower both the voltage level and the frequency range of its voltage modulation by N-methyl-D-aspartate oscillations. In the case of active branching points, the somatic pattern changed depending on the level of activation of dendritic N-methyl-D-aspartate conductances with slow kinetics of voltage sensitivity. The higher this level, the longer the plateau and burst, and the greater the discharge rate; and the spikes in the burst were smaller. When the pattern spread in the dendrite, the fast spikes decayed and the slow plateau was boosted, with a greater effect along the somatofugal path containing more branching points. These results show how the somatofugal back-invasion along the dendrites by activity patterns generated at the soma can tune voltage-sensitive dendritic conductances. The dendritic back-invasion is geometry- and topology-dependent. It is proposed as a subtle feedback mechanism for the neuron to control its own synaptic inputs.
The endogenous tridecapeptide neurotensin exerts a wide range of behavioral, electrophysiological and neurochemical effects when administered directly into the brain. These effects are thought to result from the activation of distinct populations of neurotensin receptors distributed throughout the central nervous system. We have mapped the sites of functional change in the rat brain associated with the central administration of neurotensin using the induction of the nuclear protein products of the immediate early genes c-fos and zif268 as markers of cellular activation. The administration of neurotensin into the lateral ventricle of rats produced an increase in the number of nuclei positive for Fos and Zif268 immunoreactivity in the central and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala and the paraventricular and supraoptic nuclei of the hypothalamus. Neurotensin also produced an increase in serum corticosterone concentration and decrease in body temperature. The intraperitoneal administration of SR48692, a non-peptide neurotensin receptor antagonist, blocked the neurotensin-induced corticosterone secretion and significantly reduced the number of neurotensin-induced Fos-positive and Zif268-positive neurons in the amygdaloid complex. A significant positive correlation was found between the number of Fos-positive nuclei in the central or basolateral nucleus of the amygdala and the serum corticosterone concentration. A significant positive correlation was also found between the number of Zif-positive cells in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus and change in body temperature following treatment. Our findings indicate that the central role of neurotensin in increasing serum corticosterone involves the induction of Fos in the central and basolateral nuclei of the amygdala. In contrast, the neurotensin-induced hypothermia, which was unaffected by pretreatment with SR48692, involves Zif induction in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. These data support further the existence of central neurotensin receptor subtypes which may regulate distinct immediate early genes.
The neuropeptide galanin coexists in the medial septum and diagonal band of Broca with a population of acetylcholine neurons which project mainly to the ventral hippocampus. The present studies investigated the role of ventral hippocampal galanin in spatial learning in the male rat using a spatial learning task. In addition, the effects of galanin on cholinergic function were monitored by in vivo microdialysis and high-performance liquid chromatography. Bilateral microinjections of galanin (3 nmol/ rat) via chronic cannulae placed into the ventral hippocampus (i.v.h.) produced a slight but significant impairment of acquisition of the spatial task, while the 1 nmol dose of galanin facilitated acquisition. The 6 nmol dose of galanin failed to affect performance. A trend for an impairment of long-term memory retention (examined seven days after the last training session) was observed after 3 nmol of galanin, while the 1 nmol dose facilitated retention performance. Scopolamine (0.1 mg/kg, s.c.) caused a marked impairment of acquisition. Galanin (3 nmol/rat) given i.v.h. failed to modify the acquisition impairment caused by scopolamine (0.1 mg/kg, s.c.). These results suggest that galanin given i.v.h. produces a biphasic dose-dependent effects on spatial learning. In freely moving rats, galanin (3 nmol/10 microliters) given into the lateral ventricle (i.c.v.) did not affect basal acetylcholine release. In contrast, perfusion (100 min) with galanin (0.1 or 0.3 nmol/1.25 microliters/min) through the ventral hippocampal probe resulted in a reduction of basal acetycholine release which was dose-dependent and reversible. Galanin given i.c.v. (3 nmol/10 microliters) or through the probe (0.3 nmol/1.25 microliters/min) attenuated the increase in acetylcholine release evoked by the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (0.1 mg/kg, s.c.; 0.001 nmol/1.25 microliters/min through the probe). The galanin plus scopolamine combinations produced a 50% lower increase in the extracellular acetylcholine concentrations than scopolamine alone. This suggests that the mechanism(s) behind scopolamine- and galanin-induced stimulation of acetylcholine differ. These results indicate that ventral hippocampal galanin plays a role in cognition and that it has a powerful and modulatory effect on cholinergic transmission. However, the effects of exogenous galanin on spatial learning cannot be directly related to changes in in vivo cholinergic transmission in the ventral hippocampus. These discrepancies may relate to effects on subtypes of galanin receptors with different functional coupling. In addition, other hippocampal neurotransmitter systems (e.g. noradrenergic neurons) important for cognitive functions may also be modulated by ventral hippocampal galanin.
Synaptic activation of central neurons has been associated with rapid extracellular alkalinization. In this report, we directly activated CA1 pyramidal cells by antidromic invasion, or by field stimulation. Antidromic activation produced no pH change, despite a robust population spike in five of 11 slices. In six slices, antidromic stimulation at 10 Hz evoked a small alkalinization in stratum pyramidale (0.04 +/- 0.01 unit pH) which grew to 0.10-0.20 unit pH at 50-100 Hz, and was blocked in 0 Ca2+ media. Simultaneous pH recordings revealed no alkalinizations in stratum radiatum, despite robust alkaline shifts in stratum pyramidale. When synaptic transmission was blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate and picrotoxin, the Schaffer collateral-induced alkaline shift in stratum radiatum was abolished. With adequate stimulus strength and orientation, however, alkaline shifts in stratum radiatum could still be elicited, presumably by direct activation of the CA1 population. The non-synaptic alkaline shifts ranged from 0.10-0.20 unit pH, were amplified by benzolamide, and blocked by tetrodotoxin, 0 Ca2+ saline, and 300-400 microM Cd2+. Although directly activated alkaline shifts were never observed in 0 Ca2+ saline, large stimulus evoked responses could be elicited upon addition of 5-10 mM Ba2+. The Ba(2+)-dependent responses were also amplified by benzolamide and blocked by tetrodotoxin, Cd2+ or high Mg2+. These data demonstrate that stratum pyramidale can undergo an extracellular alkaline shift independent of stratum radiatum. The ionic dependence and pharmacologic sensitivity of the alkaline shifts suggest that voltage-gated Ca2+ channels are instrumental in triggering the alkalinizing mechanism. However, the ability of Ba2+ to support the alkaline shifts indicates that Ca2+ entry is not an absolute requirement. Implications for the mechanism of these pH changes are discussed.
Hippocalcin is an EF-hand [Persechini A. et al. (1989) Trends Neurosci. 12, 462-467] Ca2+ binding protein encoded by a neuron-specific gene. A detailed atlas of hippocalcin messenger RNA expression in the adult rat brain was complied using in situ hybridization. Highest levels of messenger RNA are found in the hippocampus, where messenger RNA is localized in proximal dendrites of CA pyramidal cells. Expression is also seen in other brain regions, including the neocortex, caudate-putamen, taenia tecti, claustrum, olfactory tubercle, anterior olfactory nucleus, and granule cell and glomerular layers of the olfactory bulb. The rat hippocalcin gene spans approximately 9 kb and consists of three exons, separated by introns of 6.7 and 0.25 kb. Sequence analysis of the putative proximal promoter region identified two clusters of multiple E-box sites which may regulate the cell-specific expression. Two lacZ fusion constructs carrying 0.9 and 3.4 kb of rat hippocalcin gene upstream region were used to create transgenic mice. With the 3.4 kb construct, transgene expression varied between founder mice, but was always found in the dentate gyrus and CA1-CA4 regions of the hippocampus, thus partly mimicking the expression of the endogenous gene. For the 0.9 kb construct, the levels of lacZ expression were weaker and more variable. Neither construct showed expression in any peripheral tissues examined. To establish an in vitro model of transcriptional regulation, the 3.4 and 0.9 kb 5' upstream regions were fused to a promoterless reporter gene encoding chloramphenicol acetyltransferase and transiently transfected into the hippocalcin-positive NG-108 cells. The 3.4 kb construct was strongly expressed, whilst the 0.9 kb construct was not expressed. In this paper, we describe the detailed expression pattern of the rat hippocalcin gene, the gene structure and its neuron-specific promoter.
Glutamate is used in the cochlear nucleus as a neurotransmitter by cochlear nerve synapses and by local circuits of granule cell axons. In the present study, immunocytochemistry and in situ hybridization were used to identify different types of neurons expressing N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit I (NMDAR1) in the mouse cochlear nucleus. N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 was expressed in most neuronal types, but granule cells in the dorsal cochlear nucleus had little, if any, expression, unlike their heavily labeled counterparts in the small cell shell and cerebellum. The findings do not support an analogy between the dorsal cochlear nucleus and the cerebellar cortex. In the cochlear nucleus the most heavily labeled structures were dendrites in the small cell shell and superficial dorsal cochlear nucleus, including the fusiform cell apical dendrites, which are targets of granule cell axons. However, fusiform cell basal dendrites, which are the synaptic sites of cochlear nerve fibers, did not express N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1. Thus different parts of the fusiform cells can have different subunits in their glutamate receptors. Also branches of the same cochlear nerve axons projecting to the octopus, stellate, and bushy cells of the ventral cochlear nucleus can use N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, while their branches to fusiform cells cannot. Each cochlear nucleus neuron type has a characteristic level of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor subunit 1 expression. Each type differs in its auditory response properties, which may depend on synaptic activities requiring different glutamate subunit patterns.
The two most important afferent projections to the striatum contain glutamate and dopamine, respectively. Excitotoxic damage resulting from excessive stimulation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate subtype of glutamate receptor has been implicated in pathophysiology of ischaemic stroke, hypoglycaemic brain damage and Huntington's disease. We studied the ability of the dopamine system to modify the anatomical, neurochemical and behavioural consequences of glutamatergic toxicity in the striatum. In a first set of experiments, the specific N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor agonist quinolinate was injected unilaterally into the striatum of rats pretreated with one of (i) intraperitoneal (i.p.) saline (controls); (ii) i.p. haloperidol, a D2 dopamine receptor agonist; or (iii) 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the ipsilateral nigrostriatal tract. Quinolinate-induced striatal damage, as assessed by morphometric and neurochemical criteria, was significantly attenuated in the animals with 6-hydroxydopamine lesions and in those pretreated with haloperidol, compared with saline-pretreated controls. There were no significant differences between the 6-OHDA and haloperidol groups. In a second set of experiments, animals received (i) bilateral intrastriatal quinolinate plus perioperative i.p. saline; (ii) bilateral intrastriatal quinolinate plus i.p. haloperidol; or (iii) bilateral intrastriatal saline. Again, the quinolinate-lesioned animals treated with perioperative haloperidol had significantly less striatal damage than the bilateral quinolinate rats. Behavioural assessment in the Morris Water Maze showed the bilateral quinolinate+haloperidol group to be significantly less impaired on a spatial acquisition task than the bilateral quinolinate animals. Measures of spontaneous daytime motor activity showed significant differences in average speed and rest time between the bilateral quinolinate+haloperidol rats and the bilateral quinolinate group. The performance of the bilateral quinolinate+haloperidol group was not significantly different from that of controls on any of the behavioural tasks. These results indicate an important role for D2 dopamine receptor-mediated mechanisms in striatal excitotoxicity. Since the excitotoxic process involves the same fundamental signalling mechanism that is involved in normal glutamatergic transmission, these findings imply an ability of D2 receptor blockade to modify glutamate signalling in the striatum. These results may have implications for treatment strategies in ischaemic stroke, hypoglycaemic brain damage and schizophrenia.
The distribution of glutamate receptor subunits (GluR) 2 and 3 in relation to striatal efferent neurons was examined. Our results showed that striatonigral and striatopallidal neurons differed in the relative proportion of splice variant messenger RNAs expressed. The rank order of the percentage of striatonigral neurons expressing a particular splice variant was GluR2-flop (approximately 40%) &gt; GluR3-flop (approximately 20%) &gt; GluR2-flip (approximately 10-15%) &gt; GluR3-flip (approximately 10%). For striatopallidal neurons, the pattern of expression was GluR3-flop (approximately 35%) &gt; GluR2-flop (approximately 20%) &gt; GluR3-flip (approximately 15-20%) &gt; GluR2-flip (&lt; 10%). By immunohistochemical methods, we observed that approximately half of striatal projection neurons stained for GluR2/4, with no discernible difference in the distribution or proportion of striatonigral neurons labeled as compared to striatopallidal neurons. In the case of striatonigral neurons, the immunohistochemical data support the results of in situ hybridization studies. However, with regard to striatopallidal neurons, the percentage of neurons expressing GluR2 messenger RNA (&lt; 35%) is lower than the percentage of neurons expressing the receptor protein (approximately 50%). This disparity underscores the importance of looking at both messenger RNA expression and protein abundance rather than relying on a single measure of receptor expression. The results of in situ hybridization and immunohistochemical studies demonstrate inhomogeneity within both striatonigral and striatopallidal neuron populations since some, but not all, of these neurons express GluR2 and/or GluR3. These data suggest that specific populations of striatal projection neurons express unique complements of excitatory amino acid receptors, which may be important in the understanding of both normal striatal function and basal ganglia disease.
Growing evidence suggests that non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation may contribute to neuronal death in both acute and chronic neurological diseases. The intracellular processes that mediate this form of neuronal death are poorly understood. We have previously characterized a model of kainic acid neurotoxicity using cerebellar granule cell neurons in vitro and we sought to determine the mechanism of kainic acid-induced neuronal degeneration. We found DNA laddering by agarose gel electrophoresis, cellular DNA fragmentation by in situ end labeling of DNA, and chromatin condensation using a fluorescent DNA intercalating dye, in cerebellar granule cells following exposure to kainic acid (100 microM). Aurintricarboxylic acid protected cerebellar granule cells from kainic acid-induced death. While the morphological and biochemical features of neuronal death induced by kainic acid resembled low K(+)-induced apoptosis in cerebellar granule cells, the time interval from the institution of the death promoting condition to neuronal death was shorter with kainic acid and did not require new protein or RNA synthesis. These results demonstrate that kainic acid receptor activation can induce transcription-independent apoptosis in neurons. This in vitro model should be useful in identifying the intracellular pathways that link kainic acid receptor activation with apoptosis.
In seven-day-old rats, intracerebral injection of N-methyl-D-aspartate transiently stimulates expression of Interleukin-1 beta messenger RNA. To evaluate the role of Interleukin-1 beta in the pathogenesis of excitotoxic injury, we sought to determine if Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist, an endogenous competitive inhibitor of Interleukin-1 beta, could attenuate N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced injury. To induce sustained over-expression of Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist in the brain, a recombinant adenovirus encoding Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist was administered by intracerebroventricular injection into three-day-old rats. Increased brain concentrations of Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist two to six days later were documented by assays of tissue homogenates and by immunocytochemistry. To evaluate the impact of Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist on N-methyl-D-aspartate neurotoxicity, three-day-old animals received intracerebroventricular injections of either adenovirus encoding Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist or a control adenovirus encoding beta-galactosidase, followed four days later by right intrastriatal injections of N-methyl-D-aspartate (10 nmol/0.5 microliter), a dose that typically elicits excitotoxic injury in the ipsilateral striatum and adjacent hippocampus, or saline. Animals were killed five days later, and brain damage was quantitated by measurement of bilateral cross-sectional areas of the striatum and anterior hippocampus. In three independent experiments, in N-methyl-D-aspartate-lesioned animals, both striatal and hippocampal injuries were reduced in animals that had been infected with adenovirus that encoded Interleukin-1 receptor antagonist, in comparison with littermates infected with the control adenovirus (right striatal volume loss ranged from 16 to 24%, compared with 54-65% volume loss in control). There was no striatal atrophy in adenovirus-infected saline-injected animals. These results provide strong support for the hypothesis that Interleukin-1 beta is a mediator of excitotoxic brain injury in perinatal rats.
Recent investigations have reported a reduced density of interneurons and an increase of GABAA receptor binding occurring preferentially in layer II of the anterior cingulate cortex of schizophrenic subjects [Benes F.M. et al. (1992) J. Neurosci. 12, 924-929]. Since a reduction in the density of interneurons has also been found in layer II of the prefrontal cortex, this study has sought to determine whether an un-regulation of the GABAA receptor binding activity might also be found in this region of schizophrenics. A high-resolution autoradiographic analysis of bicuculline-sensitive [3H]muscimol (GABAA) receptor binding on individual neuron cell bodies in layers II, III, IV and VI has been applied to Brodmann area 10 from normal controls (n = 16) and schizophrenic (n = 7) subjects. A computer-assisted technique has been used under strictly blind conditions to determine whether differences in binding occur in the schizophrenic group. A significant increase of GABAA receptor binding activity has been observed in layers II, III, V and VI in the schizophrenic group. When the binding is expressed as a density with respect to neuronal cell size, there is a gradient of binding across layers II, III, V and VI, with neuronal cell bodies in layer II having the greatest density of grains. When different subpopulations of neurons distinguished according to size criteria are examined separately, large (pyramidal) neurons show significantly higher binding, particularly in layer II, where it was increased by 90% in schizophrenics. Small (non-pyramidal) cells do not show significant differences in binding in schizophrenics, except in layer VI, where there was a 135% increase. Potential confounding effects from age and post mortem interval do not explain the differences between the two groups, because both young and old schizophrenics, as well as schizophrenics with long and short post mortem intervals, showed increased GABAA receptor binding activity when compared to control cases distinguished in a corresponding fashion. These data suggest that there may be a preferential reduction of inhibitory GABAergic inputs to pyramidal neurons, particularly in layer II of the preferential cortex, in schizophrenia. This change could potentially result in an increased excitatory outflow from the prefrontal area to other cortical regions of the schizophrenic brain. Overall, these results are consistent with the idea that reduced amounts of GABAergic activity in the prefrontal cortex could be related to a perinatal disturbance and could be a potentially important component of the pathophysiology of psychosis.
The role calmodulin plays in the growth and differentiation of nerve cells was assessed by altering the levels of calmodulin in the PC12 rat pheochromocytoma cell line and determining the effects of altering these levels on cellular proliferation and differentiation. Calmodulin levels in the PC12 cells were increased or decreased by transfecting the cells with a mammalian expression vector into which the rat calmodulin gene I had been cloned in the sense or antisense orientation, respectively. The cells transfected with the calmodulin sense gene showed increased levels of calmodulin immunoreactivity and increased levels of calmodulin messenger RNA as ascertained by immunocytochemistry and slot-blot analysis, respectively. Cells transfected with the calmodulin antisense construct showed reduced levels of calmodulin immunoreactivity. Reducing the levels of calmodulin by expression of antisense calmodulin messenger RNA resulted in a marked inhibition of cell growth, whereas increasing the levels of calmodulin by overexpressing calmodulin messenger RNA resulted in an acceleration of cell growth. Transfected PC12 cells having reduced levels of calmodulin immunoreactivity exhibited spontaneous outgrowth of long, stable and highly branched neuritic processes. PC12 cells in which calmodulin was overexpressed showed no apparent changes in cell morphology, but did show an altered response to the addition of nerve growth factor. While nerve growth factor slowed cellular proliferation and induced extensive neurite outgrowth, in parental PC12 cells nerve growth factor induced little or no neurite outgrowth and little inhibition of cell proliferation in transfected cells overexpressing calmodulin. These results indicate that calmodulin is essential for the proliferation of nerve cells and for the morphological changes that nerve cells undergo during differentiation. The study also suggests the possibility that a calmodulin antisense approach may be used to inhibit the proliferation of neuronal tumors.
Field potential and (K+)o recordings were made in rat hippocampal slices during application of 4-aminopyridine (50 microM) and ionotropic excitatory amino acid receptor antagonists, to establish whether anoxia modified the mechanisms that regulate GABA release from inhibitory interneurons. Synchronous, negative-going field potentials (amplitude = 1.41 +/- 0.64 mV, mean +/- S.D.; interval = 40.9 +/- 15.7 s; n = 10) occurred spontaneously in the CA3 stratum radiatum under control conditions. These events were associated with transient elevations in (K+)o (peak values = 5.3 +/- 0.7 mM; duration = 23.4 +/- 3.5 s; n = 5 slices) and were abolished by the GABAA, receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide (10 microM; n = 5), the GABAB receptor agonist baclofen (100 microM; n = 6) or the mu-opioid receptor agonist (D-Ala2-N-Me-Phe, Gly-ol)enkephalin (10 microM; n = 4). Hence they represented monosynaptic field inhibitory postsynaptic potentials. Brief (4-5 min) episodes of anoxia induced a reversible, slow elevation of the baseline (K+)o to 5.2 +/- 0.3 mM (n = 5), while the rate of the field inhibitory postsynaptic potentials increased by an average of 130.7% (n = 10). Oxygen interruption during application of either baclofen (n = 6) or (D-Ala2-N-Me-Phe,Gly-ol)enkephalin (n = 4) blocked the depressant action of both drugs on the field inhibitory postsynaptic potential. These findings demonstrate that hippocampal monosynaptic field inhibitory postsynaptic potentials are resistant to brief anoxic episodes and that oxygen deprivation readily blocks the presynaptic control of GABA release exerted by GABAB and mu-opioid receptors at inhibitory interneuron terminals.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate causes a rapid increase in intracellular Ca2+ leading to collapse of the mitochondrial membrane potential and eventually cell death in cortical neurons. The aim of this study was to investigate the mechanism responsible for mitochondrial depolarization using laser scanning confocal microscopy of single cultured rate cortical neurons. To monitor mitochondrial membrane potential, neuronal mitochondria were labeled with tetramethylrhodamine methyl ester, a cationic fluorophore that accumulates in polarized mitochondria. In neurons cultured on poly-D-lysine-coated coverslips, N-methyl-D-aspartate caused mitochondrial depolarization in 88% of cells in 30 min. Cyclosporin A, an inhibitor of the mitochondrial permeability transition, delayed depolarization in a dose-dependent manner (0.2-1 microM). In neurons cultured on an astrocyte feeder layer, N-methyl-D-aspartate also caused mitochondrial depolarization. Cyclosporin A again delayed mitochondrial depolarization, although higher concentrations were needed. These data show for the first time that mitochondrial depolarization induced by N-methyl-D-aspartate may be due to the induction of the mitochondrial permeability transition.
Miniature end-plate potentials recorded at the neuromuscular junction are caused by a quantal release of acetylcholine and evoked end-plate potentials can be described as integer multiples of the miniature potentials. A variety of factors including the presence of multiple synapses on postsynaptic cells and dendritic filtering, complicate quantal analyses at central synapses. In the present investigation on rat hippocampal slices, transmitter release was blocked except for a localized area on the apical dendrites of CA1 neurons and quantal analysis was performed on miniature excitatory postsynaptic currents (mEPSCs) and evoked EPSCs of low quantum content. The results indicate that under these conditions, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor-mediated mEPSCs exhibit a normal size distribution with S.D. values comparable to those at the neuromuscular junction, and the evoked EPSCs can be described as integer multiples of the miniature currents. The results also support reports in literature that long-term potentiation (LTP) is associated with an increase in mEPSC frequency. Whether the increase is due to (a) the enhancement of quantal release at already functional synapses, or (b) the recruitment of nearby silent synapses where a neglible transmitter release becomes measurable, or clusters of functional receptors are uncovered, cannot yet be distinguished.
The ability of transplants of fetal nigral neurons to reverse symptoms in patients with Parkinson's disease is, at least in part, limited by the poor survival of the grafted dopaminergic neurons and the restricted host reinnervation from the graft. Here, we report that glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, a novel trophic factor for developing dopaminergic neurons, can increase survival and fibre outgrowth of fetal nigral dopaminergic neurons, and stimulate graft-induced functional recovery after transplantation in a rat model of Parkinson's disease. Injections of rat glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor adjacent to the graft enhanced graft function, resulting in complete compensation of amphetamine-induced turning behaviour already by two weeks postgrafting as opposed to four weeks in the control group. The total number of surviving tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons was about two-fold greater in the glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor-treated animals compared to the vehicle-injected controls, and the density of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibres was found to be increased both in the host striatum (from 37.6 +/- 8.3% to 105.5 +/- 9.7% of intact striatum) as well as inside the graft (55% increase). Moreover, in animals treated with glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor, the outgrowth of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibres was mostly directed towards the injection site. These findings show that supply of exogenous glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor to the transplantation site improves survival, growth and function of transplanted fetal nigral dopaminergic neurons in the rat Parkinson model.
We have developed retinal culture system of adult mammals to investigate neural regeneration from adult retinal ganglion cells (RGC). In this culture system, neurites were regenerated from RGCs of adult retinal explants. Investigation of neurotrophic effects on the neural regeneration showed that some interleukins and neurotrophins enhanced neurite regeneration from adult rat RGCs. We also found that the adult human retina had the ability of neural regeneration and that neurotrophins enhanced this ability. A novel neurotrophic factor secreted by adult rat hepatocytes also enhanced neurite regeneration not only in adult mice but also in aged RGCs. This result indicated the novel hepatocyte secreted factor is an activator which enhances neural regeneration of the aged retina. We concluded that even adult aged RGCs had the ability of axonal regeneration after injury and that neurotrophic factors might enhanced these abilities. Therefore neurotrophic factors might have practicable applications in drug treatments for intractable disease of the neural retina and optic nerve. Future progress of neuroscience is expected to rescue the retina from various diseases, and to render possible the transplantation of the retina and optic nerve.

Determinants of compliance with a 6-month diet and exercise program were studied among 118 healthy middle-aged men with risk factors for coronary heart disease (CHD). Data were gathered via medical examinations, interviews and questionnaires. Smoking, high levels of hostility, perception of barriers to diet change and low knowledge of risk factors for CHD were linked to poor compliance with increased intake of dietary fiber. Poor compliance with low fat diet was linked with smoking, younger age and not having relatives or friends afflicted with CHD. Poor compliance with the exercise program tended to be associated with younger age and having children at home. Practice implications for health professionals who provide clinical and educational services for middle-aged men with slightly elevated CHD risk factors are discussed.
Early postnatal treatment with the antidepressant drug clomipramine has repeatedly been shown to lead to behavioural and physiological changes in adult rats. To provide some neurochemical correlates to these studies we have measured a number of monoaminergic parameters in the brains of adult (one year old) rats that were treated twice daily with 15 mg/kg clomipramine from postnatal day 2-14. The most consistent finding was that the hypothalamic levels of serotonin (5-HT) were decreased and those of the dopamine metabolite dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) were increased in rats irrespectively whether they went through a range of behavioural and physiological tests or not. The numbers of beta-adrenoceptors in the frontal cortex and of alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the amygdala/piriform cortex were not changed. The decrease in hypothalamic 5-HT concentrations appears to be up to now the most consistent neurochemical alteration in adult rats that were neonatally treated with antidepressant drugs. It is, however, not clear what the relation is with the functional changes in these rats, that are proposed by some authors as an animal model for depression.
The effects of morphine exposure in utero on play behavior and social behavior were investigated in a longitudinal study. Wistar rat dams were SC injected daily with saline (control) or 10 mg/kg morphine from day 8 to day 21 of gestation. Play behavior of the offspring was measured at 3 and 4 weeks of age and social behavior at 3 months of age. Pinning, a measure for play behavior and social grooming of the morphine-treated offspring were significantly elevated compared to saline controls, especially on day 21. The onset-latency of pinning behavior was not changed. Furthermore, prenatal morphine treatment resulted in more social approach and less social avoidance behavior in adulthood, whereas changes in general locomotor activity were not observed. The results are discussed in relation to the effects of in utero exposure of morphine on the development of incentive aspects of play and social behavior.

The objectives of this study were to investigate the temporal aspects of female sexual behavior during single and multiple ejaculatory tests. Females were tested in a two-compartment chamber where they could escape from the male following sexual contacts. In Experiment 1, correlation analysis showed that the number of intromissions received by the female over 3 ejaculatory series was positively correlated with the female's postejaculatory refractory period (PER). In Experiment 2, females receiving 2-4 intromissions before ejaculation had a PER that did not differ from those receiving 5-15 (average 10) intromissions preceding ejaculation. However, if the male ejaculated on the first or second intromission, the female's PER was significantly shorter than the other groups and did not differ from her return latency after an intromission without ejaculation. Females receiving 24-31 intromissions preceding ejaculation exhibited the longest PER. Analysis revealed that the number of intromissions received by females before ejaculation was positively correlated with the female's PER. We concluded that the male's ejaculatory reflex, seminal emission, and postejaculatory behavior alone without at least 2 preceding intromissions were not sufficient to induce a female's PER comparable to that seen after an ejaculation during normal copulation. In addition, the number of intromissions received by the female preceding ejaculation was positively correlated with the female's PER if the range of intromission frequency was large enough.
Since the previous review on the role of opioids in the immune system, numerous investigative teams have contributed to the growing pool of information illustrating the tangible relationship between opioids and immune function, particularly as this association pertains to bacterial and viral pathogens. In addition, the recent cloning of both neural- and immune-derived opioid receptors will ultimately facilitate the identification of molecular events that are responsible for the immunomodulatory effects that are mediated by receptor ligation. Specifically, the administration of opioids in vivo can potentially affect the immune system either through direct interaction with receptors on the effector cells or indirectly, through the ligation of receptors found within the central nervous system. This indirect routing is hypothesized to involve secondary pathways including the hypothalamic pituitary adrenal (HPA) axis and the sympathetic nervous system ultimately resulting in immunomodulation. Consequently, a portion of this review addresses the recent data on leukocyte-derived opioid receptors and the potential immunoregulatory role relative to opiold receptors found within the central nervous system. In addition, recent observations on the effects of opioids and immunocompetence is reviewed from both a molecular and cellular perspective. Finally, the consequence of opioid exposure on the competence of the host immune system to microbial pathogens is summarized.
Apolipoprotein E (apoE) is a 34 kDa protein that plays an important role in cholesterol transport, uptake and redistribution. Within the nervous system, apoE might be involved in maintaining synaptic integrity after injury and during aging. ApoE might help maintain the integrity of the synaptodendritic complex by several different mechanisms. Among them, recent studies have suggested that apoE: (1) stabilizes the neuronal cytoskeleton; (2) plays an important role in transporting esterified cholesterol to neurons undergoing reinnervation where it is taken up by the low density lipoprotein receptor-related protein pathway and used as a precursor for the synthesis of new synaptic terminals; (3) regulates interactions between neurons and the extracellular matrix (e.g. laminin); and (4) regulates levels of intracellular calcium. The main objective of the manuscript is to review the current progress in understanding the functions of apoE in the nervous system and how malfunctioning of this molecule might result in neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease.
In a recent analysis of the suicide statistics of two areas of Stockholm of contrasting demographic and socioeconomic status, we found the suicide rate higher in the low-income area. In the present study, the suicide rate of the richest and poorest countries of Sweden were compared to test whether the negative correlation previously found locally between average income in the country and incidence of suicide, also exists in a nationwide extrapolation. The poorest county of Sweden, Berg, manifested an increased suicide rate of 46.2 per 100,000 population [Ratio observed/ expected (O/E) 2.3], whereas the richest, Danderyd, had a rate four times lower (10.8; Ratio O/E, 0.5), being also lower than the Swedish mean suicide rate of 17.2. The findings do not support the socioeconomic hypothesis on incidence of suicide, according to which an increased suicide rate is expected to be observed in demographic units with increased income or economic output.
A new oral model of nicotine self-administration in rats has been described. The model utilizes a two-lever operant procedure with rats having a choice between nicotine and water reinforcement. Most (16 of 20) rats exhibited reliable preferences for nicotine solutions equal to or less than 32 micrograms/ml; preferences were inversely related to the concentration of nicotine. Mecamylamine (0.25-5.0 mg/kg), a nicotinic antagonist, reduced preferences for a low nicotine concentration (4 micrograms/ml) and enhanced preferences for a high nicotine concentration (32 micrograms/ml). The relationship of nicotine concentration to nicotine preference appeared to be consistent with previous reports of nicotine self-administration using the intravenous route in rats as well as the respiratory route (i.e., smoking) in humans. The mecamylamine-induced changes in nicotine preference were consistent with its nicotinic antagonist action as well as with effects of mecamylamine reported in humans. This model should be useful in the preclinical assessment of new agents as potential therapies in smoking cessation programs.
Quantitative in vitro receptor autoradiography was used to examine changes in three ionotropic glutamate receptor subtypes using 3H-MK801 (NMDA-R antagonist), 3H-CNQX (AMPA-R antagonist) and 3H-kainic acid (kainate-R agonist) following subchronic (28 days) and chronic (8 months) treatment of rats with a typical antipsychotic, haloperidol (1.5 mg/kg per day), atypical antipsychotic, clozapine (25 mg/kg per day), the dopamine D2/D3 receptor antagonist, raclopride (10 mg/kg per day), and the dopamine D1 (D1/D5) receptor antagonist SCH23390 (0.5 mg/kg per day). Subchronic and chronic drug treatments did not significantly alter 3H-CNQX or 3H-kainate binding in any of brain regions examined. Subchronic SCH23390 treatment elevated 3H-MK801 binding in the hippocampal formation with significant increases in the CA1 and dentate gyrus, suggesting a specific role for dopamine D1 receptors in the regulation of hippocampal NMDA receptor function. Subchronic, but not chronic, haloperidol and clozapine treatment significantly reduced 3H-MK801 binding in the medial prefrontal cortex. This suggests that typical and atypical antipsychotics may exert some of their clinical effects by affecting NMDA receptors in the medial prefrontal cortex. Both subchronic and chronic clozapine treatment decreased 3H-MK801 binding in the caudate putamen. The minimal extrapyramidal side effects produced by clozapine may result, in part, from the reduction in NMDA receptor binding in the caudate putamen.
CP-135,807 [3-(N-methylpyrrolidin-2R-ylmethyl)-5-(3-nitropyrid-2- yl)amino-1H-indole] binds with high affinity to central 5-HT1D receptors, and in functional studies produces dose-dependent decreases in extracellular serotonin. These and other findings have suggested that CP-135,807 may act as a terminal 5-HT autoreceptor agonist. In an attempt to characterize the behavioral activity of selective 5-HT1D ligands, adult male Carneau pigeons were trained to discriminate IM injections of 0.1 mg/kg CP-135,807 from saline under a two-key, fixed ratio schedule of food-reinforced key pecking. CP-135,807 and the structurally unrelated 5-HT1D agonist CP-286,601 fully and dose-dependently substituted for the training dose. In contrast, little substitution was observed following administration of 8-OH-DPAT, a potent 5-HT1A agonist, the 5-HT1B agonist CP-94,253, or the serotonin reuptake inhibitor sertraline. In addition, the discriminative stimulus produced by CP-135,807 was not blocked by WAY 100,635, a selective 5-HT1A antagonist, but was completely and dose-dependently antagonized by the selective 5-HT1D antagonist, GR 127935. In subjects trained under a multiple schedule of punished and unpunished responding, 8-OH-DPAT produced large increases in punished responding while having little effect on unpunished responding. In contrast, CP-135,807 and CP-94,253 produced no antipunishment effects, while GR 127935 produced modest increases in punished responding. Collectively, these results suggest that CP-135,807 produces centrally mediated psychoactive effects that differ distinctly from those of 5-HT1A agonists.
The selective D3-dopamine receptor agonist 4aR, 10bR-(+)-trans-3,4,4a, 10b-tetrahydro-4-[N-propyl-2,3-3H]-2H,5H-[1] benzopyrano[4,3-b]-1,4-oxazin-9-ol ([3H]PD 128907) was used to visualise D3-dopamine receptors in whole hemisphere cryosections from post-mortem human brain. [3H]PD 128907 has an 18- to 40-fold selectivity for D3- over D2-dopamine receptors as compared to a 7- to 24-fold selectivity of the more commonly used ligand [3H]7-OH-DPAT. [3H]PD 128907 accumulated markedly in the nucleus accumbens and in the ventral parts of caudate nucleus and putamen, with a slightly heterogeneous (patch-matrix like) distribution. The binding in the lateral parts of caudate nucleus and putamen was much less dense. No binding was obtained in any other regions. A very high proportion of [3H]PD 128907 was specifically bound, as judged from the low binding remaining in the presence of the D2/D3-dopamine receptor antagonist raclopride. This gives the ligand a potential for the detection of low density D3-dopamine receptors in the human brain. The binding obtained with [3H]PD 128907 was qualitatively similar to that using [3H]7-OH-DPAT in the presence of GTP. However, [3H]7-OH-DPAT labelled, in contrast to [3H]PD 128907, also D3-dopamine receptors in neocortex. The new compound [3H]PD 128907 appears to be a suitable radioligand for autoradiographic examination of the D3-dopamine receptor localisation in the human brain, and should also be useful for pharmacological studies of this receptor subtype.
Following stressor exposure BALB/cByJ mice exhibit hypersecretion of corticosterone and marked brain catecholamine alterations. In addition, mice of this strain exhibit impairments of performance in a Morris water-maze, which may be exacerbated by footshock application. In the present investigation it was demonstrated that early-life handling of mouse pups (coupled with brief separation periods from the dam over the course of 21 days postpartum) reduced the learning impairments seen when mice were tested in the Morris water-maze at 120 days of age and also prevented stress-induced disturbances in this task. Likewise, cross-fostering BALB/cByJ mice with a C57BL/6ByJ dam prevented the performance deficits. In contrast, C57BL/6ByJ mice cross-fostered to a BALB/cByJ dam exhibited proficient performance. Thus, maternal factors may be important in determining the Morris water-maze disturbances, provided that this was applied on the BALB/cByJ genetic background. Stressor exposure exacerbated the performance disturbances in BALB/cByJ mice, while diazepam treatment disrupted Morris water-maze performance in both BALB/cByJ and C57BL/6ByJ mice. Paralleling the behavioral changes associated with handling, the stress-induced hypercorticosterone secretion characteristic of the BALB/cByJ mouse was attenuated by the early handling procedure. Stressor exposure also produced strain-dependent variations of NE and 5-HT, but these effects were not appreciably influenced by the handling procedure. These data are consistent with the proposition that performance disturbances of BALB/cByJ mice tested in the Morris water-maze task are associated with excessive hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal reactivity. Moreover, it appears that the influence of early-life stimulation may interact with genetic factors in determining endocrine and behavioral stress responses.

Neurology is considered to be an independent special medical field closely related to internal medicine, neurosurgery and psychiatry clinically, and various basic neurosciences. Neurology training programs between U.S.A. and Japan were compared, and the possibility of Japanese training programs were proposed.
Changes in the content of angiotensin II (A II) immunoreactivity (ir) in rat spinal perfusate induced by electroacupuncture (EA) stimulation of different frequencies were measured by radioimmunoassay (RIA). The results were analyzed in relation to the role of opioid receptor. (1) 2 Hz EA produced a 20% (P &gt; 0.05) decrease in A II -ir content in the spinal perfusate. 15 Hz EA produced an even more decrease (62%, P &lt; 0.01), whereas 100 Hz produced a significant increase (65%, P &lt; 0.05). (2) The release in spinal A II -ir produced by 15 Hz EA was reversed by the opioid antagonist naloxone to a of 125% highter than that of the control (P &lt; 0.05), suggesting that 15 Hz EA may accelerate the release of endogenous opioids to suppress the release of A II. (3) This was substantiated by the finding that intrathecal (i.t.) injection of the selective mu agonist ohmefentanyl produced a dramatic suppression (20%, P &lt; 0.05) of A II release, but not by delta and kappa agonist. (4) Intrathecal injection of salarasin, the angiotensin receptor antagonist, produced a significant potentiation of the analgesia produced by 100 Hz EA, but not that produced by 2 or 15 Hz EA. It is concluded that 15 Hz EA may induce the release of endogenous opioids acting on mu opioid receptor so as to suppress A II release, and that 100 Hz EA may accelerate the release of A II serving as a brake for 100 Hz EA-induced analgensia. Removal of the brake by angiotensin antagonist may be advised as an adjunct for the potentiation of 100 Hz EA-induced analgesia.

We examine the role of the Engrailed homeobox gene in establishment of local tectal topography. In the mesencephalon, a gradient of Engrailed appears early and defines the rostrocaudal axis of the tectum. Various experiments that cause ectopic Engrailed expression cause predictable readjustments of the retinotectal map. The newly discovered 'realisators' of the retinotopic map, such as receptor tyrosine kinase ligands ELF-1 and RAGS could be controlled directly by Engrailed. Indeed, recent results show that Engrailed regulates the expression of these ligands. The Engrailed gradient itself appears to be set up by signals including FGF8 and WNTI, allowing us to begin to trace the molecular cascade that is responsible for the correct wiring of the visual projection back into the early embryo.


In this study the dynamic properties of goldfish horizontal cell (HC) receptive fields were evaluated. The size of HC receptive fields increases up to about 60 msec after stimulus onset, and then reduces to a smaller end value. They can therefore not adequately be described by the cable equation. Estimates of the length constant of the HC network based on the sustained responses are about 43% smaller than those based on the initial part of the response. This difference can be accounted for by feedback connections from HCs to cones because negative feedback reduces the receptive field size. The implication is that HCs are strongly coupled when the retina is stimulated more or less homogeneously but that they partly uncouple from the rest of the HC network when they are stimulated differently than the rest of the retina. The HCs thus generate a feedback signal based on the &quot;local&quot; stimulus properties. The size of the HC receptive fields depends on the spatial detail of the stimulus.
We studied feedback from horizontal cells to cones in isolated goldfish retinae and found that surround stimuli evoke an inward current and a slowly developing outward current. The surround-evoked currents are blocked by the glutamate antagonist 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (DNQX) and are, like horizontal cell responses, most effectively evoked by large stimuli. This indicates that the currents are caused by feedback from horizontal cells. The surround-evoked inward current is neither blocked by picrotoxin nor carried by chloride. Instead, it is carried by calcium, and it triggers a slowly developing calcium-dependent chloride current. We were unable to mimick the surround-evoked currents by modulating the extracellular GABA concentration. We conclude that when horizontal cells hyperpolarize they feed back to the cones by shifting the cone calcium-current activation range to more negative potentials. This type of feedback, directly targeted at the calcium current, scarcely influences the membrane potential of the receiving neuron, but effectively modulates its synaptic output.
In the isolated goldfish retina, 700 nm background illumination increases the horizontal cell receptive field size, as measured with 565 nm slits of light, but decreases the receptive field size, when measured with 660 nm slits. These background-induced changes in receptive field size are absent when the depolarizing responses in bi- and triphasic horizontal cells are blocked by lowering the [Ca2+] in the Ringer's solution from 1.0 to 0.1 mM. These results cannot be explained by the linear properties of the horizontal cell layers, nor by slow adaptational processes, but are consistent with the concept that feedback from horizontal cells to cones modifies the horizontal cell receptive field properties.
Dendrites of bipolar and horizontal cells protrude deeply into the synaptic terminals of cones in goldfish retina. This arrangement gives the impression that the cone synaptic terminal surrounds a morphologically shielded compartment, the cone synaptic cleft, from which clearance of neurotransmitter by diffusion is limited. In this study the time constant of this clearance has been approached in two ways: (1) the morphological parameters determining the clearance (extracellular synaptic volume and leak area), were estimated using morphometric methods. These data were introduced into a diffusion model of the cone pedicle, yielding a time constant for the clearance of &lt; 1 msec; (2) the time constant of the light onset response when the glutamate transporter in the cone was blocked with DL-threo-beta-hydroxyaspartate or dihydrokainate, was interpreted as the time constant of the clearance, yielding values of almost 650 msec compared to around 90 msec in control conditions. The decay time-constant of the Ca-dependent tail-currents in cones was used, as an approximation of the dynamics of the intracellular Ca-concentration and thus of the glutamate release by the cones. The decay time constant was about 800 msec. This suggests that the intracellular Ca-concentration in the synaptic terminal and hence the glutamate release by the cones drops with a similar large time constant. These results indicate that the cone pedicle in goldfish does not limit the clearance of neurotransmitters from the synaptic cleft and that the fast light onset response of horizontal cells under control conditions is due to activation of glutamate transporters by hyperpolarization of the cone membrane potential while the glutamate release drops slowly. The slow horizontal cell light onset response in beta-hydroxyaspartate or dihydrokainate may be due to a slow reduction of the glutamate release by the cones at light onset.
Retinal ganglion cells in the cat respond to single rhodopsin isomerizations with one to three spikes. This quantal signal is transmitted in the retina by the rod bipolar pathway: rod--&gt;rod bipolar--&gt;AII--&gt;cone bipolar--&gt;ganglion cell. The two-dimensional circuit underlying this pathway includes extensive convergence from rods to an AII amacrine cell, divergence from a rod to several AII and ganglion cells, and coupling between the AII amacrine cells. In this study we explored the function of coupling by reconstructing several AII amacrine cells and the gap junctions between them from electron micrographs; and simulating the AII network with and without coupling. The simulation showed that coupling in the AII network can: (1) improve the signal/noise ratio in the AII network; (2) improve the signal/noise ratio for a single rhodopsin isomerization striking in the periphery of the ganglion cell receptive field center, and therefore in most ganglion cells responding to a single isomerization; (3) expand the AII and ganglion cells' receptive field center; and (4) expand the &quot;correlation field&quot;. All of these effects have one major outcome: an increase in correlation between ganglion cell activity. Well correlated activity between the ganglion cells could improve the brain's ability to discriminate few absorbed external photons from the high background of spontaneous thermal isomerizations. Based on the possible benefits of coupling in the AII network, we suggest that coupling occurs at low scotopic luminances.

The insoluble amyloid deposited extracellularly in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD) is composed of amyloid beta protein, a approximately 4-kDa secreted protein that is derived from a set of large proteins collectively referred to as the amyloid beta protein precursor (betaAPP). During normal processing the betaAPP is cleaved by beta secretase, producing a large NH2-terminal secreted derivative (sAPPbeta) and a COOH-terminal fragment beginning at Abeta1, which is subsequently cleaved by gamma secretase releasing secreted Abeta. Most secreted Abeta is Abeta1-40, but approximately 10% of secreted Abeta is Abeta1-42. Alternative betaAPP cleavage by alpha secretase produces a slightly longer NH2-terminal secreted derivative (sAPPalpha) and a COOH-terminal fragment beginning at Abeta17, which is subsequently cleaved by gamma secretase releasing a approximately 3-kDa secreted form of Abeta (P3). Several of the betaAPP isoforms that are produced by alternative splicing contain a 56-amino acid Kunitz protease inhibitor (KPI) domain known to inhibit proteases such as trypsin and chymotrypsin. To determine whether the KPI domain influences the proteolytic cleavages that generate Abeta, we compared Abeta production in transfected cells expressing human KPI-containing betaAPP751 or KPI-free betaAPP695. We focused on Abetas ending at Abeta42 because these forms appear to be most relevant to AD. Using specific sandwich enzyme-linked immunosorbent assays, we analyzed full-length Abeta1-42 and total Abeta ending at Abeta42 (Abeta1-42 + P3(42)). In addition, we analyzed the large secreted derivatives produced by alpha secretase (sAPPalpha) and beta secretase (sAPPbeta). In mouse teratocarcinoma (P19) cells expressing betaAPP695 or betaAPP751, expression of the KPI-containing betaAPP751 resulted in the secretion of a lower percentage of P3(42) and sAPPalpha and a correspondingly higher percentage of Abeta1-42 and sAPPbeta. Similar results were obtained in human embryonic kidney (293) cells. These results indicate that expression of the KPI domain reduces alpha secretase cleavage so that less P3 and relatively more full-length Abeta are produced. Thus, in human brain and in animal models of AD, the amount of KPI-containing betaAPP produced may be an important factor influencing Abeta deposition.
Receptor serine-threonine kinases (RSTK) mediate inhibitory as well as stimulatory signals for growth and differentiation by binding to members of the transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-beta) superfamily. Over 12 different RSTKs have been isolated so far, displaying wide expression in peripheral tissues and in the nervous system. Here we report the isolation and characterization of a novel type I RSTK termed activin receptor-like kinase-7 (ALK-7) that, unlike other members of this receptor family, is predominantly expressed in the adult central nervous system. The ALK-7 gene encodes a 55-kDa cell-surface protein that exhibits up to 78% amino acid sequence identity in the kinase domain to previously isolated type I receptors for TGF-beta and activin. In the extracellular domain, however, ALK-7 is more divergent, displaying comparable similarities with all members of the ALK subfamily. RNase protection and in situ hybridization studies demonstrated a highly specific mRNA distribution restricted to neurons in several regions of the adult rat central nervous system, including cerebellum, hippocampus, and nuclei of the brainstem. Receptor reconstitution and cross-linking experiments indicated that ALK-7 can form complexes with type II RSTKs for TGF-beta and activin in a ligand-dependent manner, although direct binding of ALK-7 to ligand in these complexes could not be demonstrated. The specific expression pattern of ALK-7, restricted to the postnatal central nervous system, indicates that this receptor may play an important role in the maturation and maintenance of several neuronal subpopulations.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) in the hippocampus is a possible mechanism for mammalian learning and memory in which protein kinases play critical roles. We have investigated the involvement of cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) in LTP by directly studying its activation. We developed an in vitro assay which is useful for selective and accurate measurement of stimulus-induced changes in PKA activity in hippocampal slices. PKA was transiently activated 2 and 10 min after delivery of LTP-inducing stimuli in area CA1 of the hippocampus. This activation did not persist during early or late phases of LTP, suggesting that the role of PKA is in the induction of LTP, not in its expression. LTP was not associated with any change in the total activity of PKA, consistent with activation by cyclic AMP, as opposed to an increase in the amount or efficacy of the enzyme. The LTP-associated activation of PKA required stimulation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor, and bath application of NMDA was sufficient to activate PKA. Together, these results indicate that at the initiation of LTP, NMDA receptor stimulation leads to transient activation of PKA, and support a role for PKA in the induction of LTP.
A 13.1-kilodalton protein, cysteine-rich neurotrophic factor (CRNF), was purified from the mollusk Lymnaea stagnalis by use of a binding assay on the p75 neurotrophin receptor. CRNF bound to p75 with nanomolar affinity but was not similar in sequence to neurotrophins or any other known gene product. CRNF messenger RNA expression was highest in adult foot subepithelial cells; in the central nervous system, expression was regulated by lesion. The factor evoked neurite outgrowth and modulated calcium currents in pedal motor neurons. Thus, CRNF may be involved in target-derived trophic support for motor neurons and could represent the prototype of another family of p75 ligands.
N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor channels exhibit a high permeability for calcium ions. In this report, we confirm that calcium ions permeate effectively through the wild-type channels, and find that their presence within the pore blocks the flux of sodium and other ions. Further proof for this ionic block comes from the analysis of the epsilon 1(N614Q) mutation where the high permeability of calcium is unchanged but the block by calcium ions is increased twofold. In both the wild-type and mutant channels, calcium ion block is independent of membrane voltage; therefore, the calcium binding site is outside the voltage gradient through the pore and must be close to the extracellular mouth of the ion conductance pathway. This calcium site is distinct from the magnesium binding site, which lies 80% into the pore's electrostatic field and thus exhibits a marked voltage dependence of binding. The epsilon 1(N614Q) mutation reduces the affinity of magnesium ion for its binding site but increases the affinity of calcium ion for its binding site. Since a single mutation perturbs two distinct binding sites in opposite ways, we postulate that binding of divalent ions at the two sites interact.
Antisense c-fos oligonucleotides injected into the neostriatum of conscious rats selectively inhibited c-fos expression associated with compensatory increases in striatal c-fos mRNA levels and also with increased expression of junB and NGFI-A mRNA, probably as a result of regulatory phenomena. Dual probe in vivo microdialysis was used to investigate gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) release in the substantia nigra and the globus pallidus, which represent the terminal sites of the dopamine D1 receptor regulated striatonigral and the dopamine D2 receptor regulated striatopallidal GABA pathways, respectively. Intrastriatal infusion of the c-fos antisense oligonucleotide profoundly decreased dialysate GABA levels in the ipsilateral substantia nigra within 60 min but did not influence the dialysate GABA levels in the globus pallidus compared with the sham and control oligonucleotide treated groups. The site of action of the antisense oligonucleotides was mainly restricted to striatal neurons as shown by the distribution of locally injected fluoresceine isothiocyanate and radiolabeled oligonucleotides. The findings demonstrate a facilitatory role for c-fos mediated gene regulation in striatonigral GABA transmission and strengthen the evidence that the regulation of neurotransmission is different in the striatonigral and striatopallidal GABA pathways.
Memory illusions and distortions have long been of interest to psychology researchers studying memory, but neuropsychologists and neuroscientists have paid relatively little attention to them. This article attempts to lay the foundation for a cognitive neuroscience analysis of memory illusions and distortions by reviewing relevant evidence from a patient with a right frontal lobe lesion, patients with amnesia produced by damage to the medial temporal lobes, normal aging, and healthy young volunteers studied with functional neuroimaging techniques. Particular attention is paid to the contrasting roles of prefrontal cortex and medial temporal lobe structures in accurate and illusory remembering. Converging evidence suggests that the study of illusory memories can provide a useful tool for delineating the brain processes and systems involved in constructive aspects of remembering.
In humans declarative or explicit memory is supported by the hippocampus and related structures of the medial temporal lobe working in concert with the cerebral cortex. This paper reviews our progress in developing an animal model for studies of cortical-hippocampal interactions in memory processing. Our findings support the view that the cortex maintains various forms of memory representation and that hippocampal structures extend the persistence and mediate the organization of these codings. Specifically, the parahippocampal region, through direct and reciprocal interconnections with the cortex, is sufficient to support the convergence and extended persistence of cortical codings. The hippocampus itself is critical to the organization cortical representations in terms of relationships among items in memory and in the flexible memory expression that is the hallmark of declarative memory.
A cardinal feature of neurons in the cerebral cortex is stimulus selectivity, and experience-dependent shifts in selectivity are a common correlate of memory formation. We have used a theoretical &quot;learning rule,&quot; devised to account for experience-dependent shifts in neuronal selectivity, to guide experiments on the elementary mechanisms of synaptic plasticity in hippocampus and neocortex. These experiments reveal that many synapses in hippocampus and neocortex are bidirectionally modifiable, that the modifications persist long enough to contribute to long-term memory storage, and that key variables governing the sign of synaptic plasticity are the amount of NMDA receptor activation and the recent history of cortical activity.
It is now clear that there are a number of different forms or aspects of learning and memory that involve different brain systems. Broadly, memory phenomena have been categorized as explicit or implicit. Thus, explicit memories for experience involve the hippocampus-medial temporal lobe system and implicit basic associative learning and memory involves the cerebellum, amygdala, and other systems. Under normal conditions, however, many of these brain-memory systems are engaged to some degree in learning situations. But each of these brain systems is learning something different about the situation. The cerebellum is necessary for classical conditioning of discrete behavioral responses (eyeblink, limb flexion) under all conditions; however, in the &quot;trace&quot; procedure where a period of no stimuli intervenes between the conditioned stimulus and the unconditioned stimulus the hippocampus plays a critical role. Trace conditioning appears to provide a simple model of explicit memory where analysis of brain substrates is feasible. Analysis of the role of the cerebellum in basic delay conditioning (stimuli overlap) indicates that the memories are formed and stored in the cerebellum. The phenomenon of cerebellar long-term depression is considered as a putative mechanism of memory storage.
To determine whether differences in the retinohypothalamic tract (RHT) were related specifically to albinism, we analyzed the distribution and trajectory of this pathway in congenic F344-c/+ albino and pigmented rats using the inactive subunit of cholera toxin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase as an anterograde tracer. We found that the overall volume of the tract in the albino rats was greater than in the pigmented rats (P &lt; 0.05). We also noted shape differences.
The ultra-potent opioid analgesic, etorphine, elicits naloxone-reversible, dose-dependent inhibitory effects, i.e., shortening of the action potential duration (APD) of naive and chronic morphine-treated sensory dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons, even at low (pM-nM) concentrations. In contrast, morphine and most other opioid agonists elicit excitatory effects, i.e., APD prolongation, at these low opioid concentrations, require much higher (ca. 0.1-1 microM) concentrations to shorten the APD of naive neurons, and evoke only excitatory effects on chronic morphine-treated cells even at high &gt; 1-10 microM concentrations. In addition to the potent agonist action of etorphine at mu-, delta- and kappa-inhibitory opioid receptors in vivo and on DRG neurons in culture, this opioid has also been shown to be a potent antagonist of excitatory mu-, delta- and kappa-receptor functions in naive and chronic morphine-treated DRG neurons. The present study demonstrates that the potent inhibitory APD-shortening effects of etorphine still occur in DRG neurons tested in the presence of a mixture of selective antagonists that blocks all mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid receptor-mediated functions, whereas addition of the epsilon (epsilon)-opioid-receptor antagonist, beta-endorphin(1-27) prevents these effects of etorphine. Furthermore, after markedly enhancing excitatory opioid receptor functions in DRG neurons by treatment with GM1 ganglioside or pertussis toxin, etorphine shows excitatory agonist action on non-mu-/delta-/kappa-opioid receptor functions in these sensory neurons, in contrast to its usual potent antagonist action on mu-, delta- and kappa-excitatory receptor functions in naive and even in chronic morphine-treated cells which become supersensitive to the excitatory effects of mu-, delta- and kappa-opioid agonists. This weak excitatory agonist action of etorphine on non-mu-/delta-/kappa-opioid receptor functions may account for the tolerance and dependence observed after chronic treatment with extremely high doses of etorphine in vivo.
The potential modulation of morphine antinociception by the putative anti-addictive agent ibogaine and its active metabolite (noribogaine) was investigated in rats with the radiant heat tail-flick test. Ibogaine pretreatment (40 mg/kg, i.p., 19 h) significantly decreased morphine (4 mg/kg, s.c.) antinociception, with no effects in the absence of morphine. However, co-administration of ibogaine (1-40 mg/kg, i.p.) and morphine (4 mg/kg, s.c.) exhibited a dose-dependent enhancement of morphine antinociception. Co-administration of noribogaine (40 mg/kg, i.p.) and morphine also resulted in an increase in morphine antinociception, while noribogaine pretreatment (19 h) had no effect on morphine antinociception. The results show that ibogaine acutely potentiates morphine antinociception and that noribogaine could be the active metabolite responsible for this effect. However, the inhibitory effects of a 19 h ibogaine pretreatment, which resemble ibogaine-induced inhibition of morphine's stimulant properties, cannot be accounted for by noribogaine.
In the present study, we investigated the effects of chronic in vitro administration of amitriptyline, a tricyclic antidepressant, on cyclic GMP formation stimulated by 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) in the neuroblastoma x glioma hybrid cell line, NG 108-15, 5-HT (0.01-100 microM)-stimulated cyclic GMP formation was concentration-dependent and was sensitive to ICS 205-930, a 5-HT3 receptor antagonist. Exposure of NG 108-15 cells to 5 microM amitriptyline for 3 days significantly reduced 5-HT-stimulated cyclic GMP formation. Acute treatment with amitriptyline had no effect on 5-HT-stimulated cyclic GMP formation. The reduction by chronic amitriptyline exposure of 10 microM 5-HT-stimulated cyclic GMP formation was concentration-dependent over the concentration range examined (0.5 to 10 microM). The IC50 of amitriptyline was 1.9 microM. In contrast, amitriptyline exposure, even at a concentration of 8 microM, failed to modify cyclic GMP formation stimulated by bradykinin, sodium nitroprusside, or atrial natriuretic peptide. Increases in intracellular Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) evoked by 10 microM 5-HT were attenuated in amitriptyline-exposed cells, while 100 nM bradykinin-induced [Ca2+]i increases were not affected. In addition, chronic exposure to 5 microM amitriptyline caused a decrease in affinity (Kd) of [3H]zacopride specific binding to 5-HT3 recognition sites. The Bmax for the labelled ligand remained unchanged. These results suggest that chronic amitriptyline exposure reduces 5-HT-stimulated cyclic GMP formation and [Ca2+]i increases, and this may reflect the functional changes of 5-HT3 receptors.
Norepinephrine (NE) is an important neurotransmitter involved in ovarian steroid hormone regulation of female reproductive function in rats. Nitric oxide (NO) has also been suggested to be an essential mediator of gonadotropin-releasing hormone release and of lordosis behavior of female rats. These studies used a superfusion system to investigate the hypothesis that NO regulates [3H]NE release in the preoptic area (POA) and hypothalamus (HYP), brain regions that mediate ovarian steroid effects on reproductive function. The NO synthase inhibitors N-nitro-L-arginine and NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester did not modify either basal or N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-stimulated NE release in either brain region of ovariectomized, hormone-treated or control animals. The NO precursor L-arginine (L-Arg) reduced NMDA-stimulated NE release in POA but had no effect on KCl- or electrically-stimulated release. L-Arg did not influence basal or evoked release of [3H]NE from HYP slices. Sodium nitroprusside (SNP), a NO-generating compound, blocked the release of NE in response to NMDA stimulation but not in response to KCl or electrical stimulation. Thus, SNP is probably reducing NE release by acting as an NMDA antagonist rather than via NO production. There was a tendency for administration of both estrogen and progesterone to ovariectomized females to facilitate NMDA-stimulated NE release, particularly in the POA. Our data suggest that NO does not mediate basal or NMDA-stimulated NE release in rat POA and HYP. Therefore, NO regulation of lordosis behavior and gonadotropin release in female rats is probably not exerted at the level of NE release.
The product of the reaper (rpr) gene is required for programmed cell death in Drosophila. We examined rpr expression during ectopic cell deaths caused by ionizing radiation or aberrant development. In both instances, dramatic induction of rpr expression was observed. A genomic fragment upstream of rpr confers this regulatory behavior upon a lacZ reporter transgene. In a model cell culture system, conditional expression of REAPER is sufficient to induce massive apoptosis that can be prevented by the anti-apoptotic protein p35. Overall, these results suggest that diverse signals converge at, or upstream of, rpr-associated transcriptional regulatory elements that can function to initiate a common apoptotic pathway involving ICE-like protease activity.
A photoactivatable derivative of the inactivating peptide of the Shaker B potassium channel (ShB peptide) has been synthesized from ShB peptide containing an added cysteine residue at the peptide carboxy-terminus and 1-(p-azidosalicylamido)-4-(iodoacetamido)butane. The peptide derivative restores rapid inactivation in the deletion mutant Shaker Bdelta6-46 potassium channel in a manner indistinguishable from that of the wild-type ShB peptide. Also, both peptides display similar conformational behavior when challenged in vitro by an artificial model target that partly imitates the properties of the putative receptor site for the inactivating peptide in the Shaker B potassium channel. Therefore, we conclude that both functionally and conformationally the photoreactive peptide derivative is an adequate analogue of the wild-type ShB peptide, suitable for photoaffinity labeling of its binding site in the Shaker B potassium channel. Moreover, because the ShB peptide also serves as an efficient inactivating peptide for a large variety of other potassium channels, it appears that the photoreactive analogue may be useful to explore homologous sites in many different channel proteins.
To delineate the cellular sites for the motor effects of opiates acting at the mu opioid receptor (MOR) in the rat caudate-putamen nucleus, we examined the ultrastructural immunogold and immunoperoxidase labeling of an antipeptide antiserum specific for the MOR. We also combined these labeling methods to examine the subcellular relationship between the MOR and the endogenous opioid peptide, Leu5-enkephalin (LE). By light microscopy, MOR-labeling was seen in a heterogeneous patchy distribution. Electron microscopic analysis of these patches showed that more than 80% of the total neuronal profiles (n = 1,586) containing MOR-like immunoreactivity (MOR-IR) were dendrites and dendritic spines. The remaining labeled profiles included a few perikarya and many axon terminals. MOR-IR was predominantly localized to extrasynaptic plasma membranes of dendrites, and to both synaptic vesicles and plasma membranes in terminals. Ten percent of the total MOR-labeled terminals (n = 272) formed asymmetric synapses with unlabeled or MOR-labeled dendritic spines. Terminals containing LE-IR formed synapses, in almost equal proportions, on MOR-labeled dendrites and dendritic spines, while over 80% of the unlabeled terminals formed synapses on MOR-labeled dendritic spines. Moreover, colocalization of MOR- and LE-IR was often seen in both dendrites and terminals. These results indicate that in patch compartments of the caudate-putamen nucleus, the MOR is mainly involved in extrasynaptic modulation of spiny neurons, including those that contain LE. In addition, the findings provide a cellular basis for presynaptic opioid modulation of neurotransmitter release through MOR located on axon terminals.
Neuroanatomical studies in macaque monkeys have demonstrated that the perirhinal and parahippocampal (PRPH) cortices are strongly interconnected with the hippocampal formation. Recent behavioral evidence indicates that these cortical regions are importantly involved in normal recognition memory function. The PRPH cortices are also interconnected with the amygdaloid complex, although comparatively little is known about the precise topography of these connections. We investigated the topographic organization of reciprocal connections between the amygdala and the PRPH cortices by placing anterograde and retrograde tracers throughout these three regions. We found that there was an organized arrangement of connections between the amygdala and the PRPH cortices and that the deep (lateral, basal, and accessory basal) nuclei of the amygdaloid complex were the source of most connections between the amygdala and the PRPH cortices. The temporal polar regions of the perirhinal cortex had the strongest and most widespread interconnections with the amygdala. Connections from more caudal levels of the perirhinal cortex had a more discrete pattern of termination. Perirhinal inputs to the amygdala terminated primarily in the lateral nucleus, the magnocellular and parvicellular divisions of the basal nucleus, and the magnocellular division of the accessory basal nucleus. Return projections originated predominately in the lateral nucleus, the intermediate and parvicellular divisions of the basal nucleus, and the magnocellular division of the accessory basal nucleus. The interconnections between the amygdala and the parahippocampal cortex were substantially less robust than those with the perirhinal cortex and mainly involved the basal nucleus. Area TF was more strongly interconnected with the amygdala than was area TH. Input from the parahippocampal cortex terminated predominantly in the lateral half of the parvicellular division of the basal nucleus but also to a lesser extent in the magnocellular division of the basal nucleus and the lateral nucleus. Return projections originated predominantly in the magnocellular division of the basal nucleus and were directed almost exclusively to area TF.
The obese phentotype of ob/ob mice is linked to a mutation in the ob gene that results in expression of a truncated inactive protein. The ob gene product, leptin, is synthesized in adipose tissue and is a circulating factor that regulates body weight. Leptin receptors were recently cloned and a mutation in the leptin receptor gene in obese db/db mice was identified. Leptin receptor mRNA has been detected in brain, including hypothalamus, but the cellular localization has so far not been clarified. Here we report on the cellular localization of leptin receptor mRNA in the mouse brain using in situ hybridization. Strong hybridization was observed in the choroid plexus and hypothalamic arcuate nucleus. Weaker hybridization was detected in the hippocampal formation and in the cerebral cortex. Within the arcuate nucleus, cell bodies expressing leptin receptor mRNA were distributed in its ventromedial subdivision. Hybridization of semiadjacent sections with a probe to neuropeptide Y (NPY) showed a co-distribution of labelled cell bodies, suggesting the presence of leptin receptors on NPY-containing neurones.
When a temporal gap is introduced between the extinction of a central fixation target and the illumination of an eccentric target (the gap paradigm), normal human subjects initiate saccadic eye movements towards the eccentric target at lower latency than when there is no gap. The aim of this study was to examine the latency of human smooth pursuit eye movements using a modified gap paradigm. Smooth pursuit latency was reduced in gap tasks, and the magnitude of reduction was related to the duration of the gap. The distribution of smooth pursuit latencies was also altered. It thus appears that human smooth pursuit latency is modulated in a similar manner to saccade latency in gap tasks.
To identify changes in brain functions associated with the development of dementia, brain metabolism and cognition were assessed repeatedly in 12 adults with Down syndrome (DS) using positron emission tomography and neuropsychological tests. Ten subjects remained non-demented (ND) and showed no significant changes over time in cognitive measures or in cerebral metabolism. Two subjects developed dementia after 7 years. Brain functions were relatively stable prior to the onset of dementia; after the onset of dementia, both cognitive function and glucose metabolism in parietal and temporal brain regions known to be vulnerable to Alzheimer disease (AD) showed a rapid linear decline. These findings support the concept that brain functions are stable over time in ND individuals with DS and that decline of brain functions in DS subjects with dementia follows two distinct phases that correspond to the clinical progression of AD. This may have implications for timing of new therapeutic strategies.
Administration of monoclonal antibodies against acetylcholinesterase (AChE-mabs) to adult rats leads to a selective degeneration of the acetylcholine esterase-(AChE), choline acetyltransferase-(ChAT) and enkephalin-(ENK) positive preganglionic fibres of the splanchnic nerve innervating the adrenal gland. Here we used this approach of immunological sympathectomy, performed at postnatal day 2 (P2), in an attempt to study the development role of the preganglionic fibres in the adrenal medulla in more detail. Analysis was performed at P16 and revealed that the effect of this treatment varied considerably between animals, as judged by the number of remaining AChE-, ChAT- and ENK-positive fibres. The number and intensity especially of ENK fibres in the adrenal medulla correlated negatively with the number and staining intensity of ENK-immunoreactive chromaffin cells, suggesting a 'dose-response' relationship. Thus, the high early postnatal levels of ENK-like immunoreactivity generally persisted in chromaffin cells of adrenals with a successful immunosympathectomy, i.e. in those adrenals that lacked AChE-, ChAT- and ENK-positive nerves. In contrast, calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity in nerves and chromaffin cells was not affected. Large and strongly AChE-positive intra-adrenal ganglion neurones, recently termed type I ganglion neurones, were present also after AChE-mab treatment and had an apparently normal morphology. These results indicate a role for preganglionic fibres in the developmental regulation of ENK in the chromaffin cells. However, these fibres appear less important for the postnatal development of the type I ganglion neurones.
N-Cadherin is a major cell adhesion molecule that is expressed in the developing nervous system where it has been implicated in neural migration and axon growth. Recently, a role for N-cadherin in oligodendrocyte differentiation has been identified [23]. Oligodendrocyte precursors adhere to N-cadherin and mature rapidly to produce myelin sheets. Since this implies that oligodendrocytes express N-cadherin, we examined the expression of N-cadherin by oligodendrocytes in culture. N-Cadherin was expressed by O-2A progenitors, immature oligodendrocytes and mature oligodendrocytes, but at a lower level than in type 1 astrocytes in the same cultures. On mature oligodendrocytes, the N-cadherin was concentrated on the major processes emerging from the soma. The ability of N-cadherin and merosin to promote oligodendrocyte precursor migration was also studied. Average migration rates were significantly higher on merosin (11.2 microns/h) than on N-cadherin (5.6 microns/h). These results suggest that N-cadherin is not likely to function predominantly as a substrate that stimulates migration of O-2A progenitors, but may be more important in initiating early oligodendrocyte-axon interactions that promote the process of myelination.
The ratio of brain-blood partitioning, log(Cbrain/Cblood) (log BB), of a series of compounds that range from simple solutes to histamine H2 antagonists was correlated with computed solvation free energy in water (delta G degree W). The free energies were computed with the AMSOL 5.0 program using the AM1-SM2.1 solvation model. From a set of 55 compounds, a function was developed in which log BB was related to the free energy of solvation as follows: log BB = 0.054 delta G degree W + 0.43 (r = 0.82 and standard error = 0.41). This correlation provided successful prediction of brain-blood partitioning for compounds outside the training dataset. Furthermore, for a set of 10 drugs, delta G degree W correlated well with literature data for the permeability of endothelial cell monolayers from bovine brain microvessels. In neuroscience drug discovery, the use of computed solvation free energies to predict brain penetration provides a facile method for prioritizing synthetic targets.
We investigated the dynamics of the gene expression of the m1 subtype of muscarinic cholinergic receptor in the rat hippocampus following transient global ischemia. This receptor represents the dominant phosphoinositide linked muscarinic receptor in the hippocampus, and is recognized to modulate various aspects of neuronal activity in the hippocampus. Our results demonstrate that following severe transient global ischemia, m1 receptor expression is altered in the hippocampus in a time dependent manner. Expression levels declined in the dentate gyrus within 3 h of insult, reached minimal levels by 6 h, and then slowly recover to control levels. Expression levels in the CA1 and CA3 decreased as well, but did not reach minimal levels until 24 h post-insult. By day 3, expression levels in all regions except CA1, where vulnerable neurons began to drop out, had returned to control levels. These results demonstrate that transient alterations in the gene expression levels for the m1 muscarinic receptor occur in all subfields of the hippocampus following transient forebrain ischemia.
The experiment reported here was aimed at determining whether the level of brain activity can be used as an index of subjects' performance on a temporal task. The discrimination of durations constituted the task. An array of four A's appeared on a screen, and subjects had to decide whether the letters remained on the screen for a short or a long duration as learned in a practice phase. This task allowed us to compare the level of brain activity obtained in correct and incorrect responses. The current density measures recorded over prefrontal areas showed that the level of activity obtained with correct responses was lower than those obtained with incorrect responses. This suggests that a good performance could be the result of an economic, but efficient, information-processing mechanism in the brain.

An alert cynomolgus macaque was fed a sweet solution to satiety as the activity of a gustatory neuron in the amygdala was recorded to that solution and to four other taste stimuli. This experiment was conducted a total of 14 times in two monkeys. The responses of individual neurons to the satiety stimuli were suppressed by as little as 1%, and as much as 100% by the induction of satiety (mean suppression = 58%). Nine of the 14 cells responded to the satiety solution with excitation, and their responses were suppressed by a mean of 62% by satiety. Five neurons responded with inhibition, and their responses were suppressed by a mean of 50%. Responses to other taste stimuli, not associated with satiety, were affected to a lesser extent. The amygdala is a taste relay between the primary gustatory cortex, where satiety has no influence on responses to taste stimuli, and the lateral hypothalamic area where the effect of satiety is total. The data presented here indicate that the amygdala is a functional as well as anatomical intermediary between these two areas, and serves as a stage in the process through which sensory stimuli are imbued with motivational significance.
To examine how adrenergic receptor binding is modified by experimental manipulation of sensory afferent, we carried out binding experiments (membrane fraction and in vitro autoradiography) for both alpha 2- and beta-adrenergic receptors in the brain of cats which had been deprived of vision in one eye. In the cerebral cortex of control animals, beta-adrenergic receptor (beta-AR) binding was found to be higher in the occipital regions than in other regions, while alpha 2-AR binding was relatively uniform. Monocular deprivation throughout the postnatal sensitive period (1-7 month of age) significantly decreased beta-AR binding in the visual cortex and lateral geniculate nucleus. Scatchard plot analysis in the visual cortex showed ca. 50% reduction in Bmax and little change in Kd. No significant difference was found in alpha 2-AR binding following monocular deprivation. Similar extent of down-regulation in beta-AR binding was confirmed in all layers of visual cortex using autoradiography.
High-affinity N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists like MK-801 are known to induce the heat shock protein, HSP70, in the posterior cingulate cortex and retrosplenial cortex of rat brain. Memantine, which is a low affinity uncompetitive NMDA receptor antagonist, has been used in the treatment of Parkinson's disease in Europe. The faster kinetics of memantine in blocking and unblocking the NMDA receptor-operated ion channel as opposed to high-affinity NMDA antagonists like MK-801 has been thought to account for the safety of memantine. The present study evaluated the neurotoxic potential of memantine and amantadine using the induction of HSP70 immunoreactivity in rat brain. Memantine (25, 50, 75 mg/kg) induced HSP70 in the posterior cingulate, retrosplenial cortex and dentate gyrus of rat brain. In contrast, amantadine (50, 100, 200 mg/kg) did not induce HSP70 in the rat brain. These results suggest that memantine has an antagonistic effect at NMDA receptor in vivo, and raises the possibility that high doses of memantine may cause neuronal damage similar to those observed with other high-affinity NMDA receptor antagonists.
In the cat, somatosensory nuclei send substantial projections to the inferior olive, where they terminate in a somatotopic fashion. Although the organization of the cat inferior olive has been used to interpret data from other species, published data suggest this organization may not occur universally. The present study investigated whether the inferior olive in albino rats and cynomolgus monkeys receives the same brainstem somatosensory inputs, whether these inputs are organized somatotopically and, if so, how the organization compares with that in the cat. Projections from the gracile, cuneate and spinal trigeminal nuclei were labeled with wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase or with biotinylated dextran. The results were compared with data from cats (Berkley and Hand [1978] J. Comp. Neurol. 180:253-264). In the rat and monkey, the gracile, cuneate and spinal trigeminal nuclei all project to the contralateral inferior olive, where each nucleus has a distinct preferred terminal field. As in the cat, projections to the medial accessory olive and caudal dorsal accessory olive did not terminate in a precisely organized fashion. Projections to the rostral dorsal accessory olive, however, formed a clear somatotopic map. These somatotopic maps differed from those in the cat in that input from the trigeminal nucleus was confined rostrally, so that the caudal end only received input from the gracile and cuneate nuclei. These data indicate that similar organizational principles characterize the somatosensory projections to the inferior olives of the three species. Nevertheless, distinct species differences occur with regard to the details of this organization.
Semaphorin III/collapsin-1 (semaIII/coll-1) is a chemorepellent that exhibits a repulsive effect on growth cones of dorsal root ganglion neurons. To identify structures that express semaIII/coll-1 in developing mammals, we cloned the rat homologue and performed in situ hybridization on embryonic, neonatal, and adult rats. The relationship between semaIII/coll-1 mRNA distribution and developing nerve tracts was studied by combining in situ hybridization with immunohistochemistry for markers of growing nerve fibers. At embryonic day 11, semaIII/coll-1 expression was restricted to the olfactory pit, the basal and rostral surface of the telencephalic vesicle, the anlage of the eye, the epithelium of Rathke's pouch, and the somites. At later developmental stages, semaIII/coll-1 mRNA was found to be widely distributed in neuronal as well as in mesenchymal and epithelial structures outside the nervous system. Strong expression was found in the olfactory bulb, retina, lens, piriform cortex, amygdalostriatal area, pons, cerebellar anlage, motor nuclei of cranial nerves, and ventral spinal cord. After birth, mesenchymal staining decreased rapidly and expression became progressively restricted to specific sets of neurons in the central nervous system (CNS). In the mature CNS, semaIII/coll-1 mRNA remains detectable in mitral cells, neurons of the accessory bulb and cerebral cortex, cerebellar Purkinje cells, as well as a subset of cranial and spinal motoneurons. The temporal and spatial expression pattern of semaIII/coll-1 mRNA and its relationship to emerging nerve tracts suggests that semaIII/coll-1 is involved in guiding growing axons towards their targets by forming a molecular boundary that instructs axons to engage in the formation of specific nerve tracts.
Monoamine metabolite (MM) levels in lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) are extensively used as indirect estimates of monoamine turnover in the brain. In this study we investigated genotypes for DNA polymorphisms in the D2 (DRD2), D3 (DRD3), and D4 (DRD4) dopamine receptor and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) genes and their relationships to CSF MM in healthy volunteers (n = 66). Concentrations of homovanillic acid (HVA), 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG), and 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) were corrected for back length, a confounding variable. Corrected MM levels were not related to age, gender, height, weight heredity, season or atmospheric pressure at sampling. Individuals with specific DRD2 and TH allele and genotype configurations significantly differed in HVA and MHPG concentrations. DRD3 homo- and heterozygotic genotypes had significantly different CSF 5-HIAA levels. DRD4 genotypes were not related to MM concentrations. The results suggest that specific DRD2, DRD3, and TH genotypes participate in the regulation of monoamine turnover in the central nervous system. Accordingly monoamine receptors and synthesizing enzyme genotypes appear to be variance factors influencing MM concentrations in CSF. The relationships found in this study support MM concentrations as markers for monoamine transmission in the human brain.
Caveolin is a 22-kDa membrane protein found associated with a coat material decorating the inner membrane surface of caveolae. A remarkable feature of this protein is its ability to migrate from caveolae directly to the endoplasmic reticulum (ER) when membrane cholesterol is oxidized. We now present evidence caveolin is involved in transporting newly synthesized cholesterol from the ER directly to caveolae. MA104 cells and normal human fibroblasts transported new cholesterol to caveolae with a half-time of approximately 10 min. The cholesterol then rapidly flowed from caveolae to non-caveolae membrane. Cholesterol moved out of caveolae even when the supply of fresh cholesterol from the ER was interrupted. Treatment of cells with 10 microg/ml progesterone blocked cholesterol movement from ER to caveolae. Simultaneously, caveolin accumulated in the lumen of the ER, suggesting cholesterol transport is linked to caveolin movement. Caveolae fractions from cells expressing caveolin were enriched in cholesterol 3-4-fold, while the same fractions from cells lacking caveolin were not enriched. Cholesterol transport to the cell surface was nearly 4 times more rapid in cells expressing caveolin than in matched cells lacking caveolin.
Arthrogryposis multiplex congenita (AMC), characterized by multiple joint contractures developing in utero, results from lack of fetal movement. Some cases are genetically determined, but AMC occasionally complicates pregnancy in patients with myasthenia gravis (MG) suggesting involvement of circulating maternal antibodies. We previously demonstrated antibodies that inhibited the function of fetal acetylcholine receptor (AChR) in one healthy woman with an obstetric history of recurrent AMC. Here we study sera from this woman, from one other with a similar history, and from three (one asymptomatic) whose babies had neonatal MG and AMC. All five maternal sera had high titers of antibodies that inhibited alpha-Bungarotoxin (alpha-BuTx) binding to fetal AChR, and their sera markedly inhibited fetal AChR function with little effect on adult AChR function. Moreover, in a further survey, 3 of 20 sera from anti-AChR negative AMC mothers inhibited fetal AChR function significantly at 1:100 dilution. These results demonstrate the role of antibodies to fetal AChR and perhaps other muscle antigens in some cases of AMC. More generally, they suggest that placental transfer of antibodies directed at fetal antigens should be considered as a cause of other recurrent fetal or perinatal disorders.
The contribution of the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL) to binaural responses in the inferior colliculus of the rat was determined for a wide range of interaural time differences (ITDs). Single-unit action potentials were recorded from the inferior colliculus before and after local injection of the excitatory amino acid antagonist kynurenic acid into the DNLL. Binaural properties were determined by manipulating the time difference between paired clicks delivered to the ears ipsilateral and contralateral to the recording site. The probability of an action potential decreased as contralateral stimulation was delayed, relative to ipsilateral stimulation. These data generated a sigmoidal ITD curve for delays between -1.0 and + 1.0 msec. By extending the time intervals beyond 1 msec, it was possible to determine the trailing edge of the inhibition produced by ipsilateral stimulation. The duration of the inhibitory effect varied from cell to cell but lasted as long as 20 msec in some cases. Injection of kynurenic acid into the DNLL contralateral to the recording site reduced the extent of both short (0-1 msec) and long-lasting (1-20 msec) inhibition in the inferior colliculus. No effect was seen after injections ipsilateral to the recording site. The data demonstrate that the DNLL plays an important role in shaping ITD responses in the inferior colliculus and contributes to both the short and long-lasting inhibition produced by stimulation of the ipsilateral ear.
Learning was induced in smooth pursuit eye movements by repeated presentation of targets that moved at one speed for 100 msec and then changed to a second, higher or lower, speed. The learned changes, measured as eye acceleration for the first 100 msec of pursuit, were largest in a &quot;late&quot; interval from 50 to 80 msec after the onset of pursuit and were smaller and less consistent in the earliest 30 msec of pursuit. In each experiment, target motion in one direction consisted of learning trials, whereas target motion in the opposite (control) direction consisted of trials in which targets moved at a constant speed for the entire duration of the trial. Under these conditions, the learning did not generalize to the control direction. For target motion in the learning direction, the changes in pursuit generalized to responses evoked by targets moving at speeds ranging from 15 to 45 degrees/sec as well as to targets of different colors and sizes. Although learning was induced at the initiation of pursuit, it generalized to the response to image motion in the learning direction when it was presented during pursuit in the learning direction. However, learning did not generalize to the response to image motion in the learning direction when it was presented during pursuit in the control direction. The results suggest that the learning does not occur in purely sensory or motor coordinates but in an intermediate reference frame at least partly defined by the direction of eye movement. The selectivity of learning provides new evidence for a previously hypothesized neural &quot;switch&quot; that gates visual information on the basis of movement direction. This selectivity also suggests that the locus of pursuit learning is in pathways related to the operation of the switch.
Horizontal connections in area 17 of adult cats and ferrets link cells with similar preferred orientations by a patchy network of projections extending several millimeters across the cortex. The maturation of orientation selectivity in ferret area 17 has been demonstrated previously by quantitative single-unit recording and optical imaging to begin at approximately postnatal days (P) 32-P36. We therefore made restricted injections of cholera toxin B-subunit (CTB) or CTB-gold into ferret area 17 at a series of developmental ages and statistically quantified the degree of clustering in plots of retrogradely labeled cells in tangential sections through layer III for comparison to the published values for orientation tuning at each age. At P21, horizontal connections within area 17 lacked patchiness entirely, although clear patches of labeled cells were present in extrastriate areas. By P27, significant clustering of horizontal connections within area 17 was present. A second phase of cluster refinement was observed to occur at approximately P34-P36, coinciding with the emergence of mature orientation tuning and maps. Continuous silencing of cortical action potentials by chronic tetrodotoxin infusion from P21 resulted in a spatially random distribution of retrogradely labeled cells at P34. In contrast, bilateral enucleation from P21 did not prevent the initial development of clustered horizontal connections. We conclude, based on our findings and those of others, that the anatomical specificity of long-range horizontal connections results from an activity-dependent process that initially can use spontaneous activity in the cortical and thalamic networks to establish crude periodic connections and later uses visual cues to refine these connections.
Glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) has been shown to exert neuroprotective effects on dopamine (DA) neurons in vivo. Here we report long-term rescue of nigral DA neurons after delayed short-term GDNF administration in a rat lesion model that reproduces the slowly progressing degenerative process seen in Parkinson's disease. GDNF injected close to the substantia nigra provided near-complete protection and persistent survival of the lesioned nigral neurons for at least 4 months after discontinuation of GDNF treatment. Long-term rescue of the nigral cells, however, was not accompanied by any significant reinnervation of the lesioned striatal target or any signs of functional recovery in either drug-induced or spontaneous motor behaviors. We conclude that not only preservation of the nigral DA neurons but also restoration of striatal DA function is necessary for functional recovery in the rat Parkinson model.
We have previously shown that myelin-associated glycoprotein (MAG) inhibits neurite growth from a neuronal cell line. In this study we show that 60% of axonal growth cones of postnatal day 1 hippocampal neurons collapsed when they encountered polystyrene beads coated with recombinant MAG (rMAG). Such collapse was not observed with denatured rMAG. Neurite growth from rat embryonic hippocampal and neonatal cerebellar neurons was also inhibited about 80% on tissue culture substrates coated with rMAG. To investigate further the inhibitory activity of MAG in myelin, we purified myelin from MAG-deficient mice and separated octylglucoside extracts of myelin by diethylaminoethyl (DEAE) ion-exchange chromatography. Although there was no significant difference in neurite growth on myelin purified from MAG-/- and MAG+/+ mice, differences were observed in the fractionated material. The major inhibitory peak that is associated with MAG in normal mice was significantly reduced in MAG-deficient mice. These results suggest that although MAG contributes significantly to axon growth inhibition associated with myelin, its lack in MAG-deficient mice is masked by other non-MAG inhibitors. Axon regeneration in these mice was also examined after thoracic lesions of the corticospinal tracts. A very small number of anterogradely labeled axons extended up to 13.2 mm past the lesion in MAG-/- mice. Although there is some enhancement of axon generation, the poor growth after spinal cord injury in MAG-/- mice may be due to the presence of other non-MAG inhibitors. The in vitro studies, however, provide the first evidence that MAG modulates growth cone behavior and inhibits neurite growth by causing growth cone collapse.
1. Inhibitory neuron-pyramidal cell interactions were investigated in slices of rat somatosensory cortex in which excitatory synaptic transmission was blocked with bath-applied glutamate receptor antagonists. Local inhibitory neurons were excited by focal pressure ejections of small (approximately 40 pl) volumes of 1-10 mM acetylcholine. 2. The frequency of inhibitory postsynaptic potentials (IPSPs) (&quot;responses per trial' or R/T) declined as the stimulation distance was increased. Inhibitory inputs were most prevalent in layer II/III regular spiking (RS) pyramidal neurons (30 cells) where median R/T was 0.020. In layer V, the median R/T was 0.024 for RS neurons (25 cells), but significantly lower for burst-firing (IB) neurons (17 cells), where median R/T was 0.007 (P = 0.039). 3. IPSPs in individual layer V pyramidal cells were recorded with CsCl electrodes. In eight neurons, spontaneous picrotoxin-sensitive IPSPs were recorded and found to display a wide range of 10-90% rise times (1-34 ms), not correlated with amplitude (0.2-18 mV). For a further ten pyramidal neurons, extracellular stimulating electrodes were placed simultaneously in layers II/III and V/VI in order to evoke pairs of IPSPs whose waveforms were averaged and compared. In seven cells, IPSPs evoked from layer II/III (distal location) had longer 10-90% rise times than IPSPs evoked from layer V/VI stimulating electrodes (proximal location). In addition, &quot;proximal' IPSPs could always be reversed by membrane depolarization whereas &quot;distal' ones could not (n = 4/4). 4. This study showed that pyramid cell-inhibitory neuron interconnections are extensive but their spatial organization varies with cell class and with cortical layer. In addition, pyramidal neurons can receive inhibitory inputs from locations on their apical dendrites.
Axonal projections of single barosensitive neurons of the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) which fired in synchrony with heartbeat, were studied in Nembutal-anesthetized, paralyzed, and artificially ventilated cats. The majority of them were orthodromically activated by electrical stimulation of the ipsilateral cervical vagal nerve. Antidromic mapping by electrical stimulation of the medulla could identify the axonal projections in 14 of the 25 barosensitive NTS neurons examined. Their stem axons crossed the midline to the contralateral side and ascended rostrally. The contralateral axons of some neurons issued collaterals in the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM) medial to and ventromedial to the facial nucleus. The contralateral axons of the other neurons ascended toward the pons without any sign of issuing collaterals within the medulla.
Several transcription factors are expressed at higher levels in the waking than in the sleeping brain. In experiments with rats, the locus coeruleus, a noradrenergic nucleus with diffuse projections, was found to regulate such expression. In brain regions depleted of noradrenergic innervation, amounts of c-Fos and nerve growth factor-induced A after waking were as low as after sleep. Phosphorylation of cyclic adenosine monophosphate response element-binding protein was also reduced. In contrast, electroencephalographic activity was unchanged. The reduced activity of locus coeruleus neurons may explain why the induction of certain transcription factors, with potential effects on plasticity and learning, does not occur during sleep.
The World Wide Web provides a graphical interface that allows users to explore the multiple databases of information that are accessible on the Internet. In the field of neuroscience, several hundred sites contain potentially pertinent information. This article takes a critical look at those sites and offers recommendations to those seeking broad neuroscience resources as well as those desiring sites specialized for the developmental neurosciences.
The protein Sonic hedgehog (Shh) controls patterning and growth during vertebrate development. Here we demonstrate that it binds Patched (vPtc), which has been identified as a tumour-suppressor protein in basal cell carcinoma, with high affinity. We show that Ptc can form a physical complex with a newly cloned vertebrate homologue of the Drosophila protein Smoothened (vSmo), and that vSmo is coexpressed with vPtc in many tissues but does not bind Shh directly. These findings, combined with available genetic evidence from Drosophila, support the hypothesis that Ptc is a receptor for Shh, and that vSmo could be a signalling component that is linked to Ptc.
Using PCR with degenerate primers and screening of a human B-cell lymphoblast cDNA library, a full-length cDNA encoding a 375-amino-acid protein was isolated. It contains seven regions of hydrophobic amino acids probably representing membrane-spanning domains of a novel heptahelix receptor, tentatively named CMKRL2. It shows nearly 30% overall identity with the high-affinity IL8 receptor and similar degree of homology with other chemoattractant receptors, including the &quot;fusin&quot; coreceptors for HIV1. Measurements of various transduction pathways following application of a panel of chemokines to transfected cells failed to evoke any reproducible response. Although the natural ligand for CMKRL2 could, thus, not be identified, receptor expression in spleen and lymph nodes as well as in Burkitt's lymphoma (irrespective of EBV status) supports a functional role in activated B-cells. Receptor message was ubiquitously distributed in normal peripheral tissues and CNS, suggesting that CMKRL2 is expressed in widespread cell populations, such as macrophages and neuroglia.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-type glutamate receptors in the shell region of the nucleus accumbens (ACB) have been implicated in the modulation of dopamine release and in amphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. We used electron microscopic immunocyto-chemistry to determine the anatomical sites for NMDA-mediated effects of glutamate and for their potential interactions with dopaminergic afferents identified by the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in this region of the rat brain. Immunogold and immunoperoxidase methods were used to localize antisera against the R1 subunit of the NMDA receptor (NMDAR1) alone or combined with TH. In single labeling experiments, approximately half of the NMDAR1-like immunoreactivity (NMDAR1-LI) was localized to extrasynaptic plasma membranes of neuronal processes, many (92 out of 215) of which were dendrites, and only 33 out of 215 were unmyelinated axons or terminals. Surprisingly, the neuronal labeling of NMDAR1 was almost equaled by that seen in astrocytic processes (88 out of 215). Dual labeling for TH and NMDAR1 was rarely observed and was only seen in axons. However, in favorable planes of section, NMDAR1 was noted along intervaricose segments of axons in which TH was more readily seen in the varicosity. This differential intra-axonal distribution suggests an underestimation of dual labeling in single coronal sections through unmyelinated axons and terminals. The TH-immunoreactive terminals were more often seen apposed to NMDA-immunoreactive astrocytic processes and dendrites. These results provide the first ultrastructural evidence for presynaptic modulation of dopamine release by NMDA receptors in the shell of the nucleus accumbens. They also indicate that NMDA receptors modulate postsynaptic neurons receiving input from the dopaminergic afferents and suggest a previously unsuspected functional association involving glial NMDA receptors and dopaminergic afferents in this brain region.
We investigated the effects of chronic treatment with food containing one of five antidepressants on substance P (SP) content in the rat brain using radioimmunoassay and enzyme-immunoassay. The antidepressants used were imipramine, desipramine, clomipramine, amoxapine and mianserin. Following 40 days of treatment, all the antidepressants decreased SP concentrations in the striatum, substantia nigra and amygdala. Only imipramine and desipramine reduced the peptide content in the hippocampus, and only mianserin reduced it in the septum. We further examined the acute effects of antidepressants one hour after a single intraperitoneal administration. Acute imipramine and desipramine treatment reduced SP in the striatum, whereas acute mianserin decreased it in the striatum and substantia nigra. These results demonstrate that all antidepressants on chronic treatment had a common effect, a reduction of SP content in the striatum, substantia nigra and amygdala. This raises the possibility that such a decrease may contribute to the therapeutic action of antidepressants in affective disorders.
Serotonin (5-HT) has been implicated in a variety of behavioral and physiological processes mediated by the central nervous system. However, the exact nature of 5-HT release under naturalistic or physiologic conditions remains unclear. The present study investigated this issue by employing in vivo microdialysis to examine 5-HT release in the hippocampus, corpus striatum, amygdala, and prefrontal cortex of the rat during manipulations that induced varying behavioral and physiological responses. In each rat, two sites were examined simultaneously during two of the following manipulations: tail pinch, tail pinch with food present, feeding, cat exposure, floating, and swimming. Results indicate that 5-HT levels increased 20-65% above baseline levels in response to each manipulation in all forebrain areas examined. The only significant difference found across manipulations was that tail pinch with food present produced a greater increase in 5-HT than cat exposure, which may be attributable to differences in the degree of general activation induced by these manipulations rather than to specific physiological or behavioral aspects. Furthermore, there was a strong positive correlation between 5-HT release and time spent in alert waking. Finally, there was an overall significantly smaller increase in 5-HT release in the corpus striatum compared to the other three sites. These data suggest that the release of 5-HT in the forebrain is closely related to behavioral state, not to specific behaviors, and that the magnitude of 5-HT release may reflect the degree of activation. In addition, this study suggests there can be some degree of differential pattern of release of 5-HT in the forebrain.
Neuropeptides and neurotrophin receptors are regulated in primary sensory neurons in response to axonal injury, and axonal lesions are characteristic stigmata of aging primary sensory neurons. We have therefore examined the expression of neuropeptides and neurotrophin receptor mRNAs in 30-month-old (median survival age) Sprague-Dawley rats to see if similar adaptive mechanisms operate in senescence. The content of neuropeptides was examined with immunohistochemistry (IHC) and in situ hybridization (ISH), and the cellular mRNA expression of neurotrophin receptors was studied with ISH. All of the aged rats had symptoms of hind limb incapacity (posterior paralysis), but fore limbs did not seem affected. The size-distribution of neuronal profiles in cervical and lumbar dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) was similar in aged and young adult (2-3 months old) rats. In aged rats, the DRG neurons showed an increase in both immunolabelling and mRNA content of neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY), as well as an increased cellular expression of galanin mRNA. In the same animals, there were decreased cellular levels of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP; IHC and ISH) and substance P (SP; IHC and ISH), while the difference in neuronal somatostatin (IHC and ISH) was small. The distribution of neuropeptide immunoreactivities in the dorsal horn of the corresponding spinal cord segments revealed a decreased labelling for CGRP-, SP-, and somatostatin-like immunoreactivities (LI) in the aged rats at both cervical and lumbar levels. NPY- and galanin-LI had a similar distribution in aged and young adult rats. NPY-immunoreactive fibers were also encountered in the dorsal column of aged but not young adult rats. ISH revealed that most of the primary sensory neurons express mRNA for the p75 low-affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75-LANR) and that there was no discernible difference between young adult and aged rats. The labelling intensity for mRNA encoding high-affinity tyrosine kinase receptors (TrkA, TrkB, and TrkC) was decreased in aged rat DRG neurons, while the percentage of neuronal profiles expressing mRNA for TrkA/B/C was similar in young adult and aged rats. The changed pattern of neuropeptide expression in primary sensory neurons of aged rats resembled that seen in young adult rats subjected to axonal injury of peripheral sensory nerves and may, thus, indicate aging-related lesions of sensory fibers. Since NPY is primarily present in large and galanin in small DRG neurons, the stronger effect on NPY as compared to galanin expression may indicate that aging preferentially affects neurons associated with mechanoreception (A alpha and A beta fibers) as compared to nociceptive units (A delta and C fibers). Furthermore, the observed changes in neuropeptide expression were most pronounced in lumbar DRGs, that harbors the sensory neurons supplying the affected hindlimbs of the rats.
The limbic system-associated membrane protein (LAMP) is a 64-68 kDa neuronal surface glycoprotein expressed in cortical and subcortical regions of the limbic system of the adult and developing rat central nervous system (CNS). LAMP is a member of the immunoglobulin superfamily of cell adhesion molecules with three Ig domains and is highly conserved between rat and human. In this study, the temporal and spatial pattern of lamp gene expression during fetal rat development was analyzed by using Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization. In Northern blot analysis, two lamp mRNA transcripts, 1.6 kb and 8.0 kb, identical in size to those present in the adult rat nervous system, were detected in developing neural tissue. In situ hybridization analysis showed close correlation, though not identity, between the expression of lamp mRNAs and the distribution of LAMP in limbic regions of the developing rat CNS, indicative of a more complex regulation of gene expression than was previously thought to be the case. The expression of lamp mRNAs is first detected on about embryonic day (E) 13. The hybridization signal is not seen in the proliferative ventricular zone at any level of the neuraxis, indicating that lamp is expressed in postmitotic neurons. In the cerebral cortex, lamp mRNAs are expressed in limbic cortical regions, such as the perirhinal cortex, prefrontal cortex, and cingulate cortex. In the hippocampus, the hybridization signal is observed in Ammon's horn by E18. The neostriatum, amygdaloid complex, and most hypothalamic areas express lamp mRNAs from early stages (E13-E14) in a pattern consistent with the onset of neurogenesis. The emerging patterns of lamp expression at the outset are similar to those seen in adult hypothalamus and dorsal thalamus. Although the hybridization signal is observed in some nonlimbic areas, including midbrain and hindbrain structures, intense labeling is evident in more classic limbic regions. The high levels of expression of lamp in limbic regions, beginning in early developmental stages, combined with the results of previous functional in vitro and in vivo studies, support a role for LAMP as a recognition molecule involved in the formation of limbic connections.
The search for molecular markers common to neural structures that are functionally related has become an attractive strategy for neurobiologists interested in identifying mechanisms involved in the formation of patterned connections. One such molecule is the limbic system-associated membrane protein (LAMP), a 64-68 kDa glycoprotein that is expressed in the soma and dendrites of subpopulations of adult neurons in the brain that are functionally associated with classic limbic structures. Such patterned molecular specificity is established prenatally; LAMP is detected during development on the surface of neurons, axonal membranes and pathfinding growth cones. This molecule has now been cloned (lamp) and has been shown to be highly conserved in rat and human. It is a new immunoglobulin superfamily member that has three Ig domains and a glycosyl-phosphatidylinositol (GPI) anchor to the cell membrane. In this study, the distribution of the lamp transcript in the adult rat brain was determined by using in situ hybridization. Generally, the distribution of lamp corresponds well with that of the LAMP protein. Within the cerebral cortex, the transcript is more abundant in areas that are associated with learning/memory and viscerosensory tasks. It is less abundant in somatic sensory and motor areas. The lamp transcript is also ubiquitous in the basal forebrain, amygdala, and preopticohypothalamic areas. In short, the lamp transcript is expressed heavily in areas of the forebrain and diencephalon that have been classically considered limbic and sparsely or moderately in nonlimbic midbrain and hindbrain regions. Correlative analysis of the connectivity patterns of the regions that express greater amounts of the transcript is consistent with a stronger limbic-associated function relative to the regions expressing less lamp. These quantitative differences may be significant in determining the function of LAMP in the adult brain.
In the present set of studies, we have examined the site for the initiation of retinal maturation in the ferret. A variety of maturational features across the developing inner and outer retina were examined by using standard immunohistochemical, carbocyanine dye labelling, and Nissl-staining techniques, including 1) two indices of early differentiation of the first-born retinal ganglion cells, the presence of beta-tubulin and of neuron-specific enolase; 2) the receding distribution of chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans within the inner retina; 3) the distribution of the first ganglion cells to grow axons along the optic nerve; 4) the emergence of the inner plexiform layer; 5) the emergence of the outer plexiform layer and 6) the onset of synaptophysin immunoreactivity within it; 7) the differentiation of calbindin-immunoreactive horizontal cells; and 8) the cessation of proliferative activity at the ventricular surface. Although we were able to define distinct maturational gradients that are associated with many of these features of inner and outer retinal development (each considered in detail in this report), with dorsal retina maturing before ventral retina, and with peripheral retina maturing last, none showed a clear initiation in the region of the developing area centralis. Rather, maturation began in the peripapillary retina dorsal to the optic nerve head, which is consistent with previous studies on the topography of ganglion cell genesis in the ferret. These results make clear that the order of retinal maturation and the formation of the area centralis are not linked, at least not in the ferret.
Pharmacological treatment of depression in persons with epilepsy has been an area of controversy because some drugs commonly are perceived specifically to induce or exacerbate seizures in patients with seizure disorders. This prevailing misconception is unjustified by scientific studies, yet it continues to prevent afflicted persons from receiving appropriate therapy. The scientific literature shows that tricyclic antidepressant drugs cause seizures in overdose in both animals and humans. In lower doses, these drugs have anticonvulsant activity in humans and animals. Thus, the antidepressant drugs are like several antiepileptic drugs that can both prevent and cause seizures. The anticonvulsant activity of antidepressant drugs has been studied extensively in animals and almost certainly stems from their capacity to block norepinephrine and/or serotonin reuptake. The pharmacodynamic action responsible for their convulsant effects has not been well studied but may be due to their local anesthetic, antihistaminic, or antimuscarinic activity. The newer, more selective monoamine uptake blockers have very low convulsant liability, and it is suggested that their anticonvulsant activity, which is well documented in animals, be investigated further in humans. If their effects in humans are analogous to those in animals, these drugs can be used safely in epileptic patients with depression, and it is possible that their anticonvulsant activity can be exploited for use in the treatment of epilepsy.
The steady state distribution of membrane forms of peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM) in the secretory pathway of neurons and endocrine cells depends on signals in its cytosolic COOH-terminal domain (CD). Mutagenesis studies yielded catalytically active PAM proteins that are not properly localized or internalized. Employing the yeast two-hybrid system, we isolated two distinct cDNAs whose protein products showed a strong interaction with the CD of PAM. The interaction of these novel PAM COOH-terminal interactor proteins (P-CIPs) did not occur with a misrouted CD mutant as bait in the yeast system. Both proteins, P-CIP2 and P-CIP10, were expressed as fusion proteins that interacted in vitro with solubilized integral membrane PAM. P-CIP2 was homologous to several serine/threonine and dual specificity protein kinases, while P-CIP10 contained spectrin-like repeats. Endogenous P-CIP2 was localized to the Golgi region of AtT-20 corticotrope tumor cells, and expression of integral membrane PAM disrupted the distribution of endogenous P-CIP2. Both P-CIP2 and P-CIP10 mRNAs were found to be expressed in rat brain neurons also expressing PAM proteins. P-CIP2 and P-CIP10 may be members of a family of cytosolic proteins involved in the routing of membrane proteins that function in the regulated secretory pathway.
Expression of early response genes during rod outer segment phagocytosis by normal Long Evans and Royal College of Surgeons-rdy+p+ rats and by dystrophic Royal College of Surgeons-p+ rat retinal pigment epithelial cells was studied in primary cell culture. Northern analysis revealed that the abundance of zif-268 (egr-1), c-fos, and tis-1 (NGF1-B) mRNA was rapidly and transiently increased in normal retinal pigment epithelial cells during rod outer segment phagocytosis but not during phagocytosis of latex particles. No increase in gene expression was found in Royal College of Surgeons-p+ dystrophic retinal pigment epithelial cells challenged with rod outer segments. As shown by electrophoretic mobility shift assay, a prominent short term increase in the intensity of the gel-shifted band was detected using nuclear protein extracts derived from rod outer segment-challenged, control retinal pigment epithelial cells and zif-268, AP-1, AP-2, or tis-1 consensus oligonucleotides. No such increase was detected when using nuclear factor kappaB consensus oligonucleotide or when the early response gene prostaglandin H synthase-2 mRNA was measured over the time course studied. The results suggest that in retinal pigment epithelial cells, rod outer segment-specific phagocytosis is accompanied by the selective expression of early response genes coding for transcription factors. The specific pattern of the induction of these transcription factors is predicted to modulate the expression of gene cascades.
In this paper we report our observations of the relationship of paired-pulse facilitation (PPF) with synaptic release or release failure at small numbers of synaptic sites. Minimal stimulation protocols were employed to enable the activation of only one or a few axons which synapse onto CA1 pyramidal cells in the hippocampus. Excitatory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs) in response to paired stimulation were measured. On the analysis of the data, we examined the effects of failure and synaptic release on PPF, and found that PPF was observed as a decrease in failures of synaptic release in response to test stimuli which were preceded by conditioning stimuli that evoked synaptic release. The test-pulse failure rate following conditioning pulse failures was indistinguishable from the overall conditioning pulse failure rate. It is postulated that the mechanism of paired-pulse facilitation is presynaptic and associated with successful synaptic release in response to the conditioning stimulus.
Visually responsive single units were recorded from the pretectal region that includes the large-celled nucleus lentiformis mesencephali (nLM) in the leopard frog, Rana pipiens. During monocular stimulation of the contralateral eye, 60 single units responding to movement of a large-field, random-dot pattern were quantitatively analyzed using horizontal and vertical directions at each of four pattern velocities (0.4-40 degrees/s). All units were spontaneously active, motion sensitive, and the majority showed 'on'-'off' responses. Several different response profiles were observed, including velocity-sensitive units with peak response at 10 degrees/s, most of which showed directional selectivity, and speed-sensitive units that showed increasing spike frequencies as pattern velocity increased, but little or no directional selectivity. About one-third of all unit analyzed were direction-selective, and 55% of those responded optimally to the temporal-to-nasal (T-N) direction of motion. T-N units were recorded primarily from an area that lies dorsolaterally between nLM and the optic tectum, in the 'peri-nLM' region. The pronounced monocular optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) response asymmetry that occurs in anurans appears to be reflected in the response profiles of the T-N direction selective units.
The imaginal discs of Drosophila, which give rise to the adult appendages, are patterned during a period of intense cell proliferation. The specification of differing regions occurs in some cases by subdividing the disc epithelium into lineage compartments. However, in most cases precise boundaries are formed between different cell types without early compartmentalization. One such boundary occurs between the wingless (wg)-expressing cells of the wing margin and the adjacent proneural cells, which give rise to margin sensory bristles. Here we show that this boundary arises in part by a mechanism of 'self-refinement', by which wingless protein (Wg) represses wg expression in adjacent cells. Cells unable to receive the Wg signal do not resolve the boundary between wg-expressing and proneural cells.
It has previously been reported that the increase in blood pressure in the spontaneously hypertensive rat (SHR) occurs concurrently with a marked increase in thickness of the arterial wall and an increase in vascular innervation, particularly for the small muscular arteries. The purpose of the present study was to determine whether prevention of the increase in vascular innervation could prevent elevation of blood pressure in the SHR. We found that intraperitoneal injection of a single dose of an antiserum to nerve growth factor (anti-NGF) into young SHRs (postnatal day 19-24) caused a marked reduction in mean blood pressure at age 3-4 months from the raised value of 24.2 +/- 0.5 kPa to 18.9 +/- 0.8 kPa. By comparison, treated Wistar Kyoto rats (WKYs) maintained normal blood pressures. The treatment reduced the amplitude of the intracellularly recorded excitatory junction potential and the NA content of mesenteric arteries in the SHR, leaving the values similar to those of control WKYs. The NA content of these vessels was also reduced in treated WKYs. Importantly, the thickness of the vessel wall, which was greater in the SHR than the WKY, was not significantly altered by anti-NGF treatment. It is concluded that anti-NGF treatment during late neonatal development inhibits the increase in the functional levels of vascular innervation observed in the SHR. Furthermore, this increase in the functional levels of vascular innervation is necessary for the development of hypertension in this rat strain.
In adult rats single seizures of varying behavioural severities were caused by slow, systemic infusion of picrotoxin, an antagonist of the C1- channel at the GABAA receptor. We used a double labelling immunohistochemical method to define the subclasses of neurons that contained Fos protein following seizures. In four cortical regions (piriform, entorhinal, motor and sensory) neuronal subclasses were defined with antibodies against the calcium-binding proteins D-28K, parvalbumin and calretinin (aspiny neurons), and neurofilament protein (spiny neurons). The remaining spiny neuron population was estimated by subtraction of defined subclasses from total neuronal numbers determined from Nissl stain. After seizures, most of the calbindin D-28K immunoreactive interneurons (&gt; 80%) and many of the unlabelled spiny neurons (60-80%) were FOs positive. Co-localisation of Fos was found in about 30% of parvalbumin, calretinin and neurofilament protein immunoreactive neurons. Paradoxically, mild seizures were associated with induction of Fos in up to 80% of cortical cells and more severe seizures with 60%, the difference being due to different levels of Fos induction in spiny neurons. These results also demonstrate that seizures induce Fos predominantly in excitatory cortical neurons.
Metallothionein (MT) proteins have been postulated to play a role in the detoxification of heavy metals. Since methylmercury (MeHg) preferentially accumulates in astrocytes, and MT-1 and MT-2 are astrocyte-specific MT isoforms, we investigated the ability of MTs to attenuate MeHg-induced cytotoxicity. The toxic effects of MeHg on astrocytes were investigated in a model of regulatory volume decrease (RVD) in which the cells are swollen by exposure to a hypotonic buffer. Preexposure to CdCl2 (1 microM) for 72, 96 or 120 h, prior to acute exposure to hypotonic buffer and MeHg (10 microM) led to a time-dependent increase in the intracellular levels of astrocyte MT proteins. The acute MeHg-induced inhibition of RVD was significantly, and almost fully reversed by preexposure to CdCl2. This reversal was time-dependent, 120-h preexposure to CdCl2 producing the greatest reversibility. Furthermore, the ability of astrocytes to efficiently volume regulate in the presence of MeHg-containing hypotonic buffer was highly correlated (r = 0.99) with the intracellular levels of MT proteins. The release of [3H]taurine, an osmolyte involved in the RVD process was also measured. The inhibitory effect of MeHg on [3H]taurine in swollen cells was significantly, and fully reversed by CdCl2 preexposure. The study suggests that astrocytes induced to express high levels of MT proteins are resistant to the acute inhibitory effect of MeHg on RVD.
To study a potential locus of action of opioids in the rat dentate gyrus, we examined the localization of the delta opioid receptor (DOR) by immunocytochemistry. Two antisera raised to unique, non-overlapping peptide sequences located within the extracellular N-terminal sequence of DOR were tested. By light microscopy, numerous neurons in the central hilar region were intensely labeled for DOR, while the granule cell layer contained light DOR immunoreactivity. To further characterize hilar neuron cell types which contained DOR, sections through the dentate gyrus were double labeled using immunofluorescence with antisera to DOR and either gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), neuropeptide Y (NPY), or somatostatin-28 antisera. Most DOR-labeled perikarya also contained GABA and NPY, while a subpopulation contained somatostatin. Electron microscopic examination of sections labeled for DOR revealed that the immunoreactivity was common in profiles which exhibited the morphological characteristics of granule cells, as well as those of non-granule cells. DOR immunoreactivity was located at postsynaptic sites within neuronal perikarya (2%), dendrites (27%), and dendritic spines (22%); as well as in presynaptic axon terminals (25%) and glia (23%) (n = 279). In dendrites and dendritic spines, DOR immunoreactivity was most often associated with the plasmalemmal surface near asymmetric synapses. In axon terminals, DOR immunoreactivity primarily surrounded small, clear vesicles, and was less consistently found on the plasmalemmal surface. The distribution of DOR-labeled profiles overlapped with, but was not restricted to regions known to contain enkephalin. These data suggest that opiates acting at the DOR can modulate both hilar neurons and granule cells both pre- and postsynaptically.
In spite of the availability of antidepressant medication for several decades, it has not been shown that such medication lowers the risk for suicide in depressed patients. This report explores this apparent paradox by means of pharmacoepidemiological methods. Data on the prevalence of depression in the population and among suicides as well as data on the prevalence of antidepressant medication in depressed suicides were obtained from a review of the literature. Data on the prevalence of antidepressant medication in the population in 1990-1991 were obtained from the statistics of the Swedish National Corporation of Pharmacies. It was found that only one in five depressed individuals with major depression were treated with antidepressants in Sweden. The calculated risk for suicide among depressed patients who were treated with antidepressants was 141 per 100,000 person years and, among the untreated, 259 per 100,000 person years (i.e., 1.8 times higher among the untreated). This supports the hypothesis that antidepressant medication decreases the risk for suicide in depressed patients. The reason this has not been obvious in the general suicide statistics seems to be that so few depressed people are treated with antidepressants. Effective suicide prevention strategies should include intensive efforts to recognize and treat more depressed people.
The calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein phosphatase calcineurin was localized at the light microscopic level in the rat hindbrain and spinal cord by using an antibody against the alpha-isoform of the catalytic subunit. Calcineurin was highly concentrated in axons, dendrites, and cell bodies of a subpopulation of alpha-motoneurons in hindbrain motor nuclei and the lateral motor column along the length of the spinal cord. These calcineurin-positive alpha-motoneurons appeared to be randomly distributed and represented approximately 25% of the total alpha-motoneuron pool in the motor trigeminal nucleus and the spinal cord lateral motor column. Within the facial nucleus, calcineurin-containing motoneurons were present in the medial and dorsal subdivision but not in the lateral and intermediate subdivision. In addition to the enrichment in motoneurons, calcineurin was enriched in cells of the superficial laminae of the spinal cord dorsal horn and its extension into the medulla, the caudal spinal trigeminal nucleus. Axonal staining in the white matter of the spinal cord was generally weak, except in the dorsolateral funiculus, where strongly calcineurin-positive axons formed a putative ascending tract that appeared to terminate uncrossed in the caudal lateral reticular nucleus of the medulla. This tract may originate from calcineurin-positive cells in the dorsolateral funiculus. We also compared the distribution of calcineurin with calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II in the spinal cord and found that the kinase is more widely expressed. Thus, calcineurin is highly restricted to a few locations in the hindbrain and spinal cord. Selective staining in facial subnuclei that innervate phasically active muscles suggests that calcineurin-positive motoneurons represent a subset of alpha-motoneurons innervating a metabolic subtype of muscle fibers, possibly fast-twitch fibers.
Recent evidence has implicated aberrant cell cycle regulation as a possible mechanism of apoptosis in non-dividing cells. We previously demonstrated increased expression of the p53 tumor suppressor gene, a prominent cell cycle regulator, in apoptotic neurons. Here we investigated the potential involvement of cyclin D1, a G1 phase cell cycle protein under p53 regulation, in kainic acid-mediated neuronal degeneration. Adult male Sprague-Dawley rats were treated systemically with kainic acid and sacrificed between 1 h and 5 days following seizure onset. Cyclin D1 expression was studied by Western blot analysis and immunohistochemistry using a rabbit polyclonal anti-cyclin D1 antibody. In untreated control rats low levels of cyclin D1 expression were detected in multiple brain regions. Between 8 and 16 h after the onset of kainic acid-induced seizures, increased cyclin D1 immunoreactivity was observed in vulnerable hippocampal pyramidal cells. Five days after seizure onset increased cyclin D1 expression was evident in reactive astrocytes. These results support a role for cyclin D1 in certain neuronal death pathways, and suggest that cyclin D1 has multiple and cell type-specific functions in the central nervous system.
Taste avoidances were conditioned in male rats by pairing ingestion of a novel sucrose (0.3 M solution) taste with injections of 17 beta oestradiol (100 micrograms kg-1, s.c.). Following conditioning and prior to a two-bottle choice test (sucrose vs water), taste reactivity responses to three 30 s intraoral sucrose infusions were quantified. A robust conditioned shift in palatability, consisting of reduced ingestive and increased aversive taste reactivity responses, was obtained in the oestradiol group but not the vehicle control group. This conditioned palatability shift was also reflected in subsequent strong avoidance of the sucrose solution in the two-bottle choice test. The findings that oestradiol can condition taste aversions and shift food preferences support a role for oestrogens in the production of anorexia.
The potential blockade of the neuropeptide Y (NPY) Y1 receptor agonist [Leu31,Pro34]NPY-induced modulation of the characteristics of alpha 2-adrenoceptor agonist [3H]p-aminoclonidine binding sites by a selective non-peptide NPY Y1 receptor antagonist BIBP3226, was studied in the nucleus tractus solitarii of the rat by means of quantitative receptor autoradiography. [Leu31,Pro34]NPY at a concentration of 10 nM significantly increased the Kd value of [3H]p-aminoclonidine binding sites in the nucleus tractus solitarii without influencing the Bmax, suggesting the existence of an antagonistic modulation by NPY Y1 receptors of alpha 2-adrenoceptors in the nucleus tractus solitarii. BIBP3226 at 100 nM fully blocked the [Leu31,Pro34]NPY-induced increase in Kd of the [3H]p-aminoclonidine binding sites. The present results therefore provide evidence, by use of a NPY Y1 receptor antagonist, for the existence of a NPY Y1/alpha 2 receptor interaction in the nucleus tractus solitarii.
The incidence of behavioural signs of mononeuropathy in rats subjected to chronic constriction injury (CCI) of the sciatic nerve is unpredictable and often low. In the present study, an ischaemic lesion of the rat sciatic nerve was induced photochemically using a low power laser. In these rats tactile allodynia developed with a considerably greater incidence (95%) than in control rats subjected to CCI (45%). The allodynia lasted longer and was more prominent. Responses to thermal stimulation did not markedly differ between the two groups. The ischaemic lesions displayed marked degeneration, particularly of large myelinated fibres. The results suggest that laser irradiation of a peripheral nerve inducing a local photochemical reaction followed by Wallerian degeneration may be a convenient and reproducible experimental method of producing signs of peripheral mononeuropathy.
The associations of glutamate receptor subunits (NMDAR1, AMPA GluR1 and GluR2/3) and spinothalamic tract neurons in the rat lumbar spinal cord dorsal horn were investigated. Staining for NMDAR1 and AMPA GluR1 and GluR2/3 receptor subunits was observed throughout the spinothalamic tract soma and dendrites, particularly in association with the rough endoplasmic reticulum and some postsynaptic membrane sites. Immunostaining for NMDAR1 and AMPA GluR2/3 was also noted in presynaptic membrane sites. Localization of both NMDA and AMPA glutamate receptor subunits in association with spinothalamic tract neurons provides anatomical evidence in support of the various interactions reported for glutamate receptors in nociception. Presynaptic localization of the AMPA GluR2/3 receptor subunit suggests that spinothalamic tract cells may also be affected presynaptically by AMPA glutamate receptor interactions.
THE pedunculopontine nucleus and its adjacent structure of the mesopontine reticular formation are known as a mesencephalic locomotor region, since either electrical or chemical stimulation of these regions induces locomotion in decerebrate animals. In parkinsonism, it is presumed that the pedunculopontine nucleus is under GABAergic overinhibition from the basal ganglia. To reveal the behavioural effects of GABAergic disinhibition of the mesopontine reticular formation in parkinsonism, picrotoxin, a GABAA antagonist, (5 or 10 ng/ 0.25 microliter) or vehicle was injected unilaterally into the mesopontine reticular formation of rats via implanted cannulae after induction of catalepsy using haloperidol (1.5 mg kg-1, i.p.). Injection of the larger dose of picrotoxin, but not the smaller dose nor the vehicle, abolished the catalepsy with or without spontaneous locomotor activity. The present result suggests that the disinhibition of the brainstem output structures contributes to the recovery of mobility in the cataleptic state induced by blocking the dopaminergic transmission of the basal ganglia.

The effects of 17 beta-oestradiol on the force responses to KCI and noradrenaline were investigated in rings of the rat tail artery. Incubation with 10 microM 17 beta-oestradiol for 100-295 min reduced the force amplitude after 5 min in high-K+ (140 mM) to 10% of the control value. The inhibitory effect of the steroid was unaffected by the NO-synthase inhibitor L-NAME. Rings activated by an intermediate degree of depolarization (60 mM K+) were less affected by the steroid (58% of control force). The sustained force response to 1 microM noradrenaline was reduced in the presence of 17 beta-oestradiol to 60% of control value. Lower concentrations of 17 beta-oestradiol (0.1 and 1 microM) were without acute effects on force development. However, longterm effects of 17 beta-oestradiol on vessel reactivity were found at these low concentrations. Rings were cultured for 3-7 days in the absence or in the presence of the steroid before they were stimulated with agonists. Cultured rings developed an increased sensitivity to noradrenaline compared with freshly prepared ones. Cocaine (30 microns) shifted the noradrenaline concentration-response curve to the left in freshly prepared rings while it had no effect in cultured ones, indicating that the increased sensitivity to noradrenaline in cultured rings depends on loss of noradrenaline uptake. Rings cultured for 7 days in the presence of 0.1 microM 17 beta-oestradiol developed a more pronounced supersensitivity to noradrenaline (EC50 for noradrenaline was 0.13 +/- 0.03 microM in steroid exposed rings vs. 0.38 +/- 0.09 microM in control rings). Thus, prolonged treatment with 17 beta-oestradiol results in a potentiation of noradrenaline evoked force, in contrast to the acute effect of the steroid.
The treatment modalities of alcohol consumption are briefly reviewed with special emphasis on brief motivational intervention. The usefulness of laboratory markers of alcohol consumption in identifying relapses and as adjuncts to therapy programmes is highlighted. The recently developed marker, carbohydrate-deficient transferrin, has proven to be a promising test in its use to monitor relapse in patients using each patient's cut-off value offers advantages over group cut-offs.
Testing the possible role of endogenous nitric oxide (NO) in the neurotoxicity of ethanol, we examined how two different NO synthase (NOS) inhibitors affected the extent cerebrocortical and olfactory neuronal damage in a modified &quot;binge intoxication&quot; rat model (Collins et al., Alcohol Clin. Exp. Res. 20:284-292, 1996). Male rats intragastrically fed ethanol (6.5 to 12 g/kg/day) in nutrient solution three times daily for 4 days also received NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester by chronic intracerebroventricular infusion or 7-nitro-indazole by daily intraperitoneal injection; control rats were given nutrient solution only and/or vehicles. Blood ethanol levels did not differ among the ethanol-treated groups. The amount of ethanol-dependent neuronal degeneration in the entorihinal cortex, dentate gyrus, and olfactory bulb glomeruli--visualized with the de Olmos cupric silver stain and quantitatively assessed in the binge-intoxicated rats--was either unchanged or significantly increased by the NOS inhibitors. Although the efficacies of the inhibitors cannot be directly compared because of various NOS forms were probably inhibited to differing extents, the results do not support the idea that endogenous NO is a neurotoxic mediator of ethanol's effects. Rather NO may have a modest neuroprotectant role in this model of early brain damage induced by ethanol. In addition, the NOS that is localized histochemically as NADPH diaphorase was present primarily in regions and/or cells not damaged by binge ethanol treatment. Assuming that NADPH diaphorase represents most of the NO forming enzyme(s) this suggests a transcellular mechanism for NO. A further observation was that hippocampal CA pyramidal neuron degeneration was extensive in rats infused centrally with NG-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester.
Various serotonergic receptor systems are thought to influence the motivational effects of ethanol. This experiment characterized the acquisition of ethanol-induced conditioned taste aversion and ethanol-induced conditioned place reference in mutant knockout mice lacking 5-HT1b receptors. In the taste conditioning procedure, adult homozygous knockout mice (-/-) and homozygous wild-type mice (+/+) received access to 0.2 M NaCl solution, followed immediately by intraperitoneal injection of 0 to 4 g/kg of ethanol. Ethanol produced dose-dependent conditioned taste aversion that was the same in both genotypes. In the place conditioning procedure, knockout and wild-type mice received six pairings of a tactile stimulus with ethanol (2 g/kg, i.p.). A different tactile stimulus was paired with saline. Ethanol produced increases in locomotor activity, with wild-type mice showing higher levels of ethanol-stimulated activity than knockout mice during conditioning trials 5 and 6. Wild-type mice demonstrated conditioned place preference for the ethanol-paired stimulus. In contrast, knockout mice showed no evidence of place conditioning. These results are generally consistent with an important role for serotonergic systems in ethanol reward and specifically indicate that 5-HT1b receptors are important for ethanol's rewarding effects but not for ethanol's aversive effects.
Ethanol neurotoxicity results in the loss of neurons during the development of the nervous system. Nerve growth factor (NGF) can ameliorate the neurotoxic effects of ethanol (EtOH) in rat medial septal (MS) neurons. These experiments study the effects of EtOH and NGF on neuronal calcium (Ca2+) homeostasis in cultured postnatal day of birth (PO) rat MS neurons. Previously, we observed that EtOH and NGF modulate intracellular Ca2+ levels [Ca2+]i) in unstimulated and high potassium stimulated (30 mM KCl) cultured rat embryonic day 21 (E21) MS neurons (Webb et al., Brain Res 701:61-74, 1995). The purpose of the present study was to explore whether the effects of EtOH and NGF on Ca2+ homeostasis were altered by developmental stage. The hypotheses tested were the following: treatment with EtOH affects Ca2+ homeostasis in postnatal day of birth (PO) rat MS neurons by causing transient and persistent changes in [Ca2+]i; NGF modulates Ca2+ homeostasis in MS neurons by regulating [Ca2+]i; the action of NGF changes the response of MS neurons to EtOH, thus altering Ca2+ homeostasis; and that EtOH and/or NGF effects on Ca2+ homeostasis are developmentally regulated. Our results indicated that behaviorally relevant levels of EtOH caused a rapid transient increase in basal [Ca2+]i, whereas there was no effect of NGF on basal [Ca2+]i. Ethanol and NGF interacted, resulting in the lowering of [Ca2+]i. During stimulation with high K+, EtOH inhibited the change in [Ca2+]i. NGF partially ameliorated this effect of higher levels of EtOH, allowing [Ca2+]i to increase. NGF and the lowest level of EtOH potentiated the high K+ stimulated increase in [Ca2+]i. Ethanol and NGF effects on [Ca2+]i were different in the PO neurons compared with our previously published observations in E21 neurons. Therefore, these data suggest that EtOH neurotoxicity and NGF protection involve mechanisms that regulate neuronal Ca2+ homeostasis, and the magnitude of these effects depend on developmental stage.


Stressful life events may be important causative or precipitating factors for functional gastrointestinal disorders such as the irritable bowel syndrome in humans. In the rat, a single session of foot shocks is known to sensitize the behavioral and hormonal responses to subsequent stress, but intestinal responses have not been investigated. Rats were fitted with bipolar electrodes on proximal colon and exposed to a single session of foot shocks (10 x 6 s in 15 min; preshocked) or no shocks (control). Weight gain after foot shocks was identical to that in controls. Two weeks after foot shocks, basal colonic spike burst frequency did not differ from controls or from that recorded before shock treatment. Unlike controls, however, preshocked rats showed a significant increase in colonic spike burst frequency to a novel stressful challenge in the home cage, an electrified prod. Because the behavioral responses to this challenge did not differ, colonic hyperresponsiveness in preshocked rats may represent a form of stress-induced autonomic sensitization. The model should be a useful tool to study mechanisms and pharmacotherapeutic approaches of the gastrointestinal consequences of traumatic stress.
Previous studies suggest that the desensitization and downregulation of beta 1-adrenergic receptors (beta 1-AR) in the failing heart are the result of the elevated plasma catecholamine levels associated with this disease. To examine norepinephrine (NE)-induced regulation of cardiac adrenergic receptors, rats were infused with l-NE (200 micrograms.kg-1.h-1 for 7 days) or vehicle (0.001 N HCl) by implantation of osmotic minipumps. The technique of coverslip autoradiography was used to quantify alpha 1-adrenergic receptors (alpha 1-AR), beta 1-AR, and beta 2-AR in different tissue compartments of rat hearts. For measurement of beta-AR binding, sections were incubated with 70 pM [125I]iodocyanopindolol (ICYP) alone or in the presence of 5 microM dl-propranolol or 5 x 10(-7) M CGP-20712A (a beta 1-antagonist) and then set up for autoradiography. [3H]prazosin (1 nM) with or without phentolamine was used to study alpha-AR binding. Chronic infusion of NE induced a greater downregulation of beta 2-AR compared with beta 1-AR in all regions studied, including atrial and ventricular myocytes, coronary arterioles, and connective tissue. An 18% loss of beta 1-AR was seen only in atrial myocytes; beta 1-AR density actually increased 28% in ventricular myocytes following NE infusion. There was a 15% decrease in alpha 1-AR in ventricular myocytes, whereas no change in alpha 1-AR density was seen in myocardial arterioles. Our study demonstrates that beta 2-AR are more susceptible to NE-induced downregulation than beta 1-AR. Thus other mechanisms may be involved in the selective downregulation of beta 1-AR in certain forms of heart failure.

A comprehensive report mandated by the U.S. Congress on the state of the science of prevention recommends a stricter definition of the term prevention; summarizes specific preventive intervention research programs across the life span; and specifies funding, personnel, and coordination priorities to build a national prevention research infrastructure. A major conceptual recommendation is a focus on reducing risk for mental disorders, which has been a fruitful strategy in the prevention of physical illness. The report argues that the prevention field should also draw from advances in mental disorder treatment research and from the major contributions to the knowledge base occurring in the behavioral and biological core sciences. Relevant advances in neuroscience, genetics, epidemiology, and developmental psychopathology are examined in detail. Five major disorders are chosen to illustrate possible approaches to prevention: conduct disorder, depressive disorders, alcohol abuse and dependence, schizophrenia, and Alzheimer's disease.
The mechanisms of synapse damage in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are not fully understood. Deficient functioning of glutamate transporters might be involved in synaptic pathology and neurodegeneration by failing to clear excess glutamate at the synaptic cleft. In AD, glutamate transporter activity as assessed by D-[3H]aspartate binding is decreased; however, it is not clear to what extent it is associated with the neurodegenerative process and cognitive alterations. For this purpose, levels of D- and L-[3H]aspartate binding in midfrontal cortex were correlated with synaptophysin levels, brain spectrin degradation product levels, and clinical and neuropathological indicators of AD. Compared to control brains, AD brains displayed a 34% decrease in levels of D-[3H]aspartate binding, a 30% decrease in L-[3H]aspartate binding, and a 48% loss of synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Increased levels of brain spectrin degradation products correlated with a decrease in levels of D-[3H] and L-[3H]aspartate binding, and decreased levels of synaptophysin immunoreactivity. Levels of L-[3H]aspartate binding correlated with levels of synaptophysin immunoreactivity. These results suggest that decreased glutamate transporter activity in AD is associated with increased excitotoxicity and neurodegeneration, supporting the possibility that abnormal functioning of this system might be involved in the pathogenesis of synaptic damage in AD.
Barium currents through voltage-gated calcium (Ca2+) channels were studied in the small-cell lung carcinoma cell line NCI-H345 using patch clamp techniques. Pharmacological dissection of whole-cell barium currents revealed that 23% of the current was sensitive to nitrendipine, 35% to omega-conotoxin GVIA, and between 10 and 39% to omega-Aga-IVA. This implies that these cells express L-, N-, and P-type calcium channels. Only large cells expressed current that was sensitive to omega-Aga-IVA. The size dependency of this P-type channel expression may reflect the cell cycle stage. Cell-attached recordings revealed three unitary conductances: 5 to 6 pS, 10 to 12 pS, and 20 to 23 pS. The largest conductance channel (20-23 pS) was sensitive to Bay K 8644 and is presumed to represent L-type calcium channels. The frequency of observing the medium conductance channel (10-12 pS) was reduced by exposure to omega-conotoxin GVIA and may represent N-type channels. Incubation of cells with Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome IgG for 24 to 48 hours removed up to 71% of the whole-cell current. Incubation with control human IgG (normal or myasthenia gravis) had no effect. Lambert-Eaton myasthenic syndrome IgG did not selectively target one &quot;presynaptic&quot; type of calcium channel, but rather appeared to target many of the calcium channel types that are expressed on small-cell lung carcinoma cells.
A genomic clone containing sequence identical to the 5' region of the cDNA for rat Type I hexokinase was isolated from a lambda Charon 4A library. A 5.4-kb EcoRI fragment from this clone, containing the matching sequence, was sequenced in its entirety. Rapid amplification of 5' cDNA ends (5' RACE), reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction, and ribonuclease protection experiments were consistent with the existence of multiple transcriptional start sites clustered in three regions approximately 460, 300, and 100 nucleotides upstream from the translational start codon. Together with results of previous work, the 5' untranslated sequence defined in the present study accounts for the 4.3-kb mRNA for Type I hexokinase seen on Northern blots. Fragments from the 5' flanking region were cloned into a reporter vector containing the luciferase coding region. Based on transfection experiments with both PC12 and H9c2 cells, promoter activity was associated with a region lying between nucleotide positions -742 and -516 (with A of the ATG codon at the translational start site defined as +1). The promoter region lacks a TATA sequence and, together with the transcriptional start sites, is located within a GC rich segment (a &quot;CpG island&quot;) approximately 1 kb in length. These characteristics have previously been associated with the promoter and transcriptional start sites of genes for &quot;housekeeping enzymes.&quot;




The Maier 3-table task was used to examine spatial representations in rats with lesions of the parietal cortex. Some animals had anteriorly placed lesions, some posteriorly placed in cortical areas, sometimes regarded as 'parietal' in earlier studies. After 5 days of familiarization, animals were given 18 days of testing on the standard Maier task. Both parietal groups were initially impaired, but reached the same level of performance as controls by the end of the test period. Learning occurred both within and between sessions for the anterior group, but only between sessions for the posterior group. There was no major functional differentiation apparent on this task between the two 'parietal' areas. Rate of exploration increased in both parietal groups across test sessions as task performance improved. It is argued that the change in exploratory activity across sessions in parietal groups may reflect the adoption of a compensatory strategy which improved performance, but that improvement could also have been due to neural changes, as structures, such as the frontal cortex or hippocampus, assume some functions normally mediated by the parietal area.
We determined if high and low doses of anti-GABAergic drugs have opposite effects on the visuo-vestibular activity in pigmented rats and examined a possible correlation with the level of GABA in the related structures. First, the horizontal optokinetic and vestibulo-ocular reflexes of most animals were depressed by high doses of anti-GABAergic drugs (10(-3) M purified picrotoxin or 10(-6) M picrotoxin in unpurified vegetal extract). Simultaneously, a drop in GABA level in the cerebellum and posterior brainstem was detected. Second, after a subsequent injection (1 ml) of the diluted extract (10(-13) M picrotoxin), the reflexes returned to normal despite the fact that no correlation with the GABA level was found. These results demonstrate that small doses of anti-GABAergic drugs reverse the depressive effect created by large doses of these drugs on the oculomotor system, and even adjust the reflexes to the stimulation. This adjustment, without correlation with the GABA level, suggest a powerful effect of very low dose of the drug to modulate either the activity of the cerebellar inhibiting input or of the vestibular nuclei neurons or to trigger the adaptation by other neurotransmitter systems involved in the performances of the reflexes.

The rapidly advancing technology in the area of molecular neuroscience has greatly expanded the tools available to behavioural pharmacologists for investigating the molecular bases underlying the interrelation of pharmacological agents and behaviour. Strategies such as gene targeted knockout mutations, expression of an exogenous transgene, as well as the disruption of the cellular expression of genes with antisense oligonucleotides, are being successfully used to study normal and impaired behavioural function. Advantages of these genetic methods include the ability to manipulate systems for which selective pharmacological ligands do not exist, and the opportunity to study the interaction between genotype and environment without having to rely on spontaneously occurring mutants or selective breeding programmes. By targeting particular genes, questions can be asked about how genes control neuronal function and how manipulations of these genes affect behaviour. In particular, these strategies have been applied to studies of the molecular bases for disrupted behaviours, the behavioural actions of psychoactive drugs, and models of neuropsychiatric and neuropathological disorders. These emerging molecular biological techniques complement traditional pharmacological analysis to provide a very powerful approach with which to study the molecular correlates of behavioural pharmacology.
This study presents a comparison between two inhibitors of acetylcholinesterase, tacrine and E2020 (Donepezil), the 5-HT(3) receptor antagonist ondansetron, and the H(3) receptor antagonist thioperamide, in models of cholinergic function and cognition in male, Lister hooded rats. The cognitive tests used were an operant VI20 task, the delayed match to position task (short-term memory) and the 5-choice serial reaction time task (attention). Scopolamine (SCOP) (0.075mg/kg s.c.) was utilised in both the short-term memory and attention tasks to impair performance. Both tacrine (1-30mg/kg) and E2020 (1-10mg/kg) similarly produced overt cholinomimetic signs of likely central origin (hypothermia, tremor), although tacrine produced more profound peripheral cholinomimetic signs (miosis, secretory signs) than E2020. Tacrine (30mg/kg) and E2020 (10mg/kg) reduced the number of reinforcements gained in the VI20 schedule. Similarly, both drugs attenuated the SCOP-impairment models in the short-term memory and attention tasks (1-3mg/kg). Ondansetron (10ng/kg-1mg/kg) and thioperamide (0.2-10mg/kg) failed to elicit overt cholinomimetic signs or influence the number of food reinforcements gained in the VI20 schedule. Neither ondansetron nor thioperamide attenuated the SCOP-induced impairment in either cognitive task. From the present studies, both E2020 and tacrine showed a similar behavioural profile in the models used, although E2020 was about three times more potent. Furthermore, E2020 but not tacrine appeared to show some discrimination in eliciting central and peripheral cholinomimetic signs. The failure of ondansetron and thioperamide to reverse a SCOP-induced deficit in these models is discussed.
We report a highly sensitive electrochemical approach suitable for the real time measurement of insulin release from single islets of Langerhans, the functional endocrine units in the pancreas. The method is based on the detection of the insulin surrogate 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) by carbon fibre microelectrodes implanted in the islets. Based on the combination of this novel approach with the simultaneous microfluorometric recording of cytosolic free Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i), we demonstrate that glucose-stimulated islets secrete 5-HT/insulin in a pulsatile fashion under physiological conditions, and that this activity is encoded by synchronous [Ca2+]i oscillations. The sensitivity to detect variations in minute amounts of secreted materials is partially conferred by the fact that the tracer is released into a relatively confined space (the intraislet interstitial space).
Fertilization in the biflagellated eukaryote, Chlamydomonas, is initiated by flagellar adhesion between gametes of opposite mating types. An early event in the signal transduction pathway induced by these cell-cell interactions is the rapid inactivation of a flagellar protein kinase that phosphorylates a 48 kDa flagellar protein. Molecular cloning and characterization indicated that the 48 kDa substrate, termed SksC, itself is a novel protein kinase. Here, we have determined that its transcript levels were unchanged during prolonged flagellar adhesion. Moreover, resynthesis of new flagellar proteins following deflagellation was not accompanied by increases in transcript levels of SksC, suggesting that expression of this soluble protein kinase might not be restricted to flagella. Immunoblot analysis indicated that expression of SksC was ubiquitous: this soluble protein was found in both flagella and cell bodies and was expressed throughout the cell cycle and gametogenesis. Immunoprecipitation experiments indicated that SksC was phosphorylated in both flagella and cell bodies. Thus, in addition to its potential role in fertilization, this novel protein kinase may play a role in other signaling events in Chlamydomonas.
The cytoskeletal protein non-erythroid alpha-spectrin is well documented as an endogenous calpain substrate, especially under pathophysiological conditions. In cell necrosis (e.g. maitotoxin-treated neuroblastoma SH-SY5Y cells), alpha-spectrin breakdown products (SBDPs) of 150 kDa and 145 kDa were produced by cellular calpains. In contrast, in neuronal cells undergoing apoptosis (cerebellar granule neurons subjected to low potassium and SH-SY5Y cells treated with staurosporine), an additional SBDP of 120 kDa was also observed. The formation of the 120 kDa SBDP was insensitive to calpain inhibitors but was completely blocked by an interleukin 1 beta-converting-enzyme (ICE)-like protease inhibitor, Z-Asp-CH2OC(O)-2,6-dichlorobenzene. Autolytic activation of both calpain and the ICE homologue CPP32 was also observed in apoptotic cells. alpha-Spectrin can also be cleaved in vitro by purified calpains to produce the SBDP doublet of 150/145 kDa and by ICE and ICE homologues [ICH-1, ICH-2 and CPP32(beta)] to produce a 150 kDa SBDP. In addition, CPP32 and ICE also produced a 120 kDa SBDP. Furthermore inhibition of either ICE-like protease(s) or calpain protects both granule neurons and SH-SY5Y cells against apoptosis. Our results suggest that both protease families participate in the expression of neuronal apoptosis.
We measured the degree of inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate (IP3)-specific binding in platelets from alcoholic and nonalcoholic subjects. IP3-specific binding in alcoholic subjects was 45% less than that in nonalcoholic subjects. There was no significant difference in the number of IP3 receptors as detected immunologically in the platelet membrane fractions from alcoholic and nonalcoholic subjects. These results indicate that the decrease in IP3-specific binding in alcoholic subjects may have been due to a decreased affinity, but not number of IP3 binding sites. In contrast to the decrease in IP3 receptor binding, there were no significant changes in phospholipase-C activity or immunoreactivity of phospholipase C-beta 1 in platelet membranes from alcoholic subjects. The decreased IP3-specific binding in platelets may allow for the development of biological markers for alcoholism.
Kinetics of voltage-gated ionic channels fundamentally reflect the response of the channels to local electric fields. In this report cell-attached patch-clamp studies reveal that the voltage-dependent activation rate of sodium channels residing in the growth cone membrane differs from that of soma sodium channels in differentiating N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells. Because other electrophysiological properties of these channels do not differ, this finding may be a reflection of the difference in intramembrane electric field in these two regions of the cell. This represents a new mechanism for channels to attain a range of activities both within and between cells.
1. Using wire myography, we have examined the endothelin (ET) receptor subtypes mediating vasoconstriction to ET peptides in human pulmonary resistance arteries (150-200 microns, i.d.). 2. Cumulative concentration-response curves to ET-1, sarafotoxin 6c (SX6c) and ET-3 were constructed in the presence and absence of the selective antagonists FR 139317 (ETA-selective), BMS 182874 (ETA-selective) and BQ-788 (ETB-selective). 3. All agonists induced concentration-dependent contractions. However, the response curves to ET-1 were biphasic in nature. The first component demonstrated a shallow slope up to 1 nM ET-1. Above 1 nM ET-1 the response curve was markedly steeper. Maximum responses to ET-3 and SX6c were the same as those to 1 nM ET-1 and 30% of those to 0.1 microM ET-1. The order of potency, taking 0.3 microM as a maximum concentration was SX6c &gt; ET-3 &gt; ET-1 (pEC50 values of: 10.75 +/- 0.27, 9.05 +/- 0.19, 8.32 +/- 0.08 respectively). Taking 1 nM ET-1 as a maximum, the EC50 for ET-1 was 10.08 +/- 0.13 and therefore ET-1 was equipotent to ET-3 and SX6c over the first component of the response curve. 4. Responses to ET-1 up to 1 nM were resistant to the effects of the ETA receptor antagonists, FR 139317 and BMS 182874 but were inhibited by the ETB receptor antagonist, BQ-788. Conversely, responses to ET-1 over 1 nM were inhibited by the ETA receptor antagonists, FR 139317 and BMS 182874 but unaffected by the ETB receptor antagonist, BQ-788. 5. The results suggest that at concentrations up to 1 nM, responses to ET-1 are mediated via the ETB receptor, whilst the responses to higher concentrations are mediated by ETA receptors.
1. We investigated 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT)-receptor mediated vasoconstriction in the main, first branch and resistance pulmonary arteries removed from control and pulmonary hypertensive rats. Contractile responses to 5-HT, 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT, non-selective 5-HT1 agonist), and sumatriptan (5-HT1D-like receptor agonist) were studied. The effects of methiothepin (non-selective 5-HT1 + 2-receptor antagonist) and ketanserin (5-HT2A receptor antagonist) and GR55562 (a novel selective 5-HT1D receptor antagonist) on 5-HT-mediated responses were also studied. Basal levels of adenosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate ([cyclic AMP]i) and guanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate ([cyclic GMP]i) were determined and we assessed the degree of inherent tone in the vessels under study. 2. 5-HT was most potent in the resistance arteries. pEC50 values were 5.6 +/- 0.1, 5.3 +/- 0.1, 5.0 +/- 0.2 in the resistance arteries, pulmonary branch and main pulmonary artery, respectively (n = at least 5 from 5 animals). The sensitivity to, and maximum response of, 5-HT was increased in all the arteries removed from the chronic hypoxic (CH) rats. In CH rats the pEC50 values were 5.9 +/- 0.2, 6.3 +/- 0.2, 6.4 +/- 0.2 and the increase in the maximum response was 35%, 51% and 41% in the resistance arteries, pulmonary branch and main pulmonary artery, respectively. Sumatriptan did not contract any vessel from the control rats whilst 5-CT did contract the resistance arteries. In the CH rats, however, they both contracted the resistance arteries (responses to sumatriptan were small) (pEC50: 5-CT; 5.4 +/- 0.2) and the pulmonary artery branches (pEC50: sumatriptan, 5.4 +/- 0.2; 5-CT, 5.4 +/- 0.2). 5-CT also caused a contraction in the main pulmonary artery (pEC50: 6.0 +/- 0.3). 3. Ketanserin (1 nM-1 microM) caused a competitive antagonism of the 5-HT response in all vessels tested. In control rats, the estimated pKb values for ketanserin in resistance arteries, pulmonary branches and main pulmonary artery were 8.3, 7.8 and 9.2, respectively. Methiothepin (1 nM-1 microM) inhibited responses to 5-HT in the first branch (estimated pKb value: 7.8) and main pulmonary artery. In CH rats, the estimated pKb values for ketanserin in resistance arteries, pulmonary branches and main pulmonary artery were 7.7, 8.3 and 9.6, respectively. Methiothepin also inhibited contractions to 5-HT in the pulmonary artery branch and main pulmonary artery with estimated pKb values of 7 and 9.5, respectively. In control animals, GR55562 had no effect on responses to 5-HT in any of the vessels tested. In the CH rats the estimated pKb values for GR55562 were 6.5, 7.8 and 7.0 in the pulmonary resistance arteries, first branch and main pulmonary artery, respectively. 4. Large pulmonary arteries from controls demonstrated inherent tone and this was increased three fold in the CH rats. The resistance arteries from controls demonstrated little inherent tone though this was enhanced in those from the CH rats. 5. [Cyclic AMP]i was 259 +/- 23 pmol mg-1 protein in the pulmonary artery branches removed from control rats and decreased to 192 +/- 11 pml mg-1 protein in the CH rats (P &lt; 0.01, n = 8). [Cyclic GMP]i also decreased in the pulmonary artery branches (from 550 +/- 15, control to 462 +/- 31 pmol mg-1 protein in CH vessels, n = 8, P &lt; 0.01) and in the main pulmonary arteries (from 566 +/- 33, control to 370 +/- 25 pmol mg-1 protein in CH vessels, n = 8, P &lt; 0.001). No changes in either [cyclic AMP]i or [cyclic GMP]i were observed in the resistance arteries. 6. The results suggest that the increased vasoconstrictor response to 5-HT in CH rat pulmonary arteries is due to an increase in 5-HT2A-receptor mediated contraction combined with an increase in r5-HT1B-like receptor-mediated contraction. An increase in vascular tone and decreased levels of [cyclic GMP]i in the large pulmonary arteries may contribute to the observed increase in activity of r5-HT1B-like receptor
The expression of four genes: zif/268, c-fos, tubulin and alpha Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (alpha CAMKII) was studied following the induction of LTP in Schaffer collateral CA1 neurone synapses in rat hippocampal slices maintained in vitro. Levels of c-fos mRNA and tubulin (T26) mRNA in area CA1 were unchanged after induction of LTP, however, zif/268 and alpha CAMKII mRNA levels showed a significant increase compared to non-potentiated controls. It is possible, therefore, to measure changes in gene expression using in situ hybridisation following induction of LTP in vitro and these results strengthen the theory that zif/268 and alpha CAMKII are involved in some aspect of the induction or maintenance of hippocampal LTP.
We have investigated the role of protein kinase C (PK-C) in luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH)-induced testosterone secretion from purified rat Leydig cells (70-80-day old Sprague-Dawley rats) by pretreating the cells in vitro with 200 mM phorbol 12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) (a known procedure to down-modulate this enzyme in most cell types) and 1 muM [D-Ala6,Des-Gly10]-LHRH ethylamide, an LHRH agonist (LHRH-A). Following pretreatment we measured PK-C activity and secretion of testosterone in response to subsequent challenges with the PK-C activator PDBu (20-2000 nM) and with LHRH (0.001-1.0 muM) and the Ca(2+)-mobilizing secretagogue A23187 (0.1-100 microM) in the same cell preparation. PDBu and LHRH-A pretreatments caused a reduction in testosterone secretion in response to subsequent exposure to PDBu or LHRH. Both pretreatments decreased PK-C activity in crude and purified extracts of the same cells. The magnitude of reduction of the secretory response was greater than that of enzyme activity for both PDBu and LHRH-A pretreatment (68.9% reduction of testosterone secretion vs 54.7% reduction of PK-C activity in PDBu-pretreated cells and 78.6% reduction of testosterone production vs 36.6% reduction of PK-C activity in LHRH-A-pretreated cells). The effect of phorbol ester pretreatment on PDBu- or LHRH-stimulated testosterone secretion and PK-C activity was specific (no measurable effect with 4 alpha-PDBu, an inactive phorbol ester). While PDBu and LHRH-A pretreatment reduced Leydig cell responsiveness to PDBu or LHRH, the secretion of testosterone in response to the Ca2+ -mobilizing secretagogue A23187 was similar in PDBu- and LHRH-A-pretreated and in control (non-pretreated) cells. We conclude that down-modulation of protein kinase C by prolonged exposure of Leydig cells to phorbol esters or LHRH-A results in decreased PK-C activity and testosterone secretion. These results provide the first evidence that pretreatment with LHRH-A, which does not enter the cell, can affect the steroidogenesis and PK-C activity responses to PDBu (the intracellular ligand of PK-C).

The expression patterns of serine/threonine kinase receptors in the central nervous system of the developing and adult rat were studied by in situ hybridization. The recently cloned bone morphogenetic factor receptor type II (BMPR-II) was compared with the ActR-II and several type I receptors including ActR-I, ActR-IB, BMPR-IA, BMPR-IB and TbetaR-I. We found that these receptors are spatially and temporally regulated. As early as embryonic day 11 (E11), BMPR-II mRNA was expressed in the neuroepithelium in brain and spinal cord. At E15, the expression of ActR-II mRNA was stronger than that of BMPR-II in the spinal cord, followed in intensity by the expression of ActR-I, ActR-IB, BMPR-IA, BMPR-IB and TbetaR-I mRNA. The BMP type I receptors were expressed only in the ependymal epithelium and in the sympathetic ganglia at E15. Many of the examined receptor mRNAs were expressed at peak levels in the brain around birth. In the adult brain, mRNA for BMPR-II was expressed in different patterns together with ActR-II and ActR-I. Thus, BMPR-II mRNA was found in neurons of the cortex, dentate gyrus, hippocampus, habenula and substantia nigra. ActR-II, ActR-I, ActR-IB and, weakly, TbetaR-I were all expressed in the dentate gyrus. In contrast mRNA for BMPR-IA and BMPR-IB was not found in the adult brain. It is suggested that the expressed receptors may mediate actions of members of the TGFbeta superfamily, e.g. BMPs, controlling the development and plasticity in the nervous system.
Glial-cell-line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) is a distant member of the transforming growth factor-beta family and has potent neurotrophic effects on several classes of neurons including dopamine neurons and motoneurons. Here, we have used in situ hybridization to describe the development of the cellular expression of GDNF mRNA pre- and postnatally. Consistent with dopaminotrophic activity, GDNF mRNA is expressed in the developing basal ganglia and the olfactory tubercle. It is also found in a thalamic nucleus, in neurons of the substantia innominata, in the developing Purkinje neurons and the developing locus coeruleus area, and in trigeminal brainstem nuclei. In the spinal cord, neuronal expression is found in Clarke's column. GDNF mRNA is also expressed in the dorsal horns during development. Additional GDNF mRNA expression in the head region includes the carotid body, the retina, the vibrissae, the inner ear, the ear canal, and epithelium in the nasal cavity. Prominent expression is also found in the developing teeth. The widespread expression of GDNF in developing skeletal muscle is consistent with trophic activity on alpha-motoneurons. The smooth muscle layers of the gastrointestinal tract are also strongly positive. A very strong signal is found in the outer mesenchyme of the developing metanephric kidney. We conclude that GDNF mRNA is expressed in many different cellular systems inside and outside the central nervous system during development, suggesting multiple functions of GDNF in the developing organism.
This review presents a comprehensive survey of the recently described pharmacological activities of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor on the central nervous system.
In slices of visual cortex, long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic responses in layer III can be evoked by high-frequency stimulation of a site in the middle of the cortical thickness, corresponding mainly to layer IV. In contrast, stimulation of the white matter-layer VI border typically fails to evoke LTP in adult visual cortex unless GABAA receptors are partially blocked. We performed current-source density (CSD) analysis to determine how the patterns of cortical activation compare under these different stimulation conditions. Single-pulse stimulation of the middle layers (corresponding to layer IV and superficial V) and the deep layers (corresponding to white matter and deep layer VI) yielded very similar CSD patterns. The major current sinks were located within 500 mu m of the pia, corresponding to layers II and III, regardless of the stimulation site. The amplitude of all current sinks was diminished, and the latency was increased, in the presence of high concentrations of divalent cations (12 mM Ca2+ and 12 mM mg2+). Nonetheless, the major synaptic current sink was still present at a depth of approximately 400 microns regardless of the site of stimulation, indicating that stimulation of either site leads to monosynaptic EPSCs in layer III. However, superficial sinks, at a depth of approximately 200 microns, were virtually eliminated by high concentrations of divalent cations after deep layer stimulation, but not after middle layer stimulation, suggesting that stimulation at the two sites recruits different monosynaptic circuits. This conclusion was supported by experiments using paired-pulse stimulation of the two sites (12.5 ms interstimulus interval). While there was little evidence of a paired-pulse interaction after stimulation of the middle layers, there was marked paired-pulse suppression of superficial layer III current sinks after stimulation of the deep layers. Taken together, the data suggest a model in which deep layer stimulation activates the dendrites of layer III cells by a monosynaptic route and by a disynaptic route. The disynaptic input originates in the middle cortical layers and is controlled by inhibition. Differences in synaptic plasticity evoked from the different sites could be explained if the recruitment of middle layer inputs were required for the generation of LTP in layer III.
Ptosis and downgaze paralysis, in a case of vascular insufficiency, were the result of a specific loss of levator palpebrae (LP) motoneurons in the oculomotor nucleus, and a partial cell loss in the rostral interstitial nucleus of the MLF (riMLF), respectively. In a previous case with similar symptoms there was a comparable riMLF cell loss, but some LP motoneurons were spared; in addition there was destruction of a cell group on the mesencephalic midline, which projects to all motoneurons involved in upward eye movements including LP. This cell group is called the M-group in the monkey. The M-group was intact in the present, but not in the previous case, which may have contributed to the ptosis and to the loss of upward ocular pursuit in the latter. The results show that there is more than one premotor cell group responsible for upward eye movements in the rostral mesencephalon.

By limiting stereopsis to measuring the distance of moving objects against a stationary background, insects can employ simple stratagems for solving the problems of stereoscopic range finding.
Pronounced effects of attention have been demonstrated in a region of visual cortex previously thought to be devoid of such influences; identifying the features critical for eliciting these effects should teach us a great deal about the neural underpinnings of visual attention.

Although sleep and anesthesia are distinctly different states of consciousness, they manifest some common physiologic traits, including respiratory depression. Support is lacking for the concept of any unitary mechanism causing the loss of wakefulness and the respiratory depression associated with sleep or anesthesia. A recently emerging view is that brain mechanisms, which have evolved to generate naturally occurring states of consciousness, are preferentially involved in generating traits characterizing some anesthetic states. The brain stem reticular formation mediates four functions of direct relevance for sleep and anesthesia. Recent work is selectively reviewed showing that brain stem cholinergic and monoaminergic neurons alter breathing while modulating behavioral states, muscle tone, cardiopulmonary control, and pain sensation. The ability of these four functions to influence breathing also makes clear their potential to serve as confounding variables in experimental models from which they are ignored or systematically excluded.
In this study the best combination of quantitative electroencephalographic variables (qEEG) for the discrimination of groups with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease (AD), mild cognitive impairment and healthy subjects was defined and related to neuropsychological performance. The study population included 18 patients with mild to moderate probable AD, 19 subjects with objective memory disturbance, 17 subjects with subjective memory complaints who did not have clinical evidence of memory disturbance, and 16 healthy controls. AD patients had significantly increased theta and decreased alpha relative power, mean frequency, and temporoparietal coherence. There was no significant difference in the mean frequency in the left temporal region between AD patients and subjects with objective memory disturbances. Temporoparietal coherence appeared as a discriminant variable together with alpha and theta relative power only between AD patients and controls giving 77.8% sensitivity and 100% specificity. Significant correlations between regional changes in qEEG variables and cognitive functions were found.
A regional population-based survey identified six patients with pyridoxine dependency. Four presented on the first day of life and the other two at 1 and 8 months of age. Apart from multiple seizure types, other presenting features included jitteriness; encephalopathy, at first thought to be hypoxic-ischaemic; hepatomegaly, and abdominal distension with bilious vomiting. Later problems included break-through fits with fever; transient visual agnosia; squint; severe articulatory apraxia; motor delay with later dyspraxia; macrocephaly, and post-haemorrhagic hydrocephalus. Magnetic resonance imaging showed variable structural abnormalities in all the early onset cases. Psychometric assessment revealed a stereotyped pattern of intelligence scale subtest scores, with a specific impairment of expressive verbal ability. In a prospective open study over one year, an increased dose of pyridoxine was associated with an improvement in IQ, particularly in performance subtests. Pyridoxine dependency is more common than has been thought. It has a wider range of clinical features than the classical neonatal seizures and causes specific impairments of higher function, some of which may be reversible. The dosage of pyridoxine should be optimal for IQ as well as seizure control.
We have examined the development of specific muscle fiber types in zebrafish axial muscle by labeling myogenic precursor cells with vital fluorescent dyes and following their subsequent differentiation and fate. Two populations of muscle precursors, medial and lateral, can be distinguished in the segmental plate by position, morphology and gene expression. The medial cells, known as adaxial cells, are large, cuboidal cells adjacent to the notochord that express myoD. Surprisingly, after somite formation, they migrate radially away from the notochord, becoming a superficial layer of muscle cells. A subset of adaxial cells develop into engrailed-expressing muscle pioneers. Adaxial cells differentiate into slow muscle fibers of the adult fish. We have named the lateral population of cells in the segmental plate, lateral presomitic cells. They are smaller, more irregularly shaped and separated from the notochord by adaxial cells; they do not express myoD until after somite formation. Lateral presomitic cells remain deep in the myotome and they differentiate into fast muscle fibers. Thus, slow and fast muscle fiber types in zebrafish axial muscle arise from distinct populations of cells in the segmental plate that develop in different cellular environments and display distinct behaviors.
The bag cell neurons of Aplysia synthesize an egg-laying hormone (ELH) precursor that initially is cleaved into two fragments in the Golgi apparatus, and the fragments are differentially packaged in separate granule populations and further processed. Aplysia Afurin, Afurin2, prohormone convertase 1 (PC1), and PC2 are thought to be involved in the posttranslational processing of the ELH prohormone. In the present study, we have cloned Aplysia neuronal cDNAs that encode an enzyme most closely related to mammalian carboxypeptidase E (CPE), a peptide hormone processing enzyme that removes basic residues during prohormone processing. Northern blot analysis identified a single Aplysia CPE mRNA (approximately 5.2 kb) in central nervous system tissue. The C-terminal region of Aplysia CPE contains amphiphilic alpha-helices that may serve as a hydrophobic membrane anchor. A novel neuronal Aplysia enzyme was also identified by the polymerase chain reaction that was most closely related to the carboxypeptidase D (CPD)-related duck protein gp180 and the Drosophila silver gene carboxypeptidases. Aplysia CPE and the CPD-related enzyme are candidate processing enzymes that may play a role in the processing of the ELH prohormone and other Aplysia prohormones.
Previous morphological and physiological evidence indicates that the adrenal medulla can modulate adrenocortical steroidogenesis, most likely via paracrine or neuronal interactions. To study directly chromaffin-adrenocortical cellular interactions, we previously developed co-cultures of frog (Rana pipiens) adrenal (interrenal) cells. Importantly, chromaffin cells in these co-cultures extend processes that project toward or onto adrenocortical cells, thereby providing the substrate for direct autonomic regulation of adrenocortical function and also mimicking the organization in vivo. To test whether chromaffin cells in our co-cultures affect adrenocortical steroidogenesis, we used veratridine, a sodium ionophore, to depolarize chromaffin cells. Chronic veratridine (50 microM) results in increased corticosterone secretion on days 3 (950%), and 4 (350%). These results indicate that chromaffin cell activation results in the modulation of corticosteroidogenesis.
In the South African clawed toad Xenopus laevis, background adaptation is regulated by alpha MSH, a POMC-derived peptide. After transfer of the animal from a black to a white background, secretion of alpha MSH from the intermediate pituitary lobe is inhibited by the hypothalamic neurotransmitter neuropeptide Y (NPY). The neurointermediate lobe in vitro is also subject to inhibitory regulation by dopamine and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). In the nerve terminals contacting the intermediate lobe of the pituitary, GABA is contained in electron-lucent vesicles, whereas dopamine and NPY coexist in electron-dense vesicles. To study the role of these secreto-inhibitors in the regulation of POMC biosynthesis, the rate of incorporation of radioactive amino acids into POMC protein was determined after in vitro treatment of the neurointermediate pituitary with NPY, apomorphine (dopamine D2 receptor agonist), isoguvacine (GABAA receptor agonist) and baclofen (GABAB receptor agonist). After 24 h of treatment, inhibition of POMC biosynthesis by NPY and apomorphine was 77% and 74%, respectively. Isoguvacine treatment resulted in an inhibition of 59%, whereas no significant effect of baclofen was observed. When neurointermediate lobes were treated for 3 days, inhibition of POMC biosynthesis by NPY was maintained, and inhibition by apomorphine was even stronger, whereas isoguvacine gave an inhibition of 52%, and baclofen produced 34% inhibition. Superfusion experiments on alpha MSH secretion showed that prolonged treatment with the GABA receptor agonists results in a desensitization of GABA receptor-mediated signal transduction mechanisms, whereas the NPY receptor does not show desensitization. The observations indicate differential actions of the secreto-inhibitors NPY, apomorphine, and GABA agonists on POMC biosynthesis in the Xenopus intermediate pituitary, suggesting a major role for dopamine and NPY, whereas GABA, acting via two receptor types, does not seem to have a major function in long term control of POMC biosynthesis.
The present study analyses the effects of the stage of learning on the spatial patterns and time-course of [14C]glucose uptake in BALB/c mice brain regions produced by spatial discrimination training in an eight-arm radial maze. Our particular approach was designed to follow, during the post-training period, the level of functional activity in individual brain areas which may underlie the memory consolidation process. Regional mapping of relative [14C]glucose uptake was assessed at three post-training time intervals (5 min, 1 and 3 h) after either the first (Day 1), the fourth (Day 4) or the last (Day 9) daily training session of the discrimination task and compared with sham-conditioned animals placed in the same experimental environment. The results indicated that numerous subcortical and cortical brain regions exhibit metabolic alterations following the acquisition of the spatial discrimination task. These alterations, which were specifically related to learning since they did not appear in sham-conditioned animals, were functions both of the post-training interval studied and of the degree of mastery of the task. On Day 1, a progressive, time-dependent and sequential increase in labelling was found from subcortical (5 min post-training) to cortical regions (3 h post-training). On Day 4, a peak of cortical metabolic activation was identified at 1 h post-training. In contrast, on Day 9, maximum labelling was found 5 min post-training in all subcortical and cortical regions followed by a general monotonic decline at 1 and 3 h post-training. These findings, which show widely distributed changes of metabolic activity in the brain, are consistent with the hypothesis that learning involves distributed neural networks. The sequential activation from subcortical to cortical regions seems to indicate a general mechanism whose function would ultimately be to store cortical memory representations. The acquisition-dependent shifts in the patterns of post-training metabolic labelling observed as a function of task mastery may be taken to represent a visualization of the spatio-temporal evolution of the networks of brain structures actively engaged in the memory consolidation process. In particular, the present data suggest that the duration of post-acquisition memory processing is a function of the quantity of new information which has to be dealt with by the central nervous system.
5-Hydroxytryptamine-1A (5-HT1A) receptor agonists, including flesinoxan, reduce anxiety and activate the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis under basal conditions. In order to investigate the underlying neural mechanisms we investigated immunoreactivity for the immediate early gene protein product Fos (Fos-ir) in rat brains 1 h after flesinoxan treatment (0.0, 0.3 or 3.0 mg/kg p.o.). Typically, 5-HT1A receptor-containing brain areas, such as the dorsal raphe nuclei, hippocampus, septum, diagonal band and the cortical and basomedial amygdala, do not show Fos-ir. Apparently, binding of flesinoxan at the 5-HT1A receptor does not directly lead to activation of c-fos in the cell, probably due to its negative coupling to adenylate cyclase. However, in typically non-5HT1A receptor-containing brain areas Fos-ir is increased due to flesinoxan treatment, as in the paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus (PVN), the dorsolateral part of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (BNSTdl) and the central amygdala (CeA). Flesinoxan-treated rats also exhibited higher plasma corticosterone levels than vehicle-treated animals, which suggests the involvement of corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) or vasopressin in the hypothalamus. After double immunolabelling (Fos/CRH or Fos/vasopressin), every CRH neuron detected in the PVN also contained Fos. Moreover, a significant correlation existed between the number of Fos-ir neurons in the PVN and the plasma corticosterone level. Hardly any Fos/vasopressin double labelling was visible in the PVN. Accordingly, flesinoxan exerts its activating effects on the HPA axis via CRH neurons in the PVN. These effects are trans-synaptically mediated by other brain areas, such as the CeA and BNSTdl, which also show increased Fos-ir.
The lamprey normally swims with the dorsal side up. Illumination of one eye shifts the set-point of the vestibular roll control system, however, so that the animal swims with a roll tilt towards the source of light (the dorsal light response). A tilted orientation is often maintained for up to 1 min after the stimulation. In present study, the basis for this behaviour was investigated at the neuronal level. The middle rhombencephalic reticular nucleus (MRRN) is considered a main nucleus for the control of roll orientation in lampreys. Practically all MRRN neurons receive vestibular and visual input and project to the spinal cord. Earlier extracellular experiments had shown that optic nerve stimulation potentiates the response to vestibular stimulation in the ipsilateral MRRN. This most likely represents a neural correlate of the dorsal light response. Experiments were carried out in vitro on the isolated brainstem of the silver lamprey (Ichthyomyzon unicuspis). MRRN cells were recorded intracellularly, and the overall activity of descending systems was monitored with bilateral extracellular electrodes. The responses to 10 Hz optic nerve stimulation and 1 Hz vestibular nerve stimulation, and the influence of optic nerve stimulation on the vestibular responses, were investigated. In most preparations, optic nerve stimulation excited practically all ipsilateral MRRN cells. After stimulation, the cell was typically depolarized and showed an increased level of synaptic noise for up to 80 s. In contralateral MRRN neurons, optic nerve stimulation usually evoked hyperpolarization or no response. Vestibular nerve stimulation evoked compound excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) or spikes in approximately 90% of the cells, both ipsilaterally and contralaterally. A smaller subpopulation of MRRN cells (approximately 10%) received vestibular inhibition. In 26 of 48 recorded MRRN cells, the response to vestibular stimulation was potentiated after ipsilateral optic nerve stimulation. The potentiation was seen in cells receiving either excitatory or inhibitory vestibular input as an increase in EPSP amplitude/spiking (85%) and a decrease in inhibitory postsynaptic potential amplitude (15%) respectively. In most cases the vestibular responses did not return to control levels during the testing period (10-30 min), and thus the visual stimulation most likely induced long-lasting changes in the functional connectivity of the role control network, in addition to the short-lasting afteractivity. In four of the 11 cells recorded contralateral to the stimulated optic nerve, a depression of the vestibular response could be seen. In potentiated cells, single vestibular pulses often evoked longer episodes of large synaptic noise and sometimes spiking. In the latter case, the action potentials appeared with highly variable latency after each stimulation pulse. This indicates that an important mechanism underlying the potentiation may be a long-lasting increase in excitability in a pool of unidentified interneurons located either upstream of the MRRN cells, relaying vestibular and visual inputs, or downstream, providing positive feedback.
We contrast two statistical methods: three-dimensional cluster analysis and statistical parametric mapping. We show that three-dimensional cluster analysis is based on a neurobiological theory of the regulation of blood flow and, unlike statistical parametric mapping, carries a minimum of assumptions that are tested. Statistical parametric mapping is a formal approach, which is based on a multitude of assumptions of which the majority have not been validated. We also demonstrate that in practice three-dimensional cluster analysis has a reasonable balance between sensitivity and the probability of false positives, giving high reproducibility with data on e.g. colour discrimination.
The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor polyamine site antagonist, ifenprodil, had no effect on spontaneous alteration or locomotor activity in the Y-maze when given alone. The NMDA receptor/ion channel blocker, dizocilpine, induced a deficit in spontaneous alteration, but when ifenprodil was co-administered with dizocilpine, it showed a strong tendency to attenuate the dizocilpine-induced deficit. In the plus-maze, ifenprodil had an anxiolytic profile which was accompanied by an increase in locomotion. Dizocilpine had an anxiolytic profile in this model and increased locomotor activity. When co-administered with dizocilpine, ifenprodil reduced both the anxiolytic and locomotor effects of dizocilpine. When co-administered with ifenprodil, cyclopentyladenosine (CPA) and 1,3-dipropyl-8-cyclopentylxanthine (CPX) reduced the anxiolytic effect of ifenprodil. CPA and CPX in combination did not reverse the anxiolytic effect of ifenpropil. It is concluded that NMDA antagonists with different sites of action can show distinct behavioural profiles, with dizocilpine but not ifenprodil inducing a deficit in working memory, while both are anxiolytic. Blockade of NMDA receptors by ifenprodil, however, can preclude any response to dizocilpine. The anxiolytic activity of ifenprodil may involve the release of purines acting at adenosine receptors.
Cholecystokinin (CCK) plays an important role in both the alimentary tract and the central nervous system (CNS). At present it seems to be the most abundant neuropeptide in the CNS. This paper reviews the CCK neuronal system and its interactions with gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) and serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT). In addition, its putative role in anxiety will be discussed on the basis of animal data and studies in healthy volunteers and panic disorder patients. According to these investigations, the CCK4 challenge test fulfills most criteria for an ideal panicogenic agent and evidence has been found that CCKB receptor antagonists might possess anxiolytic properties in man.
The effect of unilateral transection of the sciatic nerve on expression of immunoreactive galanin (GAL), galanin-message-associated peptide (GMAP) and neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY) in dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) was studied in wild-type mice and in leukemia inhibitory factor (LIF)-deficient mice. In normal and contralateral DRGs small numbers of weakly fluorescent GAL- and GMAP-positive neuronal cell bodies and numerous positive fibers were observed. No NPY-positive cell bodies but a few fibers surrounding blood vessels were seen. In LIF deficient mice hardly any GAL- or GMAP-positive neurons or fibers were seen, nor was NPY-like immunoreactivity present in cell bodies. After axotomy there was a dramatic upregulation of all three peptides in wild-type DRG neurons, whereby 50-60% of the neuron profiles, encompassing both small and large profiles, were GAL- and GMAP-immunoreactive (IR). About one third of all neuron profiles, mainly large ones, were NPY-positive. In LIF-deficient mice this upregulation was much less pronounced. Thus GAL- and GMAP-IR neuron profiles were reduced by 65-70% compared with the wild-type mice. The number of NPY-positive neuron profiles was reduced to half but this difference was not significant. There was also an ipsilateral decrease in fluorescence intensity for all three peptide immunoreactivities in the LIF-deficient mice as compared with wild-type mice after axotomy. There was no apparent difference in size between, respectively, GAL- and GMAP-positive profiles when comparing LIF-deficient and wild-type mice before or after axotomy. There were, however, no small NPY-IR profiles in the LIF-deficient group. The present results suggests that LIF is important for the dramatic upregulation of GAL and GMAP seen after axotomy. It may also be important for the normal expression of galanin in mouse DRGs, since wild-type mice seemed to have somewhat more positive cell bodies and more fluorescent fibers. LIF seems to be less important for the control of NPY synthesis, but may be involved in NPY regulation in small-sized neurons.
We examined the lower limb joint kinematics observed during pre- and postflight treadmill walking performed by seven subjects from three Space Shuttle flights flown between March 1992 and February 1994. Basic temporal characteristics of the gait patterns, such as stride time and duty cycle, showed no significant changes after flight. Evaluation of phaseplane variability across the gait cycle suggests that postflight treadmill walking is more variable than preflight, but the response throughout the course of a cycle is joint dependent and, furthermore, the changes are subject dependent. However, analysis of the phaseplane variability at the specific locomotor events of heel strike and toe off indicated statistically significant postflight increases in knee variability at the moment of heel strike and significantly higher postflight hip joint variability at the moment of toe off. Nevertheless, the observation of component-specific variability was not sufficient to cause a change in the overall lower limb joint system stability, since there was no significant change in an index used to evaluate this at both toe off and heel strike. The implications of the observed lower limb kinematics for head and gaze control during locomotion are discussed in light of a hypothesized change in the energy attenuation capacity of the musculoskeletal system in adapting to weightlessness.
Previous light and electron microscopic studies in rat and cat have shown that transection of peripheral sensory nerve branches leads to alterations in the central branches of primary sensory neurons, so-called transganglionic changes. In this study the changes in choleragenoid (B)-horseradish peroxidase B-HRP-labeled primary sensory terminals and axons in the trigeminal nuclear complex 3-90 days following transection of vibrissae nerves in the rat have been studied. Since regeneration of the transected vibrissa nerve was not prevented, these experiments allowed the examination of degenerative changes in the earlier stage after nerve injury as well as those present during nerve regeneration and target reinnervation. Two different experimental approaches were used, depending on the postlesion survival time. For short-term experiments the deep vibrissa nerve was injected with a solution of B-HRP. Forty-eight hours later the nerve was transected at its entry in the follicle, and after survival times ranging from 3 to 15 days sections from the subnucleus caudalis and spinal trigeminal nucleus, were prepared for electron microscopic examination. For long-term experiments involving a 16- to 90-day posttransection survival time, the deep vibrissa nerve was cut first. Then B-HRP was injected into the reinnervated follicle 2 days before killing the rats. Atypical HRP-labeled terminals were seen from 4 to 90 days survival time. The changes observed included atypical swollen vesicles or lack of vesicles in parts of the terminals apposed to the synaptic cleft. Other terminals displayed dense clusters of vesicles, flocculent cytoplasm, and/or neurofilamentous hyperplasia. No evidence of complete disintegration or phagocytosis by glial cells was observed. From 4 to 12 days survival time the changes were most commonly seen in the larger terminals, from 19-90 days in smaller terminals. From 10 days survival time and onward, changes in axons were observed. The most commonly seen alterations were axons with expanded myelin sheaths. Normal-labeled terminals were seen at all survival times examined. Compared with earlier studies of transganglionic changes in the vibrissa system occurring after infraorbital nerve or vibrissa row nerve injury, the changes seen in this study are less pronounced. These observations indicate (1) that the initial changes in the central processes of peripherally injured vibrissae nerves are less extensive than those occurring after infraorbital nerve transection, possibly because of the distally located lesion, and (2) that transganglionic changes occur also after the injured nerve has regenerated.
A dorsal column (DC) lesion has lasting effects on behavioral tasks that require temporal processing of tactile information (e.g., frequency and duration discrimination). The present experiments describe physiological correlates of these deficits in temporal discrimination. Compound action potentials evoked by electrocutaneous stimulation were recorded from the major white matter subdivisions of the spinal cord in anesthetized monkeys, and relationships between stimulation frequency and evoked potential (EP) amplitude were determined for the ascending pathways. At 10 pulses per second (Hz) EPs recorded in the lateral spinal columns were attenuated slightly (by 15% or less, relative to 1.5 Hz), whereas potentials recorded from the DCs were not attenuated. The attenuation increased with stimulation frequencies up to 50 Hz, reaching 80% for the anterolateral column and 38% for the dorsolateral column, but only 15% for the DC. Epidural EPs were recorded, before and after interruption of the contralateral DC, from awake animals with electrodes chronically implanted over primary somatosensory cortex (SI). Following the lesion. EP responses to 1.5-Hz stimulation were 46% of preoperative responses to the same stimulus. At 10 Hz, EP amplitudes were attenuated even more, to 27% of the preoperative amplitude at 1.5 Hz. Principal components analysis was employed to quantify alterations in EP conformation and stimulus frequency was varied from 1.5 to 10 Hz, before and after a DC lesion. Interruption of the DC resulted in a significant decrease in the information provided by the EP about changes in stimulus frequency. EPs were also recorded from different locations along the anterior-posterior dimension of the hindlimb region of SI in lightly anesthetized animals. Principal components analysis revealed that there was less information present in the EP about changes in stimulus frequency (1.5-10 Hz) at all recording locations in animals with a DC lesion, compared with the cortex of normal animals. The DC lesion significantly decreased the amplitude of cortical EPs evoked by repetitive stimulation. At 10 Hz the EP was nearly buried in noise, consistent with behavioral deficits in discrimination of the duration of 10 Hz stimulation following interruption of the DC. Also, significantly less information was present in the cortical EPs about changes in stimulus frequency in the absence of intact DCs, which is consistent with deficits in frequency discrimination. This reduction could be explained in part by a lesser capacity of spinal pathways in the lateral column to follow repetitive stimulation above 10 Hz. However, more rostral manifestations of a DC lesion, at either the thalamus or the cortex, are likely to contribute to the reduced capacity of animals with DC lesions to make temporal discriminations.

Olfactory neuroepithelial cells (ONC) grown from biopsies of human donors are a novel cell culture system that may facilitate studies into normal and disease-related human neurobiology. We further characterized the expression of cell surface markers and intermediate filaments, and responses to neurotrophic factors by ONC. ONC are positive for cell surface markers N-CAM, PSA-N-CAM, neutral endopeptidase, N-aminopeptidase, NGF low-affinity receptor homologue (CD40), and transferrin receptor by flow cytometry for the intermediate filament proteins peripherin, vimentin, and NF-H by immunocytochemistry. Responses to neurotrophic factors measured were process outgrowth, cytoskeletal protein expression, and protein phosphorylation. Process outgrowth was increased by interleukin-beta 164-171 (IL-1beta) or by the combination of IL-1beta, interleukin-6 (IL-6), nerve growth factor (NGF), and basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF). This combination of IL-1beta, IL-6, NGF, and bFGF (16NF) increased expression of two cytoskeletal proteins, NF-H protein and microtubule-associated protein tau. Application of the individual neurotrophic factors IL-1beta, IL-6, NGF, and bFGF increased protein phosphorylation, while 16NF produced an immediate increase in tyrosine phosphorylation of several proteins (MW of 40-80, 120, 150, and 190 kDa). The 16NF combination appears to act through a tyrosine-kinase-mediated pathway to induce process extension and increase NF-H expression. The ONC culture has the potential to be further explored to examine the relationship among process outgrowth, protein phosphorylation, and synergy between neurotrophin and cytokine receptor systems.
Although neuronal pathology and synaptic loss are salient features of Alzheimer's disease (AD), the underlying mechanisms involved are unknown. Using double-immunolabeled preparations, we found that both the density and the total lengths of axons are decreased within the A(beta)-containing area of senile plaques (SP) in comparison with the adjacent neuropil. These observations suggest that axotomy is occurring in the vicinity of the SP which could account for the synaptic loss. Since A(beta) in solution has been shown to be neurotoxic in vitro, we tested whether intact SP cores isolated from AD brain were equally detrimental when presented to retinal ganglion neurons. Surprisingly, SPs did not appear to be toxic or even repulsive to neurons since they adhered well and elaborated axons which wrapped tightly around the SP core. In the presence of cortical astrocytes, however, neurons appeared to avoid SP cores. We found that astrocytes accumulate and deposit chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) around SP cores in vitro in a pattern similar to that observed around SPs in Alzheimer's disease brain. Neuronal avoidance of astrocyte-conditioned SP cores could be due to the axon outgrowth inhibitory nature of CSPGs. These results suggest that astrocytic reaction to SPs, including increased CSPGs, may facilitate the decreased axon density and synaptic loss in AD brain. Moreover, the similarities between swollen axon endings following axotomy in trauma and the dystrophic neurites of the SP suggest that dystrophic neurites in AD may be exhibiting regenerative failure rather than aberrant sprouting.
The amyloid burden and relationship between amyloid deposits and neural elements were investigated in sections of prefrontal neocortex from eight Alzheimer's disease (AD) patients and four age-matched nondemented controls with high amyloid plaque density (HPND). Computer-based image analysis revealed that the total area occupied by betaA4 immunoreactivity was significantly greater (P &lt; 0.031) in AD (27.1%) than in HPND (14.5%) sections. The total betaA4-positive area occupied by nondiffuse plaques was significantly greater (P &lt; 0.05) in AD (13.6%) than in HPND (5.2%) sections. The percentage of diffuse (DPs) and nondiffuse plaques (NDPs) which contained neurons, astrocytes, microglia, dystrophic neurites, and amyloid precursor protein (APP) was also determined. The frequency of association between betaA4 and these neural elements was similar between AD and HPND cases in both diffuse and nondiffuse plaques. Forty percent of DPs in AD and HPND sections contained neuronal perikarya. Microglia, dystrophic neurites, and APP were detected in most nondiffuse plaques in both AD and HPND sections. While astrocyte cell bodies were not present in either diffuse or nondiffuse plaques, their processes were detected in most. These findings indicate that amyloid deposition and nondiffuse plaques are greater in AD than in HPND sections. The association between microglia and nondiffuse plaques supports the hypothesis that these resident immune cells participate in aggregation and redistribution of amyloid deposits and possibly formation of dystrophic neurites.
In vivo imaging of patients with Alzheimer's disease using positron emission tomography (PET) demonstrates progressive reductions in brain glucose metabolism and blood flow in relation to dementia severity, more so in association than primary cortical regions. These reductions likely follow regional synaptic loss or dysfunction and reflect physiological down-regulation of gene expression for glucose delivery, oxidative phosphorylation (OXPHOS), and energy consumption in brain. Indeed, the pattern of down-regulation of expression for both mitochondrial and nuclear genes coding for subunits of OXPHOS enzymes in the Alzheimer brain resembles the pattern of down-regulation in normal brain caused by chronic sensory deprivation. In both cases, down-regulation likely is mediated by changes in transcriptional and posttranscriptional regulatory factors. Physiological down-regulation of OXPHOS gene expression in Alzheimer's is consistent with PET evidence that cognitive or psychophysical activation of mildly to moderately demented Alzheimer's patients can augment brain-blood flow and glucose metabolism to the same extent as in control subjects. If the primary neuronal defect that leads to reduced brain energy demand in Alzheimer's disease could be prevented or treated, brain glucose transport and OXPHOS enzyme activities might recover to normal levels.

Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) is an autosomal dominant spinocerebellar degeneration originally described in families of Portuguese-Azorean ancestry. The hypothesis that its present world distribution could result from the spread of an original founder mutation has been raised. To test this possibility we have conducted a linkage disequilibrium study of markers segregating with the MJD1 locus in a total of 64 unrelated families of different geographical origins. Significant association was detected between the MJD1 locus and marker alleles at loci D14S280, D14S1050 and D14S81. All affected individuals, except one Chinese family, had allele 3 (237 bp) at D14S280. This finding is consistent with a founder effect in our MJD population. However, distinct haplotypes were observed in patients originating from the two Azorean islands showing the highest disease prevalence; therefore, the possible existence of more than one founder mutation can not be excluded with the markers currently available.
The distribution of the adenosine-producing ecto-enzyme 5'-nucleotidase was investigated histochemically in the developing rat olfactory bulb. Rat pups underwent either unilateral surgical occlusion of the right external naris or sham surgery on postnatal day 1. At 10, 20, or 30 days postpartum, horizontal sections of the olfactory bulb were reacted histochemically to reveal the locus and intensity of 5'-nucleotidase activity. Relative staining levels were determined by optical densitometry in standardized bulb regions. A marked, age-related increase in staining density was observed. Reaction product was found primarily in neuropil areas. The P10 and P20 control animals did not exhibit right/left differences in bulb staining; however, some laterality was observed in P30 animals. Inter-glomerular and regional variations were observed throughout the developmental period, including (1) differences between neighboring glomeruli; (2) a gradient in the dorsal-ventral axis of the bulb; and (3) a higher staining density in the medial-caudal portion of the bulb. In subjects with occluded nares, asymmetries in right/left bulb 5'-nucleotidase staining patterns were detected throughout development. Bulbs ipsilateral to the blocked nares exhibited increased staining density, suggesting that the procedure enhanced enzymatic activity. Understanding these variations in 5'-nucleotidase staining may be important for a complete understanding of the mechanisms of olfactory bulb maturation and may give insight into the possible role of this enzyme in synaptic malleability during nervous system development and regeneration.
Cerebral correlates of anticipatory anxiety was studied in 14 women with specific snake or spider phobia, and in 6 nonphobic controls. Videofilms with neutral scenes were shown during positron emission tomographic measurements of regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF). The phobics, but not the controls, anticipated scenes with spiders or snakes to appear in the videofilms. This was reflected in higher anxiety ratings in the phobics. The primary visual cortex rCBF was lower in phobics than controls, while no rCBF differences were found in the other brain regions investigated. The results are suggested to indicate inhibition of corticogeniculate pathways, in turn representing a neurophysiological correlate of avoidant anticipatory coping.

A 73 year old right-handed man, diagnosed with Parkinson's disease (PD) in 1982, presented with chief complaints of disabling resting and postural tremors in the right hand, generalized bradykinesia and rigidity, difficulties with the initiation of gait, freezing of gait, and mild dementia despite being fully medicated. On neuropsychological testing the Bicycle Drawing Test showed cognitive impairment compatible with bitemporal and frontal lobe dysfunction and on attempts to sign his name he exhibited agraphia. After receiving two successive treatments, each of 20 minutes duration, with AC pulsed electromagnetic fields (EMFs) of 7.5 picotesla intensity and 5 Hz frequency sinusoidal wave, his drawing to command showed improvement in visuospatial performance and his signature became legible. One week later, after receiving two additional successive treatments with these EMFs each of 20 minutes duration with a 7 Hz frequency sinusoidal wave, he drew a much larger, detailed and visuospatially organized bicycle and his signature had normalized. Simultaneously, there was marked improvement in Parkinsonian motor symptoms with almost complete resolution of the tremors, start hesitation and freezing of gait. This case demonstrates the dramatic beneficial effects of AC pulsed picotesla EMFs on neurocognitive processes subserved by the temporal and frontal lobes in Parkinsonism and suggest that the dementia of Parkinsonism may be partly reversible.
The suggestibility of normal, young men and women as assessed by Spiegel's Hypnosis Induction Profile (HIP) before and after weak (1 micro Tesla), burst-firing magnetic fields were applied for 20 min over the left or over the right temporoparietal lobe or both hemispheres; a fourth group received sham treatment. Only the group that received the stimulation over the right hemisphere exhibited a marked increase in suggestibility (eta = 0.58) following the treatment. These results replicate components of several different previous experiments and suggest that attribution of symptomatic changes following exposures to weak, extremely low frequency magnetic fields, to placebo effects may not be correct. Instead, fields whose signatures contain biorelevant information may directly affect the neurocognitive processes that are associated with hypnotizability.

In previous papers we proposed that an increase in delta EEG activity during mental tasks might be related to an increase in subjects' attention to internal processing. In this paper we have made a narrow band analysis to detect those EEG frequencies that change selectively during the performance of a mental task that requires attention to internal processing. Two different experiments were performed: (1) a difficult mental calculation task and a control stimulus with the same physical characteristics as the arithmetical symbols were presented in random order; (2) the Sternberg paradigm for the analysis of short term memory using a memory set of 5 or 3 digits was also presented in random order. Referential recordings to linked ears were obtained in all leads of the 10/20 system. In the first experiment, the increase of power from 1.56 to 5.46 Hz was observed only during the performance of the task and not during the control condition. In the Sternberg paradigm, the increase of power from 1.56 to 3.90 Hz was greater during the difficult than during the easy condition. These results support our hypothesis that an increase in delta activity may be related to attention to internal processing during the performance of a mental task.
Research groups within the Human Brain Project are developing technologies to help organize and make accessible the vast quantities of information being accumulated in the neurosciences. The goal of this work is to provide systems that enable this complex information from many diverse sources to be synthesized into a coherent theory of nervous system function. Our initial approach to this problem has been to create several small databases. While addressing the issues of each individual database, we are also considering how each might be incorporated into an integrated cluster of databases. In this paper, we describe a pilot project in which we construct a database of computational models of neuronal function. This database allows models to be created and run and their results reviewed through a World Wide Web interface. Because models encapsulate knowledge in a formal manner about how neuronal systems function, we also discuss how this database forms a natural center for our initial attempts at creating a cluster of related databases. General issues of database development in the context of the Web are also discussed.
The characteristics of ATP-dependent transport of acetylcholine (ACh) in homogenates of pheochromocytoma (PC-12) cells stably transfected with the human vesicular acetylcholine transporter (VAChT) cDNA are described. The human VAChT protein was abundantly expressed in this line and appeared as a diffuse band with a molecular mass of approximately 75 kDa on Western blots. Vesicular [3H]ACh accumulation increased approximately 20 times over levels attained by the endogenous rat VAChT, expressed at low levels in control PC-12 cells. The transport of [3H]ACh by human VAChT was dependent upon the addition of exogenous ATP at 37 degrees C. Uptake was abolished by low temperature (4 degrees C), the proton ionophore carbonyl cyanide p-trifluoromethoxyphenylhydrazone (2.5 microM) and bafilomycin A1 (1 microM), a specific inhibitor of the vesicular H+-ATPase. The kinetics of [3H]ACh uptake by human VAChT were saturable, exhibiting an apparent Km of 0.97 +/- 0.1 mM and Vmax of 0.58 +/- 0.04 nmol/min/mg. Maximal steady-state levels of vesicular [3H]ACh accumulation were directly proportional to the concentration of substrate present in the medium with saturation occurring at approximately 4 mM. Uptake was stereospecifically inhibited by L-vesamicol with an IC50 of 14.7 +/- 1.5 nM. The apparent affinity (Kd) of [3H]vesamicol for human VAChT was 4.1 +/- 0.5 nM, and the Bmax was 8.9 +/- 0.6 pmol/mg. The turnover (Vmax/Bmax) of the human VAChT was approximately 65/min. This expression system should prove useful for the structure/function analysis of VAChT.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY), peptide YY (PYY), and pancreatic polypeptide (PP) belong to a family of structurally related peptides which have numerous functions in both neural and endocrine signaling. By homology screening, we cloned a novel gene sharing the highest homology with the NPY Y1 receptor gene from humans, rabbits, and several other species. This novel gene of rabbit encodes a functional NPY/PYY receptor, designated Y2b, which prefers NPY13-36 rather than [Leu31,Pro34]NPY despite its higher identity with the Y1 receptor. Although, at low levels, mRNA was detected in the tissues and brain regions, including hypothalamus. Further, sequence data revealed that this gene is the orthologue of the recently cloned mouse novel NPY receptor, Y5. However, our study demonstrates that the receptor function of this gene has been inactivated in primates by a frameshift mutation occurring early in primate evolution. This novel NPY receptor represents the first neurotransmitter receptor identified that has universally lost its receptor function in primate species. Interestingly, despite its inactivation in humans, the transcripts were abundantly detected in the heart and skeletal muscle, suggesting a novel function of the human gene.
In this paper, evidence is presented that two distinct synaptic vesicle recycling pathways exist within a single terminal. One pathway emanates from the active zone, has a fast time course, involves no intermediate structures, and is blocked by exposure to high Mg2+/low Ca2+ saline, while the second pathway emanates at sites away from the active zone, has a slower time course, involves an endosomal intermediate, and is not sensitive to high Mg2+/low Ca2+. To visualize these two recycling pathways, the temperature-sensitive Drosophila mutant, shibire, in which vesicle recycling is normal at 19 degrees C but is blocked at 29 degrees C, was used. With exposure to 29 degrees C, complete vesicle depletion occurs as exocytosis proceeds while endocytosis is blocked. When the temperature is lowered to 26 degrees C, vesicle recycling membrane begins to accumulate as invaginations of the plasmalemma, but pinch-off is blocked. Under these experimental conditions, it was possible to distinguish the two separate pathways by electron microscopic analysis. These two pathways were further characterized by observing the normal recycling process at the permissive temperature, 19 degrees C. It is suggested that the function of these two recycling pathways might be to produce two distinct vesicle populations: the active zone and nonactive zone populations. The possibility that these two populations have different release characteristics and functions is discussed.
White blood cells (WBCs) play vital roles in host defense. Recently, increasing interest has been directed toward the question of whether WBCs, particularly polymorphonuclear leukocytes, could also act as mediators of secondary brain damage in the setting of focal and global cerebral ischemia with and without reperfusion. Considerable insight into the importance of WBC-mediated tissue injury has been gained from studies employing antileukocyte interventions in experimental cerebral ischemia. The purpose of this article is to survey the different approaches taken to interfere with WBC inflammatory function. Emphasis is laid on a discussion of the efficacy of these interventions, their effects and side effects on cerebral and systemic parameters, and the power of evidence they provide for identification of WBCs as important factors in cerebral ischemia. The role of WBCs has been investigated in a great variety of global and focal cerebral ischemia models with and without reperfusion, leading to sometimes contradictory results. In the light of currently available data, it seems likely that WBCs contribute to secondary brain damage in the scenario of experimental transient focal cerebral ischemia, if the insult is not too severe.
The study was designed to determine whether dopaminergic neurotransmission in the retina can operate via volume transmission. In double immunolabelling experiments, a mismatch as well as a match was demonstrated in the rat retina between tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine (DA) immunoreactive (ir) terminals and cell bodies and dopamine D2 receptor-like ir cell bodies and processes. The match regions were located in the inner nuclear and plexiform layers (D2 ir cell bodies plus processes). The mismatch regions were located in the ganglion cell layer, the outer plexiform layer, and the outer segment of the photoreceptor layer, where very few TH ir terminals can be found in relation to the D2 like ir processes. In similar experiments analyzing D1 receptor like ir processes versus TH ir nerve terminals, mainly a mismatch in their distribution could be demonstrated, with the D1 like ir processes present in the outer plexiform layer and the outer segment where a mismatch in D2 like receptors also exists. The demonstration of a mismatch between the localization of the TH terminal plexus and the dopamine D2 and D1 receptor subtypes in the outer plexiform layer, the outer segment and the ganglion cell layer (only D2 immunoreactivity (IR)) suggests that dopamine, mainly from the inner plexiform layer, may reach the D2 and D1 mismatch receptors via diffusion in the extracellular space. After injecting dopamine into the corpus vitreum, dopamine diffuses through the retina, and strong catecholamine (CA) fluorescence appears in the entire inner plexiform layer and the entire outer plexiform layer, representing the match and mismatch DA receptor areas, respectively. The DA is probably bound to D1 and D2 receptors in both plexiform layers, since the DA receptor antagonist chlorpromazine fully blocks the appearance of the DA fluorescence, while only a partial blockade is found after haloperidol treatment which mainly blocks D2 receptors. These results indicate that the amacrine and/or interplexiform DA cells, with sparse branches in the outer plexiform layer, can operate via volume transmission in the rat retina to influence the outer plexiform layer and the outer segment, as well as other layers of the rat retina such as the ganglion cell layer.


Previously, we described the circuitry that underlies the tap withdrawal response of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. In response to a light mechanosensory stimulus a worm will withdraw, usually by initiating backward locomotion, but occasionally with increased forward locomotion. The form of an animal's response is a product of the balance between two antagonistic reflexes: backward locomotion (reversals) triggered by anterior mechanosensory input and forward locomotion (accelerations) triggered by posterior mechanosensory input. During habituation of this reflex, the frequency of forward and backward locomotion in response to tap is modulated by both experience and interstimulus interval; reversals are more frequent early in a habituation series and at longer Inter stimulus intervals. Single-cell laser microsurgery was used to study each of the subcomponents of the intact behavior during habituation training. Groups of intact or laser-ablated worms were habituated at either a 10-s or a 60-s inter stimulus interval and the kinetics of habituation in each group was analyzed. We demonstrate that each component of the behavior habituates and does so with kinetics that are consistent with the decrement observed in the intact animal.
A CD4+ human T cell clone YN5-32 recognized a streptococcal M12p54-68 peptide in the context of HLA-DR4 and produced a large amount of IFN-gamma. We investigated responses of YN5-32 to 156 independent analogue peptides carrying single residue substitutions at residues 57 (position 1 (p1)) to 65 (p9) of the peptide. Approximately 30% of analogues at either Leu57 (p1), Ala60 (p4), or Asn62 (p6) residues exhibited TCR agonism to stimulate various magnitudes of proliferative responses in the T cell clone, and analogues exhibiting TCR antagonism are rare in these three residues. In analogues at either Glu58 (p2), Gln59 (p3), Tyr61 (p5), or Glu63 (p7) residue, 30 to 50% exhibited TCR antagonism. About 10% of analogues at Glu58 (p2) or Tyr61 (p5) stimulated proliferative responses, while 30 to 50% of analogues at Gln59 (p3) or Glu63 (p7) did so. Some of these TCR antagonistic analogues carrying relatively conservative amino acid substitutions partially activated the T cells to induce large increases in size and expression levels of CD4, CD11a (LFA-1), CD28, CD49d (VLA-4), and CD95 (Fas), and small increases in CD25 and CD44 expressions on the cell surface. None of the partially activating antagonistic analogues induced IFN-gamma production or anergy in T cells. Analogues with replacements of acidic amino acids at either Leu64 (p8) or Ser65 (p9) residue had dominant negative effects on T cell proliferation. Thus, altered peptide ligands with single residue substitutions in the antigenic peptide frequently stimulated the human T cell clone, in at least three different ways to exhibit agonism, antagonism, and antagonism with partial activation. Frequencies of analogue peptides exhibiting these three different effects on the T cell clone differed depending on the residue of the peptide substituted. Altered T cell responses induced by analogue peptides of a T cell epitope provide a system to analyze activation signals mediated by TCR, and to manipulate T cell responses.
These studies provide evidence for slowed spatial orienting of attention in autism. A group of well-defined adult autistic subjects and age-matched normal controls performed a traditional spatial cueing task in which attention-related response facilitation is indexed by speed of target detection. To address the concern that motor impairment may interfere with interpretation of response time measures in those with neurologic abnormality, we also used a new adaptation of the traditional task that depended on accuracy of response (target discrimination) rather than speed of response. This design allowed separation of time to process and respond to target information from the time to move and engage (orient) attention. Results from both tasks were strikingly similar. Normal subjects oriented attention very quickly, and showed maximal performance facilitation at a cued location within 100 ms. Autistic subjects oriented attention much more slowly and showed increasing benefits of a spatial cue with increasing cue-to-target delays. These results are consistent with previous reports that patients with autism, the majority of whom have developmental abnormalities of the cerebellum, as well as those with acquired damage to the cerebellum, are slow to shift attention between and within modalities. This paper also addresses the variability in behavioral findings in autism, and suggests that many of the apparently contradictory findings may actually reflect sampling differences in patterns of brain pathology.
Previously we showed that type XII collagen (col XII) is highly upregulated in the regenerating newt (Notophthalmus viridescens) forelimb. Here, using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization, we studied the pattern of expression of col XII during early stages of adult newt tail regeneration. The results show that immunoreactivity of col XII is first seen as a thin layer beneath the wound epithelium (WE) at 3 days after amputation. Reactivity associated with the mesenchyme becomes obvious at day 4 and increases considerably between days 6 and 7 after amputation. In situ hybridization indicates that the early WE-associated reactivity and later mesenchymal reactivity are due to increased col XII gene expression by the WE and mesenchyme, respectively. At 7 days after tail amputation both wound epithelial and mesenchymal cells exhibit a strong riboprobe signal. Interestingly, a distinct riboprobe signal is also seen in the cells of the outgrowing ependymal tube at day 7 but little if any col XII immunoreactivity is present. The spatial pattern of col XII gene expression changes by day 14 after amputation in that transcription in mesenchyme is maintained at a high level, in the WE it is reduced, and in ependyma it ceases to be detectable. Local deprivation of the spinal cord significantly lowers the level of col XII message in the mesenchyme. Much of this decrease in transcription is due to minimal mesenchymal cell accumulation secondary to spinal cord ablation. The temporal and spatial patterns of expression of the col XII gene in the WE, mesenchyme, and ependyma during tail regeneration strongly suggest a role for col XII in regulating both spinal cord outgrowth and spinal cord-dependent tail regeneration.
It has recently been considered that free radicals are closely involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), and the level of nitric oxide radical (.NO), one of the free radicals, is reported to increase in PD brain. In the present study, we established a direct detection system for .NO in an in vitro .NO-generating system using 3-(2-hydroxy-1-methylethyl-2-nitrosohydrazino)-N-methyl-1-propa namine as an .NO donor and 2-(4-carboxyphenyl)-4,4,5,5-tetramethylimidazoline-1-oxyl 3-oxide (carboxy-PTIO) by electron spin resonance (ESR) spectrometry and examined the quenching effects of the dopamine agonists pergolide and bromocriptine on the amount of.NO generated. .NO appeared to be scavenged by pergolide and, to a lesser extent, by bromocriptine. In the competition assay, the 50% inhibitory concentration values for pergolide and bromocriptine were estimated to be approximately 23 and 200 microM, respectively. It was previously reported that in vivo treatment of pergolide and bromocriptine completely protected against the decrease in levels of striatal dopamine and its metabolites in the 6-hydroxydopamine-injected mouse. Considering these findings, pergolide and probably bromocriptine may also protect against dysfunction of dopaminergic neurons because of its multiple effects; not only does it stimulate the presynaptic autoreceptors, but it also directly scavenges .NO radicals and hence protects against .NO-related cytotoxicity. This ESR spectrometry method using carboxy-PTIO may be useful for screening other drugs that can quench .NO.
A critical step in the supply of substrate for the phosphoinositide signal transduction pathway is the formation of the liponucleotide intermediate, CDP-diacylglycerol, catalyzed by CDP-diacylglycerol synthase. Further insight into the regulation of phosphoinositide biosynthesis was sought by cloning of the gene for the vertebrate enzyme. Sequence of the corresponding gene from Drosophila was used to prepare a probe for screening of a human neuronal cell cDNA library. A cDNA was isolated with a predicted open reading frame of 1,332 bases, encoding a protein of 51 kDa. The amino acid sequence showed 50% identity (75% similarity) to that of Drosophila eye CDP-diacylglycerol synthase and substantial similarity to the Saccharomyces cerevisiae and Escherichia coli homologues. Northern blot analysis, with human cDNA riboprobes, suggested that the corresponding mRNA was expressed in all human tissues examined. Expression of the human cDNA in COS cells resulted in a more than fourfold increase in CDP-diacylglycerol synthase activity. Knowledge of the sequence of vertebrate CDP-diacylglycerol synthase should facilitate further investigations into its regulation and the possible existence of distinct isoforms.
We have identified two novel peptide toxins from molluscivorous Conus species that discriminate subtypes of high voltage-activated (HVA) calcium currents in molluscan neurons. The toxins were purified using assays on HVA calcium currents in the caudodorsal cells (CDCs) of the snail Lymnaea stagnalis. The CDC HVA current consists of a rapidly inactivating, transient current that is relatively insensitive to dihydropyridines (DHPs) and a slowly inactivating, DHP-sensitive L-current. The novel toxins, designated omega-conotoxins PnVIA and PnVIB, completely and selectively block the transient HVA current in CDCs with little (PnVIA) or no (PnVIB) effect on the sustained L-type current. The block is rapid and completely reversible. It is noteworthy that both PnVIA and PnVIB reveal very steep dose dependences of the block, which may imply cooperativity in toxin action. The amino acid sequences of PnVIA (GCLEVDYFCGIPFANNGLCCSGNCVFVCTPQ) and of PnVIB (DDDCEPPGNFCGMIKIGPPCCSGWCFFACA) show very little homology to previously described omega-conotoxins, although both toxins share the typical omega-conotoxin cysteine framework but have an unusual high content of hydrophobic residues and net negative charge. These novel omega-conotoxins will facilitate selective analysis of the functions of HVA calcium channels and may enable the rational design of drugs that are selective for relevant subtypes.
The anticonvulsant carbamazepine is an effective treatment both for epilepsy and for bipolar affective disorder, but the molecular mechanism(s) underlying its therapeutic effects have not been identified. We have found that carbamazepine exerts significant inhibitory effects on the cyclic AMP (cAMP) generating system. Within the clinical therapeutic range (approximately 50 microM), carbamazepine inhibited both basal and forskolin-stimulated cAMP production, without having any significant effects on phosphodiesterase activity. Carbamazepine also exerted its inhibitory effects on the cAMP generating system in pertussis toxin-treated cells, suggesting that the action of carbamazepine was likely mediated through an inhibitory guanine nucleotide binding protein-independent mechanism. A forskolin affinity purification column was used to purify adenylyl cyclases from rat cerebral cortex, and we found that carbamazepine inhibited both basal and forskolin-stimulated activity of purified adenylyl cyclase. We also investigated the effects of carbamazepine on the levels of the transcription factor, cAMP response element binding protein in the phosphorylated (active) state, and found that carbamazepine significantly inhibited forskolin-induced phosphorylation of the cAMP response element binding protein. The data indicate that carbamazepine inhibits adenylyl cyclase activity as well as the downstream effects of activation of adenylyl cyclase.
An upstream enhancer element [tissue specifier element (TSE)] located between 4.66 and 4.02 kb from the transcription start site is important for cell type-specific expression and phorbol ester induction of the vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP) gene. An element located within 100 bases of the VIP promoter [the VIP cyclic AMP-responsive element (VIP-CRE)] confers cyclic AMP and phorbol ester responsiveness to heterologous promoters. The possibility that these two regions of the VIP gene function cooperatively to determine tissue-specific and second messenger-dependent expression of the VIP gene was addressed by assaying transcription from a VIP-luciferase reporter gene with progressive deletions from the 5' flanking sequence of the gene, with or without inactivation of the proximal VIP-CRE. Basal expression of the reporter gene in both SH-EP and SK-N-SH human neuroblastoma cells, which express endogenous VIP mRNA, was absolutely dependent on the presence of the upstream TSE. Full constitutive expression was also dependent on the intact VIP-CRE. Forskolin-mediated induction of the reporter gene in SH-EP and SK-N-SH cells was completely abolished by mutations in the VIP-CRE but not by deletion of the upstream sequence, indicating that the VIP-CRE alone determines cyclic AMP responsiveness. In contrast to reports that the VIP-CRE imparts 12-O-tetradecanoylphorbol 13-acetate (phorbol 12-myristate 13-acetate; PMA) responsiveness to heterologous promoters, PMA stimulation in SK-N-SH cells was independent of an intact VIP-CRE but dependent on a region between -2.5 kb and the VIP-CRE. Sequencing of the entire 5.2-kb VIP 5' flank revealed a consensus PMA-responsive element (TGACTCA) 2.25 kb upstream of the transcription start site that may represent the site imparting PMA responsiveness to the VIP gene.
One purpose of clinical neurochemistry has been to indicate &quot;activities&quot; of catecholamine systems, by assaying levels of the effector compounds or their metabolites in body fluids such as plasma, cerebrospinal fluid, urine, or microdialysate. This review discusses a new purpose: relating specific catecholaminergic phenotypes to neurogenetic disorders. Distinctive catecholamine patterns in several neurogenetic conditions reflect enzyme deficiencies as direct or indirect effects of gene mutations. These neurochemical patterns can provide potentially important clues to the diagnosis, treatment, and pathophysiology of neurogenetic disorders. Linking genetic abnormalities with molecular mechanisms and clinical manifestations of disease represents a useful new direction in clinical neurochemistry.
An experiment was conducted to determine if neurons that respond to stimuli associated with mating in female brain also contain progestin receptors. We found that a portion of the neurons that respond to stimuli associated with mating also contains progestin receptors. While the appropriate hormonal conditions are important for sexual receptivity, somatosensory information provided by the male also influences sexual behavior. One important stimulus provided by the male during copulation is vaginal-cervical stimulation (VCS). VCS has been shown to elicit many different behavioral and endocrine changes in female rats, such as increases in lordosis, pseudopregnancy, and termination of sexual receptivity. VCS also increases the expression of the immediate early gene product, Fos, in areas associated with reproduction. A portion of the neurons responding to VCS with increased Fos-immunoreactivity (Fos-IR) in female rat forebrain also contains estrogen receptors, illustrating that hormonal and mating-stimuli converge in a population of cells. As progesterone also plays an important role in female sex behavior, it is important to determine if some of the neurons also integrate information concerning serum progesterone levels and social interactions. Thus, we used a dual immunofluorescent technique to label both Fos-IR and progestin receptor-immunoreactivity (PR-IR) in the brains of estradiol-primed, ovariectomized female rats following VCS manually applied by the experimenter. Many of the neurons that respond to VCS with increased Fos-IR within the medial preoptic area, the arcuate nucleus, and the progestin receptor-rich areas of the rostral and caudal ventromedial nucleus of the hypothalamus also contain PR-IR.
1. The role of the glutamate receptor subunit delta 2 in the induction of cerebellar long-term depression (LTD) was investigated by application of antisense oligonucleotides. The delta 2 subunit is selectively localized to Purkinje cells (PCs), with the highest levels being in the PC dendritic spines, where parallel fibers are received and where cerebellar LTD is expressed. 2. Immunocytochemical analysis of calbindin-positive PCs revealed that both the dendritic and somatic expression of delta 2 was reduced in antisense-but not in sense-treated cultures. An antisense oligonucleotide directed against the related subunit delta 1 did not affect the expression of delta 2 in PCs. 3. Cerebellar LTD may be reliably induced in a preparation of cultured embryonic cerebellar neurons from the mouse when parallel and climbing fiber stimulation are replaced by brief glutamate pulses and strong, direct depolarization of the PC, respectively. Application of an antisense oligonucleotide directed against delta 2 completely blocked the induction of LTD produced by glutamate/ depolarization conjunctive stimulation. A delta 2 sense oligonucleotide or an antisense oligonucleotide directed against the related delta 1 subunit had no effect. 4. The effect of the delta 2 antisense oligonucleotide was not related to attenuation of calcium influx via voltage-gated channels or calcium mobilization via metabotropic glutamate receptors, as assessed with fura-2 microfluorimetry. Current flow through alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid-receptor-associated ion channels also appeared unaltered. All three of these processes have previously been shown to be required for cerebellar LTD induction. The observation that delta 2 is involved in a metabotropic-glutamate-receptor-independent signaling pathway that is required for LTD induction supports the view that delta 2 participates in the formation of a novel postsynaptic receptor complex.
1. The ability of rats to localize sounds in space was determined before and after cutting of the commissure of Probst. The commissure of Probst was transected at its midline decussation with a microknife inserted into the brain according to stereotaxic coordinates. Six animals were tested after extensive lesions that destroyed all of the commissure of Probst fibers. An additional animal was tested after a smaller lesion that destroyed most of the commissure of Probst but left some fibers intact. Three control animals were tested before and after surgical intervention that did not involve the commissure of Probst. 2. The animals were tested in a semicircular apparatus with loudspeakers located on the right or left of midline. They were trained to make a response toward the left or right in the direction of the active loudspeaker. Correct reponses were rewarded by delivery of a small quantity of water from spouts located at +30 and -30 degrees azimuth. Tests of sound localization were conducted with a single broadband noise burst, 45 ms in duration, presented at the beginning of each trial. The position of the active loudspeakers was varied from trial to trial and performance at different speaker angles was calculated to determine psychometric curves. Minimum audible angles were estimated by interpolation from a performance level of 75% correct. 3. After postoperative testing was completed, the effectiveness of the lesions was confirmed by cell counts to determine the extent of retrograde degeneration in the dorsal nucleus of the lateral lemniscus (DNLL). These data showed that most of the contralaterally projecting neurons in DNLL underwent retrograde degeneration and the number of neurons was reduced by 60-65%. Ninety to 95% of the contralaterally projecting neurons in the DNLL disappeared within 7 wk after transection of the commissure of Probst. 4. The condition of damaged commissural fibers was further confirmed by tract tracing methods. A unilateral Fluoro-Gold injection was made into the inferior colliculus and the auditory brain stem was examined for retrograde label. No labeled neurons were seen in the contralateral DNLL in cases with complete transection of the commissure of Probst. In addition, the distribution of Fluoro-Gold labeling in other brain stem auditory structures was similar to that seen in normal animals. This result confirmed that the transection of the commissure of Probst was successful and that projections to other auditory structures remained intact. 5. Transection of the commissure of Probst produced marked deficits in midline sound localization. Although sound localization was still possible, there was a degradation in the ability of rats to localize sounds in the horizontal plane. The mean minimum audible angle was elevated 22.1 degrees after destruction of the commissure of Probst compared with a shift of only 2.0 degrees in control animals.
1. The induction and spread of seizure activity was studied using imaging and electrophysiological techniques in the isolated whole brain of the guinea pig. We examined the role of GABA and glutamate receptor subtypes in controlling the spread of seizure activity across the olfactory cortex from a focus in the entorhinal cortex. Seizure spread was monitored by video imaging of intrinsic optical signals (reflectance changes) combined with multiple extracellular recordings. Both the unilateral and bilateral spread of seizure activity was monitored in different experiments. 2. Electrical stimulation of the lateral entorhinal cortex (10-15 V, 5 Hz, 5-10 s) evoked seizure activity that originated in the entorhinal cortex/hippocampus and later spread preferentially toward the posteromedial cortical amygdaloid nucleus ipsilaterally and bilaterally. The pattern of seizure spread in a given brain was highly reproducible. 3. The influence of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptors on the spread of seizure activity was monitored at higher resolution on one side of the brain. Perfusion of a low concentration of the GABAA antagonist bicuculline methiodide (20 microM) resulted in spontaneous seizures that spread to the posteromedial cortical amygdaloid nucleus more rapidly than electrically evoked seizures [spread times: 5.5 +/- 3.7 s vs. 15.5 +/- 2.7 s, respectively (means +/- SE)]. Seizure spread was also more extensive in the presence of bicuculline involving the posterior perirhinal cortex and larger areas over the medial amygdala. Higher concentrations of bicuculline (100 microM) resulted in even more widespread propagation of spontaneous seizure activity throughout the olfactory cortex as well as to the perirhinal, insular, and occipital cortices. This concentration of bicuculline also further reduced the time required for seizure activity to spread from the entorhinal cortex to the posteromedial cortical amygdaloid nucleus (spread time = 2.3 +/- 1.7 s). The GABAB antagonist, CGP 35348 (200 microM), in contrast, had no significant effect of seizure induction or propagation. 4. The role of glutamate receptor subtypes in seizure propagation was studied by examining the bilateral spread of seizures. Perfusion of the kainate/alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazole proprionic acid (K/A) receptor antagonist (6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, CNQX, 20 microM) completely and reversibly suppressed stimulus-evoked seizure activity as detected electrophysiologically and optically. CNQX also reduced the magnitudes of field potentials recorded in the isolated brain in a reversible manner by an average of 70.8 +/- 2.21% of control. The N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist dibenzocyclohepteneimine (MK-801) did not significantly alter the magnitudes or shapes of field potentials recorded in the isolated brain nor did it significantly alter seizure activity measured optically or electrophysiologically. 5. Perfusion of the metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist [trans-1-amino-(IS,3R)-cyclopentanedicarboxylic acid (trans-ACPD), 150 microM] completely and reversibly suppressed stimulus-evoked seizure activity as detected electrophysiologically and optically. The magnitudes of field potentials recorded in the isolated brain also were reduced by trans-ACPD an average of 75.4 +/- 5.39% of control values. 6. These results demonstrate that GABAA-mediated transmission is functionally present and may play an important role in epileptic tissue in limiting the spread of seizure activity from the entorhinal cortex to the posteromedial cortical amygdaloid nucleus and in creating functional pathways or preferential routes of seizure spread. GABAB-mediated postsynaptic inhibition played no significant role in the induction or spread of seizure activity in this study. K/A receptors but not NMDA receptors are necessary for the induction and subsequent spread of seizure activity originating in the entorhinal cortex/hippocampus.
1. Whole cell recordings and high-speed fluorescence imaging were used to investigate the contribution of voltage-gated Ca2+ channels to the resting Ca2+ concentration ([Ca2+]i) in hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. 2. Prolonged membrane hyperpolarization produced, in a voltage-dependent manner, sustained decreases in [Ca2+]i in the somatic and apical dendritic regions of the neuron. This hyperpolarization-induced decrease in [Ca2+]i occurred with a time constant of approximately 1 s and was maintained for as long as the membrane potential was held at the new level. Ratiometric measures showed that [Ca2+]i is significantly elevated at holding potentials of -50 mV compared with -80 mV. 3. The hyperpolarization-induced decrease in [Ca2+]i was reduced significantly by 200 microM Cd2+ and 10 microM nimodipine, but was only slightly inhibited by 50 microM Ni2+. The largest amplitude decrease in [Ca2+]i was observed in the proximal apical dendrites with the amplitude of the Ca2+ change decreasing with further distance from the soma. 4. Whole cell recordings from acutely isolated hippocampal pyramidal neurons reveal a slowly inactivating Ca2+ current with similar voltage dependence and pharmacology to the hyperpolarization-induced decrease in [Ca2+]i. 5. The data suggest that a population of dihydropyridine-sensitive Ca2+ channels are active at resting membrane potentials and that this channel activation significantly contributes to the resting [Ca2+]i. These channels appear to be present throughout the neuron and may be located most densely in the proximal apical dendrites.
1. Immunocytochemical studies of the turtle brain revealed the presence of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) immunoreactive (5-HT-ir) processes in the granule and Purkinje cell layers, but not in the molecular layer (ML), of the cerebellar cortex. Immunoreactive axonal profiles were present throughout the granule cell layer (GCL) where they generally coursed in an anteroposterior direction and could frequently be seen to ascend toward the Purkinje cell layer (PCL). Occasional 5-HT-ir processes were observed adjacent to Purkinje cell somata. 2. The effects of exogenously applied serotonin on mossy fiber and parallel fiber evoked responses in turtle Purkinje cells were examined by use of intrasomatic and intradendritic recordings in an intact cerebellar preparation in vitro. 3. Bath application of serotonin (0.2-1.0 microM) produced a dose-dependent reduction in Purkinje cell membrane resistance, which was not correlated with changes in postsynaptic response amplitude. At 5-HT concentrations &gt; 1.0 microM (0.01-5 mM), resistance values returned to control levels. No consistent changes in spike width or postspike afterhyperpolarization were seen in response to serotonin application, nor were endogenous pacemaker-like discharges affected. Firing rate, assessed as threshold response to depolarizing current injection (0.3-1.0 nA, 1 s duration), was increased in 51% and decreased in 40% of cells tested. 4. Single stimuli delivered to either the cerebellar peduncle or the GCL resulted in the activation of fast excitatory postsynaptic potentials (fEPSP). These responses were dose dependently reduced in amplitude by bath application of serotonin (0.2-1.0 microM). At concentrations ranging from 10 to 100 microM, the response amplitude following agonist application plateaued at approximately 70% of control value. With higher dose applications (0.5-5 mM) of serotonin, the response amplitude exhibited a steep reduction (from 65-10% of control value). 5. Brief trains of stimuli (5 stimuli, 50 Hz) delivered to either the cerebellar peduncle or the GCL resulted in the activation of slow excitatory postsynaptic potentials (sEPSP). The peak amplitude of this response was unaffected by bath application of serotonin at concentrations ranging from 0.2 to 100 microM. At higher concentrations (0.5-5 mM), the sEPSP peak amplitude was dose-dependently reduced, with the largest amplitude reduction seen after peduncular stimulation. 6. It is suggested that serotonin acts as a modulator of fast excitatory synaptic activity in the cerebellar cortex, while exerting little affect on slow excitatory events. The fact that serotonin preferentially affects fast excitatory transmission may have important implications for the integration of incoming sensory signals at both the granule and Purkinje cell level.
1. The ability of the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) to undergo adaptive modification after selective changes in the peripheral vestibular system was investigated in rhesus monkeys by recording three-dimensional eye movements before and after inactivation of selective semicircular canals. In the preceding paper we showed that the horizontal VOR gain evoked by passive yaw oscillations after lateral semicircular canal inactivation recovers gradually over time in a frequency-specific manner. Here we present the spatial tuning of the adapted slow-phase eye velocity and describe its spatiotemporal properties as a function of time after canal inactivation. 2. The spatial organization of the VOR was investigated during oscillations at different head positions in the pitch, roll, and yaw planes, as well as in the right anterior/left posterior and left anterior/right posterior canal planes. Acutely after bilateral inactivation of the lateral semicircular canals, a small horizontal response could still be elicited that peaked during rotations in pitched head positions that would maximally stimulate vertical semicircular canals. In addition, the phase of horizontal slow-phase velocity abruptly reversed through 180 degrees at positions close to upright, similarly to torsional slow-phase velocity. These spatial response properties suggest that the small, residual horizontal response components that are present acutely after plugging of both lateral canals originate from vertical semicircular canal signals. 3. As the horizontal response amplitude increased over time, consistent changes were also observed in the spatiotemporal tuning of horizontal slow-phase velocity. 1) The spatiotemporal response properties of horizontal slow-phase velocity acquired noncosine tuning characteristics, primarily in the pitch plane, in the right anterior/left posterior and left anterior/right posterior canal planes. Accordingly, horizontal response amplitude was nonzero during rotation in any head position in these planes and response phase varied significantly as a function of head orientation. 2) The peak horizontal response amplitude shifted spatially over time, such that 5-10 mo after plugging it was maximal during rotations at head positions close to upright. 4. In parallel to these unique spatiotemporal response properties characterizing the adapted horizontal VOR, torsional slow-phase velocity also exhibited small spatiotemporal changes after lateral canal inactivation that tended to precede in time the changes associated with the horizontal response components. In contrast, vertical slow-phase velocity in the plugged animals was unaltered and continued to be characterized by cosine-tuned spatial properties in three dimensions. 5. Recovery of the horizontal response gain during yaw oscillations in upright position, as well as the unique, noncosine spatiotemporal characteristics of the adapted horizontal VOR, were also observed in an animal with all but one vertical semicircular canals inactivated. There was, however, no sign of VOR gain recovery up to 2 mo after all semicircular canals were inactivated. These results suggest that the observed recovery of horizontal VOR is at least partly due to signals originating from the remaining intact vertical canal(s). Even in the presence of a single intact vertical canal, the improvement in horizontal gaze stability is at least partly restored through spatiotemporal changes in the processing of vestibuloocular signals that improve the gain and spatial tuning of horizontal VOR at the expense of temporal response properties.
1. The adaptive plasticity of the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) following a selective lesion of the peripheral vestibular organs was investigated in rhesus monkeys whose lateral semicircular canals were inactivated by plugging of the canal lumen in both ears. Gain and phase of horizontal, vertical, and torsional slow-phase eye velocity were determined from three-dimensional eye movement recordings obtained acutely after the plugging operation, as well as in regular intervals up to 10 mo later. 2. Acutely after plugging, horizontal VOR was minimal during yaw rotation with gains of &lt; 0.1 at all frequencies. Horizontal VOR gain gradually increased over time, reaching gains of 0.4-0.5 for yaw oscillations at 1.1 Hz approximately 5 mo after lateral canal inactivation. This response recovery was strongly frequency dependent: horizontal VOR gains were largest at the highest frequency tested and progressively decreased for lower frequencies. Below approximately 0.1 Hz, no consistent horizontal VOR could be elicited even 10 mo after plugging. 3. The frequency-dependent changes in gain paralleled changes in horizontal VOR phase. Below approximately 0.1-0.05 Hz large phase leads were present, similarly as in semicircular canal primary afferents. Smaller phase leads were also present at higher frequencies, particularly at 1.1 Hz (the highest frequency tested). 4. Consistent with the afferent-like dynamics of the adapted horizontal VOR, per- and postrotatory horizontal responses to constant-velocity yaw rotations were short lasting. Time constants of the slow-phase eye velocity envelope of the horizontal postrotatory nystagmus were approximately 2 s. Nonetheless, a consistent horizontal optokinetic afternystagmus was evoked in plugged animals. 5. A torsional component that was absent in intact animals was consistently present during yaw rotation acutely after lateral canal inactivation and remained approximately constant thereafter. The frequency response characteristics of this torsional component resembled those of the adapted horizontal slow-phase responses: gain decreased and large phase leads were introduced at frequencies below approximately 0.05-0.1 Hz. Torsional responses elicited by roll oscillations in supine position, on the other hand, were indistinguishable in their dynamics from intact animals. No consistent vertical nystagmus was elicited during yaw rotation. 6. Our results show that there is a slow, frequency-specific recovery of horizontal VOR after selective inactivation of the lateral semicircular canals. Both the spatial organization and the dynamic properties of the adapted VOR responses are distinctly different from responses in intact animals, suggesting complex changes in the underlying vestibuloocular circuitry.
The expression of hepatocyte growth factor/scatter factor (HGF/SF) and its receptor, the c-met proto-oncogene product, was examined by in situ hybridization in the developing and adult murine olfactory system and compared with the expression of a known activator of HGF/SF, tissue-type plasminogen activator (tPA). In the developing olfactory canal, expression of both c-met and tPA was observed in the olfactory neuroepithelium, whereas HGF/SF expression appeared to be confined to the mucosa adjacent to the neuroepithelium. During development of the olfactory bulb, HGF/SF and tPA were expressed within the rostral migratory pathway leading to the olfactory bulb, whereas c-met expression was observed in the mitral cell layer (MCL) of the olfactory bulb and in the anterior olfactory nucleus. In the adult olfactory bulb, expression of HGF/SF was restricted to the periglomerular region of the glomerular layer, whereas c-met was expressed in the MCL and olfactory nerve fiber layers (ONL). tPA expression in the adult olfactory bulb was observed in the ONL, MCL, and granule cell layers. Therefore, tPA expression was relatively coincident with the expression of HGF/SF and/or c-met in the appropriate projection patterns of the developing and adult olfactory system. In addition, antibodies against tPA inhibited the olfactory bulb extract-mediated cleavage of single-chain HGF/SF. These results suggest that tPA may play a regulatory role in the development and maintenance of the olfactory system by activating HGF/SF in the immediate vicinity of its receptor.
Astrocytes have been proposed to have multiple roles in the development and maintenance of the vertebrate CNS. To facilitate documentation of these roles, we designed a transgene to enable their ablation at selectable times. The transgene consists of the coding region for the herpes simplex virus-thymidine kinase (HSV-TK) under the control of the human glial fibrillary acidic protein gene promoter. The HSV-TK is innocuous but converts the antiherpetic agent ganciclovir (GCV) to a toxic product that interferes with DNA replication in proliferating cells. In a developmental study, transgenic mice were treated with GCV during the first postnatal week, with evaluation at P19. Treated mice displayed severe ataxia. Histological examination revealed disrupted astrocyte development, particularly in the cerebellum, with marked secondary effects on other cell types. Cerebellar defects included a loss in the numbers of astrocytes and an overall reduction in cerebellar size and disruption of the normally well defined cellular layers. Radial glia were disordered, Purkinje cells were ectopically distributed and displayed abnormal dendritic trees, and granule cells were markedly depleted. These effects were more severe in animals treated on postnatal day 1 versus treatment at day 5. A major factor causing granule cell death was excitotoxicity attributable to activation of NMDA receptors. These results suggest a critical role for astrocytes in cerebellar development.
The myelin sheath in the vertebrate CNS is formed by oligodendrocytes. The number of oligodendrocytes in a mature axon tract must be sufficient to myelinate all appropriate axons. How the number of oligodendrocytes is matched to axonal requirements and whether such matching involves axon-oligodendrocyte signaling or intrinsic oligodendrocyte self-regulation are not clear. Using a combination of in vitro analyses, we demonstrate that oligodendrocyte precursors closely regulate their numbers through interactions between adjacent precursors. In low-density rat spinal cord cultures, the number of oligodendrocyte lineage cells increases rapidly. The addition of large numbers of oligodendrocyte precursors substantially reduces precursor expansion and results in a normalization of oligodendrocyte lineage cell numbers in the cultures over time. Thus, the number of oligodendrocyte lineage cells that develop appears dependent on the density of oligodendrocyte lineage cells. This normalization of cell number is reflected in assays of clonal potential and proliferation. For example, precursors gave rise to fewer progeny and proliferated less at high density. Reduced precursor expansion at high density was not attributable to the depletion of growth factors. Cocultures of high and low densities did not inhibit precursor expansion in low-density cultures, suggesting the requirement for local cell-cell interactions. The inhibition of precursor expansion was cell-type-specific and dependent on the presence of oligodendrocyte lineage cells. We propose that this density-dependent feedback inhibition of oligodendrocyte precursor expansion may play a primary role in regulating the number of oligodendrocytes in the developing spinal cord.
The electrical properties of adult motoneurons are well matched to the contractile properties of the fast or slow muscle fibers that they innervate. How this precise matching occurs developmentally is not known. To investigate whether motoneurons exhibit selectivity in innervating discrete muscle regions, containing either fast or slow muscle fibers during early neuromuscular development, we caused embryonic chick hindlimb muscles to become innervated by segmentally inappropriate motoneurons. We used the in vitro spinal cord-hindlimb preparation to identify electrophysiologically the pools of foreign motoneurons innervating the posterior iliotibialis (pITIB), an all-fast muscle, and the iliofibularis (IFIB), a partitioned muscle containing discrete fast and slow regions. The results showed that the pITIB and the fast region of the IFIB were exclusively innervated by motoneurons that normally supply fast muscles. In contrast, the slow region of the IFIB was always innervated by motoneuron pools that normally supply slow muscles. Some experimental IFIB muscles lacked a fast region and were innervated solely by &quot;slow&quot; motoneurons. In addition, the intramuscular nerve branching patterns were always appropriate to the fast-slow nature of the muscle (region) innervated. The selective innervation was found early in the motoneuron death period, and we found no evidence that motoneurons grew into appropriate muscle regions, but failed to form functional contacts. Together, these results support the hypothesis that different classes of motoneurons exhibit molecular differences that allow them to project selectively to, and innervate, muscle fibers of the appropriate type during early neuromuscular development.
In the hindbrain, rhombomeres represent morphological units that develop characteristic, segment-specific structures. Similar segments, known as prosomeres, have been proposed to exist in the forebrain. The neuroepithelial cells of the sharp boundary regions that form the borders between many segments often exhibit distinct shapes, reflecting unique cytoskeletal organization. The present investigation examined the expression of one family of actin-binding, regulatory proteins, the tropomyosins (TM), in boundaries. We found that high molecular weight TMs selectively concentrate in boundary cells and other neuroepithelial zones that exhibit unique cell shapes and movements. Specific TM expression is found at hindbrain boundaries as early as embryonic day 10 in the rat, whereas rhombomeres themselves were TM-negative. Highly restricted TM localization also defined some prosomere boundaries in the early forebrain, particularly those exhibiting unique cell shapes. Furthermore, several regions of the neuroepithelium that evaginate are TM-immunoreactive, including tuberal and preoptic neuroepithelium. Most striking, a subpopulation of neuroepithelial cells in the medial telencephalic wall expresses TM, apparently marking the neuroepithelial region that gives rise to the choroid plexus at least 2 d before its formation. This suggests that the medial cerebral wall is not entirely dedicated to generating cells that comprise allocortex. TM expression in the choroid plexus is maintained through initial evagination and appearance in all ventricles. The spatially restricted expression of TMs implicates that this actin-binding protein is involved in the dynamic regulation of cell shape or motility associated with boundary formation and morphogenesis of the neuroepithelium during critical stages of brain development.
A long-standing hypothesis is that action potentials initiate first in the axon hillock/initial segment (AH-IS) region because of a locally high density of Na+ channels. We tested this idea in subicular pyramidal neurons by using patch-clamp recordings in hippocampal slices. Simultaneous recordings from the soma and IS confirmed that orthodromic action potentials initiated in the axon and then invaded the soma. However, blocking Na+ channels in the AH-IS with locally applied tetrodotoxin (TTX) did not raise the somatic threshold membrane potential for orthodromic spikes. TTX applied to the axon beyond the AH-IS (30-60 microm from the soma) raised the apparent somatic threshold by approximately 8 mV. We estimated the Na+ current density in the AH-IS and somatic membranes by using cell-attached patch-clamp recordings and found similar magnitudes (3-4 pA/microm2). Thus, the present results suggest that orthodromic action potentials initiate in the axon beyond the AH-IS and that the minimum threshold for spike initiation of the neuron is not determined by a high density of Na+ channels in the AH-IS region.
A simplified and rapid method is described for in situ hybridization (ISHH) studies of human post-mortem brain. Brain tissue was dissected into slices and was flash-frozen at -70 degrees C for storage. ISHH was carried out on 12 microns cryostat sections, post-fixed in 4% paraformaldehyde. The histology of human brain tissue prepared by this technique rivalled that of formalin-fixed, wax-embedded tissue. In ISHH studies, flash-frozen tissue gave superior results to those obtained following long-term fixation of tissue in 10% formalin with subsequent wax-embedding, or short-term prefixation in 4% paraformaldehyde. A systematic evaluation of commonly employed preparative procedures for ISHH was carried out on flash-frozen brain and a simplified protocol, consisting only of fixation and dehydration, was developed as a result of these studies. Specific hybridization of probes to a number of mRNA species was demonstrable in neurons in different brain regions. Using 0.5% glutaraldehyde/4% paraformaldehyde post-fixation, immunohistochemical labelling of TH-positive cortical catecholaminergic neurons and striatal dopaminergic terminals was successfully demonstrated in flash-frozen tissue. The same fixation technique also allowed combination of ISHH and immunohistochemistry for the simultaneous demonstration of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA and peptide in neurons of human brain stem and cortex. mRNA and peptides in flash-frozen tissue were found to be stable for more than 3 years. ISHH could be readily performed on relatively large brain structures. In addition to permitting excellent ISHH and immunohistochemistry, alone or in combination, flash-freezing allows the maximum versatility of tissue use and does not compromise its study by other neuroscience techniques.
Since the publication by Marmarou of a new rodent model of head injury, an increasing number of centres are adopting the model for use in a variety of paradigms. We report on two simple methods we have applied which allows us to monitor weight drop velocity and foam stiffness, both of which are critical factors for producing repeatable closed head injury with this model. We hope the application of these methods will assist in the standardisation of this model between centres.
The fabrication and characteristics of a novel multiunit recording electrode and modified brain slice chamber suitable for long-term recording from brain slices are described. The electrode consisted of an electrolyte-filled glass micropipette with a 20-50 microns thick wax-coated bundle of 5-micron diameter carbon fibers extending 2.5 cm from the tapered end and an AgCl-coated silver wire inserted into the open end and connected to a preamplifier. Both ends of the electrode were sealed with wax to prevent evaporation of the electrolyte. The brain slice was maintained over this extended period in an interface-type brain slice chamber modified to completely surround the slice with medium. Using this electrode, regular 24-h oscillations of spontaneous multiunit activity were recorded for 3 days from a single location in a 500 microns thick rat suprachiasmatic nucleus brain slice. Preliminary data suggest that this novel carbon fiber bundle electrode will be a favorable alternative to traditional metal electrodes for long-term recording of multiunit activity from brain slices.
Tryptophan hydroxylase (EC 1.14.16.4; L-tryptophan, tetrahydropteridine: oxygen oxidoreductase (5-hydroxylating)) from rat mesencephalic tegmentum has been purified by sequential chromatography on Blue-Sepharose, DE-52, and calmodulin-Sepharose. The hydroxylase is excluded from Blue-Sepharose and is eluted from DE-52 with a step-wise NaCl gradient. Tryptophan hydroxylase binds to calmodulin-Sepharose in the presence of calcium and is eluted with either EGTA or calmodulin itself, but not with tryptophan. The purification scheme is rapid (5-6 h) and yields an enzyme with a specific activity of 225 nmol 5-HTP/mg min, representing a 400-fold purification with 7% recovery. The tryptophan hydroxylase preparation was judged to be &gt; 95% pure using the present isolation procedure.

Calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) is the major product of the calcitonin gene in brain and exerts a number of actions in the central nervous system (CNS). In particular the finding that CGRP affects dopamine (DA) release and metabolism has raised the possibility that it may play a role in several neuropsychiatric disorders. Consequently, we have here studied the effects of two psychotomimetic drugs, namely, d-amphetamine (AMPH) and phencyclidine (PCP), on CGRP concentrations in brain microdialysates from freely moving rats. The animals were stereotaxically implanted with vertical concentric probes in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), the ventral striatum (vSTR), or the hippocampus; and the experiments were performed 48 hr after surgery. The dialysis probes were perfused with a modified Ringer's solution at the rate of 5 microliters/min. AMPH 1.5 mg/kg, PCP 2.5 mg/kg, or NaCl 0.9% were injected s.c.; and the perfusates were collected at 60 min intervals before and after the injections and used for CGRP-like immunoreactivity (-LI) determination by radioimmunoassay (RIA). In separate experiment, KCl (100 mM), veratridine (50 microM), or tetrodotoxin (2 microM), were added to the perfusate and infused in the vSTR. Baseline levels of CGRP-LI were detected in dialysates from all three regions. Both AMPH and PCP caused a significant and sustained increase (maximum about 300%) in CGRP-LI concentrations, in particular from the mPFC and vSTR, while saline had no effect. KCl and veratridine also increased CGRP-LI in dialysates during the first posttreatment period, while tetrodotoxin induced a significant but delayed decrease in CGRP-LI levels. Finally, cervical dislocation also elevated CGRP-LI in dialysates from the mPFC and the vSTR. Our findings demonstrate that 1) CGRP-LI can be measured in vivo in microdialysates from mPFC, vSTR, and hippocampus; 2) the release in vSTR is action potential-dependent; and 3) systemic administration of AMPH or PCP results in a long-lasting release of CGRP-LI in the mPFC and vSTR, thus demonstrating a novel action of these drugs in the brain. Since other studies have shown that major antipsychotic drugs appear to reduce CGRP release in brain, our study provides, in principle, support for a role of CGRP in psychotic disorders.
Intracellular pH (pHi) and the mechanisms of pHi regulation have been investigated in cultured microglial cells from mouse brain using the pH-sensitive fluorescent dye 2',7'-bis-(2-carboxyethyl)-5-(6)-carboxyfluorescein (BCECF). Cells were acidified by a pulse of NH4+ (4-5 min; 20 mM) and the subsequent pHi recovery from an acidification was studied. In HCO3(-)-free saline, pH regulation was dependent on extracellular [Na+] and sensitive to amiloride, indicating the involvement of the Na+/H+ exchanger. In HCO3(-)-containing solution 2 mM amiloride slowed but did not block pHi recovery; the recovery however was dependent on extracellular [Na+] and sensitive to 0.3 mM DIDS, suggesting the presence of Na+/HCO3 cotransporter and/or Na(+)-dependent Cl-/HCO3-exchanger. The involvement of a Na-dependent Cl-/HCO3-exchanger was inferred from the observation that removal of Cl- or application of 1 mM furosemide decreased but did not block the recovery rate. Increasing [K+]0 resulted in an alkalinization by a process that was neither HCO3- nor Na(+)-dependent, nor DIDS- and amiloride-inhibitable. In conclusion, microglial cells express a distinct set of pH regulatory carriers which control for a defined level of pHi. An increase in [K+]0 can offset this level.
The anticonvulsant and behavioral profile of the glycine/N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist L-701,324 [7-chloro-4-hydroxy-3-(3-phenoxy)phenyl-2(H)quinolone] has been examined in rodents. In mice, L-701,324 protected against seizures induced by N-methyl-DL-aspartate (ED50 = 3,4 mg/kg i.v.), pentylenetetrazol (ED50 = 2.8 mg/kg i.v.) and electroshock (ED50 = 1.4 mg/kg i.v.) but was most potent against audiogenic seizures in DBA/2 mice (ED50 = 0.96 mg/kg i.p.). L-701,324 was also active p.o. in mice (ED50 = 1.9,6.7, 20.7 and 34 mg/kg against audiogenic, electroshock-induced, N-methyl-DL-aspartate-induced and pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures, respectively) but showed weaker anticonvulsant activity in rats (ED50 = 90.5 mg/kg p.o., compared with 2.3 mg/kg i.v., against pentylenetetrazol-induced seizures), most probably because of the lower brain concentrations achieved in this species. Although anticonvulsant activity was also associated with impaired rotarod performance, L-701,324 failed to significantly increase locomotor activity or dopamine turnover in the nucleus accumbens at doses of up to 10 mg/kg i.v. in mice. Thus, in contrast to N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor ion channel blockers such as MK-801 (dizocilpine), L-701,324 is a potent, p.o. active anticonvulsant with a reduced propensity to activate mesolimbic dopaminergic systems in rodents.
1. In this study we tested the hypothesis that ensemble activity in human cutaneous sensory afferents evoked by the stretching of skin over and around the finger joints contributes to the conscious perception of movement of the fingers. 2. In nineteen normal adults, ensembles of cutaneous afferents were activated either by electrical stimulation, delivered through an array of electrodes on the dorsum of the hand and fingers, or by mechanical stretching of the skin over and around the joints. The stretching was applied through an array of threads stuck to the skin, in such a way as to avoid or minimize moving the underlying joints and to avoid applying pressure to underlying tendons and ligaments. Perceived movements were mimicked by voluntary movements of the fingers of the contralateral hand. 3. By way of comparison, kinaesthetic illusions were also evoked by activation of muscle receptors by vibration. 4. Illusions of movement were elicited with each type of stimulus. Electrical stimulation of skin afferents caused clear illusory movements in six out of seventeen subjects (35%), and borderline movement illusions in three out of the same seventeen subjects (total 9/17, 53%). Various other localized skin sensations were also reported. Skin stretch evoked movement illusions in eleven out of nineteen of subjects (58%). In all subjects who received both cutaneous stimuli, twelve out of seventeen (71%) reported some movement sensations with one or other of the stimulation techniques. Vibration tended to be the most reliable stimulus modality, eliciting illusory movements in fourteen out of sixteen subjects (88%). 5. Although the skin stretching technique did cause minute movements of nearby joints in several cases, these were monitored and shown in separate control experiments to be below perceptual threshold, and so the movement illusions could be safely attributed to the cutaneous afferent input evoked by skin stretch. 6. The results support the hypothesis that input from skin stretched during finger movement contributes to the conscious perception of the movement. Vibration-evoked muscle afferent input tended to be more reliable than the skin input in producing kinaesthetic illusions, though comparisons of the relative efficacy of the three techniques must be made with caution.
In this report we have investigated the intracellular calcium (Ca2+) mobilization mediated by serotonin 5-HT2A receptors in the platelets of 13 patients with bipolar disorder and 12 patients with major depression in comparison with 15 healthy control subjects. We found an enhanced intracellular Ca2+ rise in response to 5-HT in platelets from both bipolar patients and patients with major depression. The 5-HT2A receptor-mediated intracellular Ca2+ signaling mechanism may have an important role in the pathophysiology of affective disorders.
Video-based eye-tracking systems are especially suited to studying eye movements during naturally occurring activities such as locomotion, but eye velocity records suffer from broad band noise that is not amenable to conventional filtering methods. We evaluated the effectiveness of combined median and moving-average filters by comparing prefiltered and postfiltered records made synchronously with a video eye-tracker and the magnetic search coil technique, which is relatively noise free. Root-mean-square noise was reduced by half, without distorting the eye velocity signal. To illustrate the practical use of this technique, we studied normal subjects and patients with deficient labyrinthine function and compared their ability to hold gaze on a visual target that moved with their heads (cancellation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex). Patients and normal subjects performed similarly during active head rotation but, during locomotion, patients held their eyes more steadily on the visual target than did subjects.
Control of head position during postural responses is important to facilitate both the interpretation of vestibular signals and the stabilization of gaze. In these experiments, we compared head stabilization for two different postural tasks: 1) in response to perturbations at the head, and 2) in response to perturbations induced at the support surface, which perturb both body and head position. To determine whether normal vestibular function is necessary for head stabilization in these two tasks, responses to forward and backward mechanical perturbations of the head and body were compared for 13 normal subjects and 4 patients with profound bilateral vestibular loss (two with vestibular loss in adulthood and two in infancy). Normal subjects showed little neck muscle activity for body perturbations, but large, early activations in both neck extensors and flexors for head perturbations. In contrast, vestibular patients showed excessive neck muscle activation for body perturbations and reduced or absent neck muscle activity for head perturbations. Patients with vestibular loss in adulthood also showed increased head acceleration in response to both head and body perturbations, but patients with vestibular loss in infancy showed more normal head accelerations. For body perturbations, the differences in head acceleration between patients and normals were greater for later head acceleration peaks, indicating poor head control during the execution of the postural response. Trunk angle changes were also higher in the patients for forward body perturbations, indicating that poorer control of trunk position could have contributed to their poorer head stabilization. These results indicate that the vestibular system plays an important role in head and trunk stabilization for both head and body perturbations. However, the more normal head accelerations of the patients with infant vestibular loss also indicate that other mechanisms, possibly involving neck reflexes, can at least partially substitute for the vestibular system to provide head and trunk stabilization.
Building upon earlier behavioral models of animal and human learning, we explore how a psychobiological model of animal conditioning can be applied to amnesic category learning. In particular, we show that the late-training deficit found in Knowlton, Squire, and Gluck's 1994 study of amnesic category learning can be understood as a natural consequence of Gluck and Myers's (1993) theory of hippocampal-region function, a theory that has heretofore been applied only to studies of animal learning. When applied to Knowlton et al.'s category learning task, Gluck and Myers's model assumes that the hippocampal region induces new stimulus representations over multiple training trials that reflect stimulus-stimulus regularities in the training set. As such, the model expects an advantage for control subjects over hippocampal-damaged amnesic patients only later in training when control subjects have developed new hippocampal-dependent stimulus representations; in contrast, both groups are expected to show equivalent performance early in training. A potentially analogous early/late distinction is described for animal studies of stimulus generalization. Our analyses suggest that careful comparisons between early and late-training differences in learning may be an important factor in understanding amnesia and the neural bases of both animal and human learning.

Serotonin acting on 5-hydroxytryptamine4 receptors increases membrane excitability in CA1 hippocampal pyramidal cells by reducing the slow calcium-activated afterhyperpolarization. This effect is mediated through an increase in cAMP and activation of protein kinase A, although subsequent steps have not been elucidated. We now report that a significant portion of the calcium responsible for the generation of the afterhyperpolarization originates from the release of intracellular calcium through a calcium-induced calcium-release mechanism. Thus, the afterhyperpolarization is enhanced by caffeine, whereas it is inhibited by dantrolene and ruthenium red, two blockers of calcium-induced calcium release. The afterhyperpolarization is also inhibited by thapsigargin, which depletes intracellular calcium stores. These observations raised the possibility that serotonin might reduce the afterhyperpolarization by regulating calcium-induced calcium release. Consistent with this possibility, administration of calcium-induced calcium-release blockers, as well as of thapsigargin, occluded the ability of serotonin to inhibit the afterhyperpolarization. Similarly, administration of caffeine, which enhances the contribution of calcium-induced calcium release to the afterhyperpolarization, enhanced the effect of serotonin. These results indicate that serotonin inhibits the afterhyperpolarization in the CA1 region of hippocampus by reducing the ability of extracellular calcium to trigger calcium release from intracellular stores. As such, they identify a physiological role for the calcium-induced calcium release in hippocampus and provide evidence for its regulation by G protein-coupled receptors and, more specifically, 5-hydroxytryptamine4 receptors.
Dopamine produces a time- and dose-dependent increase in cell death in a clonal catecholaminergic cell line (CATH.a) derived from the central nervous system. Cell death also occurred after treatment with the catecholamines L-dihydroxyphenylalanine, norepinephrine, epinephrine, and isoproterenol, as well as the neurotoxic compound 6-hydroxydopamine. Cell death is not receptor mediated because selective noradrenergic and dopaminergic receptor agonists had no effect on CATH.a cell viability. Dopamine induces apoptotic cell death as indicated by DNA fragmentation measured by gel electrophoresis and by flow cytometric analysis. Apoptosis seems to be produced by dopamine autoxidation, because intracellular peroxides increase after dopamine treatment and cell death can be inhibited by catalase and N-acetylcysteine. N-acetylcysteine produced a dose-dependent decrease in dopamine-induced cell death; this correlated with a decrease in peroxide formation. In addition, antisense to the antioxidant protein bcl-2 increases the sensitivity of CATH.a cells to dopamine-induced cell death. These findings indicate that the oxidative products of dopamine cause neurotoxicity through apoptosis.
In this article, recent information from neuropathological studies in humans and behavioural and electrophysiological/pharmacological studies in rats is used to examine the hypothesis that the subiculum, the major output region of the hippocampal formation, may contain sites of action for novel antipsychotic drugs. In the first section, the possible interactions between subicular neurons and the sites at which existing antipsychotic drugs act are discussed. These include the interaction implied by convergence of subicular and dopaminergic inputs to the nucleus accumbens. The second section concentrates upon subicular involvement in animal behaviours that are thought to be relevant to schizophrenia, which, in rats, include Latent inhibition and Pre-pulse inhibition of Acoustic Startle. Involvement of the subiculum in the neuropathology of schizophrenia is discussed in the third section. However, few neuropathological studies comment specifically on the subiculum. Those which suggest involvement tend to be recent and, as yet, have not all been replicated. Finally, there is discussion of the possibility that the subiculum contains chemical sites at which drugs could act specifically to produce appropriate physiological effects. Potential sites include, but are not necessarily restricted to, particular ion channels in electrophysiologically defined subclasses of subicular pyramidal neurons, the receptors for neuromodulatory peptides such as somatostatin and cholecystokinin, and the enzyme nitric oxide synthase. It is concluded that a wide range of clinical and basic neuroscience disciplines has provided evidence which, especially when viewed as a whole, is consistent with the hypothesis that the subiculum is a potential site of action for novel antipsychotic drugs.


The relationship between progressive cognitive decline and underlying neuropathology associated with Alzheimer s disease (AD) is a key issue in defining the mechanisms responsible for functional loss. This has been a subject of much controversy, with separate studies comparing various clinical and neuropathological indices in AD. Further, it is difficult to compare studies with differences in histochemical staining protocols, brain regions examined, and data quantification criteria. There are many difficulties in designing a clinical-pathological correlative study involving AD patients. It is necessary to control for several key parameters. For example, a broad range of cognitively impaired subjects is needed, as well as short postmortem delays, brief intervals between cognitive testing and death, and the most sensitive detection and quantification techniques. In this study, we carefully controlled for each of these parameters to determine if there is a relationship between global cognitive dysfunction and multiple neuropathological indices. We selected 20 individuals representing a broad range of cognitive ability from normal to severely impaired based on the MMSE, Blessed IMC, and CDR. We counted plaque number, NFT number, dystrophic neurite number, and the relative extent of thioflavine positive plaques and neuritic involvement within plaques. We also quantified cortical area occupied by beta-amyloid immunoreactivity (A beta Load) and PHF-1 positive neuropil threads and tangles (PHF Load) using computer-based image analysis. Interestingly, we found that most pathologic measures correlated highly with the severity of dementia. However, the strongest predictor of premortem cognitive dysfunction on all three cognitive measures was the relative area of entorhinal cortex occupied by beta-amyloid deposition. In conclusion, our data show that in a carefully controlled correlative study, a variety of neuropathological variables are strongly correlated with cognitive impairment. Plaque related variables may be as strongly related to cognitive dysfunction as other established measures, including synapse loss, cell death and tau hyperphosphorylation, although no correlative study can demonstrate causality.
Juvenile zebra finches (Poephila guttata) learn song in two stages: during sensory acquisition, they memorize the song of an adult tutor, and during sensorimotor learning, they alter their vocalizations to match the stored song model. Like many other forms of neural plasticity and memory formation, vocal learning in zebra finches is impaired by pharmacological blockade of NMDA receptors, but the relevant NMDA receptors have not yet been localized. During song development, one neural region that has been implicated specifically in song learning, the IMAN, exhibits an increased density of NMDA receptors as well as decreased binding affinity for the NMDA antagonist MK-801. To test the hypothesis that sensory acquisition requires activation of NMDA receptors in or near the IMAN we infused the NMDA receptor antagonist amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP5; 2.5 micrograms 0.1 microliter) directly into the anterior forebrain. Birds receiving AP5 infusions prior to each of 10 tutoring sessions copied significantly less of their tutor's song than did sham-operated birds, saline-infused birds, birds that received AP5 infusions on nontutoring days, or birds that received AP5 infusions into the cerebellum. Furthermore, infusions of AP5 in the anterior forebrain did not impair young birds' ability to discriminate zebra finch from canary song. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that NMDA receptor activation in the anterior forebrain is necessary for the memorization of song material during avian vocal learning. This is also the first report that song-related regions of the anterior forebrain contribute to sensory acquisition specifically.
One month (but not 1-3 days) after intermittent morphine administration, the hyperresponsiveness of rats toward the locomotor effects of morphine and amphetamine was associated with an increase in dopamine (DA) D-1 receptor-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity and enhanced steady state levels of preprodynorphin gene expression in slices of the caudate/putamen and nucleus accumbens. Such an enduring increase in postsynaptic D-1 receptor efficacy also occurred in cultured gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) neurons of the striatum obtained from rats prenatally treated with morphine. Interestingly, in vitro glucocorticoid receptor activation in these cultured striatal neurons by corticosterone potentiated this neuroadaptive effect of prior in vivo morphine exposure. Since activation of glucocorticoid receptors by corticosterone did not affect D-1 receptor functioning in cultured neurons of saline-pretreated rats, prior intermittent exposure to morphine (somehow) appears to induce a long-lasting state of corticosterone hyperresponsiveness in striatal neurons. Therefore, DA-sensitive striatal GABA neurons may represent common neuronal substrates acted upon by morphine and corticosterone. We hypothesize that the delayed occurrence of these long-lasting morphine-induced neuroadaptive effects in GABA/dynorphin neurons of the striatum is involved in the enduring nature of behavioral sensitization to drugs of abuse and cross-sensitization to stressors.
Electrophysiologic studies of opioid effects on nociceptive types of dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons in organotypic cultures have shown that morphine and most mu, delta, and kappa opioid agonists can elicit bimodal excitatory as well as inhibitory modulation of the action potential duration (APD) of these cells. Excitatory opioid effects have been shown to be mediated by opioid receptors that are coupled via Gs to cyclic AMP-dependent ionic conductances that prolong the APD, whereas inhibitory opioid effects are mediated by opioid receptors coupled via Gi/Go to ionic conductances that shorten the APD. Selective blockade of excitatory opioid receptor functions by low (ca. pM) concentrations of naloxone, naltrexone, etorphine and other specific agents markedly increases the inhibitory potency of morphine or other bimodally acting agonists and attenuates development of tolerance/dependence. These in vitro studies have been confirmed by tail-flick assays showing that acute co-treatment of mice with morphine plus ultra-low-dose naltrexone or etorphine remarkably enhances the antinociceptive potency of morphine whereas chronic co-treatment attenuates development of tolerance and naloxone-precipitated withdrawal-jumping symptoms.

The initial step performed by neurologists in the evaluation of patients with potential carotid disease is to establish whether patients have had carotid territory symptoms. Symptoms are most often believed to be caused by emboli passing onto the cerebral circulation. Despite some limitations, conventional angiography remains the gold standard test to evaluate the carotid bifurcation. Because of the costs and risks of angiography, some combination of carotid duplex ultrasonography and MR angiography is chosen to select patients for angiography. Future research will focus on markers other than percent stenosis to assess stroke risk and treatments, such as angioplasty and stenting, for carotid lesions.
In an open prospective study, we analyzed the effect of cyclophosphamide (300 mg/m2 body surface daily for 4 days) combined with prednisone (40 mg/m2 body surface daily for 5 days) at 4-week intervals during 6 months in 16 patients with polyneuropathy associated with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance (MGUS). Eleven patients had an IgM-MGUS and five an IgG-MGUS. During a follow-up period of 3 years, eight patients had improvement and six patients stabilized, based on quantitative neurologic examination, the Rankin disability scale, and electrophysiologic studies. These 14 patients had neuropathy with demyelinating and axonal features. One patient with a purely axonal neuropathy had deterioration despite therapy. One other patients developed severe leukopenia as side effect of cyclophosphamide, necessitating withdrawal of treatment. A difference in response was not present in patient with IgM- or IgG-MGUS, nor in patients with or without autoantibodies against myelin-associated glycoprotein. Nine patients had a bone marrow biopsy before and 1 year after treatment. In eight patients, the monoclonal lymphoid IgM or plasma cell IgG infiltration decreased, while in four the monoclonality disappeared after treatment. In the patient who had neurologic deterioration, repeated bone marrow biopsy showed deposits of amyloid. In conclusion, short-term treatment with intermittent cyclophosphamide and prednisone may have a long-term favorable effect in patients with demyelinating polyneuropathy associated with MGUS.
Mutations in a gene encoding a multitransmembrane protein, termed presenilin 1 (PS1), are causative in the majority of early-onset cases of AD. To determine the topology of PS1, we utilized two strategies: first, we tested whether putative transmembranes are sufficient to export a protease-sensitive substrate across a lipid bilayer; and second, we examined the binding of antibodies to specific PS1 epitopes in cultured cells selectively permeabilized with the pore-forming toxin, streptolysin-O. We document that the &quot;loop,&quot; N-terminal, and C-terminal domains of PS1 are oriented toward the cytoplasm.
Serotonin (5-HT) has been shown to affect the development and patterning of the mouse barrelfield. We show that the dense transient 5-HT innervation of the somatosensory, visual, and auditory cortices originates in the thalamus rather than in the raphe: 5-HT is detected in thalamocortical fibers and most 5-HT cortical labeling disappears after thalamic lesions. Thalamic neurons do not synthesize 5-HT but take up exogenous 5-HT through 5-HT high affinity uptake sites located on thalamocortical axons and terminals. 3H-5-HT injected into the cortex is retrogradely transported to thalamic neurons. In situ hybridization shows a transient expression of the genes encoding the serotonin transporter and the vesicular monoamine transporter in thalamic sensory neurons. In these glutamatergic neurons, internalized 5-HT might thus be stored and used as a &quot;borrowed transmitter&quot; for extraneuronal signaling or could exert an intraneuronal control on thalamic maturation.

Two patients with unilateral disconnection or removal of the entire occipital lobe were tested for residual vision in their blind field. Using image stabilization to eliminate eye motion artifacts, the central portion of each subject's visual field was tested, beginning 1 degree from fixation and extending outward to 13.5 degrees. A narrow zone of residual vision was identified along the retinal vertical meridian of each patient. The lateral edge of this zone was generally within 3.5 degrees of the vertical meridian, though extended farther outward (but not beyond 6 degrees) at one field location for each subject. In one patient, it was present in both superior and inferior quadrants; in the other, it was confined to the superior quadrant. Within their zones of residual vision, both patients could detect stimuli and perform simple shape discriminations, but could not name complex line drawings. The patients were aware of their vision within this zone. No residual vision, with or without awareness, was found in areas tested outside these zones. Given the complete absence of visual cortex contralateral to the observed residual vision, alternate structures must be mediating these abilities.
Seasonality of mood disorders might involve alterations in the rhythmicity of serotonin [5-HT] function. We examined seasonal effects on the neuroendocrine and mood responses to L-tryptophan (L-TRP) in depressed patients and healthy subjects. In this study, 126 drug-free patients with DSM-III-R major depression and 58 healthy subjects received in i.v. infusion of L-TRP. Serum prolactin (PRL) and plasma tryptophan levels were measured. Mood was assessed with visual analogue scales. Cosinor analysis revealed seasonal variation in peak change (delta) PRL and baseline tryptophan levels in the combined depressed and in unipolar, nonmelancholic, and nonpsychotic patients. Peak delta PRL and tryptophan levels were inversely correlated in combined depressed and unipolar patients. Seasonality was more evident in female than in male patients. These data support previous evidence that 5-HT function is abnormal in depression and further suggest a seasonal variability of such abnormalities that is absent in healthy subjects.
The mutations of presenilins (PSs) gene and their clinicopathological correlations to Alzheimer's disease (AD) have lately attracted considerable attention. In this report we analyzed fifteen Japanese familial Alzheimer's disease (FAD) including 12 early-onset FAD and 13 sporadic AD patients for the mutation of PS-1 gene by direct sequence analysis. We found the mutations, G384A, E280A in two FAD and H163R in one sporadic AD patient, and no N1411 or M239V mutation in PS-2 gene, and no mutation in exons 16 and 17 in amyloid precursor protein (APP) gene. Families in which we failed to find the mutation by this screening may have mutations elsewhere in PSs or in APP gene, or yet unidentified other AD loci may exist. This is the first report to find a sporadic AD patient having PS-1 mutation.
Environmental enrichment results in structural changes in the brain. Recent findings indicate involvement of neurotrophins in neuronal plasticity. This study examined the effect of environmental complexity on the levels of neurotrophin-3 (NT-3) mRNA in the rat visual cortex and hippocampus, studied by in situ hybridization. Rats housed in groups in a complex, stimulating environment had significantly higher levels of NT-3 mRNA in the visual cortex and the hippocampus than rats housed in individual cages without stimulating objects. These results indicate a possible role for NT-3 in synaptic plasticity.
Nitric oxide (NO) and arachidonic acid (AA) are believed to act as intra- and intercellular messengers in the central nervous system. Using primary cultures of striatal and hippocampal neurons, we have studied the effect of endogenous NO on N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-mediated AA release. Inhibition of NO synthesis with L-NG-nitroarginine (L-Noarg) produced a dose-dependent increase in NMDA-mediated AA release that was reversed by L-arginine. On the other hand, L-Noarg did not modify AA release produced by joint stimulation of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) and phospholipase C-coupled metabotropic subtypes of glutamate receptors. Our results indicate that endogenously produced NO could modulate cellular events mediated by NMDA-induced AA release.
To analyze the importance of premammillary region in male behavior such as aggression and mating, distribution of androgen- and estrogen-receptors (AR and ER), aromatase (ARO) and neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) was studied in the dorsal and ventral premammillary nuclei (PMd and PMv) of the rat by immunohistochemistry. The nNOS-immunoreactivities (-IR) were present both in the PMd and the PMv, while AR-IR were detected only in the PMv. AR-IR became undetectable after orchidectomy but they recovered by an injection of 5 alpha-dihydrotestosterone (DHT). In both nuclei, no clear signals of ER-IR were encountered. On the other hand, ARO-IR were found in the PMv but only very few. In the PMv, although DHT did not increase nNOS-IR significantly in castrated males, all the nNOS-IR cells contained AR-IR at least in intact and castrated-DHT injected males. Thus, involvement of nNOS-nitric oxide system in the PMv in the androgenic action on male behaviors was suggested.
Rat adrenal chromaffin cells attached to either collagen-coated dextran (Cytodex 3) or glass bead microcarriers, both of 90-200 microns diameter, were used as dopamine-secreting implants in the caudate-putamen of rats with 6-hydroxydopamine-induced unilateral lesions of the substantia nigra. As controls, beads without cells and cells in suspension alone were implanted. Chromaffin cells adhered to microcarriers reduced apomorphine-induced rotation by 75% in lesioned animals. Animals that were lesioned but not receiving cell implants or receiving beads alone showed no reduction. Animals implanted with cells not attached to beads also showed a reduction in rotation but this effect lasted less than three months. Microcarrier-attached cells, however, maintained their effect in reducing rotation for at least eight months (rotations were reduced from a control mean of 10.9 +/- 1.4 to 3.6 +/- 1.1 turns/min) without any &quot;drop-off&quot; of the effect. Histological examination showed that eight months post-implant the cells pre-adhered to beads were still present and could be stained by anti-tyrosine hydroxylase antibody. Sections stained with hematoxylin-eosin showed no signs of an inflammatory response. In contrast to beads implanted into the striatum, Cytodex bead implants injected into the lateral ventricle induced a histopathological response appearing to involve the ependyma and choroid plexus. Results suggest that the striatal parenchyma but not the ventricle is amenable to studies using the microcarrier approach to transplantation.
The patency of the blood-brain barrier was examined during the development and repair of focal demyelinating lesions induced in the dorsal columns of rats by the intraspinal injection of ethidium bromide, with or without concomitant irradiation. Blood-brain barrier integrity was determined by the intravenous injection of horseradish peroxidase or by the immunofluorescent localization of endogenous albumin. Following repair, the central area of the lesions was remyelinated by Schwann cells and lacked astrocytes. In unirradiated lesions, demyelination was established at one week and the lesion was largely repaired by remyelination by 12 weeks. Horseradish peroxidase extravasation was absent at one day after injection, but was present at three days and throughout the period of repair. With one exception, all animals which exhibited regions of demyelination also exhibited horseradish peroxidase extravasation. No horseradish peroxidase was seen in lesions where all the demyelinated axons had been repaired by remyelination, and strong albumin immunofluorescence was also absent from such lesions. Albumin immunoreactivity was also absent from normal spinal cords, although it was prominent in normal sciatic nerves and dorsal roots. Irradiation of lesions resulted in a delay in the repair by remyelination, and repair of the blood-brain barrier was similarly delayed. Promotion of Schwann cell remyelination has been suggested as a potential therapy for central demyelinating disorders such as multiple sclerosis; however, central regions remyelinated by Schwann cells lack astrocytes, cells which have been implicated in the induction and maintenance of the blood-brain barrier. Since blood-brain barrier opening may be an early step in the production of new lesions, a defective barrier could allow such remyelinated regions to act as foci for further lesion development. We conclude, however, that the remyelination of central demyelinating lesions by Schwann cells is accompanied by recovery of properties of an intact blood-brain barrier, despite the lack of astrocytes. The present findings support the idea that promotion of remyelination by Schwann cells may form an effective therapy for central demyelinating diseases.
In vitro extracellular recordings were made from tissue slices of suprachiasmatic nucleus from homozygous Brattleboro rats which are deficient in vasopressin. A high proportion (56%) of neurons were excited by application of exogenous vasopressin, indicating that the V1 receptors expressed by these neurons were functional. Basal activity of these vasopressin-sensitive neurons showed a marked circadian variation (higher during the subjective light phase) while vasopressin-insensitive neurons showed no significant variation, suggesting the presence of the V1 receptor identifies a population of highly circadian neurons. Suprachiasmatic neurons from both homozygous rats and their heterozygous (vasopressin-containing) litter mates displayed a circadian rhythm of spontaneous (basal) activity, with firing rates declining during the subjective dark phase, indicating that the endogenous pacemaker driving the circadian rhythm was not dependent upon the presence of vasopressin. However, the peak of spontaneous activity displayed during the subjective light phase was significantly lower in the vasopressin-deficient animals. These data show that the presence of endogenous vasopressin within the suprachiasmatic nucleus is not necessary for the generation of the circadian pattern of activity. However, vasopressin does function to amplify the rhythm by its excitatory effect during the light phase.
Immunocytochemistry of cysteine sulfinate decarboxylase was performed with a new rabbit antiserum that we have recently produced and characterized using as antigen an 11,000-fold purified fraction isolated from rat liver. This antiserum precipitated cysteine sulfinate decarboxylase enzymatic activity, labeled one band (mol. wt 51,000) on immunoblots of crude tissue extracts and did not stain any cells in peripheral tissues devoid of cysteine sulfinate decarboxylase. According to these criteria, this antiserum appeared to be specific for cysteine sulfinate decarboxylase. Numerous cells were immunolabeled in the cerebellum and the hippocampus. Most notable was the labeling of the small cells surrounding the Purkinje cells and sending radial fibers up to the pial surface of the cerebellar cortex or the staining of small star-shaped cells with thin immunolabeled processes abutting on blood vessels. Identified nerve cells such as the Purkinje cells and granule cells in the cerebellum or the pyramidal and granule cells in the hippocampus were devoid of any immunoreactivity. simultaneous double immunofluorescence was carried out using anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein or anti-S-100 monoclonal antibodies. Cysteine sulfinate decarboxylase as well as glial fibrillary acidic protein- or S-100-immunopositive cells were plotted independently for the same section. Quantitative analysis of the maps indicated that the overwhelming majority of cysteine sulfinate decarboxylase-immunolabeled cells were positive for the established astrocytes markers, glial fibrillary acidic protein or S-100. Between 82 and 98% of cysteine sulfinate decarboxylase-immunolabeled cells were also glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive, depending upon the layer. Cysteine sulfinate decarboxylase immunostaining was localized within the cytoplasm, while that of glial fibrillary acidic protein was linked to the cytoskeleton. Since both labels could not be fully superposed, some double immunolabeled cells may have escaped our analysis. More than 94% up to 99% of cysteine sulfinate decarboxylase-immunolabeled cells were simultaneously S-100-immunopositive. Our quantitative data establish that cysteine sulfinate decarboxylase is strictly localized in astrocytes in the cerebellum and in the hippocampus. This finding suggests that taurine is synthesized by astrocytes in the brain and accordingly may play a role in relation to glial function, possibly within the framework of glial-neuronal interactions.
A spinal cord slice preparation was developed in order to study developmental changes in intrinsic membrane properties and in responses to N-methyl-D-aspartate and serotonin in embryonic chick motoneurons. Transverse spinal cord slices were obtained from chick embryos over a series of developmental stages (embryonic days 12-18). Intracellular recordings were obtained from 87 antidromically identified motoneurons. During the stages examined, the average resting membrane potential did not vary significantly, the voltage threshold of current-evoked action potentials became significantly more negative, there was a non-significant trend towards a decrease in the recorded input resistance, but there were no significant changes observed in the membrane time constant. There were significant developmental changes in the waveform of the current-evoked action potentials. The average amplitude of the action potentials increased over the stages studied, while the action potential duration measured at half-amplitude decreased. All of the motoneurons examined were maximally depolarized by bath application of 50 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate. The depolarization persisted in the presence of tetrodotoxin but was blocked by 100 microM 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid and, therefore, was at least partially due to a direct action of N-methyl-D-aspartate on motoneuronal receptors. The average amplitude of the N-methyl-D-aspartate-induced depolarizations decreased significantly over the stages examined. In contrast, bath application of 50 microM serotonin produced either depolarizing or hyperpolarizing responses depending on the developmental age of the motoneuron. Serotonin induced a depolarization in about 50% of the motoneurons at embryonic day 12, 69% of the motoneurons at embryonic day 15 and 100% of the motoneurons recorded from at embryonic day 18. These findings reveal important developmental changes in intrinsic membrane responses and action potential properties of chick motoneurons recorded from a slice preparation. We have also documented changes in the motoneuronal responses to serotonin, a neurotransmitter used by a major descending projection, and N-methyl-D-aspartate, which activates glutamate receptors known to contribute to synaptic activity in segmental circuits.
A neurite-stimulating effect was induced by both the cerebrospinal fluid of epileptic patients and the media of co-cultures of rat hippocampus and chick embryo sensory neurons after veratridine treatment. Cerebrospinal fluid from patients with epilepsy stimulated extensive neurite growth in the organotypic culture of chick embryo dorsal root ganglia. The anti-nerve growth factor antibody partly blocked the neurite-stimulating effect of the cerebrospinal fluid. Co-cultures of newborn rat hippocampus and chick embryo dorsal root ganglia were used to investigate the involvement of neurotrophic factors into the processes which are activated by neuronal activity. The data obtained suggest that veratridine, an epileptiform agent, gave rise to an elevation in the level of neurotrophic factors in the culture media and neurite outgrowth of dorsal root ganglia sensory neurons. The anti-nerve growth factor antibody was shown to block the neurite-stimulating effect mediated by veratridine. These results indicate that the epileptiform activity of neurons evokes the expression of neurotrophins.
Four neuropeptides, substance P, neurokinin A, calcitonin gene-related peptide and neuropeptide Y, were detected by radioimmunoassay in guinea-pig vestibular end-organs. High-resolution confocal microscopy visualization of immunofluorescence staining was used to determine the cellular localization of these peptides. Substance P- and neurokinin A-like immunoreactivities were found to co-exist in afferent fibers innervating the peripheral regions of both the utricular and ampullar sensory organs. The immunoreactivity was more concentrated in the distal ends of the calyceal-shaped nerve endings that innervate type I sensory cells. While in the guinea-pig, nerve calyces and type I cells are distributed in both the central and peripheral regions of the sensory epithelia, immunoreactive calyces were found only in the peripheral regions. Calcitonin gene-related peptide-like immunoreactivity was localized in small bouton endings situated at the level of the base of the hair cells. These boutons were in a position to make axosomatic contacts with type II sensory cells and axodendritic contacts with afferent nerve endings. Calcitonin gene-related peptide immunoreactivity co-existed with choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. The localization and shape of these boutons identified them as the axonal endings of efferent vestibular fibers. Neuropeptide Y-like immunoreactivity was not observed in the actual sensory epithelium but in the underlying connective tissue, where it was located in varicose fibers along blood vessels. The synaptic position of the tachykinins is clearly distinct from that of calcitonin gene-related peptide. This segregation distinguishes the vestibular end-organs from most peripheral tissues where these peptides are co-localized. The tachykinin-immunoreactive afferent fibers are postsynaptic to the hair cells. If, as in somatic sensory endings, these fibers can be triggered to release the neuropeptides by an axon reflex type of activation, then the tachykinins could interfere directly with the function of type I and type II vestibular hair cells. Calcitonin gene-related peptide co-exists with acetylcholine in the efferent axonal endings that are presynaptic to type II hair cells and to afferent fibers. Calcitonin gene-related peptide can thus interfere by direct synaptic action with type II hair cells only. It may also regulate the activity of the tachykinin-containing afferents.
A newly developed benzoylpyrrolidine drug (BDP-20) that increases the size of fast, excitatory synaptic responses was examined for its effects on the kinetic properties of alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxalepropionic acid (AMPA)-type glutamate receptors. When long pulses of glutamate were applied to excised hippocampal patches of the rat, the compound BDP-20 caused an approximately 15-fold reduction in the rate at which responses desensitized and a similar size increase in steady-state currents. In experiments using 1-ms glutamate pulses, BDP-20 prolonged response deactivation by a factor of about four and greatly reduced the depression in the second response when two consecutive glutamate pulses were given. Two types of equilibrium binding assays indicated that BDP-20 causes a measurable increase in the affinity of AMPA receptors; the EC50 values for this effect were similar to those obtained in excised patch studies. The actions of BDP-20 on physiology and ligand binding could be adequately reproduced in a receptor model by slowing the rate of desensitization and increasing the affinity of the sensitized states. The biochemical and physiological effects of this benzoylpyrrolidine compound were qualitatively different from those obtained with cyclothiazide, although both types of drug increased AMPA receptor-mediated synaptic responses. Moreover, interactions between the drugs were at most only partially competitive; AMPA receptors may thus have multiple modulatory sites with distinct drug preferences and different effects on receptor kinetics.
Calcium chelators are commonly used for fluorescence and electrophysiological studies of neuronal Ca2+ signalling. Recently, they have also been used as neuroprotectants. Since they buffer calcium ions, these agents also modify the same signals which are being studied. These properties may be used to modulate Ca2+ signals such as those involved in synaptic transmission, and may explain their neuroprotective mechanism. To define factors which govern the modulation of synaptic transmission by Ca2+ chelators, we examined their actions on synaptic responses evoked in CA1 neurons of rat hippocampal slices. We used a spectrum of cell-permeant Ca2+ chelators having different structures, Ca(2+)-binding kinetics and Ca2+ affinities, as well as an impermeant, intracellularly perfused chelator salt. Application of the cell-permeant 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetate acetoxymethyl ester (50 microM) markedly attenuated evoked synaptic responses. This application produced an intracellular chelator accumulation of 79-125 microM, as estimated using 14C-labelled chelator. The actions of a Ca2+ chelator on synaptic responses were dependent on the chelator's Ca2+ affinity, Ca(2+)-binding rate and Ca2+ selectivity, because 1,2-bis(2-amino-5-nitrophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetate acetoxymethyl ester (a low Ca2+ affinity analogue), ethyleneglycolbis(beta-aminoethyl ether)-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetate acetoxymethyl ester (a slow buffer with similar Ca2+ affinity to 1,2-bis(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetate) and the selective Zn2+ chelator, tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)ethylenediamine, were ineffective. The intrinsic cell membrane properties, including the post-spike train afterhyperpolarization, were not significantly affected by any of the Ca2+ chelators used in this study. Intracellular perfusion of 100-200 microM 1,2-bis-(2-aminophenoxy)ethane-N,N,N',N'-tetra-acetate salt through patch pipettes into postsynaptic cells did not affect synaptic potentials, suggesting a presynaptic action of cell-permeant Ca2+ chelators on transmitter release. Other cell-permeant, fast Ca(2+)-binding chelators reduced synaptic responses according to their Ca2+ affinities, and not their chemical structure: those chelators with Kd values &lt; or = 25 microM attenuated synaptic responses, whereas chelators of lesser affinity did not. These data support the ideas that [Ca2+]i rises to high (micromolar) levels during transmitter release, and that Ca2+ chelators may be used to attenuate excitotoxicity by attenuating excitatory neurotransmission without affecting Ca2+ signalling in the submicromolar [Ca2+]i range.
The in vitro release of somatostatin and neuropeptide Y, their tissue concentration and immunocytochemical pattern were examined in the entorhinal cortex of chronically epileptic rats. A systemic administration of 12 mg/kg kainic acid causing generalized tonic-clonic seizures for at least 3 h after injection was used to induce, 60 days later, a chronically enhanced susceptibility to seizures in the rats. The release of both peptides under depolarizing conditions was significantly reduced by 15% on average from slices of the entorhinal cortex two days after kainic acid-induced status epilepticus. At 60 days, the spontaneous and 30 mM KCl-induced release of somatostatin was significantly enhanced by 30% on average. The release induced by 100 mM KCl was raised by 70%. The spontaneous, 30 mM and 100 mM KCl-induced release of neuropeptide Y from the same slices was increased, respectively, by 120%, 76% and 36%. The late changes were associated with an increased tissue concentration of neuropeptide Y but not of somatostatin. This was confirmed by immunocytochemical evidence showing that neuropeptide Y-, but not somatostatin-immunoreactive neurons were increased in the entorhinal cortex of kainic acid-treated rats. These results indicate that neurotransmission mediated by somatostatin and neuropeptide Y, two peptides previously shown to play a role in limbic epileptogenesis, is enhanced in the entorhinal cortex of chronically epileptic rats.
The present study examined the possibility that pargyline-induced stimulation of dopamine neurotransmission in the striatum measured by intracerebral microdialysis may be related to alterations in the function of dopamine nerve terminals in close proximity to the implanted microdialysis probe. Changes in extracellular concentrations of dopamine were determined bilaterally in the striata of awake rats by microdialysis with concentric dialysis probes and by chronoamperometry with electrochemical (stearate-graphite paste) recording electrodes, after inhibition of monoamine oxidase by pargyline and subsequent blockade of dopamine uptake by nomifensine. Pargyline (75 mg/kg, i.p.) increased dopamine overflow by 14 nM from a mean basal value of 9 nM as determined from dialysis probes implanted in the right striatum. Pargyline failed, however, to increase basal concentrations of dopamine measured by electrochemical electrodes implanted alone in the contralateral striatum. In contrast, 3 h following pargyline, administration of nomifensine (10 mg/kg, i.p.) increased extracellular dopamine concentrations to a similar magnitude above baseline levels in both right and left striata (135 and 127 nM, respectively). In a separate group of rats, electrochemical electrodes were implanted in the left striatum with the tip of the electrode placed directly adjacent to the lumen of a dialysis probe. In contrast to pargyline's inability to increase basal extracellular dopamine measured at individually implanted electrochemical electrodes in the striatum, pargyline administration increased dopamine concentrations measured at electrodes implanted adjacent to non-perfused dialysis probes to an extent similar to that observed by dialysis alone (25 vs 14 nM, respectively). The present study indicates that pargyline increases dopamine concentrations in the region of striatal tissue immediately adjacent to the shaft of a permanently implanted dialysis probe, but not at the tip of an electrochemical electrode. The former effect appears to reflect an interaction between monoamine oxidase inhibition and the effects elicited by the physical presence of the dialysis probe in tissue.
The prefrontal cortex has often been implicated in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Schizophrenic patients are known to suffer from certain information processing deficits, which can be detected, among others, in the prepulse inhibition and the latent inhibition paradigm. The present study was designed to investigate the role of dopamine receptors in the medial prefrontal cortex in prepulse inhibition and latent inhibition. The results show that the local application of the selective antagonist of the dopamine D1-like receptor family, SCH 39166, into the medial prefrontal cortex dose-dependently reduced prepulse inhibition. Likewise, the selective antagonist of the dopamine D2-like receptor family, sulpiride, injected into the medial prefrontal cortex dose-dependently reduced prepulse inhibition. Neither of these antagonists, however, influenced latent inhibition as measured with the conditioned taste aversion paradigm. These data further indicate that the neuronal substrates of latent inhibition and prepulse inhibition are clearly different. Since the prefrontal cortex is intimately related to subcortical dopamine, the possible differential involvement of subcortical dopaminergic terminal fields in prepulse inhibition and latent inhibition is discussed.
The calcium-binding proteins Calbindin-D28k and calretinin are co-localized with dopamine in some of the midbrain dopaminergic neurons in the rat and monkey; the present study sought to examine the pattern of co-localization in the mouse. Double immunofluorescence staining procedures were used for tyrosine hydroxylase (a dopaminergic cell marker) and Calbindin-D28k or calretinin. Midbrain dopaminergic neurons were examined at four rostrocaudal levels, and the percentage of cells that contained both tyrosine hydroxylase and either of the two calcium-binding proteins was determined in nucleus A8 (retrorubral field), nucleus A9 (substantia nigra pars compacta, pars reticulata and pars lateralis) and nucleus A10 (nucleus paranigralis, ventral tegmental area, interfascicular nucleus, central linear nucleus). The two calcium-binding proteins were distributed similarly in midbrain dopaminergic neurons in the several nuclear groups that comprise nuclei A8, A9 and A10. The calcium-binding proteins were found in the majority (50-100%) of nucleus A10 neurons, whereas in nuclei A8 and A9 (except for the substantia nigra pars lateralis) less than 40% of the cells contained either calcium-binding protein. The pattern of co-localization in the mouse is similar to that reported for the rat and monkey. The calcium-binding proteins mark the population of midbrain dopaminergic neurons that are less vulnerable to degeneration in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine mouse model of Parkinson's disease.
To examine the participation of annexin V, a member of Ca(2+)-dependent phospholipid-binding proteins, in the process of synaptic vesicle exocytosis, rat central nervous tissue was analysed using biochemical and morphological techniques. By both fluorescence and confocal laser scanning microscopy, immunoreactivity for annexin V was predominantly localized around neuronal somata and dendrites, and the reactivity was mostly co-labeled with that for synaptophysin. The annexin V immunoreactivity was also detectable, but less intensely, in neuronal perikarya, glial cells and endothelial cells. Both immunoblot and immunoelectron microscopic analyses with intact tissues, synaptosomes and purified synaptic vesicles showed that annexin V was expressed in neurons, preferentially concentrated in axon terminals and associated with synaptic vesicles. Purified synaptic vesicles were relatively homogeneously distributed in the medium where Ca2+ was removed and thus the amount of annexin V was reduced drastically. The vesicles tended to be clustered in the fraction where endogenous annexin V is maintained, and the clusters were more conspicuous when purified human annexin V was added. Synaptic vesicles forming the clusters were not directly fused with each other but separated by a 10-15 nm gap that corresponded well with the size of single annexin V molecules. In axon terminals, globular structures 12-13 nm in diameter, similar in dimension to annexin V molecules, were distinctly found to be attached to the cytoplasmic surface of both vesicle membranes when the two vesicles were close to each other. These results suggest that annexin V belongs to the group of synaptic vesicle-associated proteins. Although its localization and significance in non-neuronal cells were not analysed here, at least in the axon terminal annexin V may participate in the cluster formation of synaptic vesicles by linking with the cytoplasmic surface of the vesicles in a Ca(2+)-dependent manner.
The response to capsaicin in functional assays suggests multiple sites of capsaicin action. This hypothesis is supported by the results of the present patch-clamp study of isolated dorsal root ganglion cells of the rat. The response to a prolonged application of capsaicin of different concentrations in an external solution with different ion compositions was investigated. Capsaicin evoked up to three distinct current components. The first and second current components could be activated independently. The third component occurred only in the presence of sodium and only in cells in which the second component was also elicited. In an extracellular solution with a physiological composition of ions and 300 nM capsaicin, the peaks of the three components, when evoked, occurred at 10.1 +/- 1.35 s (mean +/- S.E.M., n = 9), 44.0 +/- 2.64 s (n = 16) and 79.0 +/- 8.10 s (n = 5). The activation of the first and/or second current component depended on the concentration of capsaicin. A low concentration predominantly elicited the second component, while a high concentration activated the first and suppressed the second one. The third component seems to be a secondary response of the cell and was not investigated in detail. The activation and decay phases of the first two current components could be fitted by single exponential functions, whereas those of the third component could not. The first and second current components were carried by sodium and calcium. After tachyphylaxis, if the extracellular medium was then acidified to a pH of 6.3, the second component alone could then be elicited by capsaicin. The results demonstrate that capsaicin can elicit different current components that are distinguishable by their time-course, by the effects of acidification of the extracellular solution and by the concentration of capsaicin required to activate these currents. We postulate two distinct binding sites of capsaicin causing two distinct current components. This may account for the variety of physiological responses evoked by capsaicin and the variations in these responses between species.
Incomplete cervical spinal cord injuries were produced in rats by placing 10 g or 20 g weight on exposed dura at the C6 level for 5 min (Mild or Moderate injury). These two degrees of the injury resulted in initial motor functional deficits, followed by recoveries. In this study, changes in choline acetyltransferase activity and distribution following the incomplete cervical cord injuries were investigated using radioenzyme assay, and fluorescence microphotometry. We demonstrated that mild injury led to a transient decrease of choline acetyltransferase activity in the compressed spinal cord segment, but showed almost no histologic change at two days after injury. Although a low level of choline acetyltransferase immunofluorescence was found in the ventrolateral anterior horn at two days after injury, it recovered completely by one week after injury. These findings suggest that there was a strong correlation between the transient motor functional deficit and the decrease in choline acetyltransferase activity following mild injury. Moderate injury resulted in persistent low level of choline acetyltransferase activity in the compressed spinal cord segment accompanied by a striking loss of gray matter. On the other hand, at seven, 14 and 28 days after injury, over-expression of choline acetyltransferase activity was found in the neighboring spinal cord segments located both rostral and caudal to the injury, which showed no histologic change. In addition, excessively high levels of choline acetyltransferase immunofluorescence were found in the ventrolateral anterior horn of these segments. A strong correlation was found between the motor functional recovery and the late, excessive high levels of choline acetyltransferase activity in the neighboring regions. These results suggest that cholinergic neurons, especially spinal motor neurons may play an important role in the motor functional recovery following incomplete cervical spinal cord injury.
Patterns of co-localization of serotonin with glutamate decarboxylase (the synthetic enzyme for GABA) or each one of eight neuropeptides (calcitonin gene-related peptide, dynorphin, enkephalin, galanin, neuropeptide Y, neurotensin, substance P and somatostatin) were investigated with dual-colour confocal laser scanning microscopy in the lumbar spinal cords of three adult rats. Four regions of the gray matter were studied (laminae I-II, V, IX and X). The extent of co-localization was estimated by direct assessment of merged pairs of optical sections and by automated image analysis. Co-localization of serotonin and glutamate decarboxylase was found only in a few axons of laminae I-II but was not detected in other laminae. Peptides were not co-localized with serotonin in the superficial dorsal horn but considerable co-localization was found in motor nuclei and sparse co-localization was found in laminae V and X. Galanin and substance P frequently co-existed with serotonin in lamina IX but some co-localization with dynorphin, somatostatin, [Met]enkephalin and neuropeptide Y was also detected. Galanin, substance P and dynorphin were also co-localized with serotonin in a few axons of the deep dorsal horn and in the gray matter around the central canal. Neurotensin and calcitonin gene-related compound did not co-exist with serotonin in any of the laminae investigated. This evidence suggests that different populations of serotoninergic axons project to different regions of the spinal gray matter. Those containing glutamate decarboxylase terminate in the superficial dorsal horn and are likely to be involved in antinociception, whereas those containing peptides terminate principally in motor nuclei and are likely to modulate motor activity.
Autotomy in experimental animals following peripheral nerve section has been interpreted as a sign of pain corresponding to the chronic pain observed in patients with extensive nerve lesions. Such pain may be alleviated by spinal cord stimulation. In the present study, the effect of such stimulation, via chronically implanted electrodes, on autotomy behavior following sciatic nerve section was assessed in the rat. The stimulation was applied for 30 min daily during a 10-day period. There were four groups of animals, 16 in each, half of them females. Stimulating electrodes were implanted in all and one group served as control, receiving sham stimulation. In one group, the stimulation was started when autotomy was observed, one received stimulation from the day of nerve section, and in one it was begun three days before section. The onset of autotomy was significantly delayed in the latter two groups. When stimulation was applied as &quot;treatment&quot;, autotomy ceased but reappeared after the 10-day stimulation period. The incidence and severity of autotomy was markedly delayed and reduced when the stimulation had been applied just after the nerve section or before. In the latter groups, the diminished degree of autotomy persisted for the entire observation period, lasting 60 days after the stimulation was stopped. It seems that spinal cord stimulation, albeit applied only once daily and during a limited time period, can protect the spinal cord from developing the state of hyperexcitability believed to be the major cause of autotomy behavior. Peripheral mechanisms may also play a role by the antidromic activity evoked by the stimulation in the sectioned peripheral nerve. This study shows that spinal cord stimulation, which is a commonly employed method for treating chronic neurogenic pain, may have long-lasting effects on plasticity changes in the spinal cord following peripheral nerve injury, even when the stimulation is applied for short periods of time.
Current work has shown that spinal excitatory amino acid receptor activation can evoke physiological phenomena that may be mediated by the subsequent depolarization of glutamate-containing neurons and the activation of cyclo-oxygenase systems. To investigate this phenomenon, rats were implanted with lumbar intrathecal loop dialysis catheters for perfusion and an additional lumbar intrathecal PE-10 catheter for drug delivery. Two days after implantation, kainic acid (1 microgram) was injected intrathecally under light (0.5%) halothane anaesthesia and the spinal release of several amino acids and prostaglandin E2 was examined. Resting concentrations (mean expressed as pmol/25 microliters) of glutamate (89), aspartate (9), serine (387), glycine (597), taurine (185), asparagine (113) and prostaglandin E2 (0.43) were observed. Intrathecal kainic acid produced significant signs of arousal in the rat and evoked a significant increase (mean +/- S.E.M. of % baseline concentration) in aspartate (445 +/- 127%) and glutamate (221 +/- 35%). Prostaglandin E2 concentration was increased in the second post-injection sample (180 +/- 36%). Intrathecal pretreatment with 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2, 3-dione (3 micrograms or 10 micrograms), a non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist, blocked amino acid but not prostaglandin E2 release after kainic acid injection. Pretreatment with MK-801 (10 micrograms; non-competitive NMDA receptor antagonist) had no significant effect on evoked release of amino acids or prostaglandin E2. Indomethacin (10 micrograms, a cyclo-oxygenase inhibitor) pretreatment significantly decreased baseline prostaglandin E2 release in control animals (61 +/- 6%) and suppressed kainic acid-evoked aspartate, taurine and prostaglandin E2 release, but had no effect on the concentration of glutamate after kainic acid injection. These data suggest that activation of spinal kainic acid receptors provides a powerful stimulus for secondary excitatory amino acid release and, consistent with the concurrent appearance of prostaglandin E2, that this release is potentiated by the release of a cyclo-oxygenase product.
An antisense oligodeoxynucleotide to delta-opioid receptor messenger RNA was utilized to block the expression of mouse delta-opioid receptors for antinociception. The antinociception was measured by the tail-flick test in male ICR mice. Pretreatment with delta-antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (163 pmol) given intracerebroventricularly twice a day for one to four days produced a time-dependent inhibition of the tail-flick response induced by intracerebroventricularly administered (D-Ala2)deltorphin II (12.8 nmol). The (D-Ala2)deltorphin II-induced antinociception was significantly attenuated after three to four days of the delta-antisense oligodeoxynucleotide treatment, remained attenuated for two days and gradually recovered to the control level in four to 10 days after cessation of the pretreatment with delta-antisense oligodeoxynucleotide. Pretreatment with delta-antisense oligodeoxynucleotide (163 pmol) twice a day for four days markedly attenuated the antinociception induced by intracerebroventricularly administered (D-Ala2)deltorphin II and, to a lesser extent, by D-Pen2-D-Pen5-enkephalin and morphine, but not by (D-Ala2-MePhe4-Gly(ol)5)enkephalin, beta-endorphin or U50,488H. Mismatched oligodeoxynucleotide (163 pmol) was ineffective against the antinociception induced by these opioids. Our results provide the evidence that the cloned delta-opioid receptor is related to the pharmacologically classified delta 2-opioid receptor, and the antinociception induced by (D-Ala2)deltorphin II and, at least in part, by D-Pen2-D-Pen5-enkephalin and morphine given intracerebroventricularly is mediated by the stimulation of delta 2-opioid receptors. However, delta 2-opioid receptors are not involved in the antinociception induced by beta-endorphin, (D-Ala2-MePhe4-Gly(ol)5)enkephalin or U50,488H given intracerebroventricularly.
The distribution of calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive cells and fibres in five human amygdalae was analysed from sections that had been stained immunohistochemically with a monoclonal antibody raised against calbindin-D28k. The highest density of calbindin-D28k-positive neurons were found in the anterior cortical, medial, posterior cortical and accessory basal nuclei, in the parvicellular division of the basal nucleus and in the amygdalohippocampal area. The lowest densities of immunopositive neurons were found in the paralaminar nucleus, in the periamygdaloid cortex (PAC1 and PACo) and in some of the intercalated nuclei. The deep nuclei (lateral, basal and accessory basal nuclei) contained a high density of calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive fibres and terminals. The cortical nuclei and the central nucleus were characterized by intense neuropil labelling. Morphologically, a large majority of the calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive neurons were aspiny or sparsely spiny and resembled inhibitory local circuit neurons. A small population of lightly-stained, pyramidal-shaped neurons was also observed. In most of the amygdaloid nuclei, calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive fibres travelled close to each other and formed bundles, which suggests that some of the immunostained neurons were double-bouquet cells. In the paralaminar nucleus, the calbindin-D28k-immunoreactive axons formed tortuous plexus (100-200 microns in diameter) that surrounded several unstained somata. This study provides baseline information on the morphology and distribution of calcium-binding protein-containing inhibitory cells and fibres immunoreactive for calbindin-D28k in the human amygdaloid complex. This information can be used in future studies on the pathogenesis of diseases known to damage the amygdala, such as Alzheimer's disease and temporal lobe epilepsy.
The basolateral amygdala has a strong intrinsic inhibitory system mediated by GABAA receptors and is the main site of the anxiolytic actions of benzodiazepines. In an effort to identify the anatomical substrates for these transmitter and drug actions, immunohistochemical techniques were used to analyse the neuronal localization of the beta 2 and beta 3 receptor subunits of the GABAA-benzodiazepine receptor complex in the rat and monkey basolateral amygdala. The overall pattern of GABAA-benzodiazepine receptor immunoreactivity was very similar in both species. The density of the immunoreactivity in the neuropil varied in different nuclei of the basolateral amygdaloid complex. In both species the neuropil of the lateral nucleus exhibited the most robust staining. Immunoreactivity was also seen in neuronal perikarya and dendrites where it was localized to the cytoplasm and/or surface membrane. The cell type with the strongest immunoreactivity was a subpopulation of small non-pyramidal neurons that had numerous thin dendrites. Other larger non-pyramidal neurons were also stained. Pyramidal neurons in the rat and monkey basolateral amygdala exhibited light to moderate perikaryal staining that varied in different nuclei. The results of this study indicate that the pattern of GABAA-benzodiazepine receptor immunoreactivity in the neuropil of the rat and monkey basolateral amygdala closely resembled the distribution of benzodiazepine receptors localized in previous radioligand autoradiographic studies. The finding of intense immunoreactivity in subpopulations of non-pyramidal neurons suggests the existence of disinhibitory mechanisms which may be important for the activation of basolateral amygdaloid projection neurons.
Expression of glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA was examined in the basal ganglia of normal controls and of cases of Parkinson's disease using in situ hybridization histochemistry in human post mortem material. In controls glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA expression was detected in all large neurons in both segments of the globus pallidus and in three neuronal subpopulations in the striatum as well as in substantia nigra reticulata neurons and in a small sub-population of subthalamic neurons. In Parkinson's disease, there was a statistically significant decrease of 50.7% in glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA expression per neuron in the lateral segment of the globus pallidus (controls: mean 72.8 microns2 +/- S.E.M. 8.7 of silver grain/neuron, n = 12; Parkinson's disease: mean 35.9 microns2 +/- S.E.M. 9.7 of silver grain/neuron, n = 9, P = 0.01, Student's t-test). In the medial segment of the globus pallidus, there was a small, but non-significant decrease of glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA expression in Parkinson's disease (controls: mean 100.6 microns2 +/- S.E.M. 7.2 of silver grain/neuron, n = 11; Parkinson's disease: mean 84.8 microns2 +/- S.E.M. 13.0 of silver grain/neuron, n = 7, P = 0.1, Student's t-test). No significant differences in glutamate decarboxylase-67 messenger RNA were detected in striatal neuronal sub-populations between Parkinson's disease cases and controls. These results are the first direct evidence in humans that there is increased inhibitory drive to the lateral segment of the globus pallidus in Parkinson's disease, as suggested by data from animal models. We therefore provide theoretical support for current experimental neurosurgical approaches to Parkinson's disease.
It has been suggested that degeneration of neurons in Alzheimer's disease is the result of diminished trophic support. However, so far no evidence has been forwarded that neuronal degeneration in Alzheimer's disease is causally related to insufficient production of neurotrophins. The present study deals with (i) the expression and co-localization of tyrosine kinase receptors (trks) in the human nucleus basalis of Meynert and (ii) alterations of these receptors in Alzheimer's disease in the nucleus basalis of Meynert, an area severely affected in Alzheimer's disease. The expression of trkA, trkB and trkC in the nucleus basalis of Meynert of control and Alzheimer's disease brains was studied using three polyclonal antibodies specifically recognizing the extracellular domain of trkA, trkB and trkC. Brain material of eight controls and seven Alzheimer's disease patients was obtained at autopsy, embedded in paraffin and stained immunocytochemically. Using an image analysis system, we determined the proportion of trk neurons expressing the different trk receptors in controls and Alzheimer's disease patients. In control brains, trkA, trkB and trkC were differentially expressed in numerous nucleus basalis of Meynert neurons. The highest proportion of neurons was found to express trkB (75%), followed by trkC (58%) and trkA (54%). Furthermore, using consecutive sections, a clear co-localization of trk receptors was observed in the same neurons. The highest degree of co-localization was observed between trkA and trkB. In Alzheimer's disease patients, the number of immunoreactive neurons and the staining intensity of individual neurons was reduced dramatically. Reduction in the proportion of neurons expressing trkA was 69%, in trkB 47% and in trkC 49%, which indicated a differential reduction in the amount of trk receptors in Alzheimer's disease. These observations indicate that nucleus basalis of Meynert neurons can be supported by more than one neurotrophin and that the degeneration of these neurons in Alzheimer's disease is associated with a decreased expression of trk receptors, suggesting a decreased neurotrophin responsiveness of nucleus basalis of Meynert neurons in Alzheimer's disease.
The present experiments were designed to investigate the physiological impact of a partial decortication upon neostriatal synaptic responses using intracellular recording techniques in the in vitro brain slice preparation. In the intact rat, the locally evoked neostriatal synaptic response is primarily mediated by excitatory amino acid receptor activation. Following neocortex damage, the contributions of both N-methyl-D-aspartate and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor activation were significantly diminished, although responses remained robust in amplitude and duration. Components of the locally evoked synaptic response mediated by activation of GABAA receptors were relatively unchanged, while presynaptic inhibition mediated by activation of GABAB receptors was markedly reduced. Furthermore, the normally minimal acetylcholine contribution to the synaptic response was significantly increased after neocortical damage. This enhanced cholinergic role in the generation of the synaptic response appeared to be mediated primarily by activation of nicotinic receptors. Thus, neocortical damage leads to novel physiological relationships between intrinsic neostriatal cholinergic interneurons and the GABAergic projection neurons. One possibility is that cholinergic interneurons have the potential for substituting for the loss of excitation created by the absence of neocortical glutamatergic input.
Neuronal properties such as neurotransmitter uptake and release can be expressed in non-neuronal cells. We show here that fibroblasts-mouse cell line L-M(TK-)-are able to take up acetylcholine from the external medium and to release it in response to a calcium influx. Release was assessed biochemically by a luminescence method, but it was also elicited from individual fibroblasts and recorded in real-time using a Xenopus myocyte as an acetylcholine detector. After treatment for three to six days with dibutyryl-cyclic AMP, the cells changed their shape and acetylcholine release was greatly enhanced. Surprisingly, in differentiated fibroblasts the time-course transmitter release exhibited a high degree of variability even for the successive responses evoked from the same cell; many currents recorded in myocytes on electrical stimulation of fibroblasts had an extremely long duration (up to 1 s or more). This suggested that the release sites were kept open for a very long time. Cyclic AMP treatment also caused a marked increase in the expression of mediatophore 16,000 mol. wt proteolipid in fibroblast membranes. Mediatophore is an acetylcholine-translocating protein which is abundant in cholinergic presynaptic plasma membranes. It is concluded that cyclic AMP differentiation of fibroblasts prolongs the duration of acetylcholine release at individual sites and enhances the expression of the 16,000 mol. wt proteolipid-forming mediatophore.
The neostriatum is one of the areas with relatively high levels of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (GDNF) messenger RNA expression in the developing and adult brain. GDNF expression in the neostriatum has been suggested to be involved in promoting the survival of nigral dopaminergic neurons, acting as a target-derived neurotrophic factor. However, GDNF messenger RNA expression in the striatum starts several days before dopaminergic and other afferent neurons reach the striatum, suggesting additional trophic effects of this factor on striatal neurons. In the present report, we have examined whether GDNF is able to prevent the degeneration of striatal calbindin- and parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons in a lesion model of Huntington's disease. Fischer 344 rat 3T3 fibroblast cell line expressing high levels of GDNF (F3A-GDNF) was used to assess the protective effect of this factor, on striatal neurons, against excitotoxicity. Quinolinate (34 nmol) was injected at two different coordinates, and calbindin, parvalbumin and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity were examined seven days after lesion. Dopaminergic afferents were spared after quinolinate injection, but the number of calbindin- and parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons was decreased. Interestingly, implantation of F3A-GDNF cells increased the density of tyrosine hydroxylase staining in the intact and also in the quinolinate-lesioned striatum. Furthermore, GDNF partially protected calbindin- but not parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons from quinolinate excitotoxicity. Instead, mock-transfected fibroblasts did not affect any of these parameters. Our results show that GDNF specifically protects a subpopulation of striatal calbindin-immunoreactive neurons against quinolinate lesion, suggesting that GDNF administration may have a potential therapeutic application in the prevention and treatment of striatonigral degenerative disorders.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate receptors are fundamental for neuronal plasticity and development in the CNS. Most studies have examined postsynaptic roles of this receptor, but there are also indications for a presynaptic location and function. Here, we provide electrophysiological evidence for the existence of presynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors which can tonically facilitate glutamate release in the CNS. The N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate reduced the frequency, but not amplitude, of glutamate-mediated spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents in layer II neurons of the rat entorhinal cortex. This effect was also observed in the presence of tetrodotoxin and when postsynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors were blocked by dialysis with dizocilpine maleate. When extracellular calcium was replaced with strontium, 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate reduced the &quot;tail&quot; of spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents that followed an evoked excitatory postsynaptic current. Finally, there was a tendency for paired-pulse facilitation of excitatory postsynaptic currents evoked at short (50 ms) intervals with postsynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors blocked) to be reduced by 2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoate, although this did not reach significance. These data strongly support the presence of presynaptic N-methyl-D-aspartate autoreceptors which may facilitate glutamate release in layer II of the entorhinal cortex.
The heptadecapeptide orphanin FQ has recently been shown to be the endogenous agonist for the orphan opioid-like receptor, LC132. The molecular evidence that LC132 and orphanin FQ are evolutionarily related to other opioid receptors and their ligands suggests that these proteins may also play a role in modulating opiate actions. We now report that orphanin FQ (0.5-10 nmol), injected intracerebroventricularly in mice, does not produce hyperalgesia as suggested previously but rather reverses opioid-mediated (i.e. naloxone-sensitive) stress-induced antinociception in three different algesiometric assays. In addition to its antagonism of endogenous opioid antinociception, orphanin FQ dose-dependently (2.5-25 nmol) reverses systemic morphine antinociception (5 mg/kg, s.c.). Based on these data, we propose that orphanin FQ is a functional anti-opioid peptide.
Extracellular application of glutamate (100 microM) increased the spontaneous secretion of acetylcholine, as well as the amplitude and decay time of miniature endplate potentials at developing neuromuscular synapses in Xenopus tadpoles. Kainate, quisqualate and N-methyl-D-aspartate (100 microM each) increased miniature endplate potential frequency by 26-, 13- and four-fold, respectively. The rank order of efficacy at 100 microM was kainate &gt; quisqualate &gt; N-methyl-D-aspartate &gt; glutamate. The effect of kainate on miniature endplate potential frequency was inhibited by 6-cyano-2,3-dihydroxy-7-nitroquinoxaline (20 microM), but not by (+/-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (20 microM). Treatment with the voltage-dependent Ca2+ channel blockers verapamil (10 microM), Cd2+ (100 microM) or omega-conotoxin (1 microM) inhibited the potentiating action of kainate on miniature endplate potential frequency. On the other hand, 1S,3R-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate (300 microM), a glutamate metabotropic receptor agonist, inhibited the spontaneous acetylcholine release, which was antagonized by the application of 2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate (500 microM). The potentiating effect of glutamate receptor agonists on the miniature endplate potential frequency declined or disappeared in older Xenopus tadpoles. Quisqualate (100 microM) and N-methyl-D-aspartate (100 microM) but not kainate (30 microM) increased the amplitude and decay time of miniature endplate potential, whereas 1S, 3R-1-aminocyclopentane-1, 3-dicarboxylate (300 microM) only increased the decay time of miniature endplate potentials. These results suggest that there are kainate/quisqualate and N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors existing in the motor nerve terminals of younger Xenopus tadpoles and the activation of these receptors potentiates spontaneous acetylcholine release through increasing Ca2+ influx. Our data suggest that the presynaptic glutamate receptors on cholinergic terminals may be involved in feedback regulation of acetylcholine secretion at earlier embryonic stages.
Recent experimental findings (Yuste R. and Denk W. (1995) Nature 375, 682-684) suggest that dendritic spines possess excitable membranes. Theoretically, it was shown earlier that the shape of active spines can significantly affect somatopetal synaptic signal transfer. Studies of long-term potentiation in the hippocampus have related the increased synaptic efficacy to a number of structural modifications of spines, including an increased number of branched spines [Trommald M. et al. (1990) In Neurotoxicity of Excitatory Amino Acids, pp. 163-174. Raven Press, New York] and a strengthened capability for spines to alter their spatial positions [Hosokawa T. et al. (1995) J. Neurosci. 15, 5560-5573]. In the present simulation study, the potential physiological impact of several types of spine changes was examined in a compartmental neuron model built using the neuromodelling software NEURON [Hines M. (1993) In Neural Systems: Analysis and Modeling, pp. 127-136. Kluwer Academic, Norwell, MA]. The model included 30 complex spines, with dual component synaptic currents and mechanisms of Ca2+ uptake, diffusion, binding and extrusion within spine heads. The results show that local clustering properties of spine distributions along dendrites are unlikely to affect synaptic efficacy. However, partial fusion of active spines, which results in formation of spine branches, or subtle changes in spine branch positions, could alone significantly increase synaptic signal transfer. These data illustrate possible mechanisms whereby subtle morphological changes in dendritic spines (compatible with changes reported in the literature) may be linked to the cellular mechanisms of learning and memory.
Aperiodic entrainment to rhythmic sensory input was obtained with either a single neuron or an excitatory network model, without addition of a stochastic or &quot;noisy&quot; element. The entrainment properties of primary sensory neurons were well captured by the dynamics of the Hodgkin-Huxley ordinary differential equations with a quiescent resting state or threshold for spike output. The frequency-amplitude parameter space was compressed and aperiodic regimes were small in comparison to those of periodically activated pacemaker-like neurons. Transitions between phase-locked and aperiodic entrainment patterns were predictable and determined by the equation dynamics, supporting the contention that some aperiodicities observed in situ arise from the inherent membrane properties of neurons. When the rhythmically activated neuron was embedded in an excitatory network of Hodgkin-Huxley neurons with heterogeneous synaptic delays, aperiodic entrainment patterns were more frequently encountered and these were associated with asynchronous output from the network. Embedding the rhythmically activated neuron in a network with synaptic delays greatly reduced the range of entrained spike frequencies and increased the variability in the neuronal firing. The temporal coding of sensory stimuli may be dependent on these findings. Sensory stimuli are signaled in the periphery by a mixture of periodic and irregular interspike intervals. Most models of such temporal codes assume intrinsic rhythmicity arising from the ionic currents, with variations attributed to membrane or synaptic noise. In contrast, we demonstrate irregular neural codes that arise completely in the absence of noise. In the proposed model, the sources of these irregular sensory patterns are the extensive cross-connections and resultant interactions between neurons. The balance between the regular and irregular entrainment of a neuron in situ could uniquely identify a stimulus. Other biological mechanisms of modifying the entrainment properties and promoting aperiodic entrainment are discussed.
The P13 midlatency auditory evoked potential in the rat is (i) sleep state dependent, (ii) undergoes rapid habituation and (iii) is blocked by the cholinergic antagonist scopolamine. As such, the P13 potential in the rat shows the same characteristics as the P1 (or P50) potential in the human. These potentials are thought to be mediated, at least in part, by the cholinergic arm of the reticular activating system. Previous studies have linked the reticular activating system with the startle response. The present study was undertaken to explore this relationship by simultaneously recording the P13 potential and the electromyographically recorded startle response using stimuli designed to elicit each response. Simultaneous recordings from the vertex and neck musculature following auditory click stimuli showed that: (i) the mean threshold of the P13 potential was 69.3 +/- 1.9 dB, while that for the startle response was 87.9 +/- 6.4 dB; (ii) the P13 potential was present during waking and paradoxical sleep, but absent during slow-wave sleep, while the startle response was present reliably only during waking; (iii) both responses habituated in response to paired stimuli, but the startle response was more habituated than the P13 potential; and (iv) both responses were facilitated by trains of stimuli in a similar manner. Recordings carried out from the auditory cortex verified that the primary cortical response had properties different from the P13 potential; i.e. it was present during all sleep-wake states, had a lower threshold and did not habituate rapidly. Finally, different patterns of startle responses were detected in the neck muscles. In every case, the P13 potential occurred during the middle, inhibitory phase of the startle response. These results suggest that the P13 potential and the startle response share response features, but the P13 potential appears to be more sensitive to auditory stimulation and to sleep-wake states. The startle response may be modulating descending systems by priming the spinal cord to respond in a &quot;fight vs flight&quot; fashion. On the other hand, the P13 response may be modulating ascending systems by triggering thalamocortical activity and resetting descending systems to allow novel motor strategies.
Cognitive event-related potentials, such as P300, are sensitive to manipulations of psychological variables and may provide evidence to support theories of brain mechanisms involved in cognition. However, the relationship between event-related potentials and the active neural structures is not yet understood. Electrical stimulation of the index and little fingers of the left hand in the context of a somatosensory target discrimination task, performed by healthy human subjects, elicited the middle-latency component of somatosensory evoked potentials, N60, the long-latency component, N140, and the P300 component. Identification of the generators for both the earlier components and P300, using equivalent electrical dipole modeling, was performed. Individual spatiotemporal seven-dipole models were developed in order to suggest locations of the sources generating each subject's scalp-recorded wave forms. Three dipoles with fairly weak moments, located in the primary and secondary sensory areas, explained the middle- and long-latency somatosensory evoked potential components, and the remaining four dipoles (4-7), with stronger dipole moments, were active during P300. There was a clear temporal separation of dipole activity between the somatosensory evoked potential components and the P300 component. Dipoles 4 and 5 were found quite symmetrically in the parahippocampal areas of the two hemispheres, while dipoles 6 and 7 were slightly asymmetrical. Dipole 7 was found in the left hippocampal area. Dipole 6 appeared in the right insular cortex. The locations of the four dipoles implicated in the generation of the somatosensory P300 were compared with the locations of four dipoles accounting for the auditory evoked P300 described in our previous paper [Tarkka et al. (1995) Electroenceph. clin. Neurophysiol. 96, 538-545]. No substantial difference in source locations of the P300 was found between auditory and somatosensory modality other than an asymmetrical activity in the somatosensory modality contralateral to the stimulated hand.
We examined the organization of spinal networks controlling locomotion in the isolated spinal cord of the neonatal rat, and in this study we provide the first demonstration of plateau and bursting mechanisms in mammalian interneurons that show locomotor-related activity. Using tight-seal whole-cell recordings, we characterized the activity of interneurons from spinal regions previously suggested to be involved in locomotor rhythm generation. Most (63%) interneurons showed rhythmic, oscillating membrane potentials in phase with rhythmic ventral root activity induced by the glutamate receptor agonist, N-methyl-D-aspartate and 5-hydroxytryptamine or activation of muscarinic acetylcholine receptors. We focused our attention on these cells because they appeared most likely to be participating in locomotor networks. The rhythmic oscillations of most of these interneurons (88%) appeared to be driven mainly by excitatory and inhibitory synaptic inputs. A smaller number of interneurons, however, also displayed intrinsic plateau properties or bursting capabilities which amplified their response to excitatory input, and which were correlated with the presence of negative slope regions in the steady-state I-V curve, and with the ability to burst in the absence of synaptic drive. Although the bursting properties of these neurons may contribute to the generation of the locomotor rhythm, as suggested previously in studies of lower vertebrates, we suggest that a prime role of intrinsic plateau properties in mammalian locomotor networks is to facilitate or shape and time the propagation of information in the network.
Microglial cells were harvested from the surface of corpus callosum slices acutely isolated from the brain of neonatal (five- to seven-day-old) mice. Transmembrane ionic currents were measured employing a standard whole-cell voltage-clamp technique. The extracellular application of 1 mM ATP triggered the generation of a complex membrane current comprising three components: (i) an initial fast inward current which had a reversal potential at about -20 to -15 mV; (ii) this initial component was followed by a steady-state inward current with reversal potential about -50 to -40 mV; and (iii) a delayed inward current with a reversal potential close to 0 mV. The first two components (fast and steady-state) had an activation threshold at 10 microM ATP, and 100 microM ATP evoked an almost maximal response. In contrast, the third component of ATP-induced inward membrane current could be observed only while 1 mM ATP was applied. The increase in concentration of tetra-anionic form of ATP (ATP4-) by removal of divalent cations from the bath solution substantially lowered the activation threshold for the delayed component of ATP-induced membrane current; conversely, lowering the ATP4- concentration (by replacing Ca2+ with Mg2+) resulted in its disappearance. These results suggest that ATP4- acts as a true agonist for the activation of the delayed ATP-induced membrane current. We conclude that microglial cells express several purinoreceptor subtypes. The activation of these receptors might play a role in intracellular signal transduction in brain microglia.
Calmodulin is a major calcium-binding protein in the mammalian brain, playing an important role in neuronal cell function. Its amino acid sequence is highly conserved and the protein is encoded by multiple genes. In the mouse brain, as well as in the rat and the human brain, three different genes have been detected for calmodulin, CaM I, CaM II and CaM III, all of which encode an identical protein. We studied the pattern of expression of the three calmodulin genes and the pattern of calmodulin distribution in the mouse brain by in situ hybridization histochemistry and immunohistochemistry. We found that calmodulin messenger RNAs from the three calmodulin genes were widely expressed in the mouse brain. Nevertheless, there were differences in their patterns of distribution. In general, all calmodulin messenger RNAs were preferentially distributed in hippocampus, cerebral cortex and cerebellar cortex, and CaM II messenger RNA also in caudate-putamen. However, all messenger RNAs showed clearly differentiated patterns of distribution in the hippocampus and the cerebellar cortex. Calmodulin immunoreactivity was present in all cells so far examined. Immunostaining was observed both in the cell nucleus, where it was especially strong, and in the cytoplasm. Our results suggest that the three calmodulin genes are differentially regulated in the mouse brain and also that, although all calmodulin genes have a basal expression, precise regulation of calmodulin levels might be attained through the different contribution of the three calmodulin genes.
Cytoplasmic seleno-glutathione peroxidase, by reducing hydrogen peroxide and fatty acid hydroperoxides, may be a major protective enzyme against oxidative damage in the brain. Oxidative damage is strongly suspected to contribute to normal aging and neurodegenerative process of Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases. We report here an immunocytochemical analysis of the localization of glutathione peroxidase in the adult mouse brain, carried out with an affinity-purified polyclonal antibody. Most of the brain areas analysed showed weak to strong glutathione peroxidase immunoreactivity, expressed in both neurons and glial cells. The strongest immunoreactivity was found in the reticular thalamic and red nuclei. Highly immunoreactive neurons were observed in the cerebral cortex (layer II), the CA1, dentate gyrus and pontine nucleus. Other regions, such as the caudate-putamen, septum nuclei, diagonal band of Broca, hippocampus, thalamus and hypothalamus, showed moderate staining. This study provides original information about the wide distribution of glutathione peroxidase in the mouse brain. Double-staining experiments indicated that specific subsets of cholinergic neurons in septal and diagonal band nuclei were negative for this antigen. Similarly, many dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta expressed low levels of glutathione peroxidase antigen, in contrast to the ventral tegmental area, wherein most catecholaminergic cells were strongly positive. A lack of glutathione peroxidase in subsets of dopaminergic or cholinergic neurons may thus confer a relative sensitivity of these cells to oxidative injury of various origins, including catecholamine oxidation, neurotoxins and excitotoxicity.
Nurr1 and Nur77 (NGFI-B) are orphan nuclear receptors, belonging to the steroid/thyroid hormone receptor gene superfamily. They have conserved amino acid sequence in the zinc-finger DNA binding domains and similar COOH-terminal regions, but have no known ligands. However, different expression patterns during brain development and tissue distributions of these messenger RNAs imply that they might reflect a different transcriptional role in the brain. In this study, the regional and cellular expression of messenger RNAs encoding these two proteins in rat brain has been determined by in situ hybridization. Nurr1 messenger RNA is highly expressed in the piriform and entorhinal cortices, hippocampus, medial habenular and paraventricular thalamic nuclei. Moderate labeling was detected in layers II-V of most of the cerebral cortex, and in the dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus, substantia nigra (pars compacta and reticularis) and interpeduncular nucleus. No Nurr1 hybridization signal was seen in the rhombencephalon. In the cerebellum, Nurr1 messenger RNA is present in the internal granular cell layer and Purkinje cell layer. In contrast, Nur77 has a widespread distribution, with the highest level of expression in the cerebral cortex. Moderate hybridization signals were detected in the hippocampus, the lateral dorsal and posterior nuclei, reuniens thalamic nuclei, and paraventricular and supraoptic hypothalamic nuclei. In the rhombencephalon, higher signals were present in the medial and lateral vestibular, dorsal cochlear and facial, and raphe magnus nuclei. Nur77 signal was also detected in the nucleus of the spinal tract of the trigeminal nerve. In the cerebellum, Nur77 messenger RNA is highly expressed in the Purkinje cell layer and lateral deep nucleus of the cerebellum. Our results show that Nurr1 and Nur77 messenger RNAs have both overlapping and different distribution patterns within the brain, suggesting that they might regulate different sets of responsive genes.
Prior to 21 days of age, the immature rat brain is relatively resistant to excitotoxicity caused by the glutamate analogue, kainate. As stress-inducible proteins (GRP78, GRP94 and HSP70) have been proposed to possess molecular chaperone activity and protect cells from the deleterious effects of damaged proteins, we examined the pattern of expression of their respective messenger RNAs following systemic kainate at different postnatal ages. In untreated rats between seven and 21 days old, there was a higher basal level of grp78 and grp94 expression compared to hsp70. Unlike hsp70, which was inducible only in 21-day-old rats, kainate-mediated grp94 induction occurred in several regions of the brain as early as postnatal day 7. Grp78 messenger RNA expression was also increased by kainate treatment in 14-day-old rats, and the induction was most pronounced in the kainate-resistant dentate gyrus. With increasing age, longer lasting expression of both grp78 and grp94 messenger RNAs was observed in kainate-vulnerable regions, similar to observations in the adult rat brain. These results demonstrate non-overlapping expression patterns of glucose-regulated proteins and HSP70 in the immature central nervous system, suggesting that they serve different functions. While hsp70 induction could be a marker for potential cell injury and death, increased expression of grp78 and grp94 could play a neuroprotective role in the developing rat brain.
Levels of messenger RNAs for brain-derived neurotrophic factor, nerve growth factor and neurotrophin-3, and their high-affinity receptors, TrkB and TrkC, were analysed in the brains of genetically fast and slow kindling rats using in situ hybridization. Basal expression of neurotrophins and Trk messenger RNAs in the hippocampal formation, amygdala, frontoparietal and piriform cortices did not differ between the two strains. At 2 h after the third generalized grade 5 seizure, induced by kindling stimulations in the amygdala, increased expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA was detected in the dentate gyrus granule cell layer, amygdala, frontoparietal and piriform cortices of the fast kindlers. Similar seizure-evoked increases of brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA levels were also observed in the amygdala and piriform cortex of slow kindlers. However, in these animals, brain-derived neurotrophic factor messenger RNA expression was not significantly altered by the seizures in the dentate gyrus granule cell layer and frontoparietal cortex. Furthermore, the seizure-induced increase of nerve growth factor, TrkB and TrkC messenger RNAs and decrease of neurotrophin-3 messenger RNA levels in the dentate gyrus granule cell layer was only observed in fast, but not in slow, kindlers. The neurotrophins are believed to regulate synaptic plasticity and efficacy and to facilitate long-term potentiation and kindling epileptogenesis. The present data suggest that the slow and fast kindling rates in the two strains studied here might partly be due to differences in seizure-evoked neurotrophin and Trk synthesis.
It has recently been shown for the tree shrew that after 10 days of psychosocial stress, when the central nervous noradrenergic and adrenergic systems are highly activated, alpha 2-adrenoceptors are down-regulated in brain regions which are involved in the regulation of autonomic functions (Flgge G. et al. (1992) Brain Res. 597, 131-137). The present study demonstrates the dynamic changes occurring in the alpha 2-adrenoceptor system during chronic psychosocial stress. Male tree shrews were submitted to psychosocial stress for two, 10, 21 and 28 days, respectively, and alpha 2-adrenoceptor binding characteristics were determined in the locus coeruleus, the prefrontal cortex, the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus and the solitary tract nucleus by in vitro receptor autoradiography using the antagonist [3H]RX821002 as a ligand. Competition experiments have shown that the radioligand labels the alpha 2-adrenoceptor subtypes A and C in these brain regions. In the locus coeruleus, receptors were already down-regulated two days after the onset of the stress period and stayed low thereafter. In contrast, in the prefrontal cortex, which is innervated by the locus coeruleus, receptor numbers were decreased only on day 10 of psychosocial stress, then returned to control values and were up-regulated from day 28. In the solitary tract nucleus, a down-regulation of alpha 2-adrenoceptors was observed from day 21 of the stress period onwards. The time-course pattern of receptor changes in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus followed that of the locus coeruleus. In all cases, changes in receptor numbers did not exceed 17% of the total alpha 2-adrenoceptor number. Besides the changes in receptor numbers, there was a decrease in affinity for the subtype alpha 2A-selective agonists oxymetazoline and UK 14,304, with the strongest effects occurring on day 10 of the stress period. The time-course pattern of these alterations in receptor affinity did not match the time-course pattern in changes of receptor numbers. However, receptor affinities were more or less decreased during the whole period of psychosocial stress. The present findings demonstrate that prolonged periods of recurrent challenging situations induce dynamic changes in the alpha 2-adrenoceptor system leading to region-specific down- or up-regulation of receptors. It is discussed whether the receptor alterations are agonist-mediated or might be due to stress effects on transcription of the receptor genes. The time-dependent alterations indicate that the responsiveness of the receptor system changes with the duration of the stress period, which may have profound consequences for physiological functions subjected to regulation by alpha 2-adrenoceptors.
The loss of neurons by programmed cell death is a normal feature of the nervous system during development and has recently been implicated as a major mechanism of cell death in neurodegenerative diseases. In some cases, programmed cell death is induced by the activation of membrane receptors and is referred to as activation-induced programmed cell death. Activation-induced programmed cell death has been previously described in cells from the immune system, in which the activation of receptors by receptor clustering leads to programmed cell death. To determine whether activation-induced programmed cell death occurs in neurons, Concanavalin A was used to cross-link membrane receptors on cortical neurons. Concanavalin A-induced neuronal death was dose dependent and effective at concentrations previously shown to induce activation-induced programmed cell death in lymphocytes. Programmed cell death was attenuated when Concanavalin A-specific binding to neurons was blocked with methyl alpha-D-mannopyranoside. Succinyl Concanavalin A, which bound to Concanavalin A receptors but was ineffective at cross-linking them, did not induce programmed cell death. Concanavalin A-induced neuronal death exhibited many of the hallmarks associated with programmed cell death, such as membrane blebbing, nuclear condensation and margination, and internucleosomal DNA cleavage. In addition, neurons exposed to Concanavalin A displayed a rapid, robust, and persistent increase in the immediate early gene protein c-Jun. A similar increase in c-Jun precedes programmed cell death induced by beta-amyloid in neurons, and under some conditions an increase in c-Jun has been shown to be required for programmed cell death to occur in neurons. Increased expression of c-jun and other immediate early genes has also been correlated with activation-induced programmed cell death in lymphocytes. These observations suggest that Concanavalin A induces activation-induced programmed cell death in neurons via signals produced from the cross-linking of receptors on neuronal membranes. These results also raise the possibility that beta-amyloid induces programmed cell death in a similar manner, by causing the cross-linking of receptors on neuronal membranes. This mechanism may be relevant to neuronal programmed cell death that occurs during development and neurodegeneration.
The distribution of androgen receptor immunoreactive-neurons, mapped with the PG21 anti-androgen receptor antibody, was compared in male rat brains with the distribution of Fos-immunoreactive neurons induced by mating. In gonadally intact, but not in castrated male rats, substantial numbers of androgen receptor-containing neurons were present in a variety of forebrain and midbrain regions. The PG21 antibody apparently had a higher affinity for occupied than for non-occupied androgen receptors. Androgen receptor-immunoreactive regions included the medial preoptic area and other forebrain areas previously identified as containing androgen receptors, the dorsal and ventral periaqueductal gray, and a midbrain region that included the lateral part of the central tegmental field, part of the caudal zona incerta, the subparafascicular nucleus of the thalamus and the peripeduncular nucleus. Fos-expressive neurons were essentially absent in non-mated males but were present in the brains of rats which mated to ejaculation. All brain regions in which androgen receptor-immunoreactive neurons were counted also expressed Fos immunoreactivity after mating, and there was considerable overlap between the distributions of androgen receptor- and Fos-immunoreactive neurons. In a second experiment, we used immunofluorescent techniques to document the intraneuronal co-localization of Fos with androgen receptor immunoreactivity in the medial preoptic area, medial amygdala, and central tegmental field. In these regions mating-induced Fos immunofluorescence was exclusively localized in androgen receptor-immunofluorescent neurons. However, not all androgen receptor neurons were Fos expressive, suggesting that only some androgen-sensitive neurons were activated during mating. These results are consonant with the view that hormone actions on forebrain and midbrain structures influence the neuronal activity correlated with mating.
Metabolic activity was mapped in the cerebellar cortex and its major inputs and projection targets in monkeys performing visually guided reaching with the left forelimb. Normal monkeys and monkeys deprived of visual input to the right cerebral hemisphere by right optic tract section, combined in some cases with forebrain commissurotomy, were studied. We reported previously that visually guided reaching with the left forelimb activated the motor cortex of the right hemisphere equally in all these monkeys, indicating that reaching was controlled by the right hemisphere whether it was visually intact or &quot;blind&quot; [Savaki H.E. et al. (1993) J. Neurosci. 13, 2772-2789]. In the present study, metabolic activations were observed in the left cerebellar hemispheric extensions of vermian lobules V, VI and VIII, again regardless of whether the right hemisphere was visually intact or &quot;blind&quot;. In intact monkeys, however, the activations were significantly smaller in the lateral than in the paravermal zone of these hemispheric extensions, whereas in tractotomized/commissurotomized monkeys the activations were equal in the two zones. The greater activations in the left lateral zone in tractotomized/commissurotomized monkeys may represent compensation in part for the visual deafferentation of the right cerebral hemisphere. Also observed were metabolic activation in the left dorsolateral pontine nucleus in tractotomized/commissurotomized monkeys and metabolic depression in the left dentate nucleus in visually intact monkeys. This pattern of results suggests the following conclusions. The activated loci in the left cerebellar cortex combine (i) visual information about the target relayed by seeing cerebral hemispheres, and (ii) sensorimotor information concerning intended and actual movements of the left forelimb relayed by the right cerebral hemisphere and the limb, respectively, and then (iii) send this integrated information back to the motor cortex of the right cerebral hemisphere, thus enabling it to guide the left forelimb to the target whether the hemisphere is visually intact or &quot;blind&quot;.
Recently we found that cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant influenced anterior pituitary hormone release in vitro. These observations prompted us to investigate the possibility of the existence of cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant in the hypothalamus. Immunohistochemistry showed that cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant-like immunoreactivity existed in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus, the supraoptic nucleus, both the internal and the external layers of the median eminence and the posterior pituitary. Since the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus plays a pivotal role in response to stressful stimuli, we examined the effect of a single episode of immobilization stress on cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant messenger RNA expression in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. Immobilization stress induced strong hybridization signals of cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant messenger RNA in the parvocellular and magnocellular subdivision of the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus within 15 min, and cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant-like immunostaining intensity in the posterior pituitary started to increase around the periphery of the posterior lobe at 30 min after stress and extended to the whole lobe at 1 h after stress. The increase in the serum cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant in response to stress showed a kinetically biphasic pattern. A first phase occurred within 15 min which may be due to an immediate release of stored cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant in the neurohypophysis, since hypophysectomy completely blocked this phase. A second phase may reflect the release of newly synthesized cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus and/or peripheral cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant, since hypophysectomy could not reduce this phase. These data suggest that cytokine-induced neutrophil chemoattractant in the paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus was immediately synthesized in response to stress, and then released into the peripheral blood via the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system, revealing the presence of a stress-sensitive chemokinergic neuronal pathway in the hypothalamo-pituitary system.
Intracellular recordings were obtained from neocortical brain slices of adult rats maintained in vitro. The effect of metabotropic glutamate receptor activation on spike frequency adaptation in regular spiking layer II and III neurons was determined. Putative metabotropic glutamate receptor agonists and antagonists, as well as inhibitors of intracellular signaling systems, were tested. Activation of metabotropic glutamate receptors by bath applied (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylate (1S,3R-ACPD; 50-200 microM) reduced the first interspike interval and increased action potential frequency at all current intensities. This effect was not blocked by ionotropic glutamate receptor antagonists. Under these recording conditions, quisqualate (1-10 microM) similarly reduced spike frequency adaptation. Neither 1R,3S-ACPD, L-2-carboxycyclopropylglycine-I nor the putative presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist, L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate, mimicked the effects of 1S,3R-ACPD or quisqualate. Bath application of the putative metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist, alpha-methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine, competitively antagonized the excitatory actions of 1S,3R-ACPD. Another putative antagonist, L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionate, failed to antagonize the reduction in spike frequency adaptation. Intracellular injection of guanosine-5'-O-(2-thiodiphosphate), a non-hydrolysable analog of GTP, inhibited the postsynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptor-mediated effects. However, the depression of synaptic transmission by 1S,3R-ACPD was not antagonized by this compound. The decrease in spike frequency adaptation by 1S,3R-ACPD was not prevented by prior exposure to the non-specific protein kinase inhibitors H-7 or H-8 (10 microM), the protein kinase A inhibitor H-89 (0.25 microM) or the protein kinase C inhibitor staurosporine (0.10 microM). These data suggest that the metabotropic glutamate receptor-mediated reduction in spike adaptation requires the activation of specific G-protein-coupled metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes located on postsynaptic sites. The increase in neuronal excitability observed in the adult neocortex may be mediated either by an unidentified G-protein-coupled second messenger or via a membrane-delimited G-protein action.
The commissural and associational projections to the rat dentate gyrus are believed to be anatomically homologous fiber systems. They are often referred to as the so-called commissural/ associational system of the dentate gyrus. However, whereas characteristic laminar termination patterns within the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus have been described for the different cells of origin of the associational projection, the axons of the different cell types of commissural neurons have long been believed to terminate exclusively within the inner molecular layer. Only recently, a previously unknown commissural projection to the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus was described and the question was raised whether the commissural fibers could exhibit a heterogeneity similar to that of the associational projections. Using the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin, which labels individual axons and their collaterals, we have studied the termination pattern of commissural axons in the dentate gyrus of the septal hippocampus. At least four different commissural fiber types could be revealed on the basis of their laminar termination pattern: fibers to the inner molecular layer (type 1), fibers to the outer molecular layer (type 2), fibers terminating throughout the molecular layer (type 3), and fibers terminating in both the granule cell layer and the molecular layer (type 4). These observations demonstrate a previously underestimated heterogeneity of the commissural projection. In addition, there is a great deal of parallelism between the different commissural and associational fibers, pointing to a coordinated action of the two systems in the two hippocampi.
The effects of extracellularly applied membrane-permeant Ca2+ chelators on field excitatory postsynaptic potentials were determined in the hippocampal CA1 region of rat brain slices. Field excitatory postsynaptic potentials in slices perfused with 0.05-50 microM bis-(-O-aminophenoxy)-ethane-N,N,N,N,-tetraacetic acid acetoxymethyl (BAPTA-AM) for 15 min were reversibly attenuated by 10-45% in a concentration-dependent manner. Attenuation occurred earlier at higher concentrations of BAPTA-AM, thus indicating that the rate of accumulation of BAPTA salt was concentration dependent. Antidromically evoked responses and presynaptic volleys were unaffected by BAPTA-AM. Attenuation of the field excitatory postsynaptic potentials by BAPTA-AM was temporarily eliminated by repetitive stimulation at 1 Hz, suggesting saturation of the chelator's Ca(2+)-binding capacity. The amplitude of field excitatory postsynaptic potentials was unaffected by similar applications of 5'5-dinitro-BAPTA-AM, a low Ca(2+)-affinity BAPTA analogue, and EGTA-AM (5 or 50 microM), a chelator with slow Ca(2+)-binding kinetics, suggesting a dependence of the BAPTA-AM effect on fast Ca2+ binding and high Ca2+ affinity. BAPTA-AM concentrations as low as 0.05 microM were effective provided application was prolonged to 40 min. Probenecid (1 mM), an anion transport inhibitor, accelerated the onset and significantly enhanced the BAPTA-mediated synaptic attenuation caused by low concentrations of BAPTA-AM. These data show that even very low extracellular concentrations of BAPTA-AM can profoundly affect synaptic transmission provided that sufficient chelator accumulates presynaptically. The effectiveness of BAPTA-AM can be increased by procedures which inhibit chelator extrusion.
Minislices of the CA3 hippocampal subfield were prepared from 10- to 15-day-old rats and exposed to penicillin, a GABAA receptor antagonist. Synchronized population discharges occurred spontaneously but could also be entrained by action potentials in single, fast spiking cells. This was unexpected, since fast spiking cells in the hippocampus are normally thought to be inhibitory interneurons. Experiments were thus undertaken to determine the anatomical identity of these cells. Biocytin injections showed that these cells had the anatomical feature of inhibitory interneurons. Two classes of cells were identified: basket cells (including cells with pyramidal or multipolar dendritic arbors) and bistratified cells. Basket cells had characteristic dense axonal arbors in the stratum pyramidale. They also possessed wide ranging axons in strata radiatum and oriens. The axons of bistratified cells avoided the cell body layer and produced a web-like plexus of axons in strata radiatum and oriens. In the majority of minislices, dye coupling was also observed. Interneurons were preferentially dye-coupled to other interneurons. We speculate that, in early life, hippocampal interneurons may have dualistic synaptic properties. Normally, they inhibit nearby pyramidal cells; however, when GABAA receptors are suppressed a secondary excitatory property of these cells is uncovered.
The distribution of the glutamate receptor subunit GluR1 was investigated in cultured hippocampal neurons by confocal microscopy, using polyclonal antibodies directed against either the N- or C-terminal region. On living neurons, GluR1 immunofluorescence was detected with the N-terminal antibody only. GluR1 was localized in a highly punctate manner on the surface of neuronal soma and throughout the dendritic tree. Many GluR1 puncta co-localized with the synaptic marker synaptophysin, although extrasynaptic GluR1 puncta were also observed. A comparison of GluR1 subunit distribution of living neurons labelled with N-terminal antibody with that obtained after the cells had been fixed, permeabilized and subsequently reacted with C-terminal or additional N-terminal antibody showed a number of differences. In permeabilized cells additional, diffuse labelling was observed which was very pronounced in the soma and extended into the proximal dendrites. Furthermore, some spines showed little or no labelling of their membrane surface, but labelled strongly after the cells had been fixed and permeabilized. Such spines may be the postsynaptic components of silent or suboptimal synapses.
Calcium is an important second messenger which plays a role in the regulation of neuronal excitability and in many forms of synaptic plasticity. In kindling epileptogenesis, a model of focal epilepsy, calcium plays an important role. The in situ patch-clamp technique was used to record calcium currents in slices obtained from kindled rats and controls. We found that low-voltage-activated calcium currents, probably of dendritic origin, were larger after kindling (80%). The transient high-voltage-activated calcium currents were also enhanced after kindling (50% higher). The increase of the current is accompanied by a decrease in the time constant of inactivation. The change was still present six weeks after the kindling stimulations were stopped. These data demonstrate that low-voltage-activated calcium currents are involved in epileptogenesis. Their enhancement in the dendrites will boost synaptic depolarization and result in enhanced calcium influx, which is critically dependent on the specific activation pattern.
This study investigated the effects of pharmacological blockade or stimulation of muscarinic receptors on constitutive and amphetamine-stimulated preprodynorphin, substance P and pre-proenkephalin gene expression in rat striatum. Acute administration of the non-selective muscarinic antagonist, scopolamine (2.5, 5 and 10 mg/kg, s.c.), caused a dose-dependent increase in preprodynorphin and substance P, but not preproenkephalin, messenger RNA expression in the dorsal and ventral striatum as revealed by quantitative in situ hybridization. In contrast, acute injection of the non-selective muscarinic receptor agonist, oxotremorine (0.125, 0.25 and 0.5 mg/kg, s.c.), caused a dose-dependent increase in basal levels of preproenkephalin messenger RNA in the dorsal striatum, without causing a significant effect on constitutive striatal preprodynorphin and substance P expression. Pretreatment with scopolamine (2.5 mg/kg, s.c.) significantly augmented striatal induction of preprodynorphin and substance P messenger RNA induced by acute injection of amphetamine (1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.), whereas scopolamine blocked amphetamine-stimulated striatal preproenkephalin expression. Pretreatment with oxotremorine (0.25 mg/kg, s.c.) significantly attenuated amphetamine (1.25 and 2.5 mg/kg, i.p.)-stimulated striatal preprodynorphin and, to a lesser degree, substance P messenger RNA expression. Oxotremorine tended to increase amphetamine-stimulated preproenkephalin messenger RNA expression, but the effect did not reach statistical significance. In addition, scopolamine increased spontaneous, and enhanced amphetamine-stimulated, behavioral activity, whereas oxotremorine attenuated amphetamine-stimulated behaviors. These data support the concept that cholinergic transmission, via interaction with muscarinic receptors, inhibits basal and D1 receptor-stimulated striatonigral dynorphin/substance P gene expression and facilitates striatopallidal enkephalin gene expression.
1-Methyl-4-phenylpyridinium is a potent parkinsonism-inducing neurotoxin which has become a valuable tool for the examination of the mechanisms and therapeutic treatment strategies for Parkinson's syndrome. Recently, it has been found that physiological levels of extracellular ATP (0.1-1 mM) stimulate dopamine uptake into both rat and bovine brain synaptosomes and rat pheochromocytoma cells in a dose-dependent manner. In this study we report that physiological levels of extracellular ATP (0.1-2 mM) stimulate the transport of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium into the pheochromocytoma cell line by 270% over basal levels. Kinetically, the presence of ATP increases both the K(m) and Vmax of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium transport. In addition, 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium is far more effective at inhibiting ATP-stimulated dopamine transport (IC50 = 11 microM) than basal dopamine transport (IC50 100 microM) into pheochromocytoma cells. These data show that the ATP-regulated 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium transport pathway is the major component (approximately 95%) of total 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium transport, and provide the first evidence for the involvement of extracellular ATP in the bulk transport of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium.
To investigate whether the ageing process might affect neuron-target interactions which influence the phenotype of septal cholinergic neurons, we compared the response of these neurons to partial loss of target tissue in young adult and aged animals. Groups of young adult (four to six months) or aged (24-33 months) male Sprague-Dawley rats received unilateral infusions into the hippocampus of either the excitotoxic amino acid N-methyl-D-aspartate, or vehicle. The resulting excitotoxic lesions reduced the mean cross-sectional area of the hippocampus by 55-60%. Ipsilateral septal cholinergic neurons immunohistochemically stained for either choline acetyltransferase or low-affinity neurotrophin receptor (p75NTR) were morphometrically evaluated. In young adult rats with partial hippocampal lesions, the number and staining intensity of ipsilateral septal cholinergic neurons were not significantly different from age-matched control values, but these cholinergic neurons exhibited a significant 12% reduction in cross-sectional area. In aged rats with hippocampal lesions of equivalent size, ipsilateral cholinergic neurons showed a significant 29% reduction in cross-sectional area, a significant 19% reduction in choline acetyltransferase staining intensity as measured by densitometry, and a significant 21% reduction in the number of choline acetyltransferase- but not p75NTR-stained septal neurons, as compared with age-matched control animals. These findings show that in aged rats, septal cholinergic neurons atrophy more severely in response to the partial loss of their target neurons than in young adult rats, in the form of pronounced cell shrinkage and down-regulation of intracellular levels of the transmitter-synthesizing enzyme, choline acetyltransferase, in some cases to the point of the absence of detectable staining for this marker in some cells. The continued detection of p75NTR indicates that significant neuronal cell death did not take place. These findings suggest that basal forebrain cholinergic neurons have an increased vulnerability to disturbances of neuron-target interactions in aged animals, which may contribute to the degenerative changes exhibited by these cholinergic neurons in ageing and age-related conditions such as Alzheimer's disease.
During ageing, basal forebrain cholinergic neurons are prone to degeneration for unknown reasons. In this study we morphometrically evaluated the retrograde labelling of basal forebrain neurons obtained after injection of FluoroGold into multiple sites in the cerebral neocortex in aged (24-33 months) as compared with young adult (four to six months) male Sprague-Dawley rats. In addition, we looked for differences in the distribution of degenerative changes in topographic subdivisions of the basal forebrain cholinergic complex of neurons identified by immunohistochemical detection of the cholinergic markers choline acetyltransferase or low-affinity neurotrophin receptor. After injection of FluoroGold into the cerebral neocortex, the number of retrogradely labelled neurons in the horizontal diagonal band/ substantia innominata and basal nucleus was significantly lower in aged rats, by 41% and 48%, respectively. In aged rats injected with FluoroGold as well as in non-injected aged rats, the numbers of neurons immunoreactive for choline acetyltransferase and low-affinity neurotrophin receptor were significantly lower, by 23-27% in the basal forebrain system as a whole, with no significant difference in the degree of decline amongst different subdivisions (i.e. medial septum, diagonal band, substantia innominata and basal nucleus). The ratios of the number of neurons labelled with FluoroGold as compared with the number of neurons immunoreactive for either cholinergic marker were significantly lower in aged rats, by 32-37%, indicating that the decline in the number of neurons retrogradely transporting tracer was greater than the decline in the number of immunoreactive neurons in aged animals. Immunoreactive as well as retrogradely labelled neurons showed a significant shrinkage of cell surface area of 6-13% in different subdivisions of the basal forebrain cholinergic system in aged rats. These findings confirm significant loss and atrophy of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in aged rats, and demonstrate significantly reduced retrograde labelling of these neurons with fluorescent tracer applied to their target cortex. This reduced retrograde labelling suggests an impairment of either uptake or retrograde transport mechanisms in these neurons in aged rats. Such an impairment may contribute to the degenerative changes of basal forebrain cholinergic neurons observed in ageing and age-related degenerative conditions such as Alzheimer's disease.
Dopamine is generally considered to be an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system. Dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens can be evoked by chemical stimulation of the afferent cell bodies using N-methyl-D-aspartate microinjection in the ventral tegmental area. We report here that following such injections most neurons of the nucleus accumbens were excited. This excitation was abolished if dopaminergic neurons were lesioned and was blocked by antagonists of the D1 dopamine receptors. Finally, excitatory responses to electrical stimulation of the hippocampus were strongly facilitated by endogenously released dopamine. We suggest, therefore, that under physiological conditions, dopamine acting on D1 receptors is actually an excitatory neurotransmitter.
Voluntary behaviour in mammals requires the integration of information from different parts of the cerebral cortex, notably the limbic, associative and sensorimotor areas, in a neural network that eventually controls the muscles. One region of the brain that has been proposed to subserve such a function are the basal ganglia which receive inputs from all cortical areas. Although information from different cortical areas passes through the basal ganglia as a series of separate parallel pathways there are several sites where integration of the diverse information could occur. In this study we the identify a neural network at the synaptic level that may underlie a powerful mechanism for the integration, within the basal ganglia, of the diverse types of information arising from the cortex. By double anterograde tracing and immunocytochemistry at both the light and electron microscopic levels, we show that individual neurons in the substantia nigra pars reticulata and dopaminergic neurons in the pars compacta each receive multiple GABAergic synaptic inputs both from neurons in the ventral pallidum (which receive input from limbic areas via the nucleus accumbens) and from neurons in the globus pallidus (which receive input from associative and sensorimotor cortices via the neostriatum). Thus, information subserving functions such as emotion, motivation, cognition and movement converges onto basal ganglia output neurons, leading eventually to the muscles, and also on to the dopaminergic neurons which themselves subserve an integrative role by modulating the flow of information from the cortex through the basal ganglia at the level of the neostriatum and nucleus accumbens.
Cloning studies have identified a novel seven transmembrane receptor displaying high sequence homology to the three classical opioid receptors (mu, delta and kappa). This receptor is widely distributed throughout the CNS. 1 Recently, an endogenous ligand for this receptor was isolated (termed either &quot;orphanin FQ&quot; or &quot;nociceptin&quot;) and identified as a heptadecapeptide showing sequence homology with the endogenous opioids. Surprisingly, in contrast to known opioids, orphanin FQ displays hyperalgesic rather than analgesic properties. Furthermore, in contrast to enkephalins and endorphins, but similarly to dynorphins, this peptide has inhibitory actions upon locomotor activity. These preliminary data suggest that orphanin FQ systems may act in an opposing manner to the previously well-described enkephalin and endorphin systems. Since numerous studies have implicated activation of the mesolimbic dopamine pathway to be central to the rewarding actions of opiates such as morphine and heroin, as well as several other abused drugs, and also to mediate the hyperlocomotory action of such drugs, we sought to determine the effect of orphanin FQ on this pathway. In accordance with the inhibitory effect of this peptide on locomotor activity, we now report that orphanin FQ suppresses dopamine release in the nucleus accumbens in a dose-dependent manner, providing the first neurochemical evidence for a modulatory role of this recently described peptide in the CNS.
Central pain remains a therapeutic challenge. We report beneficial effects of lamotrigine, a novel antiepileptic drug, on four patients suffering from long-standing central pain. Analgesia may be due to interference with glutamatergic transmission.
Spinal cord injury (SCI) results in variable motor recoveries and chronic central pain syndromes develop in the majority of SCI patients. To provide a basis for further studies, we report a new rodent model of chronic central pain following spinal cord trauma. Male Sprague-Dawley rats (N = 10) were hemisectioned at T13 and were tested both preoperatively and postoperatively and compared to sham-operated controls (N = 10) for locomotor function, and mechanical and thermal thresholds of both paw withdrawal and supraspinal responses. Results support the development and persistence of allodynia which persists for 160 days. Locomotor function was tested using the Basso, Beattie and Bresnahan (BBB) open field test and only the limb ipsilateral to the hemisection was affected, demonstrating acute flaccid paralysis with motor recovery which approached normal values by postoperative day (POD) 15. Prior to the hemisection, the rats showed little to no paw withdrawal response to von Frey stimulation of 4.41 mN or 9.41 mN in both forelimbs and hindlimbs. Postoperatively, responses in both ipsilateral and contralateral forelimbs and hindlimbs increased over time and the increase was statistically significant compared to intra-animal presurgical and sham control values (P &lt; 0.05). There were no significant side-to-side differences in limb responses preoperatively or beyond POD 15. The forelimbs and hindlimbs responded to von Frey hair strengths of 122 mN preoperatively and postoperatively with similar withdrawal frequencies that were not statistically significant. Preoperatively, the paw withdrawal latency to heat stimuli was 22.9 +/- 3.0 (mean +/- SE) and 20.1 +/- 3.1 sec for the hindlimbs and forelimbs, respectively. Postoperatively, the mean hindlimb and forelimb latency of paw withdrawals decreased to 11.9 +/- 1.8 and 9.2 +/- 2.5 sec, respectively. This decrease in thermal thresholds is statistically significant when compared to intra-animal preoperative and sham control values (P &lt; 0.05). These data indicate that somatosensory thresholds for non-noxious mechanical and radiant heat which elicit paw withdrawal (flexor reflex) are significantly lowered following SCI. To further support the development and persistence of chronic pain following hemisection, supraspinal responses such as paw lick, head turns, attacking the stimulus, and vocalizations were elicited in response to mechanical and thermal stimuli and were statistically significant compared to presurgical intra-animal or sham control values (P &lt; 0.05). Hemisected animals vocalized to von Frey hair bending forces of 49.8 with a mean of 6.0 +/- 1.2 times out of 10 stimuli compared to intra-animal presurgical and sham control values of zero. Supraspinal responses of hemisected animals to thermal stimuli occurred at lower temperatures that were statistically significant compared to sham control or preoperative values (P &lt; 0.05). These chronic changes in thresholds to both mechanical and thermal stimuli represent the development and persistence of mechanical and thermal allodynia after SCI.
We have observed sudden clinical death due to Fukuyama-type congenital muscular dystrophy (FCMD). In FCMD, brain abnormalities, such as polymicrogyria, leptomeningeal neuroglial heterotopia and abnormal course of the corticospinal tracts, are well known. We investigated the brainstem of 10 FCMD and 7 control cases. Among the control cases, 5 with Duchenne type muscular dystrophy died of heart failure and 2 died accidental death. In the brainstem, the catecholaminergic neurons characterized by reaction with antiserum to tyrosin hydroxylase showed notable reduction in the reticular formation, vagal nuclei, and nucleus tractus solitarius. Delays or aberrations of neural control may contribute to the pathogenesis of sudden infant death syndrome, and medullary gliosis occurs in the reticular formation of sudden infant death syndrome. The pathogenesis of neurons in the brainstem in FCMD may be similar to that in sudden infant death syndrome. These findings suggest neuronal dysfunction in the brainstem and may be related to respiratory, circulatory, or sleep-wake regulation disorders.
An uncommon case of unilateral hydrocephalus due to membranous occlusion of the ipsilateral foramen of Monro is presented. The patient successfully underwent neuroendoscopic fenestration of the occluded foramen of Monro along with septum pellucidum fenestration.
The phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid (OA) was used to study the relationship between [Ca2+], rates of phosphorylation/dephosphorylation and the mechanical properties of smooth muscle fibres. Force/velocity relationships were determined with the isotonic quick release technique in chemically skinned guinea-pig taenia coli muscles at 22 degrees C. In the maximally thiophosphorylated muscle neither OA (10 microM) nor Ca2+ (increase from pCa 9.0 to pCa 4.5) influenced the force-velocity relationship. When the degree of activation was altered by varying [Ca2+] in the presence of 0.5 microM calmodulin, both force and the maximal shortening velocity (Vmax) were altered. At pCa 5.75, at which force was about 35% of the maximal at pCa 4.5, Vmax was 55% of the maximal value. When OA was introduced into fibres at pCa 6.0, force was increased from less than 5% to 100% of the maximal force obtained in pCa 4.5. The relationship between the degree of myosin light chain phosphorylation and force was similar in the two types of activation; varied [OA] at constant [Ca2+] and at varied [Ca2+]. The relation between force and Vmax when the degree of activation was altered with OA was almost identical to that obtained with varied [Ca2+]. The results show that Ca2+ and OA do not influence force or Vmax in the maximally phosphorylated state and suggest that the level of myosin light chain phosphorylation is the major factor determining Vmax. The finding that the relationship between force and Vmax was similar when activation was altered with OA and Ca2+ suggests, however, that alterations in the absolute rates of phosphorylation and dephosphorylation at a constant phosphorylation level do not influence the mechanical properties of the skinned smooth muscle fibres.
In neurobiology, and in other fields, the frequency histogram is a traditional tool for determining the probability density function (pdf) of random processes, although other methods have been shown to be more efficient as their estimators. In this study, the frequency histogram is compared with the Parzen density estimator, a method that consists of convolving each measurement with a weighting function of choice (Gaussian, rectangular, etc) and using their sum as an estimate of the pdf of the random process. The difference in their performance in evaluating two types of pdfs that occur commonly in quantal analysis (monomodal and multimodal with equidistant peaks) is demonstrated numerically by using the integrated square error criterion and assuming a knowledge of the &quot;true&quot; pdf. The error of the Parzen density estimates decreases faster as a function of the number of observations than that of the frequency histogram, indicating that they are asymptotically more efficient. A variety of &quot;reasonable&quot; weighting functions can provide similarly efficient Parzen density estimates, but their efficiency greatly depends on their width. The optimal widths determined using the integrated square error criterion, the harmonic analysis (applicable only to multimodal pdfs with equidistant peaks), and the &quot;test graphs&quot; (the graphs of the second derivatives of the Parzen density estimates that do not assume a knowledge of the &quot;true&quot; pdf, but depend on the distinction between the &quot;essential features&quot; of the pdf and the &quot;random fluctuations&quot;) were compared and found to be similar.
Male hamsters that have been repeatedly defeated by larger, aggressive males subsequently flee from, rather than attack, nonaggressive male intruders that are introduced into their home cages. We have referred to this generalization of flight in response to nonaggressive intruders as &quot;conditioned defeat&quot; (CD). In an attempt to reverse CD pharmacologically, diazepam (DZP) was administered to hamsters at two different time points relative to CD acquisition and subsequent response generalization tests, which involved the exposure of subjects to nonaggressive intruders (NAIs). In Experiment 1, subjects were given a single injection of one of 4 doses of DZP (0, 2, 6, or 20 mg/kg) immediately following CD acquisition. Twenty-four hours later, contrary to expectations, subjects that had received the 6 mg/kg dose displayed elevated flight responses in the presence of an NAI. Flight responding declined over days except in subjects that received the highest dose. In the second experiment, hamsters were administered a single injection of either 0, 2, or 6 mg/kg DZP just prior to a response generalization test occurring 24 h following CD training. Flight responses to the NAIs were again exaggerated in subjects that were given the 6 mg/kg dose, an effect that persisted several days without further drug administration. The present findings suggest the possibility that benzodiazepines can potentiate fear responses under certain stressful conditions.
The selectivity of coupling of m1, m3, and m5 muscarinic receptors to activation of the neuronal type of nitric oxide synthase was investigated. Stimulation with the agonist carbachol of all three receptor subtypes expressed in Chinese hamster ovary cells resulted in a rapid and transient activation of the enzyme, as measured by stimulation of guanylate cyclase in reporter neuroblastoma cells. Carbachol was more potent and efficacious at m5 receptors than at the other two receptor subtypes. Stimulation of all three muscarinic receptors resulted in an increased concentration of intracellular calcium, with a time course that preceded activation of nitric oxide synthase. At each receptor subtype, there was a close relationship between the magnitude of the maximal calcium response and that of enzyme activation.
The hypothesis that altered dopamine function is a major factor in the etiology of schizophrenia has persisted for some time, and changes in other neurochemical systems are strongly implicated as well. These findings are supported by the recent development of new, effective antipsychotic agents, such as clozapine and risperidone, whose actions are attributed to their combined serotonin and dopamine antagonism. In addition to their clinical efficacy, these agents are associated with substantially fewer extrapyramidal adverse effects. Continued research to identify the neurochemical alterations of psychotic diseases will undoubtedly have a favorable impact on the development of improved therapeutic regimens.
In the chick, brief episodes of enhanced recall (&quot;retrieval events&quot;) recur approximately every 25 min in recall via the right hemisphere, and every 16 min in recall via the left. These events coincide with, and probably cause, the numerous transitions between memory phases described in the chick.; The most important of these is the transition to long-term memory, which is sometimes held to occur in chicks at about 50 min after learning, a transition picked out as unique by a variety of effects of amnesia-inducing agents, and by a brief impairment (&quot;dip&quot;) in recall at 55 min. We used a single trial passive avoidance task, involving bead pecking, to show that in chicks using only one eye, such dips occur not only at 55 min (in right-eyed chicks only) but also after each of the subsequent series of left hemisphere events (in left-eyed chicks only). Dips in recall appear to result when processes that are initiated by left hemisphere retrieval events result in hemispheric interaction, with one hemisphere (which can be either left or right) holding an inadequate trace (e.g., as a result of monocular training). Recall tests under such conditions may involve both the adequate and the inadequate trace, so that performance is impaired.
1. The effects of systemic administration of beta CCMon the memory impairments induced by chronic alcohol consumption in a delayed alternation task were studied. 2. For this purpose, Balb/c mice were submitted to chronic alcohol treatment during 12 months and were subsequently withdrawn from the alcoholic diet at least four weeks before behavioral testing began. 3. Results showed that alcohol-treated animals exhibited a delayed alternation deficit that was totally reversed by the administration of beta CCM administered before the retention trial only. 4. These findings show that the memory deficits observed in alcohol-treated animals are due to an impairment of the retrieval phase of memory processes, and that retrieval memory processes are sensitive to benzodiazepine receptor ligands.
1. Cyclothymia is characterized by pronounced but not debilitating shifts of moods often lasting approximately two to nine weeks. 2. It can be classified as a psychopathologic mood disorder on a continuum to Bipolar II, or as a chronobiologic rhythm similar to the circadian except on an infradian time scale. 3. A male subject diagnosed cyclothymic agreed to daily chart moods and emotions, record dreams and monitor physical states. He kept track of hypomania-depression, high-low energy, high-low tension, dream affect and sleep parameters. 4. In the 1,006 affective cycles recorded between 1977 and 1996, four affective phases appeared sequentially: being comparable to early hypomania (I, PA), late hypomania (II, PD), early depression (III, ND) and late depression (IV, NA). 5. During the experiment lasting 20 years, the frequency of the four-phase affective cycle increased intermittently from 30.3 days (1977) to 28.0 days (1980), 24.7 days (1983), 19.0 days (1986), 17.8 days (1989), 12.1 days (1992), and 1.3 days (1995). 6. These findings of a four-phase variable infradian rhythm may have utility in determining fine structure and time course of rhythms in cyclothymics, both medicated and non-medicated, studied outside the clinical laboratory.
A screening test for detecting abnormal illness behaviour in patients with somatic symptoms is described here along with its psychometric properties. This screening version of the Illness Behaviour Questionnaire (SIBQ) is derived from two subscales of the Illness Behaviour Questionnaire and has 11 items. The study was carried out on 78 consecutive patients with prominent somatic complaints and 22 normal volunteers. The SIBQ was administered to the subjects and the sensitivity, specificity and hits positive rates were computed for different cut-off scores. A score of 7 and above gave a sensitivity of 86%, a specificity of 83% and a hits-positive rate of 0.7537, and this seems the optimal cut-off score. The SIBQ may prove to be a sensitive screening instrument to detect probable cases of abnormal illness behaviour and especially useful for busy clinics or centres.
The variety of potential relationships assumed between psychological and biological concepts fosters considerable misunderstanding of what our data can tell us. A naively reductionistic view of psychological concepts is prevalent, particularly in the psychopathology literature. A series of examples of the application of psychophysiological methods in studies of cognition, emotion, and psychopathology provides a background for a discussion of these problems. Unwarranted distinctions between cognition and emotion, between classes of measures, and between psychological and biological approaches to understanding normal functioning and psychopathology undermine the ability of cognitive neuroscience to achieve its considerable potential. A nondualistic, nonreductionistic, non-interactive relationship is recommended, with psychological and biological concepts both having central, necessary, and distinct roles.
The main emphasis of this paper is on a critique of the idea still current in psycho-analysis as well as in psychiatry that conversion can be seen as a purely psychogenic process. This reductionist idea is responsible for some of the difficulties clinicians encounter in their work with patients with a suspected conversion disorder; it may be a consequence of a hysterical structure of this theory. A coherent theory of the psycho-somatic phenomenon of conversion has to proceed in a non-reductionist methodology comprising psychological as well as physiological levels of description and explanation. In this paper, these hypotheses are developed in three dimensions: a) concerning clinical encounters with patients with &quot;pseudoneurological&quot; symptoms; b) looking at the historical development of the Freudian concept of conversion between 1894 and 1916/17, and c) theoretically, including some concepts of cognitive neuroscience.
Two experiments were conducted to investigate the possible role of landmark stability in spatial learning. Rats were trained to search in a large arena for food hidden at a consistent distance and direction from either a single radially symmetric landmark or an array of two landmarks. We varied the relative degree to which the landmark array and/or the cues of the training context predicted the location of food, without varying the conditional probability of food being available given either cue. Experiment 1 used vestibular disorientation to ensure control of search location by experimenter-controlled cues. The results showed that making either a single landmark or a cluster of two adjacent landmarks the sole spatial predictor of reward location reduced the accuracy of search compared to a condition where both the landmark array and context cues were reliable spatial predictors. Varying global landmark stability had no effect when training was conducted using an array of two landmarks located some distance from each other. Context cues, when tested alone, triggered very little searching in appropriate locations, and the absolute magnitude of control over search was insufficient to account for the superiority of stable landmarks. The better learning with a stable landmark, and the dependence of this effect on the geometrical arrangement of landmarks, points to the conditions of spatial learning involving additional principles to those of simple associative conditioning. Experiment 2 examined landmark stability using a single landmark and fixed directional cues in the absence of vestibular disorientation. This also revealed a relative advantage of landmark stability, but animals with a landmark that moved from trial to trial did show some evidence of learning. Context cues when tested alone had minimal influence. Parametric manipulation of landmark stability offers a novel way of influencing spatial learning and thus understanding better the process through which egocentric representations of perceived space are transformed into allocentric representations of the real world.




The neurotransmitter functions of nitric oxide are dependent on dynamic regulation of its biosynthetic enzyme, neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS). By means of a yeast two-hybrid screen, a 10-kilodalton protein was identified that physically interacts with and inhibits the activity of nNOS. This inhibitor, designated PIN, appears to be one of the most conserved proteins in nature, showing 92 percent amino acid identity with the nematode and rat homologs. Binding of PIN destabilizes the nNOS dimer, a conformation necessary for activity. These results suggest that PIN may regulate numerous biological processes through its effects on nitric oxide synthase activity.

The distribution of D1/D5, D2/D3, D2/D3/D4, and individually, putative D2-D4 receptors across the dorsal vagal complex of the human medulla was assessed with quantitative receptor autoradiography. D1/D5 receptors were found in very low levels. D2 receptors were concentrated in the intermediate and medial subnuclei of the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS), and in the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMN), while D3 receptors were more homogeneous across the entire NTS, area postrema (AP), and DMN. In contrast, D4 receptors were found almost exclusively in the intermediate and medial subnuclei of the NTS, and in the DMN. These findings suggest that the &quot;D2 family&quot; of receptors is an important component of brain stem mechanisms regulating visceral function, including gastrointestinal systems, such as emesis, along with cardiovascular and pulmonary systems. Compounds with individual selectivity for D2, D3, or D4 receptors may be useful in the manipulation of neural networks regulating these visceral systems.
Previous works have shown the potential location of 5-HT1B binding sites on the retinal afferents to the superior colliculus in the rat. In order to confirm this hypothesis, the distribution of 5-HT1B binding sites, labelled by S-CM-G[125I]TNH2, was analysed by quantitative autoradiography at both light and electron microscopic levels in the upper stratum griseum superficiale (SGS) of the superior colliculus, 5 days after unilateral eye ablation. At the light microscopic level, no 5-HT1B sites were found to be associated with capillaries, glial, or neuronal cell bodies, but the fine neuropile was specifically labelled. At the electron microscopic level, the quantitative analysis performed with 50% probability circles showed that classical dendritic processes, presynaptic dendritic processes, and processes containing flat synaptic vesicles were not labelled. In the SGS ipsilateral to the eye ablation, silver grains were specifically associated with processes containing round and pleomorphic vesicles and with non-synaptic contacts between those processes and dendritic or other non identified neuronal processes. In the deafferented contralateral SGS, 5-HT1B receptors were associated with degenerating retinal terminals, with processes containing round vesicles and with non-synaptic contacts between those two tissue compartments. This is the first direct demonstration of the existence of 5-HT1B receptors in non-synaptic contacts and in non-serotonergic terminals. The existence of 5-HT1B terminal heteroreceptors localised on primary visual afferents shows that serotonin might modulate the transmission of visual messages to the superior colliculus.

The hormonal induction of reproductive behavior in rodents is well established, but many of the mechanisms mediating this induction remain unknown. The ability of the gonadal steroids, estrogen and progesterone, to act simultaneously upon several neurotransmitter systems and at multiple loci in a coherent manner helps to coordinate the timing of behavioral receptivity with ovulation and assures maximal reproductive success. Investigations revealing the multitude of steroid actions on neurotransmitters illustrate the neuronal plasticity present in the adult brain. Furthering our understanding of the mechanisms by which steroids alter brain functioning to change behavior profoundly, but transiently, serves to provide information not only in the field of reproductive biology but that of basic neuroscience as well.
Investigation into the hormonal control of sexual behavior has a rich and extensive history. For many researchers currently active in the field, the physiological psychologist Frank A. Beach is recognized as the modern father of the study of hormones and behavior. His publication of the seminal book Hormones and Behavior-A Survey of Interrelationships Between Endocrine Secretions and Patterns of Overt Response, published in 1948, was a compilation of the previous 20 years of research establishing that gonadal secretions acted in the brain and modulated behavior. The question of precisely how hormones can alter brain functioning in a coordinated fashion and profoundly influence the patterns of behavioral responsiveness remains unanswered. As with many research areas, application of new techniques and approaches to the problem reveals additional layers of complexity and previously unimagined relationships between hormones, brain, and behavior. In addition, with the increasing understanding that the brain is a target organ for steroids, the implications of the ramifications of this steroid sensitivity have broadened. The hormonal regulation of sexual behavior is not an isolated aspect of steroid action in the brain; rather, it is one component of a host of physiological responses influenced by steroids. These include such diverse responses as anxiety, aggression, feeding, and learning and memory. An appreciation of the diverse effects of steroids has emerged from studies on sexual behavior, and a mutually beneficial relationship between this and other aspects of behavioral neuroscience has flourished and endured. As with all of neuroscience, this research area has been dynamic and progressive and has additionally benefited from a long history of comparative and integrative approaches to animal behavior.
Neuronal growth cones establish appropriate connections with their targets during development by responding to both positive and negative guidance cues. The importance of repulsive and inhibitory cues in pathfinding and target selection has now been firmly established at the cellular and molecular levels. Observations in vitro have demonstrated developmentally significant repulsive interactions among various neuronal populations, providing the basis for molecular and functional characterization of several families of molecules that can mediate these guidance events. Analysis of both the expression and function of these molecules in vivo suggests how they, together with positive guidance cues, participate in the dynamic process of growth-cone guidance during both development and axonal regeneration.

The voltage dependence characteristics of thin-foil based phosphor screens in the thickness range of approximately 10-60 microns are examined for CCD imaging in transmission electron microscopy (TEM) in the voltage range of 80-400 kV. The brightest screen is obtained with a P20 layer of about 12 microns at 80 kV, and a thicker screen lowers both the screen brightness and resolution. The thickness of the brightest screen is higher at higher voltage, but other considerations for a practical CCD imaging system suggest that the P20 layer should not be greater than approximately 18 microns for the voltage range stated above.
We have employed two paradigms to investigate the mechanisms of contrast gain control in cat striate cortex. In the first paradigm, optimal drifting gratings were presented in three consecutive periods. The contrast was near threshold in the first and third periods and accompanied by iontophoretic pulses of glutamate or glutamate receptor (GluR) agonists. The contrast was set to evoke a higher firing rate in the second period. Although both visual and iontophoretic conditions were identical in the first and third periods, responses to glutamate, N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA), and (IS,3R)-1-Aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (ACPD) were reduced following the adapting interval. (S)-alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) responses were not reduced. Administration of ionotropic GluR antagonists did not affect adaptation to the high-contrast grating. The metabotropic GluR antagonist (+/-)-alpha-Methyl-4-carboxyphenylglycine (MCPG), which acts at presynaptic glutamate autoreceptors, decreased the degree of adaptation exhibited by striate cells. In a second paradigm, contrast response functions (CRFs) were obtained at various adapting contrasts and least-squares fits to a hyperbolic ratio equation generated for each adapting level. Similar to previous reports, DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (APV) reduced the slope of the CRF and increased the responsiveness of the cells but did not affect the semisaturation constant, sigma, or the exponent of the CRF, n. Only MCPG significantly altered the distribution of sigma and n for 19 cells. The effect on sigma suggests that this drug can interfere with the cell's ability to shift its operating point to match the adapting contrast. These results suggest the involvement of a presynaptic mechanism for contrast adaptation. The decrease in neuronal responsiveness immediately following the high-contrast period may reflect an additional, postsynaptic effect in which there is a decrease in the NMDA-mediated component of the visual response.
Wavelength discrimination in goldfish was measured behaviourally. Both acute application of ethambutol injected into the eye and chronic application by feeding the animals daily 25 mg ethambutol for 1 month had the same effect on wavelength discrimination in the range of 560-640 nm. This means that: (1) electrophysiological experiments, in which drug application is primarily acute, reflect the same disturbance as behavioural experiments, in which drug application is chronic; and that (2) the origin of the color vision defect must be retinal. Furthermore reduction in stimulus intensity by 2 log units caused, in control fish, a similar disturbance in wavelength discrimination as induced by ethambutol, whereas an increase of stimulus intensity by 2 log units abolished in ethambutol-fed fish the discrimination disturbance. These results indicate that ethambutol shifts the threshold for wavelength discrimination without changing the absolute sensitivity of the cone systems.
1996 marked the centennial anniversary of the 1896 visit to California of William Macewen, MD, Regius Professor of Surgery of the University of Glasgow, Scotland, to give the first Lane Medical Lectures. I describe the origins of this historic lecture series and include photographic records. The progress and development of modern California medicine have been greatly influenced by the personalities who initiated and nurtured this lecture series.


I have previously reported that the COOH-terminal 34 amino acids of synaptotagmin 1 are capable of interacting with the presynaptic proteins, the neurexins. Multiple synaptotagmins and a synaptotagmin-like protein, rabphilin 3A, are conserved in this domain, raising the possibility that many different synaptotagmins may interact with neurexins. Here 1 report that the COOH termini of synaptotagmins 1, 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 9 and rabphilin 3A are capable of interacting with neurexins. The COOH terminus of rabphilin 3A is still capable or substantial enrichment of neurexins from solubilized brain membranes even though only 11 of 33 residues are identical with the COOH terminus of synaptotagmin 1. Like the purification of neurexins on the COOH terminus of synaptotagmin 1, purification by the COOH terminus of rabphilin 3A is calcium-independent. The conservation between carboxyl termini of these proteins suggests symmetrical motifs are necessary for neurexin binding. These include the sequence Leu-X-His-Trp, followed by 13 amino acids, and the sequence Trp-His-X-Lcu. Deletion of the first motif or substitution of residues in the second of these motifs greatly reduces neurexin enrichment. Interestingly, these same COOH termini yield substantial calcium-dependent enrichment of calmodulin mediated by the first of these sequence motifs. This correlates with the binding of 125I-labeled calmodulin by recombinant pieces of synaptotagmn 1 containing the carboxyl terminus. These data suggest that multiple synaptotagmins may interact with neurexins to mediate docking or regulation of neurotransmitter release and that synaptotagmins may be calcium-regulated via interaction with calmodulin.
A wealth of clinical data indirectly implicate dysfunction of frontal cortex in schizophrenia, including negative symptoms, the pattern of neuropsychological deficits, and abnormal eye movements. Neuroimaging studies have provided direct evidence of frontal, particularly prefrontal, malfunction, but the results have been inconsistent and controversial. The burning question is whether prefrontal hypofunction is a pathophysiological characteristic of schizophrenia per se or an artifact of the imaging protocol. In studies of patients at rest, 'hypofrontality' has been an inconsistent finding, probably because resting is physiologically and psychologically variable. Cognitive activation paradigms, especially during working memory tasks, have been reliable in showing prefrontal hypofunction in patients, but these results have been challenged as artifacts of poor performance. Performance differences have been addressed by studying patients and controls matched either for poor performance or for normal performance. The former approach, which has the potential of elucidating the specificity of physiological mechanisms associated with poor performance, has shown that prefrontal activity in patients with schizophrenia differs quantitatively and qualitatively from that of normals and of other patient populations who perform at a comparable level. The latter approach, which tends not to find prefrontal differences between patients and controls, may be selecting out important aspects of the disease by focusing on unaffected neural functions. While there are pitfalls to each approach and no single study can address all the potential phenomenological confounds, overall, the functional neuroimaging database in patients with schizophrenia suggests that prefrontal cognitive deficits are because of prefrontal pathophysiology and not the inverse.
The orbitofrontal cortex contains the secondary taste cortex, in which the reward value of taste is represented. It also contains the secondary and tertiary olfactory cortical areas, in which information about the identity and also about the reward value of odours is represented. The orbitofrontal cortex also receives information about the sight of objects from the temporal lobe cortical visual areas, and is involved in learning and in reversing stimulus-reinforcement associations. The stimulus might be a visual or olfactory stimulus, and the primary (unlearned) reinforcer a taste or touch. Damage to the orbitofrontal cortex impairs the learning and reversal of stimulus-reinforcement associations, and thus the correction of behavioural responses when these are no longer appropriate because previous reinforcement contingencies change. The information which reaches the orbitofrontal cortex for these functions includes information about faces, and damage to the orbitofrontal cortex can impair face expression identification. This evidence thus shows that the orbitofrontal cortex is involved in decoding some primary reinforcers such as taste; in learning and reversing associations of visual and other stimuli to these primary reinforcers; and plays an executive function in controlling and correcting reward-related and punishment-related behaviour, and thus in emotion.
Retinoids serve two main functions in biology: retinaldehyde forms the chromophore bound to opsins, and retinoic acid (RA) is the activating ligand of transcription factors. These two functions are linked in the vertebrate eye: we describe here that illumination of the retina results in an increase in RA synthesis, as detected with a RA bioassay and by HPLC. The synthesis is mediated by retinaldehyde dehydrogenases which convert some of the chromophore all-trans retinaldehyde, released from bleached rhodopsin, into RA. As the eye contains high levels of retinaldehyde dehydrogenases, and as the oxidation of retinaldehyde is an irreversible reaction, RA production has to be considered an unavoidable by-product of light. Through RA synthesis, light can thus directly influence gene transcription in the eye, which provides a plausible mechanism for light effects that cannot be explained by electric activity. Whereas the function of retinaldehyde as chromophore is conserved from bacteria to mammals, RA-mediated transcription is fully evolved only in vertebrates. Invertebrates differ from vertebrates in the mechanism of chromophore regeneration: while in the invertebrate visual cycle the chromophore remains bound, it is released as free all-trans retinaldehyde from illuminated vertebrate rhodopsin. RA synthesis occurring as corollary of dark regeneration in the vertebrate visual cycle may have given rise to the expansion of RA-mediated transcriptional regulation.
We have examined the regulation of striatal GABA release by endogenous dopamine in rats with partial degeneration of dopamine-containing neurons. 6-Hydroxydopamine was administered into the lateral ventricles or medial forebrain bundle. Either 3 days or 3 weeks later, slices of neostriatum were prepared, preloaded with [3H]GABA, and superfused in order to measure [3H]GABA overflow in response to electrical stimulation (8 Hz). The loss of dopaminergic terminals was estimated by measuring tissue levels of dopamine. The impact of endogenous dopamine on [3H]GABA was evaluated by measuring the ability of sulpiride, a D2 dopamine receptor antagonist, to increase the depolarization-induced [3H]GABA overflow. In non-treated or vehicle-pretreated rat neostriatum, sulpiride (10 microM) increased the depolarization-induced [3H]GABA overflow to 193% of control. Three days after lesioning, the stimulatory effect of sulpiride on [3H]GABA overflow was identical to that seen in control rats so long as the loss of tissue dopamine did not exceed 60%, although with larger lesions the sulpiride-induced response was reduced. Three weeks after lesioning, however, the stimulatory effect of sulpiride on electrically evoked [3H]GABA overflow remained at the level seen in control tissue even in cases where tissue dopamine was reduced to 13% of normal. In contrast, no sulpiride-induced increase in [3H]GABA overflow was detected 3 weeks after nearly complete lesions with reduced tissue dopamine to 20% of normal. These data suggest that short- and long-term compensatory changes maintain dopaminergic control over GABAergic projection neurons and interneurons until the loss of dopamine innervation is almost complete.
Previous observations indicate that the basal forebrain receives dopaminergic input from the ventral midbrain. The present study aimed at determining the topographic organization of these projections in the rat, and whether this input directly terminates on cholinergic neurons. Injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) into discrete parts of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) and the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNC) labeled axons and terminals in distinct parts of the basal forebrain, including medial and lateral septum, diagnoal band nuclei, ventral pallidum, globus pallidus, substantia innominata, globus pallidus, and internal capsule, where PHA-L-labeled terminals abutted cholinergic (choline acetyltransferase = ChAT-containing) profiles. Three-dimensional (3-D) computerized reconstruction of immunostained sections clearly revealed distinct, albeit overlapping, subpopulations of ChAT-immunoreactive neurons apposed by PHA-L-labeled input from medial VTA (mainly in vertical and horizontal diagonal band nuclei), lateral VTA and medial SNC (ventral pallidum and anterior half of substantia innominata), and lateral SNC (caudal half of the substantia innominata and globus pallidus). At the ultrastructural level, about 40% of the selected PHA-L-labeled presynaptic terminals in the ventral pallidum and substantia innominata were found to establish synaptic specializations with ChAT-containing profiles, most of which on the cell body and proximal dendritic shafts. Convergent synaptic input of unlabeled terminals that formed asymmetric synapses with the ChAT-immunoreactive profiles were often found in close proximity to the PHA-L-labeled terminals. These observations show that the cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain are targets of presumably dopaminergic SNC/VTA neurons, and suggest a direct modulatory role of dopamine in acetylcholine release in the cerebral cortical mantle.
Immunocytochemical double-labeling techniques were used at the light and electron microscopic levels to investigate whether dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and tyrosine hydroxylase-containing axons contact basal forebrain cholinergic neurons. Dopamine-beta-hydroxylase- and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibers and terminals were found in close proximity to cholinergic neurons throughout extensive basal forebrain areas, including the vertical and horizontal limb of the diagonal band nuclei, the sublenticular substantia innominata, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, ventral pallidum, and ventrolateral globus pallidus. Cholinergic cells in some aspects of the globus pallidus appeared to be contacted by tyrosine hydroxylase-positive but not dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-positive fibers, suggesting dopaminergic input to cholinergic neurons in these regions. Direct evidence for the termination of dopamine-beta-hydroxylase and tyrosine hydroxylase-positive fibers on cholinergic neurons was obtained in electron microscopic double-immunolabeling studies. Using high magnification light microscopic screening, both qualitative and quantitative differences were noted in the catecholaminergic innervation of forebrain cholinergic neurons. For example, while many cholinergic neurons were in close proximity to single dopamine-beta-hydroxylase-positive varicosities, others, particularly those located in the substantia innominatabed nucleus of the stria terminalis continuum, were apparently contacted by labeled fibers in repetitive fashion. The findings of the present study, together with our preliminary biochemical experiments (Zaborszky et al. [1993] Prog. Brain Res. 98:31-49) suggest that catecholaminergic afferents can differentially modulate forebrain cholinergic neurons. Such interactions may be important in learning and memory processes, and their perturbations may contribute to the cognitive decline seen in aging and in disorders such as Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases.
Prepulse inhibition of the acoustic startle reflex is an operational measure of sensorimotor gating. The neural substrates of prepulse inhibition may be relevant to the pathophysiology of neuropsychiatric disorders that are characterized by sensorimotor gating deficits, including schizophrenia. Studies have demonstrated abnormalities within the hippocampal formation of schizophrenia patients, and animal studies have revealed that the hippocampus, and specifically the ventral subiculum, regulates prepulse inhibition. The ventral subiculum sends a dense glutamatergic projection to the nucleus accumbens, and the nucleus accumbens is known to potently regulate prepulse inhibition via dopaminergic and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (non-NMDA) glutamatergic mechanisms. In the present study, we examined whether the hippocampal regulation of prepulse inhibition is mediated through subiculo-accumbens glutamatergic efferents. Intra-ventral subiculum infusion of NMDA dose dependently reduced prepulse inhibition, and this effect of NMDA was reversed by co-infusion of the NMDA receptor antagonist D,L-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP5). The prepulse inhibition-disruptive effect of intra-ventral subiculum NMDA infusion was not prevented by infusion of the non-NMDA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) into the nucleus accumbens core or shell subregions. Pretreatment with the D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol also failed to block the prepulse inhibition-disruptive effects of intra-ventral subiculum NMDA infusion. Thus, the present findings suggest that while prepulse inhibition is regulated by NMDA activity in the ventral subiculum, this effect does not appear to be mediated via nucleus accumbens dopamine D2 receptors or via nucleus accumbens non-NMDA glutamatergic substrates.
Nicotine obtained from tobacco can improve learning and memory on various tasks and has been linked to arousal, attention, rapid information processing, working memory, and long-term memories that can cause craving years after someone has stopped smoking. One likely target for these effects is the hippocampus, a centre for learning and memory that has rich cholinergic innervation and dense nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) expression. During Alzheimer's dementia there are fewer nAChRs and the cholinergic inputs to the hippocampus degenerate. However, there is no evidence for fast synaptic transmission mediated by nAChRs in the hippocampus, and their role is not understood. Nicotine is known to act on presynaptic nAChRs within the habenula of chick to enhance glutamatergic transmission; here we report that a similar mechanism operates in the hippocampus. Measurements of intracellular Ca2+ in single mossy-fibre presynaptic terminals indicate that nAChRs containing the alpha7 subunit can mediate a Ca2+ influx that is sufficient to induce vesicular neurotransmitter release. We propose that nicotine from tobacco influences cognition by enhancing synaptic transmission. Conversely, a decreased efficacy of transmission may account for the deficits associated with the loss of cholinergic innervation during Alzheimer's disease.
Environmental cues are known to be important in the migration, survival, and differentiation of neural crest cells and their derivatives. Retinoic acid (RA) can increase the number of adrenergic cells that develop in neural crest cultures in a dose dependent manner. These results with RA prompted us to investigate the effects of other retinoids and other related compounds on neural crest cultures. We have investigated the role of thyroid hormone (T3) in the development of adrenergic cells in quail neural crest cultures. T3 produced a significant decrease in the number of catecholamine-positive cells that developed in neural crest cultures after 7 days in vitro, as compared to untreated controls. The decrease in adrenergic cells produced by T3 was paralleled by a decrease in the number of tyrosine hydroxylase-positive cells, but T3 did not reduce either total or melanocyte cell number. Cultures were sensitive to T3 during the first 5 days in culture and T3 was not cytotoxic to adrenergic cells. The decrease in adrenergic cells seen with T3 was partially reversed by RA suggesting that these two compounds may be working through a common pathway.
In the present study we have characterized the postnatal (PN) development of the retina in the Brazilian opossum, Monodelphis domestica. Monodelphis, a small, pouchless marsupial, undergoes a protracted period of postnatal development. Using bromodeoxyuridine immunohistochemistry, we have investigated postnatal neurogenesis of the retina. In addition, we have examined the differentiation of the retina by using antibodies directed against the presynaptic terminal-associated proteins synaptotagmin, Rab3A, synaptophysin and synaptosomal-associated protein-25 (SNAP-25), and have characterized their spatial and temporal distribution during postnatal development. This study is the first systematic comparison of the developmental expression of multiple presynaptic terminal-associated proteins in relation to retinal neurogenesis and differentiation. At birth (1PN), the Monodelphis retina was relatively undifferentiated morphologically and birthdating analysis revealed mitotically active cells throughout the retina. The 8PN retina was organized into two cellular layers: an outer region of mitotically active neuroepithelial cells and an inner region of postmitotic cells. The inner plexiform layer formed between 5PN and 10PN, and exhibited unique patterns of immunoreactivity with the antibodies used in this analysis. By 25PN the retina was well laminated, and synaptotagmin-, Rab3A-, synaptophysin- and SNAP-25-like immunoreactivities exhibited distinct and specific patterns within the plexiform layers, although they had not yet achieved their mature, adult patterns. These results indicate that each of these proteins exhibits developmentally regulated changes in its cellular localization, and therefore may play important roles during morphogenesis and synaptogenesis of the vertebrate retina.
Seven day old rats received bilateral intraventricular injections (200 ng) of the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin. When assayed in adulthood, these rats showed an 84% loss of hippocampal and a 52% loss of cortical choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity. ChAT was unaffected in the caudate. Cholinergic neurons immunoreactive (IR) for the low affinity neurotrophin receptor (P75NTR) were severely reduced throughout the basal forebrain nuclei. Cortical and hippocampal norepinephrine were increased and these areas showed ingrowth of ectopic, P75NTR and dopamine beta-hydroxylase IR varicosities. These were probably sympathetic axons. No obvious forebrain dysmorphogenesis was observed and cortical thickness was unaffected. These rats showed no evidence of impaired spatial learning/memory as assessed by the Morris water maze and delayed spatial alternation. However, they were less active on the elevated plus apparatus and spent less time on the open arms, suggestive of increased timidity. 192 IgG-saporin appears to be a powerful tool to selectively lesion basal forebrain cholinergic neurons in the neonatal rat. Surprisingly, the neuromorphological and behavioral sequelae seem minimal. It may be necessary to achieve near-total neonatal destruction of forebrain cholinergic neurons before severe, lasting mnemonic effects are evident.
Prior research in this laboratory has shown that in utero ethanol exposure adversely affects the development of serotonergic neurons. The current study investigated the hypothesis that cortical astrocytes produce trophic factors which are essential for the development of the fetal precursors of serotonergic and other raphe neurons (e.g. rhombencephalic neurons), and that ethanol exposure impairs the production of these factors by astrocytes. The results of these experiments demonstrated that cultured cortical astrocytes produce trophic factors which are necessary for the development of rhombencephalic neurons. Conditioned media obtained from control astrocytes promoted both general neuronal development (increased cell number, cell survival, DNA content, protein content, and neurite outgrowth) and serotonergic neuronal development (increased number of serotonin (5-HT) immunopositive cells and [3H]5-HT uptake). However, the conditioned media produced by ethanol-treated astrocytes (ECM) lacked essential neurotrophic factors. Neuronal cultures maintained in ECM had reduced DNA and neuronal survival, and altered neurite outgrowth. 5-HT immunopositive neurons and [3H]5-HT uptake were also decreased in ECM cultures. Thus, the damaging effects of in utero ethanol exposure on developing serotonergic neurons may be due to impaired production of astroglial neurotrophic factors.
Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization the in vivo effects of acidic and basic fibroblast growth factor (aFGF, bFGF), and of nerve growth factor (NGF) on the expression of galanin, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and substance P in axotomized dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) were examined. Self-mutilation (autotomy), a supposed pain-related behavior, was investigated after growth factor treatment. One microgram of aFGF, bFGF or NGF was applied directly to the transected sciatic nerve via a capsule. In normal rats 3.2%, 0% and 17.5% of the neuron profiles in the DRGs contained galanin-, NPY- and substance P-like immunoreactivity (LI), respectively. Sciatic nerve transection induced a distinct increase in galanin- and NPY-LIs, but a downregulation of substance P-LI. Thus three days after axotomy 23.5%, 26.9% and 9.8% of the DRG neuron profiles showed immunoreactivity for galanin-, NPY- and substance P-LI, respectively. In vivo administration of aFGF counteracted the axotomy-induced increase in galanin and NPY, whereas bFGF only suppressed NPY upregulation. NGF reversed in the injury-induced decrease in substance P-LI, but had no significant effect on galanin- and NPY-LIs. These results were confirmed by monitoring the mRNA levels for these neuropeptides. Moreover, aFGF was found to induce autotomy in 60% of the rats 3 days after axotomy. NGF produced autotomy in about 30% of the rats. Taken together, the present results suggest (1) that aFGF, bFGF and NGF differentially regulate neuropeptide expression in vivo; (2) that FGFs can inhibit neuropeptide upregulation of some peptides after nerve injury; and (3) that aFGF and NGF may induce pain-related behavior.
Neural progenitor cell lines, generated by conditional immortalization from the embryonic CNS, have previously been shown to survive and integrate after transplantation to the adult brain. The present study was designed to investigate the in vivo differentiation and morphological features of grafted neural progenitors using combined autoradiography and transmission electron microscopy of two temperature-sensitive neural progenitor cell lines, HiB5 and ST14A, labeled with 3H-thymidine prior to grafting. Two weeks after transplantation to the striatum the cells were found dispersed over an area extending about 1.5 mm from the injection site. Labeled cells located within the myelinated fiber bundles of the internal capsule were closely associated with myelinated axons and presented profiles similar to oligodendrocytes, while most of the grafted cells in the grey matter had morphological features of astroglia. Some labeled cells occurred also in close association with small blood vessels, morphologically resembling host pericytes. The results show that the immortalized neural progenitors can differentiate into mature glial cells, including astrocytes, oligodendrocytes and pericytes, after implantation into the adult striatum. The ability of the cells to become fully integrated with the resident glial population suggests that they will be highly useful as vehicles for intracerebral transgene expression in ex vivo gene transfer.
Ibogaine is claimed to be an effective treatment for opiate and stimulant addiction. O'Hearn and Molliver, however, showed that ibogaine causes degeneration of cerebellar Purkinje cells in rats. The present study re-examined cerebellar responses to the high doses of ibogaine used by O'Hearn and Molliver (100 mg/kg or 3 x 100 mg/kg) and sought to determine whether a lower dose (40 mg/kg), one effective in reducing morphine and cocaine self-administration, produced similar responses. Purkinje cell degeneration was evaluated with a Fink-Heimer II stain, and enhanced glial cell activity with an antibody to glial fibrillary acidic protein. Every rat treated with the high dose of ibogaine displayed clear evidence of Purkinje cell degeneration. The degeneration consistently occurred in the intermediate and lateral cerebellum, as well as the vermis. Purkinje cells in lobules 5 and 6 were particularly susceptible. Given the response properties of cells in these lobules, this finding suggests any long-term motor deficits produced by ibogaine-induced degeneration should preferentially affect the head and upper extremity. In marked contrast, rats given the smaller dose of ibogaine displayed no degeneration above the level seen in saline-treated animals. When combined with information on other compounds, these data suggest that the degenerative and &quot;anti-addictive' properties of ibogaine reflect different actions of the drug.
In anesthetized rats, electrical stimulation of fimbria fibers evoked, in the ipsilateral lateral septum (LS), a field potential consisting of two negative components: an initial negativity (N2-3 complex wave) of high amplitude at 6.7 ms (+/- 0.8 ms; peak latency) and a slow negative wave (N4 wave) of small amplitude at 14.4 ms (+/- 2.4 ms). The N2-3 complex wave represents the monosynaptic activation of LS neurons while the N4 wave corresponds to polysynaptic activation of neurons in the mediolateral part of the LS. In this study, we investigated the effects of high-frequency stimulation of fimbria fibers on LS field potentials and compared them with those observed in the CA3 area. Tetanic stimulation of the fimbria did not change the characteristics of the N2-3 wave but induced a long-lasting increase in amplitude and slope of the N4 wave. A positive correlation was found between the magnitude of CA3 LTP and lateral septal polysynaptic potentiation of the N4 component. These results indicate that patterns of stimulation delivered to the same input fibers (fimbria fibers) produce similar changes in a polysynaptic input to the LS and in a monosynaptic input to the CA3 and emphasize the complexity of signal processing in serial networks.
Previous studies have shown that the regulation of adenylyl cyclase activity is disrupted in Alzheimer's disease postmortem brain. In the present study, we determined whether disrupted adenylyl cyclase is accompanied by altered cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity in Alzheimer's disease superior temporal cortex and cerebellum. GTP gamma S-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activity was significantly lower in Alzheimer's disease superior temporal cortex, but not cerebellum, compared to values from a series of matched control cases. Neither basal or forskolin-stimulated adenylyl cyclase activities were significantly different between the Alzheimer's disease and control brain regions. No significant differences were seen in either particulate or soluble fraction cAMP-dependent protein kinase activities between the Alzheimer's disease and control brain regions. It is concluded that disrupted adenylyl cyclase signalling in Alzheimer's disease brain occurs specifically at the level of Gs-protein-enzyme interactions and is not accompanied by an altered cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity.
One unique phosphorylation site consistently found in paired helical filament tau, serine 413, is modified by tau protein kinase I/glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta but no other known tau kinase. Here we present immunocytochemistry from Alzheimer's disease brains showing that focal subpopulations of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons and neuritic plaques are strongly reactive for tau protein kinase I/glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta and tau phosphoserine 413 in early stages of pathology. Colocalization of these epitopes suggests that tau protein kinase I/glycogen synthase kinase-3 beta abnormally phosphorylates tau and is in a position to disrupt neuronal metabolism in anatomical areas vulnerable to Alzheimer's disease.
Previous studies of the cortical input to the mammalian dorsal lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN) have identified a number of possible functions for the corticogeniculate pathway, including alteration of LGN spatial frequency selectivity and facilitation of both binocular interactions and orientation selectivity. These changes may be due to either a tonic or a phasic cortical facilitation or both. The temporal differences between each of these inputs suggests that their impact on LGN cell temporal tuning should be unique. To test this hypothesis, we reversibly blocked the visual cortex (VI) and measured the effects on several indices of the temporal properties of LGN cells, including peak frequency, bandwidth, and response phase. Macaque monkeys were anesthetized and paralyzed during single cell recording from the LGN while area VI was cryogenically deactivated. Single-cell responses were visually evoked with drifting, luminance-modulated, sine-wave gratings and discrete-Fourier analyzed. Cortical cooling produced statistically significant increases or decreases in response amplitude in 64% of cells recorded. In most cases, alterations in response amplitude occurred for stimuli that varied in spatial as well as temporal frequency. For those cells influenced by changes in stimulus temporal frequency, the majority showed changes over a broad range of frequencies. A minority of cells showed changes in either peak temporal tuning or temporal frequency bandwidth. Response phase angles for all temporal frequencies tested were unaffected by cortical cooling. Overall, these results suggest that the cortical input may alter the temporal response properties of LGN cells, perhaps by tonic, but not exclusively excitatory, corticofugal influences.
The Purkinje cell is a primary organizer in the development of the cerebellum. Purkinje cells may provide positional information cues that regulate afferent innervation, and Purkinje cell target size controls the adult number of afferent olivary neurons and granule cells. While Purkinje cells are necessary for the survival of olivary neurons and granule cells during periods of programmed cell death, little is known about the survival requirements of Purkinje cells in vivo. To determine if Purkinje cells are subject to programmed cell death during development we have analyzed Purkinje cell numbers in two lines of transgenic mice that overexpress a human gene for bcl-2 (Hu-bcl-2). Bcl-2 is a protooncogene that inhibits apoptosis in many cell types. Overexpression of bcl-2 in vitro and in vivo rescues neurons from trophic factor deprivation or naturally occurring cell death. In the mice analyzed in this study, transgene expression is driven by the neuron-specific enolase promoter that is first expressed embryonically in most regions of the brain in one line and postnatally in the second line. We have counted Purkinje cells in three adult control mice, five early overexpressing transgenics, and three late expressing transgenics. The number of Purkinje cells in the Hu-bcl-2 transgenic mice is significantly increased above control numbers, with an increase of 43% in the embryonically overexpressing line and an increase of 27% in the postnatally overexpressing line. Because bcl-2 overexpression has been shown to rescue other neurons from programmed cell death, the increase in Purkinje cell numbers in overexpressing bcl-2 transgenics suggests that Purkinje cells undergo a period of cell death during normal development.
Turbellarian flatworms lend themselves to neurobiological investigations using intracellular iontophoresis of Lucifer yellow provided that one is able to anesthetize the animal and expose the nervous system. This paper details the methods used with the polyclad Notoplana acticola and the rhabdocoel Mesostoma ehrenbergii. Marine turbellarians can be anesthetized with equal parts of sea water and isotonic MgCl2 and fresh-water animals with an 8% ethanol in spring water. Animals can be held steady with minuten pins and spines of the cactus Opuntia basilaris or O. littoralis. Sheaths surrounding the brain can be digested away with a protease. Conventional glass microelectrode techniques are used to fill the cells with fluorescent dye, Lucifer yellow. The preparation needs to be viewed using darkfield illumination. Cells can be photographed through the microscope or traced using a camera lucida attachment to a fluorescence microscope. Tracings tend to be more useful for preserving details of the three-dimensional nature of the neuronal cytoarchitecture.
Standard EM methods can be successfully used to reveal the various organelles of synaptic junctions in different insect species. The individual junctions of a synaptic class exhibit a high level of morphological stereotypy, but the study of serial sections is generally necessary to understand the different appearances of a junction's profiles when it is cut in different planes. Most synaptic profiles seen in single sections may then be attributed to one or a few morphological classes, not to many. Probably most central synapses are of the multiple-contact type, containing a number of postsynaptic elements, with the diversity of the combinations of these providing the major difference between particular synaptic junctions. The different profiles of a synapse when cut serially in oblique, non-canonical section planes provide the investigator with search images, prior knowledge of which is needed for a comprehensive identification of synaptic sites in single sections. The latter can be used to describe the synaptic organization of an unknown neuropile from the variety of synaptic contacts that form between different neurons. This requires that continuity be established between a postsynaptic dendrite and its parent axon, and that the position of the axon can then be used to identify the neuron of origin. Tracing between dendrite and axon can be undertaken either systematically in serial sections of a restricted region or by protracted searches of single sections. The number of synaptic profiles in a single section can be used to estimate the number of synaptic contacts, either in relative terms, as the number of profiles per section in different cells, or as the absolute number of synapses per cell. The latter requires use of correction formulae, taking into account the influence of section thickness and of the mean size of the synaptic junction on the number of synaptic profiles recorded in a particular section.
REAPER (RPR) is a 65-amino acid protein that is critical activator of programmed cell death in Drosophila. On the basis of sequence alignment data, it was recently proposed that RPR might represent an ancestral molecule from which the death domain in a number of proteins may have evolved. We tested this idea by examining the activity of mutations in RPR that parallel inactivation mutations of the tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 death domain. The RPR mutants retained potent apoptotic function, suggesting that cell death activity mediated by RPR is distinct from signaling by the tumor necrosis factor receptor 1 death domain.
Tyrosine hydroxylase activity was measured in the brain of rats treated chronically with saline or cocaine (10 mg/kg, 2 x day, for 7 days). Tyrosine hydroxylase activity was significantly increased in the ventral tegmental area 1, 6 and 12 weeks after the last treatment with cocaine. The increase in tyrosine hydroxylase activity at 6 weeks after the last cocaine injection was prevented by the prior administration of MK-801, haloperidol or clozapine but not by the D1 receptor antagonist, SCH-23390. SCH-23390 produced a significant increase in tyrosine hydroxylase activity when administered with saline. These data indicate that glutaminergic and dopaminergic D2-receptor mediated mechanisms are important in regulating the effect of cocaine on the ventral tegmental area.



We studied the modulatory effect of (R)-4-chloro-2-(2-hydroxy-3-morpholinopropyl)-5-phenyl-4-isoxaz olin-3-one hydrochloride (CS-722), a centrally acting muscle relaxant, on synaptic transmission in the ventral horn neurons of neonatal rat lumbar spinal cord in slices using whole cell recording techniques. Pharmacologically isolated excitatory or inhibitory postsynaptic currents (EPSCs and IPSCs) were evoked by stimulating neighboring neurons. CS-722 preferentially enhanced IPSCs with little effects on EPSCs. Moreover, CS-722 reduced paired pulse facilitation of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-mediated IPSCs, suggesting its action on the presynaptic terminal. Preferential facilitatory effects on inhibitory synaptic transmission seem to be one of the mechanisms underlying muscle relaxation of this compound.
Cyclophilins are ubiquitous and abundant proteins that exhibit peptidyl prolyl cis-trans isomerization (PPlase) activity in vitro. Their functions in vivo, however, are not well understood. Two new retinal cyclophilin isoforms, types I and II, are highly expressed in cone photoreceptors of the vertebrate retina. Type-II cyclophilin is identical to RanBP2, a large protein that binds the GTPase Ran. Here we report that two contiguous domains in RanBP2, Ran-binding domain 4 (RBD4) and cyclophilin, act in concert as a chaperone for the opsin molecule of the red/green-sensitive visual pigment of a dichromatic vertebrate. In Drosophila, the cyclophilin NinaA is expressed in all photoreceptors and is required for the expression of only a subset of opsins. The molecular basis of these photoreceptor class-specific effects and the functions of NinaA and other cyclophilins in vivo remain unclear. Unlike NinaA, which forms a stable complex with opsin from retinular cells R1-6, we find that the cyclophilin domain of RanBP2 does not bind opsin directly; rather, it augments and stabilizes the interaction between red/green (R/G) opsin and the RBD4 domain. This involves a cyclophilin-mediated modification of R/G opsin, possibly involving proline isomerization. The RBD4-cyclophilin supradomain of RanBP2, therefore, is a form of vertebrate chaperone of defined substrate specificity, which may be involved in the processing and/or transport of long-wavelength opsin in cone photoreceptor cells.

Signal transduction from mouse bradykinin B2 receptors to calcium influx was studied in ras-transformed NIH/3T3 (DT) fibroblasts. DT cells were preloaded with fura-2 and whole-cell voltage-clamped. Activation of B2 receptors resulted in a decrease of cellular fluorescence at the excitation wavelength of 340, or 360 nm after MnCl2 application, in both the presence and absence of external Ca2+ in DT cells, at a holding potential of -40 mV. This Mn2+ entry through the Ca2+ influx pathway increased with membrane hyperpolarization. Internal application of inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate (InsP4), but not of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate, mimicked membrane potential-dependent Mn2+ entry. Bradykinin- and InsP4-induced Ca2+ influx was blocked by 10-100 microM genistein, a tyrosine kinase inhibitor. B2 receptor activation induced time-dependent tyrosine phosphorylation of mitogen-activated protein kinase and 120 kDa protein, which was dose-dependently inhibited by genistein. Bradykinin was unable to induce Ca2+ oscillations in genistein-treated DT cells. Our results show that bradykinin-induced Ca2+ influx and oscillations depend upon protein tyrosine phosphorylation. The results suggest that two bradykinin B2 receptor-activated signal pathways, protein tyrosine phosphorylation and formation of InsP4, merge at the Ca2+ influx process in ras-transformed NIH/3T3 fibroblasts.

Based on polymerase chain reaction (PCR) utilizing degenerate primers directed to the second and sixth transmembrane domains of several G-protein-coupled neurotransmitter receptors and screening of a human B-lymphoblast cDNA library, we isolated a cDNA whose predicted amino acid sequence shows considerable homology with human chemoattractant receptors, e.g., 30% overall identity with the C5a anaphylatoxin receptors. The coding region consists of 1056 bp corresponding to 352 amino acid residues and giving an approximate molecular weight of 43 kDa. Northern blot analysis showed hybridizing transcripts in spleen, thymus, and lymph nodes, as well as in bone marrow and peripheral blood leukocytes. Message was also found in lymphoid tumor cell lines. Chromosome mapping with FISH/DAPI technique showed the corresponding gene to reside on human chromosome 14q11.2-q12. In accordance with the Genome Database Nomenclature the receptor was designated CMKRL1 (&quot;chemoattractant receptor-like 1&quot;). Stably transfected mammalian cells (CHO cells and LVIP2.0Zc reporter cells) expressing high levels of corresponding receptor RNA were analyzed for changes in cAMP concentration and cellular calcium fluxes. Chemokines tested to date (GRO-a, MCP-1, MCP-3, MIP-1a, MIP-1b, C5a, RANTES, and LTB4) have failed to elicit any reproducible response. Although the ligand for CMKRL1 could thus not be identified among chemotactic peptides, the high expression in lymphoid cells and tissues suggests that the receptor may function in the regulation of the inflammatory system.
129/Sv mice are resistant to induction of experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) induced with myelin oligodendrocyte glycoprotein peptide (MOG35-55). Mice of this strain lacking the gene coding for the ligand-binding chain of the IFN-gamma receptor develop EAE with high morbidity and mortality. Spleen cells from sensitized IFN-gammaR-/- mice proliferated extensively when stimulated with MOG peptide in culture and produced high levels of IFN-gamma and TNF but no detectable IL-4. Transfer of spleen cells from sensitized IFN-gammaR-/- mice produced EAE in both IFN-gammaR+/+ and IFN-gammaR-/- recipients. Disease was severe in IFN-gammaR-/- recipients and mortality high (77%). Surviving mice remained moribund until termination of the experiments. IFN-gammaR+/+ recipients developed disease of equal severity, but with no mortality, and recovered significantly. These results indicate that IFN-gamma is not essential for the generation or function of anti-MOG35-55 effector cells but does play an important role in down-regulating EAE at both the effector and induction phase of disease.
We explored differences in the properties of convergent afferent inputs to single neurons in the barrel area of the neocortex. Thalamocortical slices were prepared from mature mice. Recordings were made from neurons in layer V, and either thalamocortical afferents or horizontal intracortical axons were stimulated. Monosynaptic EPSPs from both sources had latencies shorter than 1.8 msec and low shape variance. Disynaptic thalamocortical IPSPs had latencies longer than 1.8 msec. All neuronal types, as defined by intrinsic firing patterns, received both thalamocortical and intracortical monosynaptic input. The shape parameters (rate of rise and half-width) of monosynaptic EPSPs from the two inputs did not differ significantly. The rate of rise of EPSPs varied considerably across cells, but the rates of rise of thalamocortical and intracortical EPSPs onto single cells were strongly correlated. The relative thresholds for activation of synaptic excitation and inhibition were strikingly different between the two tracts: thalamocortical stimulation induced GABAA-dependent IPSPs at stimulus intensities equal to or less than those required for evoking EPSPs in 35% (24 of 68) of the cells. In contrast, the threshold response to intracortical stimulation was always an EPSP, and only stronger stimuli could generate di- or polysynaptic IPSPs. We suggest that postsynaptic factors may tend to equalize the waveforms of EPSPs from thalamocortical and intracortical synapses onto single neurons. A major difference between the two convergent tracts is that the thalamocortical pathway much more effectively activates feedforward inhibitory circuits than does the horizontal intracortical pathway.
1. Whole-cell patch recordings were obtained from supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurones in horizontal brain slices of adult male rats. Low-Ca2+ or Ca(2+)-free perifusion medium induced oscillatory bursting activity in all sixty-nine cells displaying both phasic firing and depolarizing after-potentials (DAPs). In fifteen non-phasic cells without DAPs, Ca(2+)-free medium produced little or no oscillatory bursting. 2. Typical bursts started with rapid membrane depolarization, resulting in a plateau with superimposed action potentials, and ended several hundred milliseconds later in swift repolarization. Prominent bursting was observed at membrane potentials from -50 to -70 mV, with maximum amplitudes of 12.2 +/- 0.7 mV (mean +/- S.E.M.) around -70 mV. Development of oscillatory bursting was dependent on reduction of [Ca2+]o, with a threshold for the bursting &lt; or = 1.2 mM Ca2+. 3. Bursting was abolished by addition of TTX, Co2+, Ni2+ or Mg2+ into the Ca(2+)-free medium, or by replacement of external Na+ with choline or Li+. Low concentrations of TEA or increased [K+]o prolonged burst durations and enlarged oscillation amplitudes. 4. Voltage-clamp techniques were used to examine the persistent Na+ current (INaP), and revealed that low [Ca2+]o shifted the threshold for INaP activation in a negative direction and enhanced the amplitude of this current. These changes in INaP were abolished by adding Co2+ or Mg2+ to Ca(2+)-free medium. 5. Direct diffusion of BAPTA or heparin into neurones or bath application of ryanodine suppressed bursting. Oscillations were also eliminated by the uncoupling agents heptanol, halothane or acidification. 6. CNQX, APV, bicuculline, CGP35348 (GABAB receptor antagonist), promethazine, atropine, d-tubocurarine and suramin had no obvious effects on oscillatory bursting. Blockers of transient Ca2+, or hyperpolarization-activating cation currents also did not alter bursting activity. 7. These results suggest that intrinsic burst activity in SON neurons perifused with low-Ca2+ or Ca(2+)-free medium involves enhanced Na+ influx through persistent Na+ channels, and requires the presence of rapid intracellular Ca2+ mobilization that might also explain the selective existence of oscillatory bursting in phasically firing cells. Intercellular communication through gap junctions appears to be important in determining neuronal activity of the neuroendocrine cells in low-Ca2+ medium.
Evidence is presented, based on immunoblotting, immunohistochemistry and double immunolabelling procedures, for the existence of hyaluronan receptor immunoreactivity in discrete nerve cell populations of the rat brain, present within the zona compacta and the zona reticulata of the substantia nigra, the ventral tegmental area the locus coeruleus, the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, the nucleus of the trapezoid body, the motor trigeminal nucleus and the lateral cerebellar nucleus. With preimmune serum control, this hyaluronan receptor immunoreactivity could not be demonstrated. Double immunofluorescence immunocytochemistry, using a well-characterized hyaluronan receptor antiserum, together with the tyrosine hydroxylase antiserum, in the presence or absence of detergent, demonstrated the existence of hyaluronan receptor immunoreactivity in dopamine nerve cells of the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area and in noradrenaline nerve cells of the locus coeruleus, previously shown not to stain for hyaluronan. In all the nerve cells, the immunoreactivity had the appearance of punctate bodies mainly located in the cytoplasm of the perikarya of the above nerve cell populations as also shown by confocal laser microscopy in the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus. Based on these observations, it is concluded that hyaluronan receptors exist in discrete nerve cell populations of the brain, including many noradrenaline and dopamine neurones. In all nerve cells, it is located intracellularly in bodies possibly representing clustered hyaluronan receptors undergoing endocytosis. The results open up the possibility that hyaluronan receptors may reduce high concentrations of hyaluronic acid in the surrounding matrix, thereby facilitating communication between adjacent neurones. Intracytoplasmatic hyaluronic acid may also be of special importance for neuronal plasticity, in view of the ability of hyaluronic acid to activate protein kinase activity and/or by influencing the architecture of the cytoskeleton.
The effects of bicuculline and strychnine on the activity and periaqueductal gray (PAG)-induced inhibition of rat dorsal horn neurons of the lumbar spinal cord were tested. Extracellular single unit recordings were from 36 dorsal horn neurons near a microdialysis fiber passed through the spinal cord for drug application. The GABAA receptor antagonist, bicuculline, was tested on 19 cells, whereas the glycine receptor antagonist, strychnine, was tested on 17 cells. Both bicuculline and strychnine increased the background activity and responses to mechanical stimulation (BRUSH, PRESS, and PINCH) of the skin.06 They also significantly blocked the PAG-induced inhibition of responses to peripheral mechanical stimuli. This experiment suggests that the mechanism of PAG-induced descending inhibition of dorsal horn neuron activity involves GABA and/or glycine release in the spinal cord and that there is tonic release of these inhibitory neurotransmitters.
In this investigation we studied changes in the pharmacological sensitivity of dorsal column white matter to a variety of K+ channel blockers, including 4-aminopyridine (4-AP), following acute spinal cord injury (SCI) in vitro using a modified aneurysm clip. Compound action potentials (CAPs) were recorded extracellularly with microelectrodes and by the sucrose gap recording technique. With acute trauma, injured axons showed significantly enhanced sensitivity to 4-AP in comparison to uninjured controls as early as 10 min following injury. Microelectrode derived field potential recordings showed a significantly greater increase in a delayed positive component (P2) of the CAP at both 1 and 5 mM 4-AP in injured as compared to noninjured axons. Sucrose gap recordings showed an increase in CAP area and amplitude of injured axons with 1 mM 4-AP at 22 degrees C. The relative improvement in CAP area and amplitude with 4-AP was even more pronounced (P &lt; 0.05) at higher temperatures (37 degrees C). As shown by sucrose gap, 4-AP also caused a delay in repolarization of the CAP and depolarization of the resting membrane potential of acutely injured axons. TEA (0.1 mM and 10 mM), when infused alone and with CsCl (10 mM), produced similar effects on injured and intact axons. In conclusion, the results of this study show an altered sensitivity of the spinal cord to 4-AP following acute SCI. In contrast, TEA and CsCl exhibit no difference in their effects on low frequency axonal conduction between injured and noninjured axons. The data suggest that acute traumatic myelin disruption following SCI causes axonal dysfunction partly due to abnormal activation of 4-AP-sensitive 'fast' K+ channels.
Peptides related to melanocortin (alpha MSH) and corticotropin (ACTH), collectively termed melanocortins, exert trophic effects on the outgrowth of neurites from peripheral and central nervous system in vitro. Here we study the neurite outgrowth promoting effect of alpha-MSH on corticospinal (CS) neurons in vitro. Corticospinal neurons were identified in cell culture of neonatal rat cortex by immunostaining of cholera toxin subunit B (CTB), retrogradely transported from the cervical parts of the spinal cord. The CTB-immunoreactive neurons represent a small percentage (3-5%) of the total cell population after 72 h in vitro. The axons or dendrites of cortical and CTB-labelled layer V neurons were visualized using antibodies against axon- or dendrite-specific markers and measured using a semi-automatic quantification device. Here we report that alpha-MSH stimulates axonal as well as dendrite outgrowth from both total and CTB-labelled neurons with a bell-shape response curve. Axonal outgrowth of CTB-labelled neurons was dose-dependently stimulated with a maximal effect of 50% at 10(-10) M alpha-MSH. The maximal effect for stimulation of axon outgrowth for the total cortex population was observed at 10(-8) M alpha-MSH. In addition dendrite outgrowth of both total and CTB-labelled neurons is stimulated in a dose-dependent manner with maximal effects (varying between 46 and 48%) at 10(-8) M alpha-MSH. Explanations in the shift for the optimal alpha-MSH concentration for stimulation of axonal outgrowth of CTB-labelled layer V neurons as compared to total cortex neurons are discussed.
5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) is known to modulate the locomotion generator network in the lamprey spinal cord, but little is known about the pattern of 5-HT innervation along the spinal cord. The distribution of 5-HT-immunoreactive (5-HT-ir) cells and fibers, as well as the effects of 5-HT on the locomotor network in the rostral and caudal parts of the spinal cord were compared in two lamprey species, Lampetra fluviatilis and Petromyzon marinus. Intraspinal 5-HT cells form a very dense ventromedial plexus in which the dendrites of neurons forming the locomotor network are distributed. The number of 5-HT cells and varicosities in this plexus decreases in the fin area (segments 70-90), and then increases somewhat in the most caudal segments. The descending 5-HT fibers from the rhombencephalon are located in the lateral and ventral columns, and their numbers gradually decrease to around 50% in the tail part of the spinal cord. In contrast, the number of 5-HT-ir axons in the dorsal column remains the same along the spinal cord. Bath application of both N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA, 20-250 microM) and D-glutamate (250-1000 microM) was used to induce fictive locomotion in the isolated spinal cord. Bath application of 5-HT (1 microM) reduced the burst frequency in the presence of NMDA. The 5-HT effect was, however, significantly greater in the rostral as compared to the caudal part. With D-glutamate, the 5-HT effects was instead more pronounced in the caudal spinal cord. To account for this difference in 5-HT effects on NMDA- and D-glutamate-induced fictive locomotion, the cellular effect of D-glutamate was further investigated. It activates not only NMDA, but also alpha amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxyl propionate (AMPA)/kainate and metabotropic glutamate receptors. In contrast to NMDA, D-glutamate did not elicit tetrodotoxin (TTX)-resistant membrane potential oscillations. This difference in action between NMDA (selective NMDA receptor agonist) and D-glutamate (mixed agonist) may partially account for the differences in effect of 5-HT on the locomotor pattern.
The potential neurotoxicity of the solvent toluene to the nigrostriatal dopaminergic system was assessed in a rat model of Parkinson's disease. Rats, 1 day after a unilateral injection of 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OH DA) into the substantia nigra, inhaled air or different concentrations of toluene (80, 300 or 1000 ppm), 6 h/day for 3 days. The animals were sacrificed 2 days after the last exposure and biochemical measurements of catecholamines and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) were performed in the neostriatum and substantia nigra. Toluene at 80 and 1000 ppm significantly enhanced the depletion of striatal DOPAC levels induced by the lesion and produced at 80 and 300 ppm a trend for intensifying the 6-OH DA-induced depletion of striatal DA stores. The alterations induced after the combined challenge to the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system may reflect endangering actions of toluene.
The effects of chronic treatment with the tyrosine hydroxylase inhibitor alpha-methyltyrosine or the dopamine precursor 1-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine on radioligand binding to the dopamine transporter in homogenates of rat striatum and nucleus accumbens were assessed. Chronic alpha-methyltyrosine administration decreased dopamine levels in both the striatum and nucleus accumbens without a resulting change in [3H]mazindol binding to the dopamine transporter in either brain region. In a second experiment, chronic administration of alpha-methyltyrosine or L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine produced significant decreases and increases, respectively, in striatal dopamine levels without altering the binding of [3H]WIN 35,428, a chemically distinct dopamine transporter radioligand. These data suggest that even dramatic fluctuations in brain dopamine levels do not modulate the abundance of the dopamine transporter.
Interleukin-7 (IL7) is a hematopoietic cytokine with critical functions in both B- and T-lymphocyte development. In this study, we find that IL7 exhibits trophic properties in the developing brain as well. Treatment of cultures of embryonic brain with exogenous IL7 increases neuronal survival and results in greater numbers of cells manifesting neurite outgrowth. As demonstrated with single-cell cultures, IL7 acts directly to promote neuronal survival. Expression of the mRNA encoding the high-affinity IL7 receptor (IL7R) is observed in vitro in neurons as well as in subventricular zone progenitor cells. Phosphorylation of p59fyn, which is activated by IL7 in pre-B cells and is thought to be important in neural development, occurs rapidly following IL7 treatment of cultured embryonic neurons. Additionally, the expression of c-myc mRNA, which is modulated by IL7 in lymphoid cells, is upregulated by IL7 in the same CNS cultures. Finally, the messenger RNAs encoding IL7 and IL7R are expressed in vivo in developing brain. The direct neurotrophic properties of IL7 combined with the expression of ligand and receptor in developing brain suggest that IL7 may be a neuronal growth factor of physiological significance during central nervous system (CNS) ontogeny.
Patch-clamp recording techniques were used to examine the effect of troglitazone on KATP channel activity in Cambridge rat insulinoma-G1 (CRI-G1) insulin-secreting cells. In both inside-out and outside-out patch recordings, bath application of troglitazone reduced KATP channel activity. This inhibition was independent of the membrane voltage and was poorly reversible. In whole-cell studies, troglitazone inhibited KATP channel currents with an IC50 of 697 +/- 92 nM and an associated Hill coefficient of 1.2 +/- 0.2. In current clamp recordings 10 microM troglitazone depolarised the CRI-G1 cell membrane by 36.8 +/- 3.9 mV with a concomitant decrease in membrane conductance. However, in contrast to the rapid depolarisation produced by tolbutamide, the effects of troglitazone developed more slowly, usually taking 15-20 min to develop.
Considerable evidence indicates an important role of hormones in the stimulation of fluid consumption. For example, angiotensin II (Ang II), together with afferent neural input from cardiovascular baroreceptors, is well known to stimulate thirst and NaCl intake in rats. Conversely, numerous studies have demonstrated that central oxytocin (OT) provides a stimulus for inhibition of salt appetite. The latter conclusion is supported by the following observations in rats: (a) intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) injection of OT inhibits salt appetite stimulated by subcutaneous colloid; (b) treatments that inhibit NaCl intake, such as acute hyperosmolality, stimulate pituitary secretion of OT (which is correlated with central release of OT in these studies), whereas treatments that decrease OT secretion, such as systemic injection of deoxycorticosterone and dietary sodium deprivation, potentiate Ang-II-induced NaCl intake; (c) systemic ethanol administration inhibits OT secretion and enhances Ang-II-induced salt appetite; (d) naloxone, which augments stimulated OT secretion, inhibits NaCl appetite induced by colloid treatment, an effect that is abolished by i.c.v. pretreatment with an OT receptor antagonist; and (e) destruction of central neurons bearing OT receptors increases Ang II-induced salt appetite. By mediating the inhibition of NaCl intake in rats, central OT complements the known peripheral effects of OT to facilitate renal sodium excretion.
The presenilin-1 (PS-1) gene on chromosome 14 carries mutations which cosegregate with early-onset familial Alzheimer's disease. We quantified PS-1 mRNA in post-mortem mid-temporal and superior frontal cortices from 14 Alzheimer's disease subjects, 9 non-demented controls and 5 subjects with other neurological diseases using solution hybridisation-RNase protection assay. APP and APLP2 mRNAs had previously been quantified in these samples (Johnston et al. (1996) Mol. Brain Res., in press) and subjects were apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotyped. There were no significant differences between PS-1 mRNA levels per pg total RNA in mid-temporal or superior frontal cortices of the Alzheimer's disease subjects, compared to controls. PS-1 mRNA levels corresponded to 10% of total APP and 30% of APLP2 mRNA levels, and were not significantly affected by age, post-mortem delay, tissue pH, or APOE genotype. PS-1 mRNA showed significant positive correlations with APP and APLP2 mRNA levels in mid-temporal cortex and with APP mRNA in superior frontal cortex. This may reflect a co-regulation of the expression of these genes, or the fact that they are expressed in similar neuronal populations.
The primate cingulate gyrus contains multiple cortical areas that can be distinguished by several neurochemical features, including the distribution of neurofilament protein-enriched pyramidal neurons. In addition, connectivity and functional properties indicate that there are multiple motor areas in the cortex lining the cingulate sulcus. These motor areas were targeted for analysis of potential interactions among regional specialization, connectivity, and cellular characteristics such as neurochemical profile and morphology. Specifically, intracortical injections of retrogradely transported dyes and intracellular injection were combined with immunocytochemistry to investigate neurons projecting from the cingulate motor areas to the putative forelimb region of the primary motor cortex, area M1. Two separate groups of neurons projecting to area M1 emanated from the cingulate sulcus, one anterior and one posterior, both of which furnished commissural and ipsilateral connections with area M1. The primary difference between the two populations was laminar origin, with the anterior projection originating largely in deep layers, and the posterior projection taking origin equally in superficial and deep layers. With regard to cellular morphology, the anterior projection exhibited more morphologic diversity than the posterior projection. Commissural projections from both anterior and posterior fields originated largely in layer VI. Neurofilament protein distribution was a reliable tool for localizing the two projections and for discriminating between them. Comparable proportions of the two sets of projection neurons contained neurofilament protein, although the density and distribution of the total population of neurofilament protein-enriched neurons was very different in the two subareas of origin. Within a projection, the participating neurons exhibited a high degree of morphologic heterogeneity, and no correlation was observed between somatodendritic morphology and neurofilament protein content. Thus, although the neurons that provide the anterior and posterior cingulate motor projections to area M1 differ morphologically and in laminar origin, their neurochemical profiles are similar with respect to neurofilament protein. This suggests that neurochemical phenotype may be a more important unifying feature for corticocortical projections than morphology.
Central D2 dopamine receptor occupancy may be a useful measure to establish clinical guidelines for optimal antipsychotic drug treatment. The use of positron emission tomography (PET) to explore quantitative relationships among D2 receptor occupancy and clinical effects depends on the reliability of such measurements. The calculation of D2 receptor occupancy using [11C]raclopride is routinely based on a ratio-equilibrium analysis, in which the ratio of radioactivity concentration in the striatum to that in the cerebellum is determined. To examine the reliability of such ratios, a test-retest analysis was performed in four schizophrenic patients treated with haloperidol decanoate. PET experiments with [11C]raclopride were repeated in each subject during the same day. The putamen to cerebellum ratio (P/C ratio) ranged from 1.44 to 1.07 among the four patients, corresponding to a D2 receptor occupancy of 62 to 71%. In each subject, the P/C ratios remained highly similar, with quotients 0.98, 1.01, 1.04 and 1.06 between the two experiments. The high test-retest reproducibility of the P/C ratios indicates that measurements of D2 receptor occupancy with the present methods are highly reliable, and support the further use of PET to optimize the drug treatment of schizophrenia.
Prostaglandin G/H synthase-2 and zif-268 mRNA expression is transiently induced in rat brain by kainic acid (KA)-induced seizures and by a single electroconvulsive shock. Induction of both genes by KA shows neuroanatomical specificity in the order hippocampus &gt; cerebral cortex &gt; striatum &gt; brain stem &gt; cerebellum. Nuclear run-on and Western blotting shows that both genes are transcriptionally activated, and that kainic acid up-regulation of prostaglandin G/H synthase-2 mRNA expression in hippocampus matches increased protein levels. Whereas the magnitude of hippocampal zif-268 mRNA induction is similar in both seizure models, peak induction of prostaglandin G/H synthase-2 mRNA is 7-fold greater in the kainic acid model than in the electroconvulsive shock model and is much more prolonged. Pretreatment of animals by intracerebroventricular injection with the intracellular platelet-activating factor receptor antagonist BN 50730 strongly attenuates kainic acid and electroconvulsive shock induction of prostaglandin G/H synthase-2 expression. The drug partially inhibits electroconvulsive shock induction of zif-268, but is relatively ineffective against kainic acid-induced zif-268 expression. Seizure-induced expression of both genes involves platelet-activating factor, but the mechanisms of induction must be otherwise distinct. The selectively elevated induction of hippocampal prostaglandin G/H synthase-2 by kainic acid correlates with a neuroanatomical region in which the agonist induces neuronal damage.
Heterotrimeric G proteins transmit hormonal and sensory signals received by cell surface receptors to effector proteins that regulate cellular processes. Members of the highly conserved family of alpha subunits specifically modulate the activities of a diverse array of effector proteins. To investigate the determinants of alpha subunit-effector specificity, we localized the effector-specifying regions of alphai2, which inhibits adenylyl cyclase, and alphaq, which stimulates phosphoinositide phospholipase C using chimeric alpha subunits. The chimeras were generated using an in vivo recombination method in Escherichia coli. The effector-specifying regions of both alphai2 and alphaq were localized within the GTPase domain. An alphaq/alphai2/alphaq chimera containing only 78 alphai2 residues within the GTPase domain robustly inhibited adenylyl cyclase. This alphai2 segment includes regions corresponding to two of the three regions of alphas that activate adenylyl cyclase, but does not include any of the alpha subunit regions that switch conformation upon binding GTP. Replacement of the alphaq residues that comprise the helical domain with the homologous alphai2 residues resulted in a chimeric alpha subunit that activated phospholipase C. Combined with previous studies of the effector-specifying residues of alphas and alphat, our results suggest that the effector specificity of alpha subunits is generally determined by the GTPase and not the helical domain.
Amyloid beta peptide (Abeta) is a short peptide that is the major constituent of the amyloid plaques and cerebrovascular amyloid deposits found in Alzheimer's disease. The lack of availability of a cell-free system in which to study Abeta formation has limited our understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in its production. We report here the reconstitution of such a cell-free system. The reconstituted Abeta formation was temperature-dependent and required ATP. Preincubation with purified protein kinase C (PKC) induced a pronounced inhibition of Abeta formation, similar to that observed in intact cells upon stimulation of PKC. The calmodulin antagonists W-7 and trifluoperazine inhibited Abeta formation and enhanced the action of PKC in both the cell-free system and intact cells. A role for the calcium/calmodulin-activated protein phosphatase calcineurin in the regulation of Abeta formation was demonstrated using a specific peptide inhibitor of calcineurin in vitro as well as cyclosporin A, a cell-permeant inhibitor of calcineurin, in intact cells. Our results suggest that a single substrate might mediate opposing actions of PKC and calcineurin in the regulation of Abeta formation.
Although classically studied as regulators of cell proliferation and differentiation, mitogen-activated protein kinases (MAPKs) are highly expressed in post-mitotic neurons of the adult nervous system. We have begun investigating the potential role of MAPKs in the regulation of synaptic plasticity in mature neurons. In particular, we have studied the regulation of two MAPK isoforms, p44 and p42 MAPK, in hippocampal long term potentiation (LTP), a system widely studied as a model for the cellular basis of learning and memory. We have found that p42 MAPK, but not p44 MAPK, is activated in area CA1 following direct stimulation of two required components of the LTP induction cascades: protein kinase C and the N-methyl--aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor. Furthermore, we have demonstrated that p42 MAPK, but not p44 MAPK, is activated in area CA1 in response to LTP-inducing high frequency stimulation and that this activation requires NMDA receptor stimulation. These data demonstrate that p42 MAPK can be regulated in an activity-dependent manner in the hippocampus and identify it as a potential component of the LTP induction cascades in area CA1. Such observations suggest that p42 MAPK might be an important regulator of synaptic plasticity in post-mitotic neurons.
In response to visual stimulation, a subset of neurons in the striate and prestriate cortex displays synchronous rhythmic firing in the gamma frequency band (20 to 70 hertz). This finding has raised two fundamental questions: What is the functional significance of synchronous gamma-band activity and how is it generated? This report addresses the second of these two questions. By means of intracellular recording and staining of single cells in the cat striate cortex in vivo, a biophysically distinct class of pyramidal neuron termed &quot;chattering cells&quot; is described. These neurons are located in the superficial layers of the cortex, intrinsically generate 20- to 70-hertz repetitive burst firing in response to suprathreshold depolarizing current injection, and exhibit pronounced oscillations in membrane potential during visual stimulation that are largely absent during periods of spontaneous activity. These properties suggest that chattering cells may make a substantial intracortical contribution to the generation of synchronous cortical oscillations and thus participate in the recruitment of large populations of cells into synchronously firing assemblies.
The cardiac inward rectifying K+ channel, CIR, and the strongly inward rectifying K+ channel, IRK1, exhibited clearly different electrophysiological properties. CIR formed a heteromultimer with the G-protein coupled inward rectifying K+ channel, GIRK1, whereas IRK1 did not, and CTR homo- and heteromultimeric channels were activated by G-protein beta 1 gamma 2 subunits (G beta 1 gamma 2), whereas IRK1 channels were not. To identify the domains of CIR involved in the heteromultimer formation with GIRK1 and in the G beta 1 gamma 2 gating, we constructed chimeras of CIR and IRK1 and examined their electrophysiological properties. The channels were divided into three domains; the N-terminal cytoplasmic domain, the C-terminal cytoplasmic domain and the residual core domain. By the analysis, it was concluded that (i) the core region of CIR, but not the N and C cytoplasmic domains, is critical for the heteromultimer formation with GIRK1; and (ii) the N and C terminal cytoplasmic regions of CIR are sufficient for the G beta 1 gamma 2 gating. We also showed that the N terminal cytoplasmic region is involved in the determination of the rate of activation upon hyperpolarization.

We evaluated the velocity-dependent ankle torque and associated activity of the ankle extensor muscle stretch reflexes in normal rats. A 287% increase in velocity-dependent ankle torque was observed at the highest velocity tested compared with the lowest velocity. Low velocity torques were minimally altered during general anesthesia that depressed EMG activity by up to 90%. However, velocity-dependent torque during higher velocity ankle rotations (306-612 degrees s-1 correlated with parallel increases in EMG magnitude recorded from the triceps surae muscles. General anesthesia (pentobarbital) abolished 61% of the velocity-dependent ankle torque at 612 degrees s-1. We conclude that ankle torque and ankle extensor muscle activity display velocity enhancement over a broad range. These observations indicate that protocols designed to assess ankle torque in the rat should use instrumentation to produce a broad range of velocities up to at least 600 degrees s-1.

A ring chromosome 7 was found in an 8-year-old boy investigated on account of short stature and facial dysmorphism. He had a fair skin, almost white hair, cafe-au lait spots and many black atypical pigmented naevi. Electron microscopy of his skin revealed structural changes in melanocytes and keratinocytes, suggesting disturbed cell growth and differentiation.

The structural basis for the functions of the brain is the wiring of nerve cells. The wiring is achieved by 100 billion neurons via some 100,000 billion synaptic connections. Formation of this network is a formidable task which requires intricate, but also reliable mechanisms at work. It is generally recognized that the precise connections between nerve cells are accomplished by two different sorts of mechanisms. First, various molecular guidance cues lead outgrowing axons from specific areas to particular target regions which are rather broadly defined. The second stage includes an exact, point-to-point matching between each axon and the specific target neurons. This is achieved by an intricate interaction between the involved nerve cells. In the following, the attention will primarily regard the second type of events, but some aspects on the initial outgrowth of axons and axon guidance mechanisms will also be given. A large part of the description will focus on the neuromuscular junction, since it has been extensively used as a model for the study of synapse development.
The present study investigated whether temperature-related changes in NMDA receptor sensitivity to ethanol might play a role in mediating the effects of body temperature on behavioral sensitivity to ethanol or in determining genotypic differences in sensitivity to ethanol. We accomplished this by determining the effects of ethanol on three different mouse genotypes (C57, LS, and SS) on two types of NMDA receptor-mediated responses at 30 degrees and 35 degrees C: (i) extracellularly recorded synaptic potentials elicited in the CA1 region of the in vitro hippocampal slice preparation by stimulation of the Schaffer-commisural pathway in the presence of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid receptor blocker, 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione, and low magnesium concentration; and (ii) increase in [3H]MK-801 binding elicited by glutamate in telencephalic membrane preparations. Ethanol significantly decreased NMDA receptor-mediated excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) amplitude and area in the three genotypes. In C57, the effect of ethanol on NMDA receptor-mediated EPSP amplitude and area was more pronounced at 30 degrees C, compared with that at 35 degrees C. In most cases, there was a good correlation between the effects of ethanol on EPSP amplitude and area. The order of sensitivity between the three genotypes was C57 = LS &gt; SS at 35 degrees C and C57 &gt; LS = SS at 30 degrees C. Similarly, ethanol significantly decreased glutamate-stimulated [3H]MK-801 binding in membrane fractions. The effect of ethanol was temperature-dependent, because ethanol produced more inhibition at 30 degrees C than at 35 degrees C in all genotypes. The effect of ethanol on MK-801 binding was concentration-dependent, and the sensitivity to 100 mM ethanol of the genotypes at 35 degrees C was LS &gt; SS = C57, whereas it was SS &gt; LS = C57 at 30 degrees C. Collectively, the results demonstrate that temperature is an important variable that can influence NMDA receptor sensitivity to ethanol measured via electrophysiological and binding techniques, and that temperature can influence relative sensitivity of NMDA receptors to ethanol between mouse genotypes. Furthermore, the findings indicate that temperature-induced changes in sensitivity of NMDA receptors to ethanol may play a role in mediating the effects of body temperature on behavioral sensitivity to ethanol in LS, but not C57 and SS mice.
Serum samples for quantification of carbohydrate-deficient transferrin (CDT) and gamma-glutamyl transferase (GGT) were collected from alcohol-dependent men and women upon admission to the hospital for detoxification, and repeatedly over a 3- to 5-week period of supervised disulfiram administration as outpatients. On admission, 10 of 12 patients showed CDT concentrations above the conventional cutoff limits, whereas 6 had elevated GGT values. Normalization usually occurred within 1 to 3 weeks of disulfiram treatment, after which CDT and GGT leveled out at a relatively stable individual baseline level. However, in those patients with the highest values on admission, the decline continued during the entire observation period. The time for normalization of GGT was typically longer than for CDT. In four male patients who had taken disulfiram regularly (400-800 mg every second or third day) for at least 3 months before entering the study, the CDT and GGT concentrations were stable over time and all fell within normal limits. The present results indicate that disulfiram treatment does not influence the serum level of CDT. It is also suggested that consecutive CDT and GGT measurements during outpatient treatment with disulfiram after detoxification can be used to identify the individual baseline (i.e., abstinence) values for CDT and GGT, and, furthermore, for monitoring treatment outcome.
We previously reported fewer locus coeruleus (LC) neurons in both suicide victims and alcoholics than among a group of nonpsychiatric controls. In the present paper we examine the rate of decline in the number of LC neurons with age, looking for possible differential rates among suicide victims, alcoholics, and controls. We also compare these groups with a group of alcoholics who died by suicide, and consider the effects of sex, race, and postmortem interval. LC neuron counts were obtained from a total of 32 subjects. In all groups, the number of neurons decreased with age, but by roughly age 40 the average LC count among the three suicide and/or alcoholic groups was lower than among controls. The rate of LC neuron loss was greater among suicides than among controls, but the rate of loss among alcoholics who were at least 30 years old was the same as that among the controls. Our group of alcoholic suicides had counts that were statistically indistinguishable from those of suicides. Differences among groups appear to be most pronounced in the middle third of the LC. Further studies are needed to determine the mechanisms of noradrenergic neuron loss and whether it is associated with an underlying major depression in suicide victims, or acquired after a period of excessive alcohol consumption.
Recent advances in the theoretical neurosciences have suggested a number of novel strategies that might be applied to prevent and/or retard the progression of Alzheimer disease. Whether or not these interventions will succeed cannot be determined on theoretical grounds, however; the value of each new stratagem must be evaluated in patients with Alzheimer disease. How best to conduct clinical studies of disease-modifying treatments remains a controversial subject. The author reviews and compares two clinical trial designs that may prove useful in assessing whether or not a putative treatment actually modifies the course of dementia.
Primary prevention trials for Alzheimer disease (AD) should be considered because of the substantial cost of caring for AD patients. Current clues to possible treatments include the potential use of antioxidants, estrogens, anti-inflammatory drugs, drugs designed to alter apolipoprotein E4 status, and compounds altering amyloid metabolism. Because of the expense of primary prevention trials, resources should be devoted to developing epidemiological clues for environmental loss in vivo and searching for additional epidemiological clues for environmental factors that may protect individuals from AD. A primary prevention trial would involve the recruitment of 4,000-5,000 subjects followed for 3-5 years at a cost of approximately $20 million. Alternatively, a primary prevention trial could be performed as an &quot;add on&quot; study to an existing clinical trial of a compound of interest currently being tested in an elderly population at substantially less cost.
Impairment of the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) has been frequently attributed to disruption, without much consideration of saturable transport processes. In mice with EAE, we studied the permeability of the BBB to radioactively labeled albumin and sucrose, markers of BBB disruption, and tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha), a cytokine transported across the BBB by a saturable system and thought to play a role in the pathogenesis of EAE. Permeation of the BBB was increased to all three substances during the acutely ill stage, was greatest in the lumbar spine, and returned to normal with recovery. The change in BBB permeability to sucrose was greater than to the larger albumin and is consistent with a partial disruption of the BBB. The enhanced permeability to TNF-alpha was comparable to that for sucrose, even though TNF-alpha is similar in size to albumin. This paradoxically high uptake of TNF-alpha could be explained by an enhancement of its endogenous saturable transport system. Thus the changes in BBB function during EAE extend beyond disruption to include changes in the saturable transport systems for substances involved in the disease process.


Pioneering studies both in humans and animals have demonstrated an association between the peripheral nervous system and epidermal melanocyte destruction. The presence of certain neuropeptides and neuronal structural markers in peripheral nerve fibres was investigated in involved and uninvolved vitiligo skin and compared with normal healthy skin. A group of 18 vitiligo vulgaris patients and matched healthy volunteers participated in the investigation. The indirect immunofluorescence technique was employed. There was a tendency for a reduction in the number and intensity of low affinity (p75) nerve growth factor receptor immunoreactive (NGFr-IR) basal keratinocytes in involved vitiliginous skin (P &lt; 0.06) compared with control skin, while the number of NGFr-IR nerve fibres was significantly increased (P &lt; 0.01). The number of calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP)-IR nerve fibres in the epidermis and papillary dermis was dramatically increased in involved skin as compared with control skin (P &lt; 0.01) and with uninvolved skin (P &lt; 0.05). No clear difference could be found in the distribution of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP)- and neuropeptide tyrosine (NPY)-IR nerve fibres. A different structural appearance of the peripheral nervous system as well as a changed balance of neuropeptides in vitiliginous skin point to a critical role of the nervous system in the pathogenesis of vitiligo.

Neuromuscular disorders are important causes of prolonged morbidity in intensive care unit. Specific disorders facing the neurologist in the intensive care unit may have been present before admission to the unit or develop as a secondary complication of their stay. A bedside neurological examination, followed by electrophysiological testing, including testing of the respiratory system, is crucial in providing the neuromuscular diagnosis. Among the neuromuscular disorders that confront the clinician in the unit are motor neuron disease, acute polyneuropathies including acute inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (Guillain-Barr syndrome) and critical illness polyneuropathy, neuromuscular transmission disorders including myasthenia gravis, and specific myopathies. This chapter reviews the differential diagnosis and the unique features of neuromuscular conditions that may complicate critical illness and admission to the intensive care unit.
Inbred C57BL/6 (C57) and DBA/2 (DBA) mice with hippocampus, posterior parietal cortex or sham lesions were placed in an open-field containing five objects and their reactivity to the displacement (spatial novelty) or the substitution (object novelty) of some of these objects was examined. C57 mice reacted to spatial novelty by exploring more the displaced than the non-displaced objects while DBA mice did not show any consistent reaction. In the highly reactive C57 strain, the peak of exploratory responses directed towards the displaced objects was completely abolished by hippocampal and posterior parietal cortex lesions. In the non-reactive DBA strain, hippocampal lesions induced an aspecific decreased interest towards the two categories of objects while posterior parietal cortex lesions did not produce any behavioral modification. The high reactivity of C57 mice to spatial change appears to be subserved by the conjunctive participation of the hippocampus and the posterior parietal cortex. Conversely, the deficit shown by DBA mice in that situation seems to be related to: (i) a poorly functional hippocampus; and (ii) the non-involvement of the posterior parietal cortes. The present data suggest that the participation of the posterior parietal cortes to the detection of spatial novelty may depend on the degree of functionality of the hippocampus.
The neural circuit for the proleg withdrawal reflex (PWR) of Manduca sexta larvae exhibits activity-dependent plasticity. This study demonstrates habituation and dishabituation of PWR behavior. Repeated deflection of 1 or 5 mechanosensory hairs on a proleg at a 60-s interstimulus interval (ISI) for 20 trials produced a significant decrease in evoked force of proleg withdrawal. Habituation was similar with 30-s and 60-s ISIs and nonsignificant with a 5-min ISI or without repeated stimulation. Habituated responses recovered after cessation of stimulation or pinch of the body wall (dishabituation). The role of intersegmental influences was tested by severing connectives to leave different numbers of ganglia connected to the test segment. Habituation was robust even in test segments that were disconnected from the rest of the central nervous system. The PWR of Manduca is appropriate for further analysis of cellular mechanisms underlying learning.
In this study, a multivariate analysis of the locomotor activity of adult, breeding male and female meadow voles (Microtus pennsylvanicus) was conducted. Overall, male voles made more movements and spent more time in the center of the activity chambers than did female voles. The authors further investigated the effects of brief exposure (3 min) to predator (red fox [Vulpes vulpes]) odor and various control odors (butyric acid, extract of orange) on subsequent activity. Control odors had no effects. Immediately following exposure to the fox odor, male voles exhibited significantly lower levels of activity and decreased center time. No significant changes in any activity variable were observed in the female voles following exposure to fox odor. This study provides evidence for sex differences in both basal activity levels of meadow voles and activity following exposure to a predator odor.
With the invertebrate Hermissenda as subjects, variability in acquisition of a learned association between light and rotation was correlated with the magnitude of the unconditioned responses elicited by these stimuli. Moreover, learning was facilitated by increasing stimulus intensity. In the isolated nervous system, pairings of light and mechanical stimulation of the animal's vestibular hair cells resulted in an increase in the excitability of B photoreceptors (an in vitro index of learning) that was strongly correlated with the strength of the synaptic interaction between the hair cells and the photoreceptors and weakly correlated with the magnitude of the light response in the photoreceptors. Because these in vitro results are not attributable to motor or motivational variables, they suggest that the efficacy of synaptic integration between sensory systems and sensory transduction is the primary determinant of the variability in learning.
The role of central cholinergic blockage in spatial learning was examined by testing atropine sulfate-treated (50 mg/kg) rats and saline-injected controls in the Morris water task using training procedures designed to promote the use of a spatial search strategy. First, constraints used in early trials deterred thigmotaxis. Second, an originally oversized hidden platform that nearly occupied the entire pool was effectively &quot;shrunk&quot; into the southwest quadrant of the pool by substituting smaller platforms over trials, a procedure intended to focus attention on the hidden platform in relation to extramaze cues. Task acquisition did not differ between groups, and on the probe trial both groups increased distance and latency and swam preferentially in the previously correct quadrant. Impairments caused by atropine sulfate may be the result of deficits in ability to inhibit nonefficient escape strategies.
Stimulating electrodes were implanted in rabbit cerebellum, providing an electrical conditioned stimulus (CS) activating cortical parallel fibers and thence Purkinje and other cells, and an electrical unconditioned stimulus (US) activating underlying white matter and eliciting unconditioned responses. Paired CS-US presentations led to the development of conditioned responses, which showed extinction following CS-alone trials and reacquisition with significant savings on reinstatement of paired trials. Increased local excitability as a result of paired training (but not following unpaired stimulus presentations) was observed in cerebellar cortex, as manifested in substantial decreases in CS threshold for response elicitation in all subjects. This preparation offers a model for the study of plastic neuronal interactions within cerebellar networks critically involved in associative learning.
Young and aged rhesus monkeys were tested on 2 versions of a transitive inference task measuring learning and memory for hierarchical relationships. Animals initially acquired 4 object discrimination problems arranged such that the relationship between the stimuli followed the hierarchy A &gt; B &gt; C &gt; D &gt; E. The second version of the task was similar but involved a series of 7 objects. Learning and memory for the hierarchical relationships were evaluated during probe trials in which novel pairs of nonadjacent items (e.g., B and D) were presented for a response. Standard task accuracy measures failed to distinguish young and aged subjects at any point in training. In contrast, response latency effects that are indicative of relational information processing in young monkeys were entirely absent in aged subjects. The findings highlight the value of a relational memory framework for establishing a detailed neuropsychological account of cognitive aging in the monkey.
Familial dysautonomia (FD), an autosomal recessive disease mapped to chromosome 9q31, is a sensory and autonomic neuropathy of unknown etiology. We have previously reported light microscopic pleiomorphic changes in cells suggestive of altered plasma membranes, an increase in globotriaosylceramide (Gb3), reflected by an increase in Gb3 on the surface of the plasma membrane, and a decrease in the rate and amount of ganglioside synthesized. In unrelated studies, we demonstrated that storage of glycospingolipids (GSL) is deleterious to mitochondrial function. Recently, mitochondrial dysfunction has been associated with neurodegenerative disease, superimposed on an autosomal inheritance pattern. We have now probed Southern blots of total FD fibroblast DNA, digested with BamHI, EcoRII, and/or PvuII, with purified placental 32P-labeled mitochondrial DNA. The sizes of all FD mitochondrial DNAs were normal (16,569 bp), some containing previously identified BamHI polymorphisms. Lactate/pyruvate ratios, and activities of Complexes II and III, matched those of control cells. Electron microscopy revealed morphologically normal mitochondria, in conjunction with a normal oxidative state, determined using the redox dyes Mito Tracker CMXR and CMXR-H2 and fluorescence microscopy. We conclude that mitochondrial dysfunction, due to GSL accumulation, changes in mitochondrial DNA, or mutation of a chromosome 9q gene involved in mitochondrial function, is neither a primary nor a secondary cause of FD, as determined by a study of FD fibroblasts.
We present a controls systems model of horizontal-plane head movements during perturbations of the trunk, which for the first time interfaces a model of the human head with neural feedback controllers representing the vestibulocollic (VCR) and the cervicocollic (CCR) reflexes. This model is homeomorphic such that model structure and parameters are drawn directly from anthropomorphic, biomechanical and physiological studies. Using control theory we analyzed the system model in the time and frequency domains, simulating neck movement responses to input perturbations of the trunk. Without reflex control, the head and neck system produced a second-order underdamped response with a 5.2 dB resonant peak at 2.1 Hz. Adding the CCR component to the system dampened the response by approximately 7%. Adding the VCR component dampened head oscillations by 75%. The VCR also improved low-frequency compensation by increasing the gain and phase lag, creating a phase minimum at 0.1 Hz and a phase peak at 1.1 Hz. Combining all three components (mechanics, VCR and CCR) linearly in the head and neck system reduced the amplitude of the resonant peak to 1.1 dB and increased the resonant frequency to 2.9 Hz. The closed loop results closely fit human data, and explain quantitatively the characteristic phase peak often observed.
This review summarizes a design strategy to give examples of nonpeptides starting from cholecystokinin (CCK-A and -B) and tachykinins (substance P) (NK-1, -2, -3) as potent functional agonists and antagonists with utility as therapeutic agents.
We investigated how residual tumour burden after cytoreductive surgery was related to the occurrence of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting in 101 ovarian cancer patients receiving their first chemotherapy course. The anti-emetic treatment included ondansetron combined with dexamethasone or placebo. After chemotherapy all patients received ondansetron only for 5 days. Two categories of tumour burden (TB) were formed according to the diameter of the greatest residual tumour (&lt; 2 cm = minimal TB and &gt; or = 2 cm = large TB). Self-reports of nausea and vomiting were obtained for 15 days. Other potential predictor variables were assessed and included in multivariate analyses. Patients with large compared with minimal TB had more delayed emesis, especially on days 2-7. They also had more acute nausea. The aggravating effect associated with large residual TB was more evident in patients &gt; or = 55 years. During the second week after the chemotherapy the occurrence of nausea was higher in patients &gt; or = 55 years than in those &lt; 55 years. This was seen primarily in patients with large residual TB. Predictors for no delayed emesis at all were anti-emetic treatment with dexamethasone, minimal tumour burden, low neuroticism and no history of motion sickness. The increased risk of &quot;persistent' delayed nausea and vomiting seen in older patients with large tumour burden may have important clinical implications and warrants further attention.

The prognosis for patients in poor neurological grade (WFNS grades IV and V) after subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) is grave. Previous reports of such patients have analysed outcome without defining either the cause or the course of the depressed level of consciousness. We report a retrospective study of the outcome of 62 consecutive patients in poor grade after SAH analysed with respect to their clinical course and the predominant computed tomographic feature. Neuroradiological findings were (1) intracranial haematoma, (2) hydrocephalus with or without intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH) and (3) SAH alone. Sixteen patients (25.8%) had a Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) &lt; or = 12 on admission to hospital and subsequently deteriorated. The predominant computed tomographic feature of these patients was hydrocephalus/IVH. Twelve patients (19.4%) had a GCS &lt; or = 12 on admission and subsequently improved without intervention; all had SAH on computed tomography (CT) on admission. Thirty-four patients (54.8%) had a GCS &lt; or = 12 on admission and did not improve or improved only after emergency surgical intervention. Haematoma (44%) and hydrocephalus/IVH (47%) were the predominant CT features in this group. The overall mortality in the 62 patients was 44%. Fifty-two per cent of patients achieved a good outcome or were moderately disabled. Patients harbouring an intracerebral haematoma had a significantly poorer prognosis when compared with the other groups. Patients in poor neurological grade after SAH are a heterogenous group both clinically and neuroradiologically. Management approaches must consider the cause of clinical deterioration and the related CT findings.
1. We have investigated the possibility that nitric oxide (NO) and soluble guanylyl cyclase, an enzyme that synthesizes guanosine 3':5'-cyclic monophosphate (cyclic GMP) in response to NO, contributes to plasticity of synaptic transmission in the rat isolated superior cervical ganglion (SCG). 2. Exposure of ganglia to the NO donor, nitroprusside, caused a concentration-dependent accumulation of cyclic GMP which was augmented in the presence of the phosphodiesterase inhibitor, 3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine. The compound, 1H-[1,2,4]oxadiazolo[4,3-a]quinoxalin-1-one (ODQ), a selective inhibitor of soluble guanylyl cyclase, completely blocked this cyclic GMP response. 3. As assessed by extracellular recording, nitroprusside (100 microM) and another NO donor, S-nitrosoglutathione (30 microM) increased the efficacy of ganglionic synaptic transmission in response to electrical stimulation of the preganglionic nerve, an effect that was reversible and which could be replicated by the cyclic GMP analogue, 8-bromo-cyclic GMP. Ganglionic depolarizations resulting from stimulation of nicotinic receptors with carbachol were not increased by nitroprusside. The potentiating actions of the NO donors on synaptic transmission, but not that of 8-bromo-cyclic GMP, were inhibited by ODQ. 4. Brief tetanic stimulation of the preganglionic nerve resulted in a long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission that was unaffected by ODQ, either in the absence or presence of the NO synthase inhibitor, NG-nitro-L-arginine (L-NOARG, 100 microM). A lack of influence of L-NOARG was confirmed in intracellular recordings of LTP of the excitatory postsynaptic potential. Furthermore, under conditions where tetanically-induced LTP was saturated, nitroprusside was still able to potentiate synaptic transmission, as judged from extracellular recording. 5. We conclude that NO is capable of potentiating ganglionic neurotransmission and this effect is mediated through the stimulation of soluble guanylyl cyclase and the accumulation of cyclic GMP. However, this potentiation is distinct from LTP of nicotinic synaptic transmission, in which neither NO nor soluble guanylyl cyclase appear to participate.
Deaf subjects who use American Sign Language as their primary language generated visual mental images faster than hearing nonsigning subjects when stimuli were initially presented to the right hemisphere. Deaf subjects exhibited a strong right hemisphere advantage for image generation using either categorical or coordinate spatial relations representations. In contrast, hearing subjects showed evidence of left hemisphere processing for categorical spatial relations representations, and no hemispheric asymmetry for coordinate spatial relations representations. The enhanced right hemisphere image generation abilities observed in deaf singers may be linked to a stronger right hemisphere involvement in processing imageable signs and linguistically encoded spatial relations.
Using in vitro models, our laboratory in collaboration with those of Pierluigi Nicotera (University of Konstanz, Germany) and Stan Orrenius (Karolinska Institute) has recently shown that fulminant insults to the nervous system from excitotoxins or free radicals result in neuronal cell death from necrosis, while more subtle insults result in delayed apoptosis. Over the past dozen or so years, mounting evidence has suggested that excitotoxins, such as glutamate, result in neuronal cell death after stroke. More recent evidence has suggested that in addition to necrotic cell death in the ischemic core, a number of neurons may also undergo apoptosis. Thus, the hypothesis that intense injury leads to necrosis while mild insult (perhaps in the penumbra) leads to apoptosis may hold in focal cerebral ischemia. Another neurological malady with mounting evidence for a pathogenesis that is mediated at least in part by excitotoxins is HIV-1-associated cognitive/motor complex (originally termed the AIDS Dementia Complex and, for convenience, designated here AIDS dementia). AIDS dementia appears to be associated with several neuropathological abnormalities, including giant cell formation by microglia, astrogliosis, and neuronal injury or loss. Recently, neuronal and other cell injury in AIDS brains has been shown to result in apoptotic-like cell death. How can HIV-1 result in neuronal damage if neurons themselves are only rarely, if ever, infected by the virus? Experiments from several different laboratories, including our group in collaboration with that of Howard Gendelman (University of Nebraska Medical Center), have lent support to the existence of HIV- and immune-related toxins in a variety of in vitro and in vivo paradigms. In one recently defined pathway to neuronal injury, HIV-infected macrophages/ microglia as well as macrophages activated by HIV-1 envelope protein gp120 appear to secrete excitants/ neurotoxins. These substances may include arachidonic acid, platelet-activating factor, free radicals (NO. and O2.-), glutamate, quinolinate, cysteine, cytokines (TNF-alpha, IL1-beta, IL-6), amines, and as yet unidentified factors emanating from stimulated macrophages and possibly reactive astrocytes. A final common pathway for neuronal susceptibility appears to be operative, similar to that observed in stroke and several neurodegenerative diseases. This mechanism involves excessive activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-operated channels, with resultant excessive influx of Ca2+ and the generation of free radicals, leading to neuronal damage. With the very recent development of clinically-tolerated NMDA antagonists, as discussed here, there is hope for future pharmacological intervention.
The progress made in understanding the insula in the decade following an earlier review (Augustine, Neurol. Res., 7 (1985) 2-10) is examined in this review. In these ten years, connections have been described between the insula and the orbital cortex, frontal operculum, lateral premotor cortex, ventral granular cortex, and medial area 6 in the frontal lobe. Insular connections between the second somatosensory area and retroinsular area of the parietal lobe have been documented. The insula was found to connect with the temporal pole and the superior temporal sulcus of the temporal lobe. It has an abundance of local intrainsular connections and projections to subdivisions of the cingulate gyrus. The insula has connections with the lateral, lateral basal, central, cortical and medial amygdaloid nuclei. It also connects with nonamygdaloid areas such as the perirhinal cortex, entorhinal, and periamygdaloid cortex. The thalamic taste area, the parvicellular part of the ventral posteromedial nucleus, projects fibers to the ipsilateral insular-opercular cortex. In the past decade, confirmation has been given to the insula as a visceral sensory area, visceral motor area, motor association area, vestibular area, and language area. Recent studies have expanded the role of the insula as a somatosensory area, emphasizing its multifaceted, sensory role. The idea of the insula as limbic integration cortex has been affirmed and its role in Alzheimer's disease suggested.
This study examined whether working memory processes for object and spatial information are associated with different patterns of ERP activity. Subjects performed two versions of a delayed match-to-sample task in which either object forms or two-dimensional spatial configurations (S1) had to be encoded and retained in working memory for 6800 ms for comparison with a subsequent stimulus (S2). Event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded from 29 electrode sites in the S1-S2 interval. Negative slow wave activity in the ERP varied with both, the type of memory task and the amount of materials held in working memory. When spatial information was maintained in working memory negative slow wave activity rapidly rose at recording sites overlying posterior parietal and occipital cortical areas. At these recording sites, slow wave increased in amplitude with increasing spatial memory load. For object information, load-sensitive negative slow wave activity was obtained approximately 2000 ms later than in the spatial task and it was focused to mid-frontal recording sites. Moreover, in the object memory task more pronounced negative slow wave activity was found at right inferior temporal recording sites indicating a larger involvement of the right temporal lobe in the processing of object as compared to spatial information. The results provide evidence for the notion that encoding and retention processes for object information and for spatial information can be functionally dissociated and involve differential patterns of neuronal activation rapidly shifting in time.
Permanent focal cortical ischemia was induced in mice by electrocoagulation of the middle cerebral artery. At different time intervals after the injury, the volume of infarction was assessed together with an analysis of neuronal death. Morphological studies of ischemic brains and detection of nucleosomal DNA ladder within ipsilateral cortices might implicate a component of this neuronal loss to apoptosis as well as necrosis. Furthermore, we used the TUNEL (terminal deoxynucleotidyl transferase-mediated dUTP-biotin nick end labelling) procedure to detect in situ DNA fragmentation. The localization and the proportion of apoptotic cells in the ischemic mouse brain would indicate that apoptosis contributes largely to the cellular loss induced by cerebral ischemia.
