Nogo-A limits axon regeneration and functional recovery after central nervous system injury in adult mammals. Three regions of Nogo-A (Nogo-A-24, Nogo-66, and Nogo-C39) interact with the neuronal Nogo-66 receptor 1 (NgR1). Nogo-66 also interacts with a structurally unrelated cell surface receptor, paired immunoglobulin-like receptor (PirB). We show here that the other two NgR1-interacting domains, Nogo-A-24 and Nogo-C39, also bind to PirB with high affinity. A purified 22-kDa protein containing all three NgR1- and PirB-interacting domains (Nogo-22) is a substantially more potent growth cone-collapsing molecule than Nogo-66 for chick dorsal root ganglion neurons and mature cortical neurons. Moreover, Nogo-22 inhibits axon regeneration of mature cortical neurons in vitro more potently than does Nogo-66. Although all three NgR1-interacting domains of Nogo-A also interact with PirB, expression of PirB in mature cortical cultures is nearly undetectable. Consistent with a relatively minor role for PirB in mature cortical neurons, Nogo-22 inhibition of axon regeneration is abolished by genetic deletion of NgR1. Thus, NgR1 is the predominant receptor for Nogo-22 in regenerating cortical neurons.
Reduced brain metabolism is an invariant feature of Alzheimer Disease (AD) that is highly correlated to the decline in brain functions. Decreased activities of key tricarboxylic acid cycle (TCA) cycle enzymes may underlie this abnormality and are highly correlated to the clinical state of the patient. The activity of the -ketoglutarate dehydrogenase complex (KGDHC), an arguably rate-limiting enzyme of the TCA cycle, declines with AD, but the mechanism of inactivation and whether it can be reversed remains unknown. KGDHC consists of multiple copies of three subunits. KGDHC is sensitive to oxidative stress, which is pervasive in AD brain. The present studies tested the mechanism for the peroxynitrite-induced inactivation and subsequent reactivation of purified and cellular KGDHC. Peroxynitrite inhibited purified KGDHC activity in a dose-dependent manner and reduced subunit immunoreactivity and increased nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity. Nano-LC-MS/MS showed that the inactivation was related to nitration of specific tyrosine residues in the three subunits. GSH diminished the nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity of peroxynitrite-treated KGDHC, restored the activity and the immunoreactivity for KGDHC. Nano-LC-MS/MS showed this was related to de-nitration of specific tyrosine residues, suggesting KGDHC may have a denitrase activity. Treatment of N2a cells with peroxynitrite for 5 min followed by recovery of cells for 24 h reduced KGDHC activity and increased nitrotyrosine immunoreactivity. Increasing cellular GSH in peroxynitrite-treated cells rescued KGDHC activity to the control level. The results suggest that restoring KGDHC activity is possible and may be a useful therapeutic approach in neurodegenerative diseases.
The nucleus accumbens shell (NAC) receives axons containing dopamine--hydroxylase that originate from brainstem neurons in the nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS). Recent findings show that memory enhancement produced by stimulating NTS neurons after learning may involve interactions with the NAC. However, it is unclear whether these mnemonic effects are mediated by norepinephrine (NE) release from NTS terminals onto NAC neurons. The present studies approached this question by examining the contribution of NAC -noradrenergic receptors in mediating this effect and assessed whether glutamatergic activation of the NTS alters NE concentrations in the NAC. Rats were trained for 6 d to drink from a water spout located at the end of an inhibitory avoidance chamber. On day 7, a 0.35-mA footshock was initiated once the rat approached the spout and remained active until it escaped into the neutral compartment. Blockade of -noradrenergic receptors in the NAC with phentolamine (0.5 g/0.5 L) attenuated memory enhancement produced by glutamatergic (50 ng/0.5 L) infusion on NTS neurons (P &lt; 0.01). Experiment 2 used in vivo microdialysis to assess whether glutamate activation of NTS alters NAC NE concentrations. NE levels were unchanged by NTS infusion of phosphate-buffered saline (PBS) or low dose glutamate (50 ng/0.5 L) but elevated significantly (P &lt; 0.05) by combining the same dose with the footshock (0.35 mA, 2 sec) given in Study 1 or infusion of (100 ng/0.5 L) glutamate alone. Findings demonstrate that NE released from NTS terminals enhances representations in memory by acting on -noradrenergic receptors within the NAC.

Interconnections between the dorsal column nucleus and the cerebellum were examined in one group of reptiles, Caiman crocodilus. After anterograde tracer injections into the dorsal column nucleus, efferents terminated nearly exclusively in the white matter and ventral portion of the granule cell layer of the ipsilateral cerebellum. Subsequent to deposition of a retrograde tracer into the cerebellum, neurons in the central and ventral half of the dorsal column nucleus were labeled. When compared with the origin of midbrain and spinal cord projecting cells in Caiman, cerebellar projecting neurons arose from a more rostral location in the dorsal column nucleus than did neurons that terminated in either of these two other targets. The results of the present and previous experiments suggest that the dorsal column nucleus in this reptilian group is organized into sectors based on efferent target in a fashion similar to what has been described in certain mammals. Furthermore, the presence of this circuit in crocodilians and turtles suggests that his pathway from the dorsal column nucleus to the cerebellum arose early in amniote evolution.
During early postnatal phase, the environment deeply affects developmental trajectories through epigenetic mechanisms that control the levels of key molecules for brain function, such as neurotrophins. Indeed, it has been shown that adverse early experiences induce epigenetic modifications leading to decreased brain derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) levels at adulthood. However, no data about the effects of enriching early experiences are available. Here we exploit the mouse Communal Nest (CN) paradigm in order to investigate the effects of a highly stimulating early social environment on BDNF epigenetic modifications and protein expression at adulthood. CN, which consists of a single nest where three mothers keep their pups together and share care-giving behavior until weaning, is characterized by high levels of maternal behavior and peer interactions. Our results show that CN leads to high levels of histone acetylation at the BDNF gene at adulthood, which is more permissive to expression. However, such epigenetic modification is associated to increased BDNF protein expression only 1h after an environmental challenge and not at baseline or 3h after the challenge, suggesting that the epigenetic modifications do not affect expression under steady-state conditions but allow a fast increase in BDNF levels following stimulation. The present findings corroborate the role of epigenetic modifications in mediating the effects of the early social environment on adult brain function and behavior. In addition, these show, for the first time, an association between an epigenetic modification and a change in the rapidity of induction of protein expression, expanding the knowledge on the mechanisms by which epigenetic changes modify brain function.
Simultaneously recorded neurons exhibit correlations whose underlying causes are not known. Here, we use a population of threshold neurons receiving correlated inputs to model neural population recordings. We show analytically that small changes in second-order correlations can lead to large changes in higher-order redundancies, and that the resulting interactions have a strong impact on the entropy, sparsity, and statistical heat capacity of the population. Our findings for this simple model may explain some surprising effects recently observed in neural population recordings.

Alcohol-induced Wernicke-Korsakoff syndrome (WKS) culminates in bilateral diencephalic lesion and severe amnesia. Using the pyrithiamine-induced thiamine deficiency (PTD) animal paradigm of WKS, our laboratory has demonstrated hippocampal dysfunction in the absence of gross anatomical pathology. Extensive literature has revealed reduced hippocampal neurogenesis following a neuropathological insult, which might contribute to hippocampus-based learning and memory impairments. Thus, the current investigation was conducted to determine whether PTD treatment altered hippocampal neurogenesis in a stage-dependent fashion. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were assigned to one of 4 stages of thiamine deficiency based on behavioral symptoms: pre-symptomatic stage, ataxic stage, early post-opisthotonus stage, or the late post-opisthotonus stage. The S-phase mitotic marker 5'-bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) was administered at the conclusion of each stage following thiamine restoration and subjects were perfused 24 hours or 28 days after BrdU to assess cellular proliferation or neurogenesis and survival, respectively. Dorsal hippocampal sections were immunostained for BrdU (proliferating cell marker), NeuN (neurons), GFAP (astrocytes), Iba-1 (microglia), and O4 (oligodendrocytes). The PTD treatment increased progenitor cell proliferation and survival during the early post-opisthotonus stage. However, levels of neurogenesis were reduced during this stage as well as the late post-opisthotonus stage where there was also an increase in astrocytogenesis. The diminished numbers of newly generated neurons (BrdU/NeuN co-localization) was paralleled by increased BrdU cells that did not co-localize with any of the phenotypic markers during these later stages. These data demonstrate that long-term alterations in neurogenesis and gliogenesis might contribute to the observed hippocampal dysfunction in the PTD model and human WKS.
A role for orexin A in mediating the primary and conditioned reinforcing effects of alcohol has been established. It is unclear however whether the contribution of orexins to alcohol reward occurs independently of effects on appetite and feeding, and whether orexins regulate the motivation to consume alcohol compared to other rewards. To examine this further here we investigate the effect of the orexin(1) receptor antagonist, SB-334867, on self-administration of alcohol (10% v/v) under both fixed (FR) and progressive ratio (PR) schedules of reinforcement, and whether this differs from the motivation to administer a natural food reward, sucrose (0.2-0.7% w/v) in alcohol preferring (iP) rats. SB-334867 treatment significantly reduced responding for both alcohol and sucrose under a FR3 schedule; however, at the same dose, reduced responding and break point for ethanol, but not sucrose, under a PR schedule. These findings for the first time implicate a role for orexins in the motivation to self-administer alcohol and suggest that this may occur independent of any generalized effect on appetitive drive.
Abnormal development of the neocortex is often associated with cognitive deficits and epilepsy. Rodent models are widely used to study normal and abnormal cortical development and have revealed the roles of many important genetic and environmental factors. Interestingly, several inbred mouse strains commonly used in behavioral, anatomical, and/or physiological studies display neocortical malformations including C57BL/6J mice, which are among the most widely utilized mice. In the present report we describe the prevalence and cytoarchitecture of molecular-layer heterotopia in C57BL/6J mice and related strains obtained from three commercial vendors as well as mice bred in academic vivaria from founders obtained commercially. In particular, we found that the prevalence of molecular-layer heterotopia vaired according to the sex as well as the vendor-of-origin of the mouse. These data are relevant to the use of this strain as a mouse-model in the study of brain-behavior relationships.
Neurons communicate with other cells via axons and dendrites, slender membrane extensions that contain pre- or post-synaptic specializations. If a neuron is damaged by injury or disease, it may regenerate. Cell-intrinsic and extrinsic factors influence the ability of a neuron to regenerate and restore function. Recently, the nematode C. elegans has emerged as an excellent model organism to identify genes and signaling pathways that influence the regeneration of neurons(1-6). The main way to initiate neuronal regeneration in C. elegans is laser-mediated cutting, or axotomy. During axotomy, a fluorescently-labeled neuronal process is severed using high-energy pulses. Initially, neuronal regeneration in C. elegans was examined using an amplified femtosecond laser(5). However, subsequent regeneration studies have shown that a conventional pulsed laser can be used to accurately sever neurons in vivo and elicit a similar regenerative response(1,3,7). We present a protocol for performing in vivo laser axotomy in the worm using a MicroPoint pulsed laser, a turnkey system that is readily available and that has been widely used for targeted cell ablation. We describe aligning the laser, mounting the worms, cutting specific neurons, and assessing subsequent regeneration. The system provides the ability to cut large numbers of neurons in multiple worms during one experiment. Thus, laser axotomy as described herein is an efficient system for initiating and analyzing the process of regeneration.



Neuroinflammation is a key mechanism contributing to long-term neuropathology observed after neonatal hypoxia-ischemia (HI). Minocycline, a second-generation tetracycline, is a potent inhibitor of neuroinflammatory mediators and is successful for at least short-term amelioration of neuronal injury after neonatal HI. However the long-term efficacy of minocycline to prevent injury to a specific neuronal network, such as the serotonergic (5-hydroxytryptamine, 5-HT) system, is not known. In a post-natal day 3 (P3) rat model of preterm HI we found significant reductions in 5-HT levels, 5-HT transporter expression and numbers of 5-HT-positive dorsal raph neurons 6 weeks after insult compared to control animals. Numbers of activated microglia were significantly elevated in the thalamus and dorsal raph although the greatest numbers were observed in the thalamus. Brain levels of tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-) and interleukin-1 (IL-1) were also significantly elevated on P45 in the thalamus and frontal cortex. Post-insult administration of minocycline for 1 week (P3-P9) attenuated the P3 HI-induced increases in numbers of activated microglia and levels of TNF- and IL-1 on P45 with concurrent changes in serotonergic outcomes. The parallel prevention of P3 HI-induced serotonergic changes suggests that inhibition of neuroinflammation within the first week after P3 HI injury was sufficient to prevent long-term neuroinflammation as well as serotonergic system damage still evident at 6 weeks. Thus early, post-insult administration of minocycline may target secondary neuroinflammation and represent a long-term therapy to preserve the integrity of the central serotonergic network in the preterm neonate.
Functional recovery following facial nerve injury is poor. Adjacent neuromuscular junctions (NMJs) are &quot;bridged&quot; by terminal Schwann cells and numerous regenerating axonal sprouts. We have recently shown that manual stimulation (MS) restores whisking function and reduces polyinnervation of NMJs. Furthermore, MS requires both insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). Here, we investigated whether fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF-2) was also required for the beneficial effects of MS. Following transection and suture of the facial nerve (facial-facial anastomisis, FFA) in homozygous mice lacking FGF-2 (FGF-2(-/-)), vibrissal motor performance and the percentage of poly-innervated NMJ were quantified. In intact FGF-2(-/-) mice and their wildtype (WT) counterparts, there were no differences in amplitude of vibrissal whisking (about 50) or in the percentage of polyinnervated NMJ (0%). After 2 months FFA and handling alone (i.e. no MS), the amplitude of vibrissal whisking in WT-mice decreased to 223. In the FGF-2(-/-) mice, the amplitude was reduced further to 154, that is, function was significantly poorer. Functional deficits were mirrored by increased polyinnervation of NMJ in WT mice (40.332.16%) with polyinnervation being increased further in FGF-2(-/-) mice (50.334.33%). However, regardless of the genotype, MS increased vibrissal whisking amplitude (WT: 33.97.7; FGF-2(-/-): 33.48.1) and concomitantly reduced polyinnervation (WT: 33.9%7.7; FGF-2(-/-): 33.4%8.1) to a similar extent. We conclude that, whereas lack of FGF-2 leads to poor functional recovery and target reinnervation, MS can nevertheless confer some functional benefit in its absence.
Glutamatergic processes are strongly implicated in the pathophysiology and treatment of depression, including the antidepressant effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists. This study was designed to see whether memantine, a noncompetitive NMDA antagonist, has antidepressant effects in behaviors and synaptic plasticity. Rats were randomly divided into control, stressed, and stressed+memantine groups. The animal model was established by chronic unpredictable stress. Memantine (20 mg/kg) was administrated i.p. for 21 days. Weight, sucrose consumption, water maze behavior and prefrontal cortical long-term potentiation (LTP) were measured, followed by immunohisotchemistry test of NR2B expression. Results showed that rats' weight and sucrose consumption were significantly lower in stressed group than those in control group, while the last time of sucrose consumption was improved by memantine. Rats in stressed group performed worse in reversal learning related stages, while rats in stressed+memantine group performed worse in spatial memory related stages. LTP test showed lower amplitude of field excitatory postsynaptic potential in prefrontal cortex in stressed group. Immunohistochemistry showed lower expression of NR2B receptor in prefrontal cortex in stressed group, and higher expression in hippocampus in stressed+memantine group. In conclusion, memantine in dose of 20 mg/kg improves the sucrose consumption, reversal learning and prefrontal cortical synaptic plasticity, but impairs spatial memory, which is probably due to different extent of up-regulating NR2B receptor expression in prefrontal cortex and hippocampus in stressed rats.
The mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway is important for regulating protein translation. The present study characterized the role of mTOR-dependent translation in the dorsal hippocampus (DH) during the consolidation and reconsolidation of contextual fear memory. We first showed that fear conditioning resulted in increased phosphorylation of p70s6 kinase (p70s6K) in the DH and that infusion of the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin (RAP) into the DH immediately after training disrupted formation of long-term contextual fear memory. Additionally we showed that p70s6K was activated after retrieval of a previously stored fear memory, and inhibition of mTOR by DH infusion of RAP blocked the reconsolidation of contextual fear memory. Together these results demonstrate that within the DH translational control through the mTOR pathway is important for consolidation as well as the stability of fear memory after retrieval.
A diet consisting of high levels of saturated fat has been linked to a dramatic rise in obesity, type II diabetes, and metabolic syndrome. The effect of these co-morbidities on stroke outcome has not been examined in detail in human or animal studies. In this study we hypothesized that maintaining animals on a high fat, &quot;Western diet&quot; (WD), for an extended period would have a detrimental effect on ischemic outcome. Forty-eight male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to 1 month of either WD or control diets initiated at 6 weeks of age (Experiment 1) or 3 months of either WD or control diets initiated at 4 weeks of age (Experiment 2) prior to endothelin-1-induced ischemia. Following ischemia, animals were assessed in the staircase reaching and beam-traversing tests at 2 and 4 weeks post-ischemia and infarct volumes were calculated at 4 weeks post-ischemia. Analysis revealed no difference between animals exposed to either WD or control diets for 1 month in behavioral or histological assessments. In contrast, 3 months of WD diet exposure significantly increased functional impairments in both the staircase and beam-traversing tests as well as increasing the volume of infarction, primarily in the cortex. The results of this study demonstrate that long-term exposure to WD diets are detrimental to ischemic outcome. Consequently, it is important to incorporate disease co-morbidities and/or risk factors in pre-clinical evaluation of neuroprotective or restorative interventions if therapies are to be translated into the clinic.
Following peripheral axotomy, the presynaptic terminals are removed from lesioned neurons, that is synaptic stripping. To elucidate involvement of astrocytes and microglia in synaptic stripping, we herein examined the motoneuron perineuronal circumference after hypoglossal nerve transection. As reported previously, axotomy-induced slow cell death occurred in C57BL/6 mice but not in Wistar rats. Synaptophysin labeling in the hypoglossal nucleus exhibited a minor reduction in both species after axotomy. Slice patch recording showed that the mean frequency of miniature postsynaptic currents in axotomized motoneurons was significantly lower in rats than in mice. We then estimated the relative coverage of motoneuron perineuronal circumference by line profile analysis. In the synaptic environment, axotomy-induced intrusion of astrocytic processes was significantly more extensive in rats than in mice, whereas microglial intrusion into the synaptic space was significantly more severe in mice than in rats. Interestingly, in the extrasynaptic environment, the prevalence of contact between astrocytic processes and lesioned motoneurons was significantly increased in rats, while no significant axotomy-induced alterations in astrocytic contact were observed in mice. These findings indicate that astrocytic, but not microglial, reaction may primarily mediate some anti-apoptotic effects through synaptic stripping after hypoglossal nerve axotomy. In addition, enlargement of astrocytic processes in the extrasynaptic environment may also be involved in neuronal protection via the increased uptake of excessive glutamate.
The ventral hippocampus modulates anxiety-like behavior in rats, and serotonergic transmission within the hippocampus facilitates adaptation to stress. Chronic amphetamine treatment results in anxiety-like behavior in rats and reduced monoamine concentrations in the ventral hippocampus. Since reduced hippocampal serotonergic transmission in response to stress is observed in rats that display high anxiety-like behavior, anxiety states in amphetamine-treated rats may be associated with reduced stress-related serotonergic transmission in the hippocampus. Therefore, using in vivo microdialysis in anesthetized rats, we investigated the effect of corticosterone infused locally into the ventral hippocampus on serotonergic transmission, and the effect of chronic amphetamine pretreatment on corticosteroid receptor protein expression and the corticosterone-induced serotonergic response. Extracellular serotonin in the ventral hippocampus was increased by corticosterone in drug naive rats, and this corticosterone-induced serotonin augmentation was blocked by the glucocorticoid receptor antagonist mifepristone. Furthermore, chronic pretreatment with amphetamine abolished the serotonin response to physiologically relevant corticosterone levels and reduced glucocorticoid receptor protein expression. Together, our results suggest that chronic amphetamine exposure reduces serotonergic neurotransmission, in part via alterations to glucocorticoid receptor-facilitation of serotonin release in the rat ventral hippocampus. Reduced serotonergic activity in the ventral hippocampus may contribute to altered stress responses and adaptive coping following repeated drug exposure.
The rapid detection of sensory changes is important to survival. The change-detection system should relate closely to memory since it requires the brain to separate a new stimulus from past sensory status. To clarify effects of past sensory status on processing in the human somatosensory cortex, brain responses to an abrupt change of intensity in a train of electrical pulses applied to the hand were recorded by magnetoencephalography (MEG). In Experiment 1, effects of the magnitude of deviance (1.0, 0.5, 0.3, 0.2, and 0.1 mA) between conditioning and test stimuli were examined. In Experiment 2, effects of the duration of the conditioning stimulus (3, 1.5, 1.0, and 0.5 s) were examined. The abrupt change in stimulus intensity activated the contralateral primary (cSI) and secondary somatosensory cortex (cSII). The amplitude of the cSI and cSII activity was dependent on not only the magnitude of the change in intensity but also the length of the conditioning stimulus prior to the change, suggesting that storage of prior tactile information was involved in generating these responses. The possibility that an activity of onset (with no conditioning stimulus) would be involved in the change-related activity was also discussed.
The contribution of P2Y(12,13) receptors to astroglial proliferation was investigated by testing the effects of two agonists with high affinity for these receptors, adenosine 5'-O-(2-thio)-diphosphate (ADPS) and 2-methylthioadenosine-5'-diphosphate (2-MeSADP), in the incorporation of [(3)H]-thymidine. The effect of ATP, an endogenous inducer of astroglial proliferation, was also investigated. ADPS and ATP (0.01-1 mM) increased astroglial proliferation up to 282%, an effect inhibited by the P2Y(1) receptor antagonist MRS 2179 (30 M). The P2Y(12) receptor antagonists MRS 2395 (10 M) and AR-C 66096 (10 M) also reduced ADPS proliferative effect, whereas the effect of ATP was attenuated by the A(2A) and A(2B) receptor antagonists SCH 58261 (30 nM) and MRS 1706 (10 nM), respectively. Studies of the signalling pathway activated showed that ADPS effect was attenuated by pertussis toxin and by inhibition of phopholipase C (PLC), protein kinase C (PKC) and extracellular signal-regulated kinase1/2 (ERK1/2). The effect of ATP was also attenuated by inhibition of protein kinase A (PKA). The agonist 2-MeSADP (0.001-10 M) had no effect in astroglial proliferation, but at higher concentrations (0.1-1 mM) it inhibited up to 63%, by mechanisms independent of P2Y(1,12,13) receptors activation. It was metabolised into 2-methylthioadenosine (2-MeSADO), the metabolite responsible for inhibition of astroglial proliferation. The effect of 2-MeSADO (0.1 mM) was attenuated by the A(3) receptors antagonist MRS 1523 (10 M) and by the inhibitor of nucleoside transporters uridine (0.3 mM). 2-MeSADO did not induce apoptosis but increased lactate dehydrogenase release, an indicator of necrotic cell death. Astroglial proliferation induced by ADPS was mediated by P2Y(1) and P2Y(12) receptors, leading to activation of PLC-PKC-ERK1/2 signalling pathway. The ATP proliferative effect was also mediated by PKA, supporting the contribution of the A(2) receptors. 2-MeSADP inhibition of astroglial proliferation depended on its conversion into 2-MeSADO, which activated A(3) receptors, blocked [(3)H]-thymidine uptake by astrocytes and led to cell death.
The valvula cerebelli of the mormyrid electric fish is a useful site for the study of cerebellar function. The valvula forms a part of the electrosensory-electromotor system of this fish, a system that offers many possibilities for the study of sensory-motor integration. The valvula also has a number of histological features not present in mammals which facilitate investigation of cerebellar circuitry and its plasticity. This initial study characterizes the basic physiology and pharmacology of cells in the valvula using an in vitro slice preparation. Intrinsic properties and synaptic responses of Purkinje cells and other cell types were examined. We found that Purkinje cells fire a small narrow Na(+) spike and a large broad Ca(2+) spike, generated in the axon initial segment and dendritic-soma region, respectively. Purkinje cells respond to parallel fiber inputs with graded excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) and to climbing fiber inputs with all-or-none EPSPs. Efferent cells, Golgi cells, and deep stellate cells all fire a single type of large narrow spike and respond only to parallel fiber inputs. Both parallel fiber and climbing fiber responses in Purkinje cells appear to be entirely mediated by AMPA-type glutamate receptors, whereas parallel fiber responses in efferent cells and stellate cells include AMPA and NMDA components. In addition, a strong synaptic inhibition was uncovered in both Purkinje cells and efferent cells in response to the focal stimulation of parallel fibers. Dual cell recordings indicate that deep stellate cells contribute at least partially to this inhibition. We conclude that despite its unique histology, the local functional circuitry of the mormyrid valvula cerebelli is largely similar to that of the mammalian cerebellum. Thus, what is learned concerning the functioning of the mormyrid valvula cerebelli may be expected to be informative about cerebellar function in general.
Extensive evidence suggests that the reinforcing effects of cocaine involve inhibition of dopamine transporters (DAT) and subsequent increases in dopamine (DA) levels in the striatum. We have previously reported that cocaine inhibits the DAT within 4-5 s of i.v. injection, matching the temporal profile of the behavioral and subjective effects of cocaine. Intravenous injection of GBR-12909, a high affinity, long-acting DAT inhibitor, also inhibits DA uptake within 5 s. Given that high affinity, long-acting drugs are considered to have relatively low abuse potential, we found it intriguing that GBR-12909 had an onset profile similar to that of cocaine. To further explore the onset kinetics of both low and high affinity DAT inhibitors, we examined the effects of i.v. cocaine (1.5 mg/kg), methylphenidate (1.5 mg/kg), nomifensine (1.5 mg/kg), GBR-12909 (1.5 mg/kg), PTT (0.5 mg/kg), and WF23 (0.5 mg/kg) on electrically-evoked DA release and uptake in the nucleus accumbens core. Results indicate that all of the DAT inhibitors significantly inhibited DA uptake within 5 s of injection. However, the timing of peak uptake inhibition varied greatly between the low and high affinity uptake inhibitors. Uptake inhibition following cocaine, methylphenidate, and nomifensine peaked 30 s following injection. In contrast, peak effects for GBR-12909, PTT, and WF23 occurred between 20 and 60 min following injection. These observations suggest that the initial onset for i.v. DAT inhibitors is extremely rapid and does not appear to be dictated by a drug's affinity.

We have previously reported that a progressively increased dose of MPTP over the course of 4 weeks induces the gradual impairment of the nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) pathway and several behaviors [Goldberg et al. (in press) Neuroscience]. To our knowledge, this is the first report of specific behavioral deficits correlated with discrete thresholds of DA loss in this pathway. In that study, MPTP was administered 5 d/wk, with behavioral and tissue analysis being carried out 3 days following the final injection at each dose. However, in order to better represent long-term progressive neurodegeneration the present study introduced a washout period of 10 days between each increased dose of MPTP. This implementation also controlled for any transient de-activation of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the enzyme that catalyzes synthesis of DA, caused by MPTP-induced oxidative stress which has been suggested following acute administration of the toxin [Smeyne and Jackson-Lewis (2005) Brian Res Mol Brain Res 134:57-66]. Additionally, by the end of the previous study, there was an ultimate decrease of 62% in the mean number of TH-labeled neurons/section in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and a 74% decrease in caudate putamen (CPu) TH optical density with continuous MPTP. In the present study, we find that the washout periods lead to a final 79% decrease in the mean number of TH-labeled SNpc neurons/section, and a similar 74% decrease in CPu TH following the 32 mg/kg MPTP dose. Additionally, a dose-dependent decrease was observed in the mean number of SNpc TH-ir neurons/section in the current study which was not seen in the continuous MPTP protocol. These results suggest that a washout period following each increased MPTP dose allows for observation of continued cell death that might occur during the week following MPTP administration, and for therapeutic interventions to be applied at any of several stages during progressive neurodegeneration.
The spontaneous and event-related firing activity of the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) pyramidal neurons are modulated mainly by glutamatergic inputs and GABAergic afferents. Substantial data demonstrate that (2)-adrenoceptors also play specific roles in the regulation of the firing of these pyramidal neurons. In the present study, the effects of (2)-adrenoceptor agents on spontaneous, GABA- and glutamate-mediated firing of mPFC pyramidal neurons were examined in anaesthetized rats. Microiontophoresis of norepinephrine (NE, 30 nA) decreased the spontaneous firing rate in the majority of the pyramidal neurons (25/36) and induced unchanged (six out of 36) or excitatory (five out of 36) effects in a minority of the pyramidal neurons. The inhibitory effect of NE was reproduced by (2)-adrenoceptor agonist clonidine (40 nA) and blocked by (2)-adrenoceptor antagonist idazoxan (15 nA). Clonidine application (2-5 nA) enhanced the inhibitory responses to GABA administration in the most of the pyramidal neurons examined (seven out of 12). Clonidine with low current intensity (2-5 nA) did not significantly modulate the excitatory effect of glutamate ejection on firing rate of the pyramidal neurons for both the absolute effect and the percentage of excitation. In contrast, the absolute excitatory effect of glutamate was not significantly strengthened in the presence of clonidine with high current intensity (20-40 nA) but the percentage of excitation by glutamate was increased. These results indicate that the inhibitory effects of NE on spontaneous firing of the mPFC pyramidal neurons are mediated by (2)-adrenoceptors, whereas (2)-adrenoceptors stimulation enhanced GABA-mediated inhibition and play a specific part in modulation of glutamate-mediated excitation on the neurons.
The effects of isoflurane on the modulation of two neuronal voltage-gated calcium channels (Ca(v); Ca(v)2.1 and 2.2) by protein kinase C (PKC) isozymes II,  or  and their combination were examined. Ca(v)2.11 or Ca(v)2.21 with 1b and 2 subunits were expressed in Xenopus oocytes and the currents (I(Ba)) were recorded by two-electrode voltage clamp. Isoflurane (0.70 mM) decreased both Ca(v)2.1 and 2.2 currents by 20-35% and also caused translocation of PKC to the membrane. Compared to the wild type (WT), isoflurane caused greater inhibition of Ca(v)2.2 currents in the absence of stimulatory PKC sites (Thr-422, Ser-1757, Ser-2108, Ser-2132) and in the presence of inhibitory PKC site (Ser-425). In contrast, isoflurane caused less inhibition of I(Ba) in the oocytes expressing S425A, the inhibitory site mutant, compared to WT. PKC by itself did not modulate Ca(v)2.2 currents, but potentiated these currents in the presence of isoflurane. PKC increased Ca(v)2.2 currents either alone or in combination with isoflurane. Ca(v)2.1 currents were not modulated by phorbol-12-myristate, 13-acetate (PMA) or acetyl--methylcholine (MCh), activators of PKC. Yet the presence of isoflurane caused PMA (but not MCh) to enhance Ca(v)2.1 currents. PKCII and PKC isozymes activated by PMA, did not alter Ca(v)2.1 currents. However, in the presence of isoflurane, these two isozymes together potentiated Ca(v)2.1 currents. The variable responses of Ca(v)2.1 currents to PKCII and PKC and Ca(v)2.2 currents to PKC in the presence of isoflurane may be due to increased affinity or accessibility of these isozymes to their Ser/Thr PKC sites of Ca(v)1 subunits.
In seasonally breeding male songbirds, both the function of song and the stimuli that elicit singing behavior change seasonally. The catecholamine norepinephrine (NE) modulates attention and arousal across behavioral states, yet the role of NE in seasonally-appropriate vocal communication has not been well-studied. The present study explored the possibility that seasonal changes in alpha 2-noradrenergic receptors ((2)-R) within song control regions and brain regions implicated in sexual arousal and social behavior contribute to seasonal changes in song behavior in male European starlings (Sturnus vulgaris). We quantified singing behavior in aviary housed males under spring breeding season conditions and fall conditions. (2)-R were identified with the selective ligand [(3)H]RX821002 using autoradiographic methods. The densities of (2)-R in song control regions (HVC and the robust nucleus of the arcopallium [RA]) and the lateral septum (LS) were lower in Spring Condition males. (2)-R densities in the caudal portion of the medial preoptic nucleus (POM) related negatively to singing behavior. Testosterone concentrations were highest in Spring Condition males and correlated with (2)-R in LS and POM. Results link persistent seasonal alterations in the structure or function of male song to seasonal changes in NE (2)-Rs in HVC, RA, and LS. Individual differences in (2)-R in the POM may in part explain individual differences in song production irrespective of the context in which a male is singing, perhaps through NE modification of male sexual arousal.
The median preoptic nucleus (MnPO), part of the anteroventral third ventricular region, plays a key role in body fluid homeostasis and cardiovascular regulation. Recently, a cluster of neurons showing sleep-related c-fos immunoreactivity was found in the rat MnPO, and a subsequent electrophysiological study found that nearly 76% of rat MnPO neurons exhibit increased discharge during sleep. In a recent single unit recording study in mice, we found that sleep-active neurons are not localized in any specific region of the preoptic/basal forebrain (POA/BFB). However, the discharge profiles of mouse MnPO neurons across wake-sleep states remained to be determined. In this study, we therefore examined whether the mouse MnPO contains a high proportion of sleep-active neurons and constitutes a distinct cluster of sleep-promoting neurons in the median preoptic region. We recorded a total of 234 single units in the MnPO, the laterally adjacent peri-MnPO, the dorsally adjacent medial septum (MS), and the ventrally adjacent periventricular (Pe)/medial preoptic (MPO) area (Pe/MPO). We found that the MnPO contained similar proportions of sleep-active (31.9%) and waking (W)-active (33.0%) neurons, together with many waking/paradoxical sleep (W/PS)-active neurons (23.4%), whereas the Pe/MPO and MS contained a high proportion of sleep-active neurons (66.0 and 62.9%, respectively), while the peri-MnPO contained a high proportion of W-active neurons (57.1%). In the MnPO, both W-active and W/PS-active neurons were distributed throughout the nucleus, whereas sleep-active neurons were mostly located on its border. Only slowly discharging (&lt;5 Hz) slow-wave sleep (SWS)/PS-selective neurons were found in the MnPO. During the transition from W to SWS, all of these SWS/PS-selective neurons fired not before, but after, sleep onset, with a gradual increase in discharge rate. In addition to its well-known homeostatic and cardiovascular functions, the MnPO might modulate the sleep-waking cycle by playing different roles in sleep/wake state regulation.
Early life stressors have life-long functional and anatomical consequences. Though many neurotransmitters are involved in the functional impact of early life stress, dopamine seems to be important because of its roles in motor control, adaptation to stressful conditions, mood, cognition, attention and reward. Thus, in the present study, we investigated the way that early life stress, in the form of maternal separation (MS), affects the populations of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunoreactive (TH-IR) dopaminergic neurons in rat midbrain structures during ontogenesis. We included in the study the sub-regions of the substantia nigra (SN) and the ventral tegmental area (VTA). In both the control and MS rats, we found that the estimated total number of TH-expressing neurons fluctuated during ontogenesis. Moreover, MS influenced the number of TH-IR cells, especially in the SN pars reticulata (SNr) and VTA. Shortly after the termination of MS, on postnatal day (PND) 15, a decrease in the estimated total number of TH-IR neurons was observed in the SNr and VTA (in both males and females). On PND 35, MS caused a transient increase in the number of TH-IR cells only in the SNr of female rats. On PND 70, MS affected the number of TH-IR neurons in the VTA of females; specifically, an increase in the number of these cells was observed. Additionally, MS did not alter TH-IR cell sizes or the total levels of TH (measured by Western blot analysis) in the SN and VTA for all stages of ontogenesis in both males and females. The results from the study herein indicate that early life stress has enduring effects on the populations of midbrain TH-expressing dopaminergic neurons (especially in female rats), which are critically important for dopamine-regulated brain function throughout ontogenesis.
Circadian rhythms are physiological and behavioral oscillations that have period lengths of approximately 24 h. In mammals, circadian rhythms are driven by a master pacemaker in the hypothalamic suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). These rhythms can be entrained to light:dark cycles through photic and non-photic cues. Current research suggests that the SCN re-entrains rapidly to new light:dark (LD) cycles with the first photic cues, whereas peripheral tissues re-entrain more slowly, leading to a transient state of internal disorder while the organism adjusts to the new timing of photic input. To assess internal temporal order during the readjustment we used dim light to slow the rate of re-entrainment following a 12-h inversion of the LD cycle. We also used a wheel-restriction paradigm, which can block behavioral evidence of re-entrainment. Per2(Luc) mice were entrained to a 12:12 dim LD cycle with wheel access ad libitum. Following a 12-h shift in the LD cycle, some animals were subjected to wheel restriction; wheels were locked during the new dark period and available during the new light period. Other mice had wheels available ad lib throughout the experiment. Behavioral actograms of general locomotor activity as measured with motion sensors indicated that mice with ad lib access to wheels were able to re-entrain at a rate significantly faster than mice with restricted wheel access. Up to 2 weeks following the LD inversion many wheel-restricted animals were still active predominantly in the new light period. Phase of the PER2::LUC bioluminescence rhythms in SCN and four peripheral tissues (lung, esophagus, thymus, and spleen), measured ex vivo on days 2, 9, and 16 following the inversion, indicated that within each condition the SCN and peripheral tissues shifted at the same rate, whereas the rate of re-entrainment for the tissues differed between conditions. Ex vivo data showed that the PER2::LUC peaks in SCN and peripheral tissues were closely linked to time of activity onset in both groups. Thus, this wheel restriction protocol is capable of reducing and in some cases apparently hindering photic re-entrainment of the circadian system, verifying this protocol as a mechanism for study of photic/non-photic entrainment interactions. Our results suggest that LD inversion under dim light and a wheel-restriction protocol does not induce internal desynchrony, indicating that slowing the rate of shift by limiting both entrainment inputs may induce less &quot;jet lag&quot;.
Adolescent alcohol exposure (AAE) may exert long-term effects on the adult brain. Here, we tested the hypothesis that the brain regions affected include the rat hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis. Specifically, we examined the consequences of AAE [postnatal days (PND) 28-42] on the HPA axis-related brain circuitry of male rats challenged with an intragastric (ig) administration of alcohol in young adulthood (PND 61-62). Adolescent rats were exposed to alcohol vapors, while controls did not receive the drug. The mean blood alcohol level in adolescence on PND 40 was 212.85.7 mg %. Using immunohistochemistry and in situ hybridization procedures, we measured signals for c-fos and corticotropin releasing factor (CRF) in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus, as well as signals for c-fos and phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT) in the adrenergic brain stem regions (C1 and C2). PVN CRF mRNA expression was significantly blunted in AAE rats tested at PND 61-62, compared to their controls. These animals also displayed a significant increase in the mean number of PNMT-ir cells/brain stem section in the C2 area. Collectively, these results suggest that exposure to alcohol vapors during adolescence exerts long-term effects on the ability of the PVN to mount a response to an acute alcohol administration in young adulthood, possibly mediated by medullary catecholamine input to the PVN.
The pathophysiology underlying freezing of gait (FOG) in Parkinson's disease remains incompletely understood. Patients with FOG (&quot;freezers&quot;) have a higher temporal variability and asymmetry of strides compared to patients without FOG (&quot;non-freezers&quot;). We aimed to extend this view, by assessing spatial variability and asymmetry of steps and interlimb coordination between the upper and lower limbs during gait. Twelve freezers, 15 non-freezers, and 15 age-matched controls were instructed to walk overground and on a treadmill. Kinematic data were recorded with a motion analysis system. Both freezers and non-freezers showed an increased spatial variability of leg movements compared to controls. In addition, both patient groups had a deficit in interlimb coordination, not only between ipsilateral arms and legs, but also between diagonally positioned limbs. The only difference between freezers and non-freezers was a decreased step length during treadmill walking. We conclude that parkinsonian gait-regardless of FOG-is irregular, not only in the legs, but also with respect to interlimb coordination between the arms and legs. FOG is reflected by abnormal treadmill walking, presumably because this provides a greater challenge to the defective supraspinal control than overground walking, hampering the ability of freezers to increase their stride length when necessary.
Sonic hedgehog (Shh) is a soluble signaling protein that is crucial in regulating cell proliferation, migration and differentiation, axonal guidance and neural progenitor cell survival during nervous system development. Recent evidence suggests that the Shh plays an important role in adulthood in regulating structural plasticity. Here we investigated the expression of Shh in temporal lobe epileptic foci in patients and experimental animals in order to explore the probable relationship between Shh expression and temporal lobe epilepsy (TLE). The Shh expression was assessed in 30 human brain tissues derived from patients undergoing operation for intractable TLE and was also detected in 12 histological normal temporal lobes from controls. Meanwhile, we investigated the Shh expression in the temporal neocortex and hippocampus from lithium-pilocarpine-treated rats on days 1, 3, 7, 14, 30, and 60 post-seizure, and from control rats. Expression of Shh was assessed by immunohistochemistry, immunofluorescence, and Western blot analysis. Shh was mainly expressed in neurons in temporal lobe epileptic foci in humans and experimental rats. Compared to the control group, Shh expression was enhanced in the temporal neocortex of patients with intractable TLE. In experimental rats, Shh expression gradually increased from 7 to 60 days post-seizure in temporal neocortex and elevated from 3 to 60 days in hippocampus with the peak levels at 30 days as compared with the control group. These results suggest that Shh may play an important role in the development of TLE.
Earlier reports described huge overlapping visual receptive fields and the absence of retinotopic organization in the dorsolateral, caudal part of the caudate nucleus. In the present study we suggest a possible alternative mechanism for the coding of spatial visual information. Extracellular microelectrode recordings were carried out in halothane-anesthetized, immobilized, artificially ventilated cats. In order to investigate the responsiveness of the single neurons to visual information arriving from different sites of the receptive field, we divided the visual fields to 20 parts of equal size and stimulated the individual parts one-by-one. We found that each single visual caudate nucleus (CN) neuron can carry information about stimulus locations throughout the whole physically approachable visual field of the investigated eye. A large majority (85%) of these neurons exhibited significantly different responses to stimuli appearing in different regions of their huge receptive field. Thus these neurons appear to have the ability to provide information on the site of the stimulus via their discharge rate. The huge receptive fields in combination with the spatial selectivity suggest that these caudate nucleus neurons may serve as panoramic localizers. On the population level, the sites of maximal responsiveness of the visual neurons are distributed over the whole extent of the receptive fields. We argue that groups of these panoramic localizer neurons with different locations of maximal stimulus preference should have the ability to accurately code the locations of visual stimuli. We propose this distributed population code of visual information as an alternative information processing mechanism.
Stress is an unavoidable life experience. It induces mood, cognitive dysfunction and plasticity changes in chronically stressed individuals. Among the various brain regions that have been studied, the hippocampus and amygdala have been observed to have different roles in controlling the limbic-hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (limbic-HPA axis). This study investigated how the stress hormone corticosterone (CORT) affects neuronal cells. The first aim is to test whether administration of CORT to hippocampal and amygdaloid cell lines induces different changes in the 5-HT receptor subtypes. The second goal is to determine whether stress induced morphological changes in these two cell lines were involved in the 5-HT receptor subtypes expression. We now show that 5-HT(7) receptor mRNA levels were significantly upregulated in HT-22 cells, but downregulated in AR-5 cells by exposure to a physiologically relevant level of CORT (50 M) for 24 h, which was later confirmed by primary hippocampal and amygdaloid neuron cultures. Additionally, pretreatment of cells with 5-HT(7) antagonist SB-269970 or agonist LP-44 reversed CORT induced cell lesion in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, CORT induced different changes in neurite length, number of neurites and soma size in HT-22 and AR-5 cells were also reversed by pretreatment with either SB-269970 or LP-44. The different effects of 5-HT(7) receptors on cell lines were observed in two members of the Rho family small GTPase expression: the Cdc-42 and RhoA. These observed results support the hypothesis that 5-HT may differentially modulate neuronal morphology in the hippocampus and amygdala depending on the expression levels of the 5-HT receptor subtypes during stress hormone insults.
Edaravone is currently being used in acute ischemic stroke both in clinical and experimental research as a potent antioxidant. Here we explore the effects of edaravone on delayed neuronal death (DND) and long-dated cognitive dysfunction of hippocampus after cerebral ischemia-reperfusion (IR) injury and explain the underlying mechanisms and pathways. Our findings suggested that edaravone not only significantly alleviated delayed neuronal death and cognitive dysfunction of hippocampus after cerebral focal ischemia, but also markedly decreased malondialdehyde (MDA) levels. In addition, edaravone increased superoxide dismutase (SOD) levels and reduced the levels of inflammatory cytokines such as IL-1 and TNF- expression; edaravone, also suppressed glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) proliferation at days 3, 7 and 30 after reperfusion. Overall, the consensus emerging from this body of data indicated that edaravone exerts a later neuroprotective effect to hippocampus through its ability to inhibit inflammation, suppression of astrocyte activation and scavenging free radicals in stroke events.

The gene that is mutated in ataxia-telangiectasia (A-T), ATM, is catalytically activated in response to DNA damage. Yet a full accounting for the CNS deficits in human A-T or its mouse models remains elusive. We have analyzed the CNS phenotypes of two mouse Atm alleles--Atm(tm1Bal) (Bal) and Atm(tm1Awb) (Awb). Neither mutant has detectable mRNA or protein in peripheral tissues. In brain, although Bal/Bal mice have no ATM protein, they have nearly normal amounts of Atm mRNA. Bal/Bal neurons exhibit extensive cell cycle reentry and degeneration in both cortex and cerebellum. Unexpectedly, in Awb/Awb mice a novel mRNA is found in which the engineered mutation is excised. This mRNA is apparently translated and produces a catalytically active ATM protein that responds to DNA damage by phosphorylating p53 and Chk2. Prompted by these results, we examined eight cases of human A-T and found evidence for residual ATM protein in seven of them. These findings offer important new insights into the human disease and the role of brain ATM activity in the severity of the neurological symptoms of A-T.
Opponent process theory predicts that the first step in the induction of drug withdrawal is the activation of reward-related circuitry. Using the acoustic startle reflex as a model of anxiety-like behavior in rats, we show the emergence of a negative affective state during withdrawal after direct infusion of morphine into the ventral tegmental area (VTA), the origin of the mesolimbic dopamine system. Potentiation of startle during withdrawal from systemic morphine exposure requires a decrease in opiate receptor stimulation in the VTA and can be relieved by administration of the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine. Together, our results suggest that the emergence of anxiety during withdrawal from acute opiate exposure begins with activation of VTA mesolimbic dopamine circuitry, providing a mechanism for the opponent process view of withdrawal.
Output properties of neurons are greatly shaped by voltage-gated ion channels, whose biophysical properties and localization within axodendritic compartments serve to significantly transform the original input. The hyperpolarization-activated current, I(h), is mediated by hyperpolarization-activated cyclic nucleotide-gated (HCN) channels and plays a fundamental role in influencing neuronal excitability by regulating both membrane potential and input resistance. In neurons such as cortical and hippocampal pyramidal neurons, the subcellular localization of HCN channels plays a critical functional role, yet mechanisms controlling HCN channel trafficking are not fully understood. Because ion channel function and localization are often influenced by interacting proteins, we generated a knock-out mouse lacking the HCN channel auxiliary subunit, tetratricopeptide repeat-containing Rab8b-interacting protein (TRIP8b). Eliminating expression of TRIP8b dramatically reduced I(h) expression in hippocampal pyramidal neurons. Loss of I(h)-dependent membrane voltage properties was attributable to reduction of HCN channels on the neuronal surface, and there was a striking disruption of the normal expression pattern of HCN channels in pyramidal neuron dendrites. In heterologous cells and neurons, absence of TRIP8b increased HCN subunit targeting to and degradation by lysosomes. Mice lacking TRIP8b demonstrated motor learning deficits and enhanced resistance to multiple tasks of behavioral despair with high predictive validity for antidepressant efficacy. We observed similar resistance to behavioral despair in distinct mutant mice lacking HCN1 or HCN2. These data demonstrate that interaction with the auxiliary subunit TRIP8b is a major mechanism underlying proper expression of HCN channels and I(h) in vivo, and suggest that targeting I(h) may provide a novel approach to treatment of depression.
The striatum has important roles in motor control and action learning and, like many brain regions, receives multiple monoaminergic inputs. We have examined serotonergic modulation of rat and mouse corticostriatal neurotransmission and find that serotonin (5-HT) activates 5-HT(1b) receptors resulting in a long-term depression (LTD) of glutamate release and striatal output that we have termed 5-HT-LTD. 5-HT-LTD is presynaptically mediated, cAMP pathway dependent, and inducible by endogenous striatal 5-HT, as revealed by application of a selective 5-HT reuptake inhibitor. 5-HT-LTD is mutually occlusive with dopamine/endocannabinoid-dependent LTD, suggesting that these two forms of LTD act on the same corticostriatal terminals. Thus, serotonergic and dopaminergic mechanisms exist that may interact to persistently sculpt corticostriatal circuits, potentially influencing action learning and striatal-based disorders.
Dopamine and dopamine-receptor function are often implicated in behavioral inhibition, and deficiencies within behavioral inhibition processes linked to attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), schizophrenia, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and drug addiction. In the stop-signal task, which measures the speed of the process of inhibition [stop-signal reaction time (SSRT)], psychostimulant-related improvement of SSRT in ADHD is linked with dopamine function. However, the precise nature of dopaminergic control over SSRT remains unclear. This study examined region- and receptor-specific modulation of SSRT in the rat using direct infusions of the dopamine D1 receptor (DRD1) antagonist SCH 23390 or dopamine D2 receptor (DRD2) antagonist sulpiride into the dorsomedial striatum (DMStr) or nucleus accumbens core (NAcbC). DRD1 and DRD2 antagonists had contrasting effects on SSRT that were specific to the DMStr. SCH 23390 decreased SSRT with little effect on the go response. Conversely, sulpiride increased SSRT but also increased go-trial reaction time and reduced trial completion at the highest doses. These results suggest that DRD1 and DRD2 function within the DMStr, but not the NAcbC, may act to balance behavioral inhibition in a manner that is independent of behavioral activation.
Long-term potentiation (LTP) depends on the coordinated regulation of an ensemble of proteins related to Ca(2+) homeostasis, including Ca(2+) transporters. One of the major players in the regulation of intracellular Ca(2+) ([Ca(2+)](i)) homeostasis in neurons is the sodium/calcium exchanger (NCX), which represents the principal mechanism of Ca(2+) clearance in the synaptic sites of hippocampal neurons. Because NCX3, one of the three brain isoforms of the NCX family, is highly expressed in the hippocampal subfields involved in LTP, we hypothesized that it might represent a potential candidate for LTP modulation. To test this hypothesis, we first examined the effect of ncx3 gene ablation on NCX currents (I(NCX)) and Ca(2+) homeostasis in hippocampal neurons. ncx3(-/-) neurons displayed a reduced I(NCX), a higher basal level of [Ca(2+)](i), and a significantly delayed clearance of [Ca(2+)](i) following depolarization. Furthermore, measurement of field EPSPs, recorded from the CA1 area, revealed that ncx3(-/-) mice had an impaired basal synaptic transmission. Moreover, hippocampal slices from ncx3(-/-) mice exhibited a worsening in LTP compared with congenic ncx3(+/+). Consistently, immunohistochemical and immunoblot analysis indicated that in the hippocampus of ncx3(-/-) mice both Ca(2+)/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaMKII) expression and the phosphoCaMKII/CaMKII ratio were significantly reduced compared with ncx3(+/+). Interestingly, ncx3(-/-) mice displayed a reduced spatial learning and memory performance, as revealed by the novel object recognition, Barnes maze, and context-dependent fear conditioning assays. Collectively, our findings demonstrate that the deletion of the ncx3 gene in mice has detrimental consequences on basal synaptic transmission, LTP regulation, spatial learning, and memory performance.
Synthetic amyloid- protein (A) oligomers bind with high affinity to cellular prion protein (PrP(C)), but the role of this interaction in mediating the disruption of synaptic plasticity by such soluble A in vitro is controversial. Here we report that intracerebroventricular injection of A-containing aqueous extracts of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brain robustly inhibits long-term potentiation (LTP) without significantly affecting baseline excitatory synaptic transmission in the rat hippocampus in vivo. Moreover, the disruption of LTP was abrogated by immunodepletion of A. Importantly, intracerebroventricular administration of antigen-binding antibody fragment D13, directed to a putative A-binding site on PrP(C), prevented the inhibition of LTP by AD brain-derived A. In contrast, R1, a Fab directed to the C terminus of PrP(C), a region not implicated in binding of A, did not significantly affect the A-mediated inhibition of LTP. These data support the pathophysiological significance of SDS-stable A dimer and the role of PrP(C) in mediating synaptic plasticity disruption by soluble A.
Energy production presents a formidable challenge to axons as their mitochondria are synthesized and degraded in neuronal cell bodies. To meet the energy demands of nerve conduction, small mitochondria are transported to and enriched at mitochondrial stationary sites located throughout the axon. In this study, we investigated whether size and motility of mitochondria in small myelinated CNS axons are differentially regulated at nodes, and whether mitochondrial distribution and motility are modulated by axonal electrical activity. The size/volume of mitochondrial stationary sites was significantly larger in juxtaparanodal/internodal axoplasm than in nodal/paranodal axoplasm. With three-dimensional electron microscopy, we observed that axonal mitochondrial stationary sites were composed of multiple mitochondria of varying length, except at nodes where mitochondria were uniformly short and frequently absent altogether. Mitochondrial transport speed was significantly reduced in nodal axoplasm compared with internodal axoplasm. Increased axonal electrical activity decreased mitochondrial transport and increased the size of mitochondrial stationary sites in nodal/paranodal axoplasm. Decreased axonal electrical activity had the opposite effect. In cerebellar axons of the myelin-deficient rat, which contain voltage-gated Na(+) channel clusters but lack paranodal specializations, axonal mitochondrial motility and stationary site size were similar at Na(+) channel clusters and other axonal regions. These results demonstrate juxtaparanodal/internodal enrichment of stationary mitochondria and neuronal activity-dependent dynamic modulation of mitochondrial distribution and transport in nodal axoplasm. In addition, the modulation of mitochondrial distribution and motility requires oligodendrocyte-axon interactions at paranodal specializations.
Nowadays, new schizophrenia treatments are more ambitious than ever, aiming not only to improve psychotic symptoms, but also quality of life and social reinsertion. Our objective is to briefly but critically review the diagnosis of schizophrenia, the atypical antipsychotics sertindole's pharmacology, safety and status, and mainly evaluate the effects of sertindole compared with other second generation antipsychotics for people with schizophrenia and schizophrenia-like psychosis. In vitro studies showed that sertindole exerts a potent antagonism at serotonin 5-HT2A, 5-HT2C, dopamine D2, and l adrenergic receptors. Sertindole offers an alternative treatment option for refractory patients given its good EPS profile, favorable metabolic profile, and comparable efficacy to risperidone. Due to cardiovascular safety concerns, sertindole is available as a second-line choice for patients intolerant to other antipsychotic agents. Further clinical studies, mainly comparisons with other second-generation antipsychotic agents, are needed to define the role of sertindole in the treatment of schizophrenia.


Organotypic cultures of neuronal tissue were first introduced by Hogue in 1947 (1,2) and have constituted a major breakthrough in the field of neuroscience. Since then, the technique was developed further and currently there are many different ways to prepare organotypic cultures. The method presented here was adapted from the one described by Stoppini et al. for the preparation of the slices and from Gogolla et al. for the staining procedure (3,4). A unique feature of this technique is that it allows you to study different parts of the brain such as hippocampus or cerebellum in their original structure, providing a big advantage over dissociated cultures in which all the cellular organization and neuronal networks are disrupted. In the case of the cerebellum it is even more advantageous because it allows the study of Purkinje cells, extremely difficult to obtain as dissociated primary culture. This method can be used to study certain developmental features of the cerebellum in vitro, as well as for electrophysiological and pharmacological experiments in both wild type and mutant mice. The method described here was designed to study the effect of apoptotic stimuli such as Fas ligand in the developing cerebellum, using TUNEL staining to measure apoptotic cell death. If TUNEL staining is combined with cell type specific markers, such as Calbindin for Purkinje cells, it is possible to evaluate cell death in a cell population specific manner. The Calbindin staining also serves the purpose of evaluating the quality of the cerebellar cultures.

The use of gonadotropin-releasing hormone analogs (GnRHa) to suppress puberty in adolescents with gender dysphoria is a fairly new intervention in the field of gender identity disorders or transsexualism. GnRHa are used to give adolescents time to make balanced decisions on any further treatment steps, and to obtain improved results in the physical appearance of those who opt to continue with sex reassignment. The effects of GnRHa are reversible. However, concerns have been raised about the risk of making the wrong treatment decisions, as gender identity could fluctuate during adolescence, adolescents in general might have poor decision-making abilities, and there are potential adverse effects on health and on psychological and psychosexual functioning. Proponents of puberty suppression emphasize the beneficial effects of GnRHa on the adolescents' mental health, quality of life and of having a physical appearance that makes it possible for the patients to live unobtrusively in their desired gender role. In this Review, we discuss the evidence pertaining to the debate on the effects of GnRHa treatment. From the studies that have been published thus far, it seems that the benefits outweigh the risks. However, more systematic research in this area is needed to determine the safety of this approach.
It is thought that semantic memory represents taxonomic information differently from thematic information. This study investigated the neural basis for the taxonomic-thematic distinction in a unique way. We gathered picture-naming errors from 86 individuals with poststroke language impairment (aphasia). Error rates were determined separately for taxonomic errors (&quot;pear&quot; in response to apple) and thematic errors (&quot;worm&quot; in response to apple), and their shared variance was regressed out of each measure. With the segmented lesions normalized to a common template, we carried out voxel-based lesion-symptom mapping on each error type separately. We found that taxonomic errors localized to the left anterior temporal lobe and thematic errors localized to the left temporoparietal junction. This is an indication that the contribution of these regions to semantic memory cleaves along taxonomic-thematic lines. Our findings show that a distinction long recognized in the psychological sciences is grounded in the structure and function of the human brain.
Collective rituals are present in all known societies, but their function is a matter of long-standing debates. Field observations suggest that they may enhance social cohesion and that their effects are not limited to those actively performing but affect the audience as well. Here we show physiological effects of synchronized arousal in a Spanish fire-walking ritual, between active participants and related spectators, but not participants and other members of the audience. We assessed arousal by heart rate dynamics and applied nonlinear mathematical analysis to heart rate data obtained from 38 participants. We compared synchronized arousal between fire-walkers and spectators. For this comparison, we used recurrence quantification analysis on individual data and cross-recurrence quantification analysis on pairs of participants' data. These methods identified fine-grained commonalities of arousal during the 30-min ritual between fire-walkers and related spectators but not unrelated spectators. This indicates that the mediating mechanism may be informational, because participants and related observers had very different bodily behavior. This study demonstrates that a collective ritual may evoke synchronized arousal over time between active participants and bystanders. It links field observations to a physiological basis and offers a unique approach for the quantification of social effects on human physiology during real-world interactions.
Phosphorylation of the GluA1 subunit of AMPA receptors has been proposed to regulate receptor trafficking and synaptic transmission and plasticity. However, it remains unclear whether GluA1 phosphorylation is permissive or sufficient for enacting these functional changes. Here we investigate the role of GluA1 phosphorylation at S831 and S845 residues in the hippocampus through the analyses of GluA1 S831D/S845D phosphomimetic knock-in mice. S831D/S845D mice showed normal total and surface expression and subcellular localization of GluA1 as well as intact basal synaptic transmission. In addition, theta-burst stimulation, a protocol that was sufficient to induce robust long-term potentiation (LTP) in WT mice, resulted in LTP of similar magnitude in S831D/S845D mice. However, S831D/S845D mice showed LTP induced with 10-Hz stimulation, a protocol that is weaker than theta-burst stimulation and was not sufficient to induce LTP in WT mice. Moreover, S831D/S845D mice exhibited LTP induced with spike-timing-dependent plasticity (STDP) protocol at a long pre-post interval that was subthreshold for WT mice, although a suprathreshold STDP protocol at a short pre-post interval resulted in similarly robust LTP for WT and S831D/S845D mice. These results indicate that phosphorylation of GluA1 at S831 and S845 is sufficient to lower the threshold for LTP induction, increasing the probability of synaptic plasticity.
Despite recent advances in uncovering the neural signature of tactile working memory processing in animals and humans, the representation of internally modified somatosensory working memory content has not been studied so far. Here, recording EEG in human participants (n = 25) performing a modified delayed match-to-sample task allowed us to disambiguate internally driven memory processing from encoding-related delay activity. After presentation of two distinct vibrotactile frequencies to different index fingers, a visual cue indicated which of the two previous stimuli had to be maintained in working memory throughout a retention interval for subsequent frequency discrimination against a probe stimulus. During cued stimulus maintenance,  activity (8-13 Hz) over early somatosensory cortices was lateralized according to the cued tactile stimulus, even though the location of the stimuli was task irrelevant. The task-relevant memory content, in contrast, was found to be represented in right prefrontal cortex. The key finding was that the visually presented instructions triggered systematic modulations of prefrontal -band activity (20-25 Hz), which selectively reflected the to-be-maintained frequency of the cued tactile vibration. The results expand previous evidence for parametric representations of vibrotactile frequency in the prefrontal cortex and corroborate a central role of dynamic -band synchronization during active processing of an analog stimulus quantity in human working memory. In particular, our findings suggest that such processing supports not only sustained maintenance but also purposeful modification and updating of the task-relevant working memory contents.
Remodeling of cortical connectivity is thought to allow initially hippocampus-dependent memories to be expressed independently of the hippocampus at remote time points. Consistent with this, consolidation of a contextual fear memory is associated with dendritic spine growth in neurons of the anterior cingulate cortex (aCC). To directly test whether such cortical structural remodeling is necessary for memory consolidation, we disrupted spine growth in the aCC at different times following contextual fear conditioning in mice. We took advantage of previous studies showing that the transcription factor myocyte enhancer factor 2 (MEF2) negatively regulates spinogenesis both in vitro and in vivo. We found that increasing MEF2-dependent transcription in the aCC during a critical posttraining window (but not at later time points) blocked both the consolidation-associated dendritic spine growth and subsequent memory expression. Together, these data strengthen the causal link between cortical structural remodeling and memory consolidation and, further, identify MEF2 as a key regulator of these processes.
The trace amine-associated receptor 1 (TAAR1), activated by endogenous metabolites of amino acids like the trace amines p-tyramine and -phenylethylamine, has proven to be an important modulator of the dopaminergic system and is considered a promising target for the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders. To decipher the brain functions of TAAR1, a selective TAAR1 agonist, RO5166017, was engineered. RO5166017 showed high affinity and potent functional activity at mouse, rat, cynomolgus monkey, and human TAAR1 stably expressed in HEK293 cells as well as high selectivity vs. other targets. In mouse brain slices, RO5166017 inhibited the firing frequency of dopaminergic and serotonergic neurons in regions where Taar1 is expressed (i.e., the ventral tegmental area and dorsal raphe nucleus, respectively). In contrast, RO5166017 did not change the firing frequency of noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus, an area devoid of Taar1 expression. Furthermore, modulation of TAAR1 activity altered the desensitization rate and agonist potency at 5-HT(1A) receptors in the dorsal raphe, suggesting that TAAR1 modulates not only dopaminergic but also serotonergic neurotransmission. In WT but not Taar1(-/-) mice, RO5166017 prevented stress-induced hyperthermia and blocked dopamine-dependent hyperlocomotion in cocaine-treated and dopamine transporter knockout mice as well as hyperactivity induced by an NMDA antagonist. These results tie TAAR1 to the control of monoamine-driven behaviors and suggest anxiolytic- and antipsychotic-like properties for agonists such as RO5166017, opening treatment opportunities for psychiatric disorders.
Phantom perception refers to the conscious awareness of a percept in the absence of an external stimulus. On the basis of basic neuroscience on perception and clinical research in phantom pain and phantom sound, we propose a working model for their origin. Sensory deafferentation results in high-frequency, gamma band, synchronized neuronal activity in the sensory cortex. This activity becomes a conscious percept only if it is connected to larger coactivated &quot;(self-)awareness&quot; and &quot;salience&quot; brain networks. Through the involvement of learning mechanisms, the phantom percept becomes associated to distress, which in turn is reflected by a simultaneously coactivated nonspecific distress network consisting of the anterior cingulate cortex, anterior insula, and amygdala. Memory mechanisms play a role in the persistence of the awareness of the phantom percept, as well as in the reinforcement of the associated distress. Thus, different dynamic overlapping brain networks should be considered as targets for the treatment of this disorder.
Exposure to methamphetamine during brain development impairs cognition in children and adult rodents. In mice, these impairments are greater in females than males. Adult female, but not male, mice show impairments in novel location recognition following methamphetamine exposure during brain development. In contrast to adulthood, little is known about the potential effects of methamphetamine exposure on cognition in adolescent mice. As adolescence is an important time of development and is relatively understudied, the aim of the current study was to examine potential long-term effects of neonatal methamphetamine exposure on behavior and cognition during adolescence. Male and female mice were exposed to methamphetamine (5 mg/kg) or saline once a day from postnatal days 11 to 20, the period of rodent hippocampal development. Behavioral and cognitive function was assessed during adolescence beginning on postnatal day 30. During the injection period, methamphetamine-exposed mice gained less weight on average compared to saline-exposed mice. In both male and female mice, methamphetamine exposure significantly impaired novel object recognition and there was a trend toward impaired novel location recognition. Anxiety-like behavior, sensorimotor gating, and contextual and cued fear conditioning were not affected by methamphetamine exposure. Thus, neonatal methamphetamine exposure affects cognition in adolescence and unlike in adulthood equally affects male and female mice.
Recent experiments indicate that blockade of serotonin (5-HT) 2A and 2C receptors have differential effects on reversal learning. The present experiments investigated the effects of the 5-HT(2A) receptor antagonist, ketanserin and 5-HT(2C) receptor antagonist, SB242084 on acquisition and strategy-switching in a visual cue-response paradigm. Long-Evans rats were trained in a cross-maze to enter an arm based on color (visual cue version) or a specific turn response (response version). Systemic treatment with ketanserin did not affect initial learning of a visual cue or response discrimination, but ketanserin at 0.5 mg/kg significantly enhanced a switch between visual cue and response strategies. Ketanserin facilitated strategy-switching by inhibiting responses to a previously relevant strategy without affecting choices to never-reinforced strategies. Treatment with SB242084 (0.5, 1.0 or 2.0 mg/kg) did not affect acquisition of a visual cue or response discrimination. SB242084 treatment also did not affect strategy-switching. The present findings suggest that blockade of 5-HT(2A), but not 5-HT(2C), receptors enhance strategy switching.
In the present work, lipophilic caffeic and ferulic acid derivatives were synthesized, and their cytotoxicity on cultured breast cancer cells was compared. A total of six compounds were initially evaluated: caffeic acid (CA), hexyl caffeate (HC), caffeoylhexylamide (HCA), ferulic acid (FA), hexyl ferulate (HF), and feruloylhexylamide (HFA). Cell proliferation, cell cycle progression, and apoptotic signaling were investigated in three human breast cancer cell lines, including estrogen-sensitive (MCF-7) and insensitive (MDA-MB-231 and HS578T). Furthermore, direct mitochondrial effects of parent and modified compounds were investigated by using isolated liver mitochondria. The results indicated that although the parent compounds presented no cytotoxicity, the new compounds inhibited cell proliferation and induced cell cycle alterations and cell death, with a predominant effect on MCF-7 cells. Interestingly, cell cycle data indicates that effects on nontumor BJ fibroblasts were predominantly cytostatic and not cytotoxic. The parent compounds and derivatives also promoted direct alterations on hepatic mitochondrial bioenergetics, although the most unexpected and never before reported one was that FA induces the mitochondrial permeability transition. The results show that the new caffeic and ferulic acid lipophilic derivatives show increased cytotoxicity toward human breast cancer cell lines, although the magnitude and type of effects appear to be dependent on the cell type. Mitochondrial data had no direct correspondence with effects on intact cells suggesting that this organelle may not be a critical component of the cellular effects observed. The data provide a rational approach to the design of effective cytotoxic lipophilic hydroxycinnamic derivatives that in the future could be profitably applied for chemopreventive and/or chemotherapeutic purposes.

Long-term memory formation involves covalent modification of the histone proteins that package DNA. Reducing histone acetylation by mutating histone acetyltransferases impairs long-term memory, and enhancing histone acetylation by inhibiting histone deacetylases (HDACs) improves long-term memory. Previous studies using HDAC inhibitors to enhance long-term memory have focused on the fear-conditioning task using broad-spectrum HDAC inhibitors. We have found that post-training intrahippocampal administration of the broad-spectrum HDAC inhibitor trichostatin A (TSA) or the class I HDAC-selective inhibitor MS275 enhances long-term object-location memory, supporting a role for class I HDACs in the enhancement of hippocampus-dependent memory induced by HDAC inhibition.


Neurotrophins control cell survival. Therefore, we examined whether HIV-1 reduces neurotrophin levels. Serum of HIV-positive individuals exhibited lower concentrations of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), but not of other neurotrophins, than HIV-negative individuals. In addition, R5 and X4 strains of HIV-1 decreased BDNF expression in T cells. Our results support the hypothesis that reduced levels of BDNF may be a risk factor for T-cell apoptosis and for neurological complications associated with HIV-1 infection.

5'-Adenosine monophosphate (AMP)-activated protein kinase (AMPK) is a key sensor of cellular energy status. AMPK signaling regulates energy balance at the cellular, organ, and whole-body level. More recently, it has become apparent that AMPK plays also an important role in long-term decisions that determine cell fate, in particular cell cycle progression and apoptosis activation. Here, we describe the diverse mechanisms of AMPK activation and the role of AMPK in the regulation of cellular energy balance. We summarize recent studies implicating AMPK activation in the regulation of neuronal survival and as a key player during ischemic stroke. We also suggest that AMPK activation may have dual functions in the regulation of neuronal survival: AMPK provides a protective effect during transient energy depletion as exemplified in a model of neuronal Ca(2+) overloading, and this effect is partially mediated by the activation of neuronal glucose transporter 3. Prolonged AMPK activation, on the contrary, can lead to neuronal apoptosis via the transcriptional activation of the proapoptotic Bcl-2 family member, bim. Molecular switches that determine the protective versus cell death-inducing effects of AMPK activation are discussed.
The decision to remove or refold oxidized, denatured, or misfolded proteins by heat shock protein 70 and its binding partners is critical to determine cell fate under pathophysiological conditions. Overexpression of the ubiquitin ligase C-terminus of HSC70 interacting protein (CHIP) can compensate for failure of other ubiquitin ligases and enhance protein turnover and survival under chronic neurological stress. The ability of CHIP to alter cell fate after acute neurological injury has not been assessed. Using postmortem human tissue samples, we provide the first evidence that cortical CHIP expression is increased after ischemic stroke. Oxygen glucose deprivation in vitro led to rapid protein oxidation, antioxidant depletion, proteasome dysfunction, and a significant increase in CHIP expression. To determine if CHIP upregulation enhances neural survival, we overexpressed CHIP in vitro and evaluated cell fate 24h after acute oxidative stress. Surprisingly, CHIP overexpressing cells fared worse against oxidative injury, accumulated more ubiquitinated and oxidized proteins, and experienced decreased proteasome activity. Conversely, using small interfering RNA to decrease CHIP expression in primary neuronal cultures improved survival after oxidative stress, suggesting that increases in CHIP observed after stroke like injuries are likely correlated with diminished survival and may negatively impact the neuroprotective potential of heat shock protein 70.
The development of a suitable neuroprotective agent to treat ischemic stroke has failed when transitioned to the clinical setting. An understanding of the molecular mechanisms involved in neuronal injury during ischemic stroke is important, but must be placed in the clinical context. Current therapeutic targets have focused on the preservation of the ischemic penumbra in the hope of improving clinical outcomes. Unfortunately, most patients in the ultra-early time windows harbor penumbra but have tremendous variability in the size of the core infarct, the ultimate predictor of prognosis. Understanding this variability may allow for proper patient selection that may better correlate to bench models. Reperfusion therapies are rapidly evolving and have been shown to improve clinical outcomes. The use of neuroprotective agents to prolong time windows prior to reperfusion or to prevent reperfusion injury may present future therapeutic targets for the treatment of ischemic stroke. We review the molecular pathways and the clinical context from which future targets may be identified.



Certain chemotherapeutic drugs, such as cyclophosphamide (CTX), can enhance the antitumor efficacy of immunotherapy because of their capacity to modulate innate and adaptive immunity. Indeed, it has been argued that this capacity may be more significant to chemotherapeutic efficacy in general than is currently appreciated. To gain insights into the core mechanisms of chemoimmunotherapy, we methodically profiled the effects of CTX on gene expression in bone marrow, spleen, and peripheral blood, and on cytokine expression in plasma and bone marrow of tumor-bearing mice. Gene and protein expression were modulated early and transiently by CTX, leading to upregulation of a variety of immunomodulatory factors, including danger signals, pattern recognition receptors, inflammatory mediators, growth factors, cytokines, chemokines, and chemokine receptors. These factors are involved in sensing CTX myelotoxicity and activating repair mechanisms, which, in turn, stimulate immunoactivation events that promote efficacy. In particular, CTX induced a T-helper 17 (Th17)-related gene signature associated with an increase in Th17, Th1, and activated CD25(+)CD4(+)Foxp3(-) T lymphocytes and a slight recovery of regulatory T cells. By analyzing gene and protein expression kinetics and their relationship to the antitumor efficacy of different therapeutic schedules of combination, we determined that optimal timing for performing adoptive immunotherapy is approximately 1 day after CTX treatment. Together, our findings highlight factors that may propel the efficacy of chemoimmunotherapy, offering a mechanistic glimpse of the important immune modulatory effects of CTX.
Protein carbonylation is a major form of protein oxidation and is widely used as an indicator of oxidative stress. Carbonyl groups do not have distinguishing UV or visible, spectrophotometric absorbance/fluorescence characteristics and thus their detection and quantification can only be achieved using specific chemical probes. In this paper, we review the advantages and disadvantages of several chemical probes that have been and are still being used for protein carbonyl analysis. These probes include 2,4-dinitrophenylhydazine (DNPH), tritiated sodium borohydride ([(3)H]NaBH(4)), biotin-containing probes, and fluorescence probes. As our discussions lean toward gel-based approaches, utilizations of these probes in 2D gel-based proteomic analysis of carbonylated proteins are illustrated where applicable. Analysis of carbonylated proteins by ELISA, immunofluorescent imaging, near infrared fluorescence detection, and gel-free proteomic approaches are also discussed where appropriate. Additionally, potential applications of blue native gel electrophoresis as a tool for first dimensional separation in 2D gel-based analysis of carbonylated proteins are discussed as well.
Mild parkinsonian signs (MPS) may represent the mild end of a disease spectrum that spans from normal aging to neurodegenerative diseases. We conducted a population-based study in a rural island town in western Japan, Ama-cho. Participants included 1129 subjects, aged 60 years and older, residing in the town. Participants were classified according to a modified Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (mUPDRS) score. MPS was determined to be present if any of the following conditions were met: (1) two or more mUPDRS ratings=1 [MPS-mild]; (2) one mUPDRS rating2; or (3) mUPDRS rest tremor rating1; [(2) and (3): MPS-severe]. Subjects wore a uniaxial accelerometer (Actiwatch), resulting in the measurement of actigraphic activity counts (AC). Of the 804 participants with complete data, 178 subjects (22.1%) were classified as demonstrating MPS. AC was significantly lower in the MPS-severe group compared with both the CTL and the MPS-mild groups. Diagnostic sensitivity for MPS-severe became 100% when we adopted a cutoff point of low physical activity, as measured by actigraphy, combined with the presence of subjective depression. We established the prevalence of MPS in a community-dwelling elderly population sample in Japan. Actigraphy may be a useful objective tool for screening MPS-severe.

Structurally deciphering complex neural networks requires technology with sufficient resolution to allow visualization of single cells and their intimate surrounding connections. Scanning electron microscopy (SEM), coupled with serial ion ablation (SIA) technology, presents a new avenue to study these networks. SIA allows ion ablation to remove nanometer sections of tissue for SEM imaging, resulting in serial section data collection for three-dimensional reconstruction. Here we highlight a method for preparing retinal tissues for imaging of photoreceptors by SIA-SEM technology. We show that this technique can be used to visualize whole rod photoreceptors and the internal disc elements from wild-type (wt) mice. The distance parameters of the discs and photoreceptors are in good agreement with previous work with other methods. Moreover, we show that large planes of retinal tissue can be imaged at high resolution to display the packing of normal rods. Finally, SIA-SEM imaging of retinal tissue from a mouse model (Nrl/) with phenotypic changes akin to the human disease enhanced S-cone syndrome (ESCS) revealed a structural profile of overall photoreceptor ultrastructure and internal elements that accompany this disease. Overall, this work presents a new method to study photoreceptor cells at high structural resolution that has a broad applicability to the visual neuroscience field.
Cell membranes isolated from nervous tissue can be easily injected into Xenopus oocytes, thereby effectively &quot;microtransplanting&quot; functional neurotransmitter receptors. This technique therefore allows a direct functional characterization of the original membrane receptor/ion channel proteins and the associated molecules while still embedded in their natural lipid environment. Cell membranes will contain components from different types of cells, i.e. neurons and glial cells, expressing their own receptors, with possibly different properties. To study the receptor properties of a single cell type, we injected oocytes with membranes isolated only from glia (gliosomes) of adult mouse neocortex and we focused our work on GABA(A) receptors incorporated in the oocyte cell membrane. We found that GABA(A)-activated currents allowed a good biophysical and pharmacological characterization of glial GABA(A) receptors. Therefore, the microtransplantation of gliosomes into oocytes can represent a good model to study the electrical and pharmacological properties of adult glial cells under different physiological and pathological conditions. Moreover, since gliosomes can be isolated from frozen tissues, this approach can be extended to post-mortem human tissues.
Neonatal anoxia is a worldwide clinical problem that has serious and lasting consequences. The diversity of models does not allow complete reproducibility, so a standardized model is needed. In this study, we developed a rat model of neonatal anoxia that utilizes a semi-hermetic system suitable for oxygen deprivation. The validity of this model was confirmed using pulse oximetry, arterial gasometry, observation of skin color and behavior and analysis of Fos immunoreactivity in brain regions that function in respiratory control. For these experiments, 87 male albino neonate rats (Rattus norvegicus, lineage Wistar) aged approximate 30 postnatal hours were divided into anoxia and control groups. The pups were kept in an euthanasia polycarbonate chamber at 361 C, with continuous 100% nitrogen gas flow at 3 L/min and 101.7 kPa for 25 min. The peripheral arterial oxygen saturation of the anoxia group decreased 75% from its initial value. Decreased pH and partial pressure of oxygen and increased partial pressure of carbon dioxide were observed in this group, indicating metabolic acidosis, hypoxia and hypercapnia, respectively. Analysis of neuronal activation showed Fos immunoreactivity in the solitary tract nucleus, the lateral reticular nucleus and the area postrema, confirming that those conditions activated areas related to respiratory control in the nervous system. Therefore, the proposed model of neonatal anoxia allows standardization and precise control of the anoxic condition, which should be of great value in indentifying both the mechanisms underlying neonatal anoxia and novel therapeutic strategies to combat or prevent this widespread public health problem.
The Morris water maze is a commonly employed method to investigate learning and memory. The task demands experimental subjects use distal spatial cues in navigating to a hidden escape platform while swimming in a pool of opaque water. Since its primary description thirty years ago, several modifications have emerged. For example, part-way through the experiment, the target platform can be re-located, thus requiring subjects re-learn spatial aspects of the task. This procedure demands sequential memory encoding of highly similar events and can be selectively impaired by genetic and pharmacological methods affecting cognitive flexibility. While the primary reasons for employing re-locating platform tasks are to study aspects of cognitive flexibility, the paradigms also demonstrate a potential for reducing within-treatment group variation by enabling within-subject analysis. We tested this hypothesis using the C57BL/6 mouse line, a commonly chosen subject for behavioral experiments, and demonstrate that a within-subject comparison approach is both valid and effective in reducing variability. Interestingly, the within-subject statistical advantage is most pronounced for performance measures of short-term memory. In addition, we find that subject naivety, but not experimental inter-phase interval or subcutaneous saline injections, has a significant effect on variation in performance. We also found repeated training in the Morris water maze improved short-term memory without enhancing long-term memory. Together, the data suggest platform re-location tasks can help alleviate within-group variability, a major conundrum in behavioral neuroscience, and provide valuable insight into the general sources of variability underlying performance in cognitive tasks.
In this work we set up an in vitro model, based on organotypic cultures of spinal cord slices and dorsal root ganglia explants from P7 rats, embedded in a collagen matrix and cultured under the same conditions. As specific reinnervation of end-organs is still an unresolved issue in peripheral nerve research, we characterized a model that allows us to compare under the same conditions motor and sensory neuron regeneration. RT97 labeling was used to visualize the regenerating neurites that extended in the collagen gel from both motor neurons in the spinal cord slices and sensory neurons in the DRG explants after a few days in vitro. By adding different neurotrophic factors in the collagen matrix, we evaluated the reliability of DRG and spinal cord preparations. Moreover, we also set up a co-culture with dissociated Schwann cells to further mimic the permissive environment of the peripheral nerve. Thus, these in vitro models can be useful tools to investigate mechanisms for the selective regeneration of sensory and motor neurons, which can be translated into in vivo models.
The brainstem contains rhythm and pattern forming circuits, which drive cranial and spinal motor pools to produce respiratory and other motor patterns. Here we used calcium imaging combined with nerve recordings in newborn mice to reveal spontaneous population activity in the ventral brainstem and in the facial nucleus. In Fluo-8AM loaded brainstem-spinal cord preparations, respiratory activity on cervical nerves was synchronized with calcium signals at the ventrolateral brainstem surface. Individual ventrolateral neurons at the level of the parafacial respiratory group showed perfect or partial synchrony with respiratory nerve bursts. In brainstem-spinal cord preparations, cut at the level of the mid-facial nucleus, calcium signals were recorded in the dorsal, lateral and medial facial subnuclei during respiratory activity. Strong activity initiated in the dorsal subnucleus, followed by activity in lateral and medial subnuclei. Whole-cell recordings from facial motoneurons showed weak respiratory drives, and electrical field potential recordings confirmed respiratory drive to particularly the dorsal and lateral subnuclei. Putative facial premotoneurons showed respiratory-related calcium signals, and were predominantly located dorsomedial to the facial nucleus. A novel motor activity on facial, cervical and thoracic nerves was synchronized with calcium signals at the ventromedial brainstem extending from the level of the facial nucleus to the medullaspinal cord border. Cervical dorsal root stimulation induced similar ventromedial activity. The medial facial subnucleus showed calcium signals synchronized with this novel motor activity on cervical nerves, and cervical dorsal root stimulation induced similar medial facial subnucleus activity. In conclusion, the dorsal and lateral facial subnuclei are strongly respiratory-modulated, and the brainstem contains a novel pattern forming circuit that drives the medial facial subnucleus and cervical motor pools.
Machine learning and pattern recognition algorithms have in the past years developed to become a working horse in brain imaging and the computational neurosciences, as they are instrumental for mining vast amounts of neural data of ever increasing measurement precision and detecting minuscule signals from an overwhelming noise floor. They provide the means to decode and characterize task relevant brain states and to distinguish them from non-informative brain signals. While undoubtedly this machinery has helped to gain novel biological insights, it also holds the danger of potential unintentional abuse. Ideally machine learning techniques should be usable for any non-expert, however, unfortunately they are typically not. Overfitting and other pitfalls may occur and lead to spurious and nonsensical interpretation. The goal of this review is therefore to provide an accessible and clear introduction to the strengths and also the inherent dangers of machine learning usage in the neurosciences.
In this work we illustrate the approach of the Maastricht Brain Imaging Center to the PBAIC 2007 competition, where participants had to predict, based on fMRI measurements of brain activity, subject driven actions and sensory experience in a virtual world. After standard pre-processing (slice scan time correction, motion correction), we generated rating predictions based on linear Relevance Vector Machine (RVM) learning from all brain voxels. Spatial and temporal filtering of the time series was optimized rating by rating. For some of the ratings (e.g. Instructions, Hits, Faces, Velocity), linear RVM regression was accurate and very consistent within and between subjects. For other ratings (e.g. Arousal, Valence) results were less satisfactory. Our approach ranked overall second. To investigate the role of different brain regions in ratings prediction we generated predictive maps, i.e. maps of the weighted contribution of each voxel to the predicted rating. These maps generally included (but were not limited to) &quot;specialized&quot; regions which are consistent with results from conventional neuroimaging studies and known functional neuroanatomy. In conclusion, Sparse Bayesian Learning models, such as RVM, appear to be a valuable approach to the multivariate regression of fMRI time series. The implementation of the Automatic Relevance Determination criterion is particularly suitable and provides a good generalization, despite the limited number of samples which is typically available in fMRI. Predictive maps allow disclosing multi-voxel patterns of brain activity that predict perceptual and behavioral subjective experience.
An important question that confronts current research in affective neuroscience as well as in the treatment of emotional disorders is whether it is possible to determine the emotional state of a person based on the measurement of brain activity alone. Here, we first show that an online support vector machine (SVM) can be built to recognize two discrete emotional states, such as happiness and disgust from fMRI signals, in healthy individuals instructed to recall emotionally salient episodes from their lives. We report the first application of real-time head motion correction, spatial smoothing and feature selection based on a new method called Effect mapping. The classifier also showed robust prediction rates in decoding three discrete emotional states (happiness, disgust and sadness) in an extended group of participants. Subjective reports ascertained that participants performed emotion imagery and that the online classifier decoded emotions and not arbitrary states of the brain. Offline whole brain classification as well as region-of-interest classification in 24 brain areas previously implicated in emotion processing revealed that the frontal cortex was critically involved in emotion induction by imagery. We also demonstrate an fMRI-BCI based on real-time classification of BOLD signals from multiple brain regions, for each repetition time (TR) of scanning, providing visual feedback of emotional states to the participant for potential applications in the clinical treatment of dysfunctional affect.
Over the past decade fMRI researchers have developed increasingly sensitive techniques for analyzing the information represented in BOLD activity. The most popular of these techniques is linear classification, a simple technique for decoding information about experimental stimuli or tasks from patterns of activity across an array of voxels. A more recent development is the voxel-based encoding model, which describes the information about the stimulus or task that is represented in the activity of single voxels. Encoding and decoding are complementary operations: encoding uses stimuli to predict activity while decoding uses activity to predict information about the stimuli. However, in practice these two operations are often confused, and their respective strengths and weaknesses have not been made clear. Here we use the concept of a linearizing feature space to clarify the relationship between encoding and decoding. We show that encoding and decoding operations can both be used to investigate some of the most common questions about how information is represented in the brain. However, focusing on encoding models offers two important advantages over decoding. First, an encoding model can in principle provide a complete functional description of a region of interest, while a decoding model can provide only a partial description. Second, while it is straightforward to derive an optimal decoding model from an encoding model it is much more difficult to derive an encoding model from a decoding model. We propose a systematic modeling approach that begins by estimating an encoding model for every voxel in a scan and ends by using the estimated encoding models to perform decoding.
The combination of electroencephalography (EEG) and functional Magnetic Resonance Imaging (fMRI) has been proposed as a tool to study brain dynamics with both high temporal and high spatial resolution. Integration through EEG-fMRI trial-by-trial coupling has been proposed as a method to combine the different data sets and achieve temporal expansion of the fMRI data (Eichele et al., 2005). To fully benefit of this type of analysis simultaneous EEG-fMRI acquisitions are necessary (Debener et al., 2006). Here we address the issue of predicting the signal in one modality using information from the other modality. We use multivariate Relevance Vector Machine (RVM) regression to &quot;learn&quot; the relation between fMRI activation patterns and simultaneously acquired EEG responses in the context of a complex cognitive task entailing an auditory cue, visual mental imagery and a control visual target. We show that multivariate regression is a valuable approach for predicting evoked and induced oscillatory EEG responses from fMRI time series. Prediction of EEG from fMRI is largely influenced by the overall filtering effects of the hemodynamic response function. However, a detailed analysis of the auditory evoked responses shows that there is a small but significant contribution of single trial modulations that can be exploited for linking spatially-distributed patterns of fMRI activation to specific components of the simultaneously-recorded EEG signal.
Locally multivariate approaches to functional brain mapping offer a highly appealing complement to conventional statistics, but require restrictive region-of-interest hypotheses, or, in exhaustive search forms (such as the &quot;searchlight&quot; algorithm; Kriegeskorte et al., 2006), are excessively computer intensive. We therefore propose a non-restrictive, comparatively fast yet highly sensitive method based on Monte Carlo approximation principles where locally multivariate maps are computed by averaging across voxelwise condition-discriminative information obtained from repeated stochastic sampling of fixed-size search volumes. On simulated data containing discriminative regions of varying size and contrast-to-noise ratio (CNR), the Monte Carlo method reduced the required computer resources by as much as 75% compared to the searchlight with no reduction in mapping performance. Notably, the Monte Carlo mapping approach not only outperformed the general linear method (GLM), but also produced higher discriminative voxel detection scores than the searchlight irrespective of classifier (linear or nonlinear support vector machine), discriminative region size or CNR. The improved performance was explained by the information-average procedure, and the Monte Carlo approach yielded mapping sensitivities of a few percent lower than an information-average exhaustive search. Finally, we demonstrate the utility of the algorithm on whole-brain, multi-subject functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) data from a tactile study, revealing that the central representation of gentle touch is spatially distributed in somatosensory, insular and visual regions.
Neuroimaging studies of numerical cognition have pointed to the horizontal segment of the intraparietal sulcus (hIPS) as the neural correlate of numerical representations in humans. However, the specificity of hIPS for numbers remains controversial. For example, its activation during numerical comparison cannot be distinguished from activation during ordinal judgments on non-numerical sequences such as letters (Fias et al., 2007, J. Neuroscience). Based on the hypothesis that the fine-grained distinction between representations of numerical vs. letter order in hIPS might simply be invisible to conventional fMRI data analysis, we used support vector machines (SVM) to reanalyse the data of Fias et al. (2007). We show that classifiers trained on hIPS voxels can discriminate between number comparison and letter comparison, even though the two tasks produce the same metric of behaviour. Voxels discriminating between the two conditions were consistent across subjects and contribution analysis revealed maps of distinct sets of voxels implicated in the processing of numerical vs. alphabetical order in bilateral hIPS. These results reconcile the neuroimaging data with the neuropsychological evidence suggesting dissociations between numbers and other non-numerical ordered sequences, and demonstrate that multivariate analyses are fundamental to address fine-grained theoretical issues with fMRI studies.
This article reviews a technological advance that originates from two areas of ongoing neuroimaging innovation-(1) the use of multivariate supervised learning to decode brain states and (2) real-time functional magnetic resonance imaging (rtfMRI). The approach uses multivariate methods to train a model capable of decoding a subject's brain state from fMRI images. The decoded brain states can be used as a control signal for a brain computer interface (BCI) or to provide neurofeedback to the subject. The ability to adapt the stimulus during the fMRI experiment adds a new level of flexibility for task paradigms and has potential applications in a number of areas, including performance enhancement, rehabilitation, and therapy. Multivariate approaches to real-time fMRI are complementary to region-of-interest (ROI)-based methods and provide a principled method for dealing with distributed patterns of brain responses. Specifically, a multivariate approach is advantageous when network activity is expected, when mental strategies could vary from individual to individual, or when one or a few ROIs are not unequivocally the most appropriate for the investigation. Beyond highlighting important developments in rtfMRI and supervised learning, the article discusses important practical issues, including implementation considerations, existing resources, and future challenges and opportunities. Some possible future directions are described, calling for advances arising from increased experimental flexibility, improvements in predictive modeling, better comparisons across rtfMRI and other BCI implementations, and further investigation of the types of feedback and degree to which interface modulation is obtainable for various tasks.
In everyday life, successful decision making requires precise representations of expected values. However, for most behavioral options more than one attribute can be relevant in order to predict the expected reward. Thus, to make good or even optimal choices the reward predictions of multiple attributes need to be integrated into a combined expected value. Importantly, the individual attributes of such multi-attribute objects can agree or disagree in their reward prediction. Here we address where the brain encodes the combined reward prediction (averaged across attributes) and where it encodes the variability of the value predictions of the individual attributes. We acquired fMRI data while subjects performed a task in which they had to integrate reward predictions from multiple attributes into a combined value. Using time-resolved pattern recognition techniques (support vector regression) we find that (1) the combined value is encoded in distributed fMRI patterns in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (vmPFC) and that (2) the variability of value predictions of the individual attributes is encoded in the dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (dlPFC). The combined value could be used to guide choices, whereas the variability of the value predictions of individual attributes indicates an ambiguity that results in an increased difficulty of the value-integration. These results demonstrate that the different features defining multi-attribute objects are encoded in non-overlapping brain regions and therefore suggest different roles for vmPFC and dlPFC in multi-attribute decision making.
Information mapping using pattern classifiers has become increasingly popular in recent years, although without a clear consensus on which classifier(s) ought to be used or how results should be tested. This paper addresses each of these questions, both analytically and through comparative analyses on five empirical datasets. We also describe how information maps in multiple class situations can provide information concerning the content of neural representations. Finally, we introduce a publically available software toolbox designed specifically for information mapping.
A striking feature of cortical organization is that the encoding of many stimulus features, for example orientation or direction selectivity, is arranged into topographic maps. Functional imaging methods such as optical imaging of intrinsic signals, voltage sensitive dye imaging or functional magnetic resonance imaging are important tools for studying the structure of cortical maps. As functional imaging measurements are usually noisy, statistical processing of the data is necessary to extract maps from the imaging data. We here present a probabilistic model of functional imaging data based on Gaussian processes. In comparison to conventional approaches, our model yields superior estimates of cortical maps from smaller amounts of data. In addition, we obtain quantitative uncertainty estimates, i.e. error bars on properties of the estimated map. We use our probabilistic model to study the coding properties of the map and the role of noise-correlations by decoding the stimulus from single trials of an imaging experiment.
The development of MRI measures as biomarkers for neurodegenerative disease could prove extremely valuable for the assessment of neuroprotective therapies. Much current research is aimed at developing such biomarkers for use in people who are gene-positive for Huntington's disease yet exhibit few or no clinical symptoms of the disease (pre-HD). We acquired structural (T1), diffusion weighted and functional MRI (fMRI) data from 39 pre-HD volunteers and 25 age-matched controls. To determine whether it was possible to decode information about disease state from neuroimaging data, we applied multivariate pattern analysis techniques to several derived voxel-based and segmented region-based datasets. We found that different measures of structural, diffusion weighted, and functional MRI could successfully classify pre-HD and controls using support vector machines (SVM) and linear discriminant analysis (LDA) with up to 76% accuracy. The model producing the highest classification accuracy used LDA with a set of six volume measures from the basal ganglia. Furthermore, using support vector regression (SVR) and linear regression models, we were able to generate quantitative measures of disease progression that were significantly correlated with established measures of disease progression (estimated years to clinical onset, derived from age and genetic information) from several different neuroimaging measures. The best performing regression models used SVR with neuroimaging data from regions within the grey matter (caudate), white matter (corticospinal tract), and fMRI (insular cortex). These results highlight the utility of machine learning analyses in addition to conventional ones. We have shown that several neuroimaging measures contain multivariate patterns of information that are useful for the development of disease-state biomarkers for HD.
Conventional decoding methods in neuroscience aim to predict discrete brain states from multivariate correlates of neural activity. This approach faces two important challenges. First, a small number of examples are typically represented by a much larger number of features, making it hard to select the few informative features that allow for accurate predictions. Second, accuracy estimates and information maps often remain descriptive and can be hard to interpret. In this paper, we propose a model-based decoding approach that addresses both challenges from a new angle. Our method involves (i) inverting a dynamic causal model of neurophysiological data in a trial-by-trial fashion; (ii) training and testing a discriminative classifier on a strongly reduced feature space derived from trial-wise estimates of the model parameters; and (iii) reconstructing the separating hyperplane. Since the approach is model-based, it provides a principled dimensionality reduction of the feature space; in addition, if the model is neurobiologically plausible, decoding results may offer a mechanistically meaningful interpretation. The proposed method can be used in conjunction with a variety of modelling approaches and brain data, and supports decoding of either trial or subject labels. Moreover, it can supplement evidence-based approaches for model-based decoding and enable structural model selection in cases where Bayesian model selection cannot be applied. Here, we illustrate its application using dynamic causal modelling (DCM) of electrophysiological recordings in rodents. We demonstrate that the approach achieves significant above-chance performance and, at the same time, allows for a neurobiological interpretation of the results.
When several scattered grating elements are arranged in such a way that their directions of motion are consistent with a common path, observers perceive them as belonging to a globally coherent moving object. Here we investigated how this coherence changes the representation of motion signals in human visual cortex using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) and multivariate voxel pattern decoding, which have the potential to reveal how well a stimulus is encoded in different contexts. Only during globally coherent motion was it possible to reliably distinguish fMRI signals evoked by different directions of motion in early visual cortex. This effect was specific to the retinotopic representation of the visual field quadrant in V1 traversed by the coherent element path and could not simply be attributed to a general increase in signal strength. Decoding was more reliable for cortical areas corresponding to the lower visual field. Because some previous studies observed poorer speed discrimination when motion was grouped, we also conducted behavioural experiments to investigate this with our stimuli, but did not reveal a consistent relationship between coherence and perceived speed. Taken together, these data show that neuronal populations in early visual cortex represent information that could be used for interpreting motion signals as unified objects.
To illustrate the imaging features of fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) in this rare presumptive case of FMD in a sixteen year old male with intracranial features only and highlight it as an important cause of stroke in the young. FMD is a non-atheroscelerotic, non-inflammatory vasculopathic arterial disease affecting large and medium size vessels of unknown aetiology. It is a rare cause of paediatric stroke and strokes in young adults. This is a pictorial presentation of an unusual presumptive case of fibromuscular dysplasia (FMD) affecting the middle cerebral artery in a sixteen year old male with classic Digital Subtraction Angiography (DSA) findings. The focal neurological findings and pattern seen on sequential brain scans clearly associates the presence of this vascular lesion to cerebral infarction. Classic imaging findings of the epidemiology, pathology and radiological appearance of FMD are discussed. Emphasis is placed on the patient's imaging presentations including DSA. FMD is a vascular dysplasia that typical affects the renal vasculature and commonly the extracranial internal carotid artery. When a young adult or child presents with stroke FMD should be considered and is more likely to have intracranial features.
Infantile neuroaxonal dystrophy (INAD) is a rare autosomal recessive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by infantile onset and rapid progression of psychomotor regression and hypotonia evolving into spasticity. The neuroradiologic hallmark of the disease is represented by progressive cerebellar atrophy. Prior to the discovery of mutations in the PLA2G6 gene in family with INAD, the clinical diagnosis of the disease had been confirmed by the presence of spheroid bodies (SB) in a peripheral nerve biopsy. Various studies have found that some patients with mutations lacked SB and some without mutations had SB, indicating incomplete detection using either pathologic or molecular methods (7). This, together with the observation that the spectrum of clinical features associated with mutations in PLA2G6 is broader than previously described, has increased the usefulness of Magnetic Resonance (MR) in INAD diagnosis, particularly in the frequent occurrence of atypical cases, especially in the early stages of the disease. We retrospectively reviewed the MR studies of eight patients in whom clinical and imaging onset met the typical criteria for INAD. Their clinical and MR imaging (MRI) onset and follow-up were evaluated together with the neuroradiological findings reported in the literature in order to identify MRI features useful in differentiating INAD from other diseases with similar clinical onset and to discuss which of them are the most important, thus suggesting INAD diagnosis. Our contribution included the use of Proton Spectroscopy ((1)H-MR), diffusion weighted MR imaging (DWI) and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) in the follow-up of seven of the eight patients. The literature reviewed included attempts to correlate clinical and MR data with the genotype in the group of patients carrying PLA2G6 mutations. From the limited and inhomogeneous cohort of patients included in our study, a correlation between the MR features, phenotype and genotype was not exhaustive.
X-linked disorders with cerebellar dysgenesis (XLCD) are a genetically heterogeneous and clinically variable group of disorders in which the hallmark is a cerebellar defect (hypoplasia, atrophy or dysplasia) visible on brain imaging, caused by gene mutations or genomic imbalances on the X-chromosome. The neurological features of XLCD include hypotonia, developmental delay, intellectual disability, ataxia and/or other cerebellar signs. Normal cognitive development has also been reported. Cerebellar dysgenesis may be isolated or associated with other brain malformations or multiorgan involvement. There are at least 15 genes on the X-chromosome that have been constantly or occasionally associated with a pathological cerebellar phenotype. 8 XLCD loci have been mapped and several families with X-linked inheritance have been reported. Recently, two recurrent duplication syndromes in Xq28 have been associated with cerebellar hypoplasia. Given the report of several forms of XLCD and the excess of males with ataxia, this group of conditions is probably underestimated and families of patients with neuroradiological and clinical evidence of a cerebellar disorder should be counseled for high risk of X-linked inheritance.
Only a minority of patients treated with antipsychotics in clinical studies continue their treatments throughout a longer study period. Few studies address this issue from a lifetime perspective. In this naturalistic study, we aimed at analysing the prescription pattern of antipsychotic drugs among a sample of Swedish patients with a diagnosis of psychotic illness, from the first contact with psychiatry (typically between 1973 and 1997) until the last written note in the case history documents. A retrospective descriptive analysis was performed of all case history data of 66 patients diagnosed with schizophrenia or related psychotic disorders. Patients with schizophrenia were prescribed antipsychotic medication more than 90% of the time. Each patient generally had been prescribed several (up to 16) different antipsychotic drugs and a quarter of the patients had been prescribed two or more antipsychotics for a third of their prescription time. Patients with psychosis were exposed to a cumulatively growing number of antipsychotics. Various factors, including clinician and patient expectations, and specific strengths and limitations of available antipsychotics may account for frequent medication changes over time.


Uncovering the underlying genetic component of any disease is key to the understanding of its pathophysiology and may open new avenues for development of therapeutic strategies and biomarkers. In the past several years, there has been an explosion of genome-wide association studies (GWAS) resulting in the discovery of novel candidate genes conferring risk for complex diseases, including neurodegenerative diseases. Despite this success, there still remains a substantial genetic component for many complex traits and conditions that is unexplained by the GWAS findings. Additionally, in many cases, the mechanism of action of the newly discovered disease risk variants is not inherently obvious. Furthermore, a genetic region with multiple genes may be identified via GWAS, making it difficult to discern the true disease risk gene. Several alternative approaches are proposed to overcome these potential shortcomings of GWAS, including the use of quantitative, biologically relevant phenotypes. Gene expression levels represent an important class of endophenotypes. Genetic linkage and association studies that utilize gene expression levels as endophenotypes determined that the expression levels of many genes are under genetic influence. This led to the postulate that there may exist many genetic variants that confer disease risk via modifying gene expression levels. Results from the handful of genetic studies which assess gene expression level endophenotypes in conjunction with disease risk suggest that this combined phenotype approach may both increase the power for gene discovery and lead to an enhanced understanding of their mode of action. This review summarizes the evidence in support of gene expression levels as promising endophenotypes in the discovery and characterization of novel candidate genes for complex diseases, which may also represent a novel approach in the genetic studies of Alzheimer's and other neurodegenerative diseases.
Single nucleotide polymorphisms in the fat mass and obesity-associated (FTO) gene have been associated with obesity in humans. Alterations in Fto expression in transgenic animals affect body weight, energy expenditure and food intake. Fto, a nuclear protein and proposed transcription co-factor, has been speculated to affect energy balance through a functional relationship with specific genes encoding feeding-related peptides. Herein, we employed double immunohistochemistry and showed that the majority of neurons synthesizing a satiety mediator, oxytocin, coexpress Fto in the brain of male and female mice. We then overexpressed Fto in a murine hypothalamic cell line and, using qPCR, detected a 50% increase in the level of oxytocin mRNA. Expression levels of several other feeding-related genes, including neuropeptide Y (NPY) and Agouti-related protein (AgRP), were unaffected by the FTO transfection. Addition of 10 and 100 nmol oxytocin to the cell culture medium did not affect Fto expression in hypothalamic cells. We conclude that Fto, a proposed transcription co-factor, influences expression of the gene encoding a satiety mediator, oxytocin.
Mutations in the type II transmembrane serine protease 3 (TMPRSS3) gene cause non-syndromic autosomal recessive deafness (DFNB8/10), characterized by congenital or childhood onset bilateral profound hearing loss. In order to explore the physiopathology of TMPRSS3 related deafness, we have generated an ethyl-nitrosourea-induced mutant mouse carrying a protein-truncating nonsense mutation in Tmprss3 (Y260X) and characterized the functional and histological consequences of Tmprss3 deficiency. Auditory brainstem response revealed that wild type and heterozygous mice have normal hearing thresholds up to 5 months of age, whereas Tmprss3(Y260X) homozygous mutant mice exhibit severe deafness. Histological examination showed degeneration of the organ of Corti in adult mutant mice. Cochlear hair cell degeneration starts at the onset of hearing, postnatal day 12, in the basal turn and progresses very rapidly toward the apex, reaching completion within 2 days. Given that auditory and vestibular deficits often co-exist, we evaluated the balancing abilities of Tmprss3(Y260X) mice by using rotating rod and vestibular behavioral tests. Tmprss3(Y260X) mice effectively displayed mild vestibular syndrome that correlated histologically with a slow degeneration of saccular hair cells. In situ hybridization in the developing inner ear showed that Tmprss3 mRNA is localized in sensory hair cells in the cochlea and the vestibule. Our results show that Tmprss3 acts as a permissive factor for cochlear hair cells survival and activation at the onset of hearing and is required for saccular hair cell survival. This mouse model will certainly help to decipher the molecular mechanisms underlying DFNB8/10 deafness and cochlear function.
Mutations in TRPV4 have been linked to three distinct axonal neuropathies. However, the pathogenic mechanism underlying these disorders remains unclear. Both gain and loss of calcium channel activity of the mutant TRPV4 have been suggested. Here, we show that the three previously reported TRPV4 mutant channels have a physiological localization and display an increased calcium channel activity, leading to increased cytotoxicity in three different cell types. Patch clamp experiments showed that cells expressing mutant TRPV4 have much larger whole-cell currents than those expressing the wild-type TRPV4 channel. Single channel recordings showed that the mutant channels have higher open probability, due to a modification of gating, and no change in single-channel conductance. These data support the hypothesis that a &quot;gain of function&quot; mechanism, possibly leading to increased intracellular calcium influx, underlies the pathogenesis of the TRPV4-linked axonal neuropathies, and may have immediate implications for designing rational therapies.
Voltage-gated sodium channel (VGSC) activity has previously been reported in endothelial cells (ECs). However, the exact isoforms of VGSCs present, their mode(s) of action, and potential role(s) in angiogenesis have not been investigated. The main aims of this study were to determine the role of VGSC activity in angiogenic functions and to elucidate the potentially associated signaling mechanisms using human umbilical vein endothelial cells (HUVECs) as a model system. Real-time PCR showed that the primary functional VGSC - and -subunit isoforms in HUVECs were Nav1.5, Nav1.7, VGSC1, and VGSC3. Western blots verified that VGSC proteins were expressed in HUVECs, and immunohistochemistry revealed VGSC expression in mouse aortic ECs in vivo. Electrophysiological recordings showed that the channels were functional and suppressed by tetrodotoxin (TTX). VGSC activity modulated the following angiogenic properties of HUVECs: VEGF-induced proliferation or chemotaxis, tubular differentiation, and substrate adhesion. Interestingly, different aspects of angiogenesis were controlled by the different VGSC isoforms based on TTX sensitivity and effects of siRNA-mediated gene silencing. Additionally, we show for the first time that TTX-resistant (TTX-R) VGSCs (Nav1.5) potentiate VEGF-induced ERK1/2 activation through the PKC-B-RAF signaling axis. We postulate that this potentiation occurs through modulation of VEGF-induced HUVEC depolarization and [Ca(2+)](i). We conclude that VGSCs regulate multiple angiogenic functions and VEGF signaling in HUVECs. Our results imply that targeting VGSC expression/activity could be a novel strategy for controlling angiogenesis.

2,3-Benzodiazepine derivatives are synthesized as drug candidates for a potential treatment of various neurodegenerative diseases involving the excessive activity of AMPA receptors. Here, we describe a rapid kinetic investigation of the mechanism of inhibition of the GluA2Q(flip) AMPA receptor channel opening by two 2,3-benzodiazepine derivatives, i.e. the prototypic 2,3-benzodiazepine compound GYKI 52466 [(1-(4-aminophenyl)-4-methyl-7,8-methylenedioxy-5H-2,3-benzodiazepine)] and 1-(4-aminophenyl)-3,5-dihydro-7,8-methylenedioxy-4H-2,3-benzodiazepin-4-one (BDZ-2). GYKI 52466 and BDZ-2 are structurally similar in that the 4-methyl group in the diazepine ring of GYKI 52466 is replaced by a carbonyl group, yielding BDZ-2. Using a laser-pulse photolysis technique with 60 s time resolution, we characterize the effect of the two compounds individually on the channel-opening process of the GluA2Q(flip) receptor expressed in HEK-293 cells. We find that BDZ-2 preferentially inhibits the open-channel state, whereas GYKI 52466 is more selective for the closed-channel state of the GluA2Q(flip) receptors. Each inhibitor binds independently to its own noncompetitive site, yet the two sites do not interact allosterically. The significance of these results in the context of both the structure-activity relationship and the properties of the GluA2Q(flip) receptor channels is presented.


The synthesis and structure-activity relationship of a novel series of compounds with combined effects on 5-HT(3A) and 5-HT(1A) receptors and on the serotonin (5-HT) transporter (SERT) are described. Compound 5m (Lu AA21004) was the lead compound, displaying high affinity for recombinant human 5-HT(1A) (K(i) = 15 nM), 5-HT(1B) (K(i) = 33 nM), 5-HT(3A) (K(i) = 3.7 nM), 5-HT(7) (K(i) = 19 nM), and noradrenergic (1) (K(i) = 46 nM) receptors, and SERT (K(i) = 1.6 nM). Compound 5m displayed antagonistic properties at 5-HT(3A) and 5-HT(7) receptors, partial agonist properties at 5-HT(1B) receptors, agonistic properties at 5-HT(1A) receptors, and potent inhibition of SERT. In conscious rats, 5m significantly increased extracellular 5-HT levels in the brain after acute and 3 days of treatment. Following the 3-day treatment (5 or 10 (mg/kg)/day) SERT occupancies were only 43% and 57%, respectively. These characteristics indicate that 5m is a novel multimodal serotonergic compound, and 5m is currently in clinical development for major depressive disorder.
The dominant view that perceptual learning is accompanied by changes in early sensory representations has recently been challenged. Here we tested the idea that perceptual learning can be accounted for by reinforcement learning involving changes in higher decision-making areas. We trained subjects on an orientation discrimination task involving feedback over 4 days, acquiring fMRI data on the first and last day. Behavioral improvements were well explained by a reinforcement learning model in which learning leads to enhanced readout of sensory information, thereby establishing noise-robust representations of decision variables. We find stimulus orientation encoded in early visual and higher cortical regions such as lateral parietal cortex and anterior cingulate cortex (ACC). However, only activity patterns in the ACC tracked changes in decision variables during learning. These results provide strong evidence for perceptual learning-related changes in higher order areas and suggest that perceptual and reward learning are based on a common neurobiological mechanism.
In natural situations, movements are often directed toward locations different from that of the evoking sensory stimulus. Movement goals must then be inferred from the sensory cue based on rules. When there is uncertainty about the rule that applies for a given cue, planning a movement involves both choosing the relevant rule and computing the movement goal based on that rule. Under these conditions, it is not clear whether primates compute multiple movement goals based on all possible rules before choosing an action, or whether they first choose a rule and then only represent the movement goal associated with that rule. Supporting the former hypothesis, we show that neurons in the frontoparietal reach areas of monkeys simultaneously represent two different rule-based movement goals, which are biased by the monkeys' choice preferences. Apparently, primates choose between multiple behavioral options by weighing against each other the movement goals associated with each option.
HCN1 channel subunits, which contribute to the hyperpolarization-activated cation current (Ih), are selectively targeted to distal apical dendrites of hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons. Here, we addressed the importance of the brain-specific auxiliary subunit of HCN1, TRIP8b, in regulating HCN1 expression and localization. More than ten N-terminal splice variants of TRIP8b exist in brain and exert distinct effects on HCN1 trafficking when overexpressed. We found that isoform-wide disruption of the TRIP8b/HCN1 interaction caused HCN1 to be mistargeted throughout CA1 somatodendritic compartments. In contrast, HCN1 was targeted normally to CA1 distal dendrites in a TRIP8b knockout mouse that selectively lacked exons 1b and 2. Of the two remaining hippocampal TRIP8b isoforms, TRIP8b(1a-4) promoted HCN1 surface expression in dendrites, whereas TRIP8b(1a) suppressed HCN1 misexpression in axons. Thus, proper subcellular localization of HCN1 depends on its differential additive and subtractive sculpting by two isoforms of a single auxiliary subunit.
Proteins vital to presynaptic function are synthesized in the neuronal perikarya and delivered into synapses via two modes of axonal transport. While membrane-anchoring proteins are conveyed in fast axonal transport via motor-driven vesicles, cytosolic proteins travel in slow axonal transport via mechanisms that are poorly understood. We found that in cultured axons, populations of cytosolic proteins tagged to photoactivatable GFP (PAGFP) move with a slow motor-dependent anterograde bias distinct from both vesicular trafficking and diffusion of untagged PAGFP. The overall bias is likely generated by an intricate particle kinetics involving transient assembly and short-range vectorial spurts. In vivo biochemical studies reveal that cytosolic proteins are organized into higher order structures within axon-enriched fractions that are largely segregated from vesicles. Data-driven biophysical modeling best predicts a scenario where soluble molecules dynamically assemble into mobile supramolecular structures. We propose a model where cytosolic proteins are transported by dynamically assembling into multiprotein complexes that are directly/indirectly conveyed by motors.
It remains a matter of speculation as to whether the sense CUG-containing RNA and/or the antisense CAG-encoding polyglutamine peptide serves as the pathogenic moiety in Huntington's disease like-2 (HDL2). In this issue of Neuron, Wilburn et al. show that in a HDL2 mouse model, the polyglutamine peptide drives disease progression.
Kainic acid (KA) binds to the AMPA/KA receptors and induces seizures that result in inflammation, oxidative damage and neuronal death. We previously showed that cyclooxygenase-2 deficient (COX-2(-/-)) mice are more vulnerable to KA-induced excitotoxicity. Here, we investigated whether the increased susceptibility of COX-2(-/-) mice to KA is associated with altered mRNA expression and editing of glutamate receptors. The expression of AMPA GluR2, GluR3 and KA GluR6 was increased in vehicle-injected COX-2(-/-) mice compared to wild type (WT) mice in hippocampus and cortex, whereas gene expression of NMDA receptors was decreased. KA treatment decreased the expression of AMPA, KA and NMDA receptors in the hippocampus, with a significant effect in COX-2(-/-) mice. Furthermore, we analyzed RNA editing levels and found that the level of GluR3 R/G editing site was selectively increased in the hippocampus and decreased in the cortex in COX-2(-/-) compared with WT mice. After KA, GluR4 R/G editing site, flip form, was increased in the hippocampus of COX-2(-/-) mice. Treatment of WT mice with the COX-2 inhibitor celecoxib for two weeks decreased the expression of AMPA/KA and NMDAR subunits after KA, as observed in COX-2(-/-) mice. After KA exposure, COX-2(-/-) mice showed increased mRNA expression of markers of inflammation and oxidative stress, such as cytokines (TNF-, IL-1 and IL-6), inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), microglia (CD11b) and astrocyte (GFAP). Thus, COX-2 gene deletion can exacerbate the inflammatory response to KA. We suggest that COX-2 plays a role in attenuating glutamate excitotoxicity by modulating RNA editing of AMPA/KA and mRNA expression of all ionotropic glutamate receptor subunits and, in turn, neuronal excitability. These changes may contribute to the increased vulnerability of COX-2(-/-) mice to KA. The overstimulation of glutamate receptors as a consequence of COX-2 gene deletion suggests a functional coupling between COX-2 and the glutamatergic system.
Delayed comparison tasks are widely used in the study of working memory and perception in psychology and neuroscience. It has long been known, however, that decisions in these tasks are biased. When the two stimuli in a delayed comparison trial are small in magnitude, subjects tend to report that the first stimulus is larger than the second stimulus. In contrast, subjects tend to report that the second stimulus is larger than the first when the stimuli are relatively large. Here we study the computational principles underlying this bias, also known as the contraction bias. We propose that the contraction bias results from a Bayesian computation in which a noisy representation of a magnitude is combined with a-priori information about the distribution of magnitudes to optimize performance. We test our hypothesis on choice behavior in a visual delayed comparison experiment by studying the effect of (i) changing the prior distribution and (ii) changing the uncertainty in the memorized stimulus. We show that choice behavior in both manipulations is consistent with the performance of an observer who uses a Bayesian inference in order to improve performance. Moreover, our results suggest that the contraction bias arises during memory retrieval/decision making and not during memory encoding. These results support the notion that the contraction bias illusion can be understood as resulting from optimality considerations.

Apoptosis or programmed cell death has been suggested as an important mode of neurodegeneration in Alzheimer's disease pathogenesis. The present study explored the neuroprotective effect of 2-ethoxy-4,5-diphenyl-1,3-oxazine-6-one (EDPOO) against H(2)O(2)-induced cell death in rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells. We found that H(2)O(2) triggered a range of cellular cascades which leads to cell death, whereas pretreatment of the cells with this oxazine derivative attenuated the extent of apoptosis, as assessed by MTT assay, acridine orange/ethidium bromide staining and caspase-3 expression assay. We further showed that EDPOO exerts its neuroprotective effect by enhancing Hsp-70 level, stabilizing Nrf2 and upregulation of HO-1 and -GCS. Moreover, this oxazine derivative regulated cellular redox status via antioxidant enzyme upregulation. The neuroprotective effect of this compound may provide a new potential application for the treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
Understanding human cortical maturation is a central goal for developmental neuroscience. Significant advances toward this goal have come from two recent strands of in vivo structural magnetic resonance imaging research: (1) longitudinal study designs have revealed that factors such as sex, cognitive ability, and disease are often better related to variations in the tempo of anatomical change than to variations in anatomy at any one time point; (2) largely cross-sectional applications of new surface-based morphometry (SBM) methods have shown how the traditional focus on cortical volume (CV) can obscure information about the two evolutionarily and genetically distinct determinants of CV: cortical thickness (CT) and surface area (SA). Here, by combining these two strategies for the first time and applying SBM in &gt;1250 longitudinally acquired brain scans from 647 healthy individuals aged 3-30 years, we deconstruct cortical development to reveal that distinct trajectories of anatomical change are hidden within, and give rise to, a curvilinear pattern of CV maturation. Developmental changes in CV emerge through the sexually dimorphic and age-dependent interaction of changes in CT and SA. Moreover, SA change itself actually reflects complex interactions between brain size-related changes in exposed cortical convex hull area, and changes in the degree of cortical gyrification, which again vary by age and sex. Knowing of these developmental dissociations, and further specifying their timing and sex-biases, provides potent new research targets for basic and clinical neuroscience.
Flying insects engage in spectacular high-speed pursuit of targets, requiring visual discrimination of moving objects against cluttered backgrounds. As a first step toward understanding the neural basis for this complex task, we used computational modeling of insect small target motion detector (STMD) neurons to predict responses to features within natural scenes and then compared this with responses recorded from an identified STMD neuron in the dragonfly brain (Hemicordulia tau). A surprising model prediction confirmed by our electrophysiological recordings is that even heavily cluttered scenes contain very few features that excite these neurons, due largely to their exquisite tuning for small features. We also show that very subtle manipulations of the image cause dramatic changes in the response of this neuron, because of the complex inhibitory and facilitatory interactions within the receptive field.
The environment in early life elicits profound effects on fetal brain development that can extend into adulthood. However, the long-lasting impact of maternal stress on emotional learning remains largely unknown. Here, we focus on amygdala-related learning processes in maternally stressed mice. In these mice, fear memory consolidation and certain related signaling cascades were significantly impaired, though innate fear, fear memory acquisition, and synaptic NMDA receptor expression in the amygdala were unaltered. In accordance with these findings, maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP) at amygdala synapses, but not its induction, was significantly impaired in the maternally stressed animals. Interestingly, amygdala glucocorticoid receptor expression was reduced in the maternally stressed mice, and administration of glucocorticoids (GCs) immediately after fear conditioning and LTP induction restored memory consolidation and LTP maintenance, respectively, suggesting that a weakening of GC signaling was responsible for the observed impairment. Furthermore, microinfusion of a membrane-impermeable form of GC (BSA-conjugated GC) into the amygdala mimicked the restorative effects of GC, indicating that a nongenomic activity of GC mediates the restorative effect. Together, these findings suggest that prenatal stress induces long-term dysregulation of nongenomic GC action in the amygdala of adult offspring, resulting in the impairment of fear memory consolidation. Since modulation of amygdala activity is known to alter the consolidation of emotionally influenced memories allocated in other brain regions, the nongenomic action of GC on the amygdala shown herein may also participate in the amygdala-dependent modulation of memory consolidation.
Sustained increase in intraocular pressure represents a major risk factor for eye disease, yet the cellular mechanisms of pressure transduction in the posterior eye are essentially unknown. Here we show that the mouse retina expresses mRNA and protein for the polymodal transient receptor potential vanilloid 4 (TRPV4) cation channel known to mediate osmotransduction and mechanotransduction. TRPV4 antibodies labeled perikarya, axons, and dendrites of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) and intensely immunostained the optic nerve head. Mller glial cells, but not retinal astrocytes or microglia, also expressed TRPV4 immunoreactivity. The selective TRPV4 agonists 4-PDD and GSK1016790A elevated [Ca2+]i in dissociated RGCs in a dose-dependent manner, whereas the TRPV1 agonist capsaicin had no effect on [Ca2+](RGC). Exposure to hypotonic stimulation evoked robust increases in [Ca2+](RGC). RGC responses to TRPV4-selective agonists and hypotonic stimulation were absent in Ca2+ -free saline and were antagonized by the nonselective TRP channel antagonists Ruthenium Red and gadolinium, but were unaffected by the TRPV1 antagonist capsazepine. TRPV4-selective agonists increased the spiking frequency recorded from intact retinas recorded with multielectrode arrays. Sustained exposure to TRPV4 agonists evoked dose-dependent apoptosis of RGCs. Our results demonstrate functional TRPV4 expression in RGCs and suggest that its activation mediates response to membrane stretch leading to elevated [Ca2+]i and augmented excitability. Excessive Ca2+ influx through TRPV4 predisposes RGCs to activation of Ca2+ -dependent proapoptotic signaling pathways, indicating that TRPV4 is a component of the response mechanism to pathological elevations of intraocular pressure.
The activity-regulated cytoskeletal-associated protein (Arc/Arg3.1) is an immediate-early gene that has been widely implicated in synaptic plasticity and in the consolidation of a variety of hippocampal- and amygdala-dependent memory tasks. The functional role of Arc/Arg3.1 in memory reconsolidation processes, however, has not been systematically studied. In the present study, we examined the role of Arc/Arg3.1 in the reconsolidation of an amygdala-dependent auditory pavlovian fear memory. We show that Arc/Arg3.1 protein is regulated in the lateral nucleus of the amygdala (LA) by retrieval of an auditory fear memory. Next, we show that antisense knockdown of Arc/Arg3.1 in the LA impairs fear memory reconsolidation of both a recent (1-d-old) as well as a well-consolidated (2-week-old) fear memory; that is, post-retrieval short-term memory, tested at 3 h after retrieval, is intact, whereas post-retrieval long-term memory, tested approximately 24 h after retrieval, is significantly impaired. The effect of Arc/Arg3.1 knockdown was observed to be time limited and specific to an actively reactivated fear memory. Moreover, the reconsolidation deficit induced by Arc/Arg3.1 knockdown was not found to be sensitive to spontaneous recovery, reinstatement, or a shift in the testing context, suggesting that our behavioral effects are not attributable to facilitated extinction. Collectively, our findings provide the first comprehensive look at the functional role of Arc/Arg3.1 in memory reconsolidation processes in the mammalian brain.
Presynaptic short-term plasticity (STP) dynamically modulates synaptic strength in a reversible manner on a timescale of milliseconds to minutes. For low basal vesicular release probability (prob0), four components of enhancement, F1 and F2 facilitation, augmentation (A), and potentiation (P), increase synaptic strength during repetitive nerve activity. For release rates that exceed the rate of replenishment of the readily releasable pool (RRP) of synaptic vesicles, depression of synaptic strength, observed as a rundown of postsynaptic potential amplitudes, can also develop. To understand the relationship between enhancement and depression at the frog (Rana pipiens) neuromuscular synapse, data obtained over a wide range of prob0 using patterned stimulation are analyzed with a hybrid model to reveal the components of STP. We find that F1, F2, A, P, and depletion of the RRP all contribute to STP during repetitive nerve activity at low prob0. As prob0 is increased by raising Ca(o)(2+) (extracellular Ca2+), specific components of enhancement no longer contribute, with first P, then A, and then F2 becoming undetectable, even though F1 continues to enhance release. For levels of prob0 that lead to appreciable depression, only F1 and depletion of the RRP contribute to STP during rundown, and for low stimulation rates, F2 can also contribute. These observations place prob0-dependent limitations on which components of enhancement contribute to STP and suggest some fundamental mechanistic differences among the components. The presented model can serve as a tool to readily characterize the components of STP over wide ranges of prob0.
Two endogenous ligands for cannabinoid CB1 receptors, anandamide (N-arachidonoylethanolamine) and 2-arachidonoylglycerol (2-AG), have been identified and characterized. 2-AG is the most prevalent endogenous cannabinoid ligand in the brain, and electrophysiological studies suggest 2-AG, rather than anandamide, is the true natural ligand for cannabinoid receptors and the key endocannabinoid involved in retrograde signaling in the brain. Here, we evaluated intravenously administered 2-AG for reinforcing effects in nonhuman primates. Squirrel monkeys that previously self-administered anandamide or nicotine under a fixed-ratio schedule with a 60 s timeout after each injection had their self-administration behavior extinguished by vehicle substitution and were then given the opportunity to self-administer 2-AG. Intravenous 2-AG was a very effective reinforcer of drug-taking behavior, maintaining higher numbers of self-administered injections per session and higher rates of responding than vehicle across a wide range of doses. To assess involvement of CB1 receptors in the reinforcing effects of 2-AG, we pretreated monkeys with the cannabinoid CB(1) receptor inverse agonist/antagonist rimonabant [N-piperidino-5-(4-chlorophenyl)-1-(2,4-dichlorophenyl)-4-methylpyrazole-3-carboxamide]. Rimonabant produced persistent blockade of 2-AG self-administration without affecting responding maintained by food under similar conditions. Thus, 2-AG was actively self-administered by monkeys with or without a history of cannabinoid self-administration, and the reinforcing effects of 2-AG were mediated by CB1 receptors. Self-administration of 2-AG by squirrel monkeys provides a valuable procedure for studying abuse liability of medications that interfere with 2-AG signaling within the brain and for investigating mechanisms involved in the reinforcing effects of endocannabinoids.
There is now growing evidence that the hippocampus generates theta rhythms that can phase bias fast neural oscillations in the neocortex, allowing coordination of widespread fast oscillatory populations outside limbic areas. A recent magnetoencephalographic study showed that maintenance of configural-relational scene information in a delayed match-to-sample (DMS) task was associated with replay of that information during the delay period. The periodicity of the replay was coordinated by the phase of the ongoing theta rhythm, and the degree of theta coordination during the delay period was positively correlated with DMS performance. Here, we reanalyzed these data to investigate which brain regions were involved in generating the theta oscillations that coordinated the periodic replay of configural-relational information. We used a beamformer algorithm to produce estimates of regional theta rhythms and constructed volumetric images of the phase-locking between the local theta cycle and the instances of replay (in the 13-80 Hz band). We found that individual differences in DMS performance for configural-relational associations were related to the degree of phase coupling of instances of cortical reactivations to theta oscillations generated in the right posterior hippocampus and the right inferior frontal gyrus. This demonstrates that the timing of memory reactivations in humans is biased toward hippocampal theta phase.
Tactile spatial acuity is enhanced in blindness, according to several studies, but the cause of this enhancement has been controversial. Two competing hypotheses are the tactile experience hypothesis (reliance on the sense of touch drives tactile-acuity enhancement) and the visual deprivation hypothesis (the absence of vision itself drives tactile-acuity enhancement). Here, we performed experiments to distinguish between these two hypotheses. We used force-controlled grating orientation tasks to compare the passive (finger stationary) tactile spatial acuity of 28 profoundly blind and 55 normally sighted humans on the index, middle, and ring fingers of each hand, and on the lips. The tactile experience hypothesis predicted that blind participants would outperform the sighted on the fingers, and that Braille reading would correlate with tactile acuity. The visual deprivation hypothesis predicted that blind participants would outperform the sighted on fingers and lips. Consistent with the tactile experience hypothesis, the blind significantly outperformed the sighted on all fingers, but not on the lips. Additionally, among blind participants, proficient Braille readers on their preferred reading index finger outperformed nonreaders. Finally, proficient Braille readers performed better with their preferred reading index finger than with the opposite index finger, and their acuity on the preferred reading finger correlated with their weekly reading time. These results clearly implicate reliance on the sense of touch as the trigger for tactile spatial acuity enhancement in the blind, and suggest the action of underlying experience-dependent neural mechanisms such as somatosensory and/or cross-modal cortical plasticity.
The ability to judge whether sensory stimuli match an internally represented pattern is central to many brain functions. To elucidate the underlying mechanism, we developed a neural circuit model for match/nonmatch decision making. At the core of this model is a &quot;comparison circuit&quot; consisting of two distinct neural populations: match enhancement cells show higher firing response for a match than a nonmatch to the target pattern, and match suppression cells exhibit the opposite trend. We propose that these two neural pools emerge from inhibition-dominated recurrent dynamics and heterogeneous top-down excitation from a working memory circuit. A downstream system learns, through plastic synapses, to extract the necessary information to make match/nonmatch decisions. The model accounts for key physiological observations from behaving monkeys in delayed match-to-sample experiments, including tasks that require more than simple feature match (e.g., when BB in ABBA sequence must be ignored). A testable prediction is that magnitudes of match enhancement and suppression neural signals are parametrically tuned to the similarity between compared patterns. Furthermore, the same neural signals from the comparison circuit can be used differently in the decision process for different stimulus statistics or tasks; reward-dependent synaptic plasticity enables decision neurons to flexibly adjust the readout scheme to task demands, whereby the most informative neural signals have the highest impact on the decision.
Nitric oxide (NO) synthesized by neuronal NO synthase (nNOS) has long been implicated in brain plasticity. However, it is unclear how this short-lived mediator contributes to the long-term molecular changes underlying neuroplasticity, which typically require activation of the mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK) signaling pathway and gene expression. To address this issue, we used a neuroplasticity model based on treatment of neuronal cultures with bicuculline and a model of experience-dependent plasticity in the barrel cortex. In neuronal cultures, NOS inhibition attenuated the bicuculline-induced activation of ERK and the expression of c-Fos, Egr-1, Arc, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), proteins essential for neuroplasticity. Furthermore, inhibition of the NO target soluble guanylyl cyclase or of the cGMP effector kinase protein kinase G (PKG) reduced both ERK activation and plasticity-related protein expression. NOS inhibition did not affect phosphorylation of cAMP response element-binding protein (CREB), a well-established ERK nuclear target, but it attenuated the nuclear accumulation of the CREB coactivator TORC1 and suppressed the activation of Elk-1, another transcription factor target of ERK. Consistent with these in vitro observations, induction of c-Fos, Egr-1, and BDNF was attenuated in the D1 cortical barrel of nNOS(-/-) mice subjected to single whisker experience. These results establish nNOS-derived NO as a key factor in the expression of proteins involved in neuroplasticity, an effect mediated through cGMP, PKG, and ERK signaling. These actions of NO do not depend on CREB phosphorylation but may involve TORC1 and Elk-1. Our data unveil a previously unrecognized link between neuronal NO and the molecular machinery responsible for the sustained synaptic changes underlying neuroplasticity.

Some pathological conditions with feeding pattern alterations, including obesity and Huntington disease (HD) are associated with hypothalamic dysfunction and neuronal cell death. Additionally, the hypothalamus is a neurogenic region with the constitutive capacity to generate new cells of neuronal lineage, in adult rodents. The aim of the present work was to evaluate the expression of feeding-related neuropeptides in hypothalamic progenitor cells and their capacity to differentiate to functional neurons which have been described to be affected by hypothalamic dysfunction. Our study shows that hypothalamic progenitor cells from rat embryos grow as floating neurospheres and express the feeding-related neuropeptides Neuropeptide Y (NPY), Agouti-related Protein (AGRP), Pro-OpioMelanocortin (POMC), Cocaine-and-Amphetamine Responsive Transcript (CART) and Orexin-A/Hypocretin-1. Moreover the relative mRNA expression of NPY and POMC increases during the expansion of hypothalamic neurospheres in proliferative conditions.Mature neurons were obtained from the differentiation of hypothalamic progenitor cells including NPY, AGRP, POMC, CART and Orexin-A positive neurons. Furthermore the relative mRNA expression of NPY, CART and Orexin-A increases after the differentiation of hypothalamic neurospheres. Similarly to the adult hypothalamic neurons the neurospheres-derived neurons express the glutamate transporter EAAT3. The orexigenic and anorexigenic phenotype of these neurons was identified by functional response to ghrelin and leptin hormones, respectively. This work demonstrates the presence of appetite-related neuropeptides in hypothalamic progenitor cells and neurons obtained from the differentiation of hypothalamic neurospheres, including the neuronal phenotypes that have been described by others as being affected by hypothalamic neurodegeneration. These in vitro models can be used to study hypothalamic progenitor cells aiming a therapeutic intervention to mitigate feeding dysfunction that are associated with hypothalamic neurodegeneration.
Much of our daily communication occurs in the presence of background noise, compromising our ability to hear. While understanding speech in noise is a challenge for everyone, it becomes increasingly difficult as we age. Although aging is generally accompanied by hearing loss, this perceptual decline cannot fully account for the difficulties experienced by older adults for hearing in noise. Decreased cognitive skills concurrent with reduced perceptual acuity are thought to contribute to the difficulty older adults experience understanding speech in noise. Given that musical experience positively impacts speech perception in noise in young adults (ages 18-30), we asked whether musical experience benefits an older cohort of musicians (ages 45-65), potentially offsetting the age-related decline in speech-in-noise perceptual abilities and associated cognitive function (i.e., working memory). Consistent with performance in young adults, older musicians demonstrated enhanced speech-in-noise perception relative to nonmusicians along with greater auditory, but not visual, working memory capacity. By demonstrating that speech-in-noise perception and related cognitive function are enhanced in older musicians, our results imply that musical training may reduce the impact of age-related auditory decline.
Temporal information in a scene is thought to be an important cue for visual grouping of local image features into a single object. The majority of studies on this topic have attempted to determine the conditions that facilitate segregation of a figure from a cluttered background. Here we examine the temporal characteristics of two aftereffects that appear to have roles in visual integration: the curvature aftereffect (CAE; Hancock &amp; Peirce, 2008) and plaid-selective contrast adaptation (Peirce &amp; Taylor, 2006). Both aftereffects used a &quot;compound adaptation&quot; paradigm measuring adaptation to a compound stimulus that cannot be explained by adaptation to its components presented in isolation. The temporal tuning characteristics of the two aftereffects differed in three distinct ways. First, plaid-selective adaptation was very sensitive to temporal phase asynchronies, while the CAE was not. Second, while both aftereffects showed integration of alternating components above 4 Hz, for plaids the overall magnitude of adaptation was less than to synchronous stimuli and was eliminated at the highest frequencies. Finally, plaid-selective adaptation demonstrated a low-pass dependency for temporal flicker frequency of synchronous gratings, whereas the CAE did not. Overall, these results suggest that at least two different mechanisms are involved in the binding/segregation of local signals into compound patterns: one with high temporal resolution that allows rapid parsing of plaid patterns into their components and one with a coarser temporal sensitivity that mediates the CAE.
The present study examined the effect of aging on the detection and discrimination of contours embedded in a dense field of distractors. The minimum stimulus duration required to correctly discriminate (Experiment 1) and detect (Experiment 2) three types of &quot;C&quot; shaped contours was measured. Overall, older subjects required longer stimulus durations than younger subjects in all conditions. Comparing performance for contours comprising elements oriented tangentially to the contour path (aligned) and those oriented orthogonally to the contour (radial) revealed that the effect of local orientation on contour discrimination is slightly greater in older than younger subjects. Control experiments showed that these age differences were not due to differences in retinal illuminance, or the detectability or discriminability of the elements comprising the contours. These findings suggest that ability to extract global contours embedded in clutter declines in older age.
Many important results in visual neuroscience rely on the use of gaze-contingent retinal stabilization techniques. Our work focuses on the important fraction of these studies that is concerned with the retinal stabilization of visual filters that degrade some specific portions of the visual field. For instance, macular scotomas, often induced by age related macular degeneration, can be simulated by continuously displaying a gaze-contingent mask in the center of the visual field. The gaze-contingent rules used in most of these studies imply only a very minimal processing of ocular data. By analyzing the relationship between gaze and scotoma locations for different oculo-motor patterns, we show that such a minimal processing might have adverse perceptual and oculomotor consequences due mainly to two potential problems: (a) a transient blink-induced motion of the scotoma while gaze is static, and (b) the intrusion of post-saccadic slow eye movements. We have developed new gaze-contingent rules to solve these two problems. We have also suggested simple ways of tackling two unrecognized problems that are a potential source of mismatch between gaze and scotoma locations. Overall, the present work should help design, describe and test the paradigms used to simulate retinopathy with gaze-contingent displays.
Clinical trials aiming to assess the safety and efficacy of fetal cell transplantation in Parkinson's disease rely on the hypothesis that the grafted tissue will survive and grow, restore striatal dopaminergic neurotransmission, improve the connectivity between striatum, thalamus and cortex and, thereby, produce long-lasting clinical improvement while avoiding the development of adverse effects. Although transplantation of human fetal ventral mesencephalic tissue has been reported as one of the most effective reparative therapies in Parkinson's disease patients to date, different studies have shown inconsistent results causing a paucity of new trials over the last decade. However, during this period, functional imaging alongside other scientific developments from clinical observations and animal work has significantly aided in understanding the mechanisms responsible for the success or failure of grafting human fetal tissue. Recent advances in functional imaging including both positron emission tomography and functional magnetic resonance imaging could be proven useful in vivo tools for the development and assessment of new clinically competitive trials. In this commentary we discuss how an optimized functional imaging protocol could assist new clinical trials using fetal cell transplantation in Parkinson's disease.


Glutamate is a major excitatory transmitter in the central nervous system that may produce cellular injury when its concentration is abnormally increased in the synaptic cleft. Glial glutamate transporters GLAST and GLT-1, which are responsible for clearing synaptic glutamate into glial cells, play an important role in the regulation of the glutamate concentration in the synaptic cleft. However, there has been no report on long-term changes in the levels of glutamate transporters following spinal cord injury. Spinal cord injury (SCI) was induced at T12 by a New York University (NYU) impactor. Segments of the spinal cord at T9-10, L1-2, L4-5 and at the epicenter were removed after SCI, and Western blots for GLAST, GLT-1 and EAAC1 were performed. GLAST and GLT-1 were significantly decreased in the epicenter from 1day up to 8weeks after SCI. GLT-1 was significantly decreased in the spinal segments rostral to the injury site, and GLAST expression was significantly increased in the L4-5 region of the spinal cord for 8weeks. Because strategies to modulate the regulation of glutamate transporters may be applied, the present data serve as a reference for further research, although the long-term roles of glutamate transporters in pathological processes caused by SCI are not clear.
The human brain is constantly predicting the auditory environment by representing sequential similarities and extracting temporal regularities. It has been proposed that simple auditory regularities are extracted at lower stations of the auditory cortex and more complex ones at other brain regions, such as the prefrontal cortex. Deviations from auditory regularities elicit a family of early negative electric potentials distributed over the frontal regions of the scalp. In this study, we wished to disentangle the brain processes associated with sequential vs. hierarchical auditory regularities in a musical context by studying the event-related potentials (ERPs), the behavioral responses to violations of these regularities, and the localization of the underlying ERP generators using two different source analysis algorithms. To this aim, participants listened to musical cadences constituted by seven chords, each containing either harmonically congruous chords, harmonically incongruous chords, or harmonically congruous but mistuned chords. EEG was recorded and multiple source analysis was performed. Incongruous chords violating the rules of harmony elicited a bilateral ERAN, whereas mistuned chords within chord sequences elicited a right-lateralized MMN. We found that the dominant cortical sources for the ERAN were localized around Broca's area and its right homolog, whereas the MMN generators were localized around the primary auditory cortex. These findings suggest a predominant role of the auditory cortices in detecting sequential scale regularities and the posterior prefrontal cortex in parsing hierarchical regularities in music.
The present study examined the neural correlates of evaluations of both lying and truth-telling in different social contexts using fMRI methodology. The results demonstrated the differentiation between lying and truth-telling and between different types of lying in a network of brain regions. These regions included bilateral superior frontal gyrus (SFG), bilateral inferior parietal lobule (IPL), bilateral cuneus, right lingual gyrus (LG), right precuneus, and left postcentral gyrus (PoCG). Additionally, we found that activations in the right LG, the left IPL and the left PoCG were correlated with the off-line evaluations of truthful and untruthful communications about good and bad acts in different social contexts. These results suggest that the judgments of lying and truth-telling involving a third party might not be emotion-arousing but involve rational processing. This study is among the first to demonstrate that evaluations of truthful and untruthful communications in different social contexts can be differentiated in terms of brain BOLD (blood-oxygen-level-dependent) activities.

A recent study reveals that the intraerythrocytic asexual reproduction cycle of Plasmodium falciparum ends with the ruptured erythrocyte membrane curling outwards, buckling, everting and vesiculating. Analogy with the sequence seen during spontaneous inside-out vesiculation of erythrocyte membranes suggests that the parasite co-opts pre-existing cytoskeletal conformations to facilitate terminal merozoite dispersal.
Recent studies of the way animals learn challenge the idea that food learning relies mainly on how food tastes. Work on Drosophila has now shown that flies must ingest food with a metabolic benefit to form a lasting memory for a learned odour.
Cortical motion analysis continuously encodes image velocity but might also be used to predict future patterns of sensory input along the motion path. We asked whether this predictive aspect of motion is exploited by the human visual system. Targets can be more easily detected at the leading as compared to the trailing edge of motion [1], but this effect has been attributed to a nonspecific boost in contrast gain at the leading edge, linked to motion-induced shifts in spatial position [1-4]. Here we show that the detectability of a local sinusoidal target presented at the ends of a region containing motion is phase dependent at the leading edge, but not at the trailing edge. These two observations rule out a simple gain control mechanism that modulates contrast energy and passive filtering explanations, respectively. By manipulating the relative orientation of the moving pattern and target, we demonstrate that the resulting spatial variation in detection threshold along the edge closely resembles the superposition of sensory input and an internally generated predicted signal. These findings show that motion induces a forward prediction of spatial pattern that combines with the cortical representation of the future stimulus.

Dopaminergic neurons of the ventral mesodiencephalon are affected in significant health disorders such as Parkinson's disease, schizophrenia, and addiction. The ultimate goal of current research endeavors is to improve the clinical treatment of such disorders, such as providing a protocol for cell replacement therapy in Parkinson's disease that will successfully promote the specific differentiation of a stem cell into a dopaminergic neuronal phenotype. Decades of research on the developmental mechanisms of the mesodiencephalic dopaminergic (mdDA) system have led to the identification of many signaling pathways and transcription factors critical in its development. The unraveling of these pathways will help fill in the pieces of the puzzle that today dominates neurodevelopment research: how to make and maintain a mdDA neuron. In the present review, we provide an overview of the mdDA system, the processes and signaling molecules involved in its genesis, with a focus on the transcription factor En1 and the canonical Wnt pathway, highlighting recent findings on their relevance--and interplay--in the development and maintenance of the mdDA system.

The early endosome acts as a sorting station for internalized molecules destined for recycling or degradation. While recycled molecules are sorted and delivered to tubular endosomes, residual compartments containing molecules to be degraded undergo &quot;maturation&quot; before final degradation in the lysosome. This maturation involves acidification, microtubule-dependent motility, and perinuclear localization. It is currently unknown how sorting and the processes of maturation cooperate with each other. Here, we show that fission of a tubular endosome triggers the maturation of the residual endosome, leading to degradation. Use of the dynamin inhibitor dynasore to block tubular endosome fission inhibited acidification, endosomal motility along microtubules, perinuclear localization, and degradation. However, tubular endosome fission was not affected by inhibiting endosomal acidification or by depolymerizing the microtubules. These results demonstrate that the fission of recycling tubules is the first important step in endosomal maturation and degradation in the lysosome. We believe this to be the first evidence of a cascade from sorting to degradation.
Axon growth potential is highest in young neurons but diminishes with age, thus becoming a significant obstacle to axonal regeneration after injury in maturity. The mechanism for the decline is incompletely understood, and no effective clinical treatment is available to rekindle innate growth capability. Here, we show that Smad1-dependent bone morphogenetic protein (BMP) signaling is developmentally regulated and governs axonal growth in dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons. Down-regulation of the pathway contributes to the age-related decline of the axon growth potential. Reactivating Smad1 selectively in adult DRG neurons results in sensory axon regeneration in a mouse model of spinal cord injury (SCI). Smad1 signaling can be effectively manipulated by an adeno-associated virus (AAV) vector encoding BMP4 delivered by a clinically applicable and minimally invasive technique, an approach devoid of unwanted abnormalities in mechanosensation or pain perception. Importantly, transected axons are able to regenerate even when the AAV treatment is delivered after SCI, thus mimicking a clinically relevant scenario. Together, our results identify a therapeutic target to promote axonal regeneration after SCI.
During peripheral nerve development, Schwann cells ensheathe axons and form myelin to enable rapid and efficient action potential propagation. Although myelination requires profound changes in Schwann cell shape, how neuron-glia interactions converge on the Schwann cell cytoskeleton to induce these changes is unknown. Here, we demonstrate that the submembranous cytoskeletal proteins II and II spectrin are polarized in Schwann cells and colocalize with signaling molecules known to modulate myelination in vitro. Silencing expression of these spectrins inhibited myelination in vitro, and remyelination in vivo. Furthermore, myelination was disrupted in motor nerves of zebrafish lacking II spectrin. Finally, we demonstrate that loss of spectrin significantly reduces both F-actin in the Schwann cell cytoskeleton and the Nectin-like protein, Necl4, at the contact site between Schwann cells and axons. Therefore, we propose II and II spectrin in Schwann cells integrate the neuron-glia interactions mediated by membrane proteins into the actin-dependent cytoskeletal rearrangements necessary for myelination.
Mutations in polycystin-1 (PC1) lead to autosomal-dominant polycystic kidney disease (ADPKD), a leading cause of renal failure for which no treatment is available. PC1 is an integral membrane protein, which has been implicated in the regulation of multiple signaling pathways including the JAK/STAT pathway. Here we show that membrane-anchored PC1 activates STAT3 in a JAK2-dependent manner, leading to tyrosine phosphorylation and transcriptional activity. The C-terminal cytoplasmic tail of PC1 can undergo proteolytic cleavage and nuclear translocation. Tail-cleavage abolishes the ability of PC1 to directly activate STAT3 but the cleaved PC1 tail now coactivates STAT3 in a mechanism requiring STAT phosphorylation by cytokines or growth factors. This leads to an exaggerated cytokine response. Hence, PC1 can regulate STAT activity by a dual mechanism. In ADPKD kidneys PC1 tail fragments are overexpressed, including a unique 15-kDa fragment (P15). STAT3 is strongly activated in cyst-lining epithelial cells in human ADPKD, and orthologous and nonorthologous polycystic mouse models. STAT3 is also activated in developing, postnatal kidneys but inactivated in adult kidneys. These results indicate that STAT3 signaling is regulated by PC1 and is a driving factor for renal epithelial proliferation during normal renal development and during cyst growth.
Individuals with mood disorders exhibit alterations in the fibroblast growth factor system, including reduced hippocampal fibroblast growth factor-2 (FGF2). It is difficult, however, to pinpoint whether these alterations are a cause or consequence of the disorder. The present study asks whether FGF2 administered the day after birth has long-lasting effects on hippocampal development and emotionality. We show that early-life FGF2 shifts the pace of neurogenesis, with an early acceleration around weaning followed by a deceleration in adulthood. This, in turn, results in a denser dentate gyrus with more neurons. To assess the impact of early-life FGF2 on emotionality, we use rats selectively bred for differences in locomotor response to novelty. Selectively bred low-responder (bLR) rats show low levels of novelty-induced locomotion and exhibit high levels of anxiety- and depression-like behavior compared with their selectively bred high-responder counterparts. Early-life FGF2 decreased anxiety-like behavior in highly anxious bLRs without altering other behaviors and without affecting high-responder rats. Laser capture microscopy of the dentate gyrus followed by microarray analysis revealed genes that were differentially expressed in bLRs exposed to early-life FGF2 vs. vehicle-treated bLRs. Some of the differentially expressed genes that have been positively associated with anxiety were down-regulated, whereas genes that promote cell survival were up-regulated. Overall, these results show a key role for FGF2 in the developmental trajectory of the hippocampus as well as the modulation of anxiety-like behavior in adulthood, and they point to potential downstream targets for the treatment of anxiety disorders.
To explore the efficacy of paraoxonase 1 (PON1) as a catalytic bioscavenger, we evaluated human recombinant PON1 (rePON1) expressed in Trichoplusia ni larvae against sarin and soman toxicity using microinstillation inhalation exposure in guinea pigs. Animals were pretreated intravenously with catalytically active rePON1, followed by exposure to 1.2 X LCt sarin or soman. Administration of 5 units of rePON1 showed mild increase in the blood activity of the enzyme after 30 min, but protected the animals with a significant increase in survival rate along with minimal signs of nerve agent toxicity. Recombinant PON1 pretreated animals exposed to sarin or soman prevented the reduction of blood O saturation and pulse rate observed after nerve agent exposure. In addition, rePON1 pretreated animals showed significantly higher blood PON1, acetylcholinesterase (AChE), and butyrylcholinesterase activity after nerve agent exposure compared to the respective controls without treatments. AChE activity in different brain regions of rePON1 pretreated animals exposed to sarin or soman were also significantly higher than respective controls. The remaining activity of blood PON1, cholinesterases and brain AChE in PON1 pretreated animals after nerve agent exposure correlated with the survival rate. In summary, these data suggest that human rePON1 protects against sarin and soman exposure in guinea pigs.
Vulnerability to suicidal behavior (SB) is likely mediated by an underlying genetic predisposition interacting with environmental and probable epigenetic factors throughout the lifespan to modify the function of neuronal circuits, thus rendering an individual more likely to engage in a suicidal act. Improving our understanding of the neuroscience underlying SBs, both attempts and completions, at all developmental stages is crucial for more effective preventive treatments and for better identification of vulnerable individuals. Recent studies have characterized SB using an endophenotype strategy, which aims to identify quantitative measures that reflect genetically influenced stable changes in brain function. In addition to aiding in the functional characterization of susceptibility genes, endophenotypic research strategies may have a wider impact in determining vulnerability to SB, as well as the translation of human findings to animal models, and vice versa. Endophenotypes associated with vulnerability to SB include impulsive/aggressive personality traits and disadvantageous decision making. Deficits in realistic risk evaluation represent key processes in vulnerability to SB. Serotonin dysfunction, indicated by neuroendocrine responses and neuroimaging, is also strongly implicated as a potential endophenotype and is linked with impulsive aggression and disadvantageous decision making. Specific endophenotypes may represent heritable markers for the identification of vulnerable patients and may be relevant targets for successful suicide prevention and treatments.
Developing retinal neurons differentiate their distinctive dendritic morphologies through cell-intrinsic instructions and cellular interactions within the local environment. This review examines the contributions of interactions with afferents and with homotypic neighbors upon the dendritic morphogenesis of retinal bipolar cells in four different mouse models that modulate the frequency of these interactions. Comparisons with horizontal cell differentiation are discussed, and differences between the dendritic plasticity within the outer versus inner plexiform layers are highlighted. Finally, the developmental plasticity of the bipolar and horizontal cells is considered in light of the natural variation in afferent and target cell number, ensuring a uniformity of coverage and connectivity across the retinal surface.  2011 Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Develop Neurobiol, 2011.


Very Low Density Lipoprotein Receptor (VLDLR) and Apolipoprotein E Receptor 2 (ApoER2) are important receptors in the brain for mediating the signaling effects of the extracellular matrix protein Reelin, affecting neuronal function in development and in the adult brain. VLDLR and ApoER2 are members of the low density lipoprotein family, which also mediates the effects of numerous other extracellular ligands, including apolipoprotein E. Although VLDLR and ApoER2 are highly homologous, they differ in a number of ways, including structural differences, expression patterns, alternative splicing, and binding of extracellular and intracellular proteins. This review aims to summarize important aspects of VLDLR and ApoER2 that may account for interesting recent findings that highlight the unique functions of each receptor.
Oxytocin can influence various spinal functions. However, little is known about the spinal neuronal networks responsible for oxytocin effects. The aim of this study was to localize and characterize spinal neurons expressing oxytocin receptors. We used an oxytocin receptor-reporter mouse in which the fluorescent protein Venus is expressed under the control of the oxytocin receptor gene promoter. At all segmental levels, Venus-expressing neurons were most numerous in the substantia gelatinosa, mingled with protein kinase C interneurons in the innermost layer of the inner lamina II, which, in contrast to the outer two thirds of this layer, does not receive nociceptive input. Venus-expressing neurons were also observed in the intermediolateral and sacral parasympathetic nuclei, where they represented about 5% of presumed preganglionic neurons identified by choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity. Finally, Venus immunoreactivity was detected in lumbar and sacral dorsal gray commissures as well as in isolated neurons scattered in different regions of the dorsal horn. Altogether, our results establish the location of neurons putatively involved in oxytocin modulation of spinal functions, in particular of sexual functioning and nociception.
Stem cells have the ability to self renew and are therefore a good source for cell therapy following ischemia. In this study, we transplanted adult rat neural stem cells (NSCs) by lumbar puncture (LP) to investigate whether these cells can migrate and differentiate into neurons or glial cells, thereby improving functional outcome in cerebral ischemia. Transient ischemia was induced in adult rats (n=16) for 1h. Three days after the induction of ischemia, NSCs obtained from the subventricular zone of adult rats were injected into ischemic animals (n=8) by LP at the level of L6-S1. Improved recovery of the coordination of movement on the 1st, 7th, 14th, 21st and 28th days after the injury was examined by the Rotarod test and compared with non-transplanted ischemic animals (n=8). The presence of NSCs in the brain tissue of the animals was examined by immunohistofluorscence and immunohistochemical techniques. The coordination of movement in ischemic animals that received neural stem cells was improved significantly (P&lt;0.05) compared with untreated ischemic animals. Cells labeled with PKH26 were observed in the ischemic area of brain tissue sections. The alkaline phosphatase test and immunohistochemical techniques demonstrated a gathering of NSCs in the lateral ventricle. A number of cells which expressed neuronal and astrocytic cell markers had migrated from the lateral ventricle to the subjacent brain parenchyma. NSCs injected by LP were able to migrate to the ischemic tissue and differentiate into neural-like cells. These differentiated cells may have improved the coordination in movement in the ischemic animals injected with NSCs.
Accumulation of misfolded neurotoxic Cu, Zn-superoxide dismutase-1 (SOD1) protein found in both familial and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is recognized as an important contributing factor of neuronal cell death. However, little is known about the mechanisms controlling the accumulation and turnover of SOD1 protein. Puromycin-sensitive aminopeptidase (PSA/NPEPPS) was recently identified as a major peptidase acting on neurotoxic TAU protein and protecting against TAU-induced neurodegeneration. In addition, recent report implicated PSA/NPEPPS in the direct removal of neurotoxic polyglutamine repeats. These combined data suggest that PSA/NPEPPS might represent a novel degradation pathway targeting pathologically aggregating neurotoxic protein substrates including SOD1. Here, we report that PSA/NPEPPS directly regulates SOD1 protein abundance and clearance via proteolysis. In addition, PSA/NPEPPS expression is significantly decreased in motor neurons of both SODG93A transgenic mice and sporadic ALS patients, suggesting its possible contribution to the disease pathogenesis. These results implicate SOD1 as a new target protein of PSA/NPEPPS and point to the possible neuroprotective role of PSA/NPEPPS in ALS.
The relative timing of auditory and visual stimuli is a critical cue for determining whether sensory signals relate to a common source and for making inferences about causality. However, the way in which the brain represents temporal relationships remains poorly understood. Recent studies indicate that our perception of multisensory timing is flexible--adaptation to a regular inter-modal delay alters the point at which subsequent stimuli are judged to be simultaneous. Here, we measure the effect of audio-visual asynchrony adaptation on the perception of a wide range of sub-second temporal relationships. We find distinctive patterns of induced biases that are inconsistent with the previous explanations based on changes in perceptual latency. Instead, our results can be well accounted for by a neural population coding model in which: (i) relative audio-visual timing is represented by the distributed activity across a relatively small number of neurons tuned to different delays; (ii) the algorithm for reading out this population code is efficient, but subject to biases owing to under-sampling; and (iii) the effect of adaptation is to modify neuronal response gain. These results suggest that multisensory timing information is represented by a dedicated population code and that shifts in perceived simultaneity following asynchrony adaptation arise from analogous neural processes to well-known perceptual after-effects.
The Euclidean and MAX metrics have been widely used to model cue summation psychophysically and computationally. Both rules happen to be special cases of a more general Minkowski summation rule , where m = 2 and , respectively. In vision research, Minkowski summation with power m = 3-4 has been shown to be a superior model of how subthreshold components sum to give an overall detection threshold. Recently, we have previously reported that Minkowski summation with power m = 2.84 accurately models summation of suprathreshold visual cues in photographs. In four suprathreshold discrimination experiments, we confirm the previous findings with new visual stimuli and extend the applicability of this rule to cue combination in auditory stimuli (musical sequences and phonetic utterances, where m = 2.95 and 2.54, respectively) and cross-modal stimuli (m = 2.56). In all cases, Minkowski summation with power m = 2.5-3 outperforms the Euclidean and MAX operator models. We propose that this reflects the summation of neuronal responses that are not entirely independent but which show some correlation in their magnitudes. Our findings are consistent with electrophysiological research that demonstrates signal correlations (r = 0.1-0.2) between sensory neurons when these are presented with natural stimuli.

Increasing evidence indicates that microRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles in mouse brain development. We and several other reports recently have demonstrated that Wnt1-cre-mediated loss of Dicer, the key enzyme for miRNA biosynthesis, results in malformation of the midbrain and cerebellum and failure of neural crest and dopaminergic differentiation. The underlying mechanisms, however, remain poorly understood. The resemblance of some of the phenotypes in the Wnt1-cre Dicer conditional knockout embryos and Wnt1(-/-), Wnt1(-/-);Wnt3(-/-) and Wnt1-cre;-catenin(flox/flox) knockout embryos reminds us that loss of miRNA may disrupt the Wnt--catenin signaling. Here we provide evidence that miRNAs modulate the Wnt signaling pathway through targeting its inhibitors. First, we predicted miRNA binding sites in the 3' UTRs of candidate inhibitors of the Wnt signaling pathway and luciferase assays revealed that several inhibitors of Wnt signaling pathway were targeted by miRNAs. Second, we demonstrated that several miRNAs could modulate the expression of Gsk3b, an inhibitor of Wnt signaling, post-transcriptional in 293T cells. Third, we found that several miRNAs were able to regulate the Wnt--catenin signaling activity in 293T cells. More interestingly, the expression of -catenin protein was dramatically reduced in the Wnt1-cre-meidiated Dicer knockout brain tissue compared with control. Our studies therefore suggest that miRNAs might exert their functions, at least in part, by modulating the Wnt signaling pathway through targeting its inhibitors.
Sphere-forming assays have been widely used to retrospectively identify stem cells based on their reported capacity to evaluate self-renewal and differentiation at the single-cell level invitro. The discovery of markers that allow the prospective isolation of stem cells and their progeny from their invivo niche allows the functional properties of purified populations to be defined. We provide a historical perspective of the evolution of the neurosphere assay and highlight limitations in the use of sphere-forming assays in the context of neurospheres. We discuss theoretical and technical considerations of experimental design and interpretation that surround the use of this assay with any tissue.

Cell movement requires forces generated by non-muscle myosin II (NM II) for coordinated protrusion and retraction. The Cdc42/Rac effector MRCK regulates a specific actomyosin network in the lamella essential for cell protrusion and migration. Together with the Rho effector ROK required for cell rear retraction, they cooperatively regulate cell motility and tumour cell invasion. Despite the increasing importance of ROK inhibitors for both experimental and clinical purposes, there is a lack of specific inhibitors for other related kinases such as MRCK. Here, we report the identification of chelerythrine chloride as a specific MRCK inhibitor. Its ability to block cellular activity of MRCK resulted in the specific loss of NM II-associated MLC phosphorylation in the lamella, and the consequential suppression of cell migration.
The determinants of single channel conductance () and ion selectivity within eukaryotic pentameric ligand-gated ion channels have traditionally been ascribed to amino acid residues within the second transmembrane domain and flanking sequences of their component subunits. However, recent evidence suggests that  is additionally controlled by residues within the intracellular and extracellular domains. We examined the influence of two anionic residues (Asp(113) and Asp(127)) within the extracellular vestibule of a high conductance human mutant 5-hydroxytryptamine type-3A (5-HT(3)A) receptor (5-HT(3)A(QDA)) upon , modulation of the latter by extracellular Ca(2+), and the permeability of Ca(2+) with respect to Cs(+) (P(Ca)/P(Cs)). Mutations neutralizing (Asp  Asn), or reversing (Asp  Lys), charge at the 113 locus decreased inward  by 46 and 58%, respectively, but outward currents were unaffected. The D127N mutation decreased inward  by 82% and also suppressed outward currents, whereas the D127K mutation caused loss of observable single channel currents. The forgoing mutations, except for D127K, which could not be evaluated, ameliorated suppression of inwardly directed single channel currents by extracellular Ca(2+). The P(Ca)/P(Cs) of 3.8 previously reported for the 5-HT(3)A(QDA) construct was reduced to 0.13 and 0.06 by the D127N and D127K mutations, respectively, with lesser, but clearly significant, effects caused by the D113N (1.04) and D113K (0.60) substitutions. Charge selectivity between monovalent cations and anions (P(Na)/P(Cl)) was unaffected by any of the mutations examined. The data identify two key residues in the extracellular vestibule of the 5-HT(3)A receptor that markedly influence , P(Ca)/P(Cs), and additionally the suppression of  by Ca(2+).
Neuroprotective strategies, including free radical scavengers, ion channel modulators, and anti-inflammatory agents, have been extensively explored in the last 2 decades for the treatment of neurological diseases. Unfortunately, none of the neuroprotectants has been proved effective in clinical trails. In the current study, we demonstrated that methylene blue (MB) functions as an alternative electron carrier, which accepts electrons from NADH and transfers them to cytochrome c and bypasses complex I/III blockage. A de novo synthesized MB derivative, with the redox center disabled by N-acetylation, had no effect on mitochondrial complex activities. MB increases cellular oxygen consumption rates and reduces anaerobic glycolysis in cultured neuronal cells. MB is protective against various insults in vitro at low nanomolar concentrations. Our data indicate that MB has a unique mechanism and is fundamentally different from traditional antioxidants. We examined the effects of MB in two animal models of neurological diseases. MB dramatically attenuates behavioral, neurochemical, and neuropathological impairment in a Parkinson disease model. Rotenone caused severe dopamine depletion in the striatum, which was almost completely rescued by MB. MB rescued the effects of rotenone on mitochondrial complex I-III inhibition and free radical overproduction. Rotenone induced a severe loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons, which was dramatically attenuated by MB. In addition, MB significantly reduced cerebral ischemia reperfusion damage in a transient focal cerebral ischemia model. The present study indicates that rerouting mitochondrial electron transfer by MB or similar molecules provides a novel strategy for neuroprotection against both chronic and acute neurological diseases involving mitochondrial dysfunction.
Progranulin (GRN) haploinsufficiency is a frequent cause of familial frontotemporal dementia, a currently untreatable progressive neurodegenerative disease. By chemical library screening, we identified suberoylanilide hydroxamic acid (SAHA), a Food and Drug Administration-approved histone deacetylase inhibitor, as an enhancer of GRN expression. SAHA dose-dependently increased GRN mRNA and protein levels in cultured cells and restored near-normal GRN expression in haploinsufficient cells from human subjects. Although elevation of secreted progranulin levels through a post-transcriptional mechanism has recently been reported, this is, to the best of our knowledge, the first report of a small molecule enhancer of progranulin transcription. SAHA has demonstrated therapeutic potential in other neurodegenerative diseases and thus holds promise as a first generation drug for the prevention and treatment of frontotemporal dementia.
proBDNF, a precursor of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), is anterogradely transported and released from nerve terminals, but the mechanism underlying this process remains unclear. In this study, we report that proBDNF forms a complex with Huntingtin associated protein-1 (HAP1) and sortilin, which plays an important role in proBDNF intracellular trafficking and stabilization. The interaction of proBDNF with both HAP1A and sortilin in co-transfected HEK293 cells is confirmed by both fluorescence resonance energy transfer and co-immunoprecipitation. The frequent co-localization (&gt;90%) of endogenous HAP1, sortilin, and proBDNF is also found in cultured cortical neurons. Mapping studies using GST pulldown and competition assays has defined the interacting region of HAP1 with proBDNF within amino acids 371-445 and the binding sequences of proBDNF to HAP1 between amino acids 65 and 90. Fluorescence recovery after photobleaching confirms the defective movement of proBDNF-containing vesicles in neurites of HAP1(-/-) neurons, which can be partially restored by reintroducing HAP1 cDNA into the neurons. However, the effect is significantly increased by simultaneously reintroducing both HAP1 and sortilin. proBDNF and HAP1 are highly co-localized with organelle markers for the Golgi network, microtubules, molecular motor, or endosomes in normal neurons, but this co-localization is reduced in HAP1(-/-) neurons. Co-immunoprecipitation and Western blot showed that sortilin stabilizes the proBDNFHAP1 complex in co-transfected HEK293 cells, helping to prevent proBDNF degradation. Furthermore, the complex facilitates furin cleavage to release mature BDNF.
We describe a generalized approach to stereocontrolled synthesis of substituted cyclic hydroxamic acids (3-amino-1-hydroxy-3,4-dihydroquinolinones) by selective reduction of substituted 2-nitrophenylalanine substrates. Compounds in this series have antibacterial properties and have also recently been reported as KAT II inhibitors. The key nitrophenyl alanine intermediates are prepared enantioselectively in excellent yield by phase transfer catalyzed alkylation of the corresponding nitrobenzyl bromides. The scope and limitations of the reductive cyclization transformation have been explored with attention to the effects of substitution pattern and electronics on reaction efficiency and byproduct formation. In addition, a novel activated trifluoroethyl ester cyclization strategy has been developed as an alternate approach to the most sterically demanding systems in this series.





Neuronal connectivity is fundamental to information processing in the brain. Therefore, understanding the mechanisms of sensory processing requires uncovering how connection patterns between neurons relate to their function. On a coarse scale, long-range projections can preferentially link cortical regions with similar responses to sensory stimuli. But on the local scale, where dendrites and axons overlap substantially, the functional specificity of connections remains unknown. Here we determine synaptic connectivity between nearby layer 2/3 pyramidal neurons in vitro, the response properties of which were first characterized in mouse visual cortex in vivo. We found that connection probability was related to the similarity of visually driven neuronal activity. Neurons with the same preference for oriented stimuli connected at twice the rate of neurons with orthogonal orientation preferences. Neurons responding similarly to naturalistic stimuli formed connections at much higher rates than those with uncorrelated responses. Bidirectional synaptic connections were found more frequently between neuronal pairs with strongly correlated visual responses. Our results reveal the degree of functional specificity of local synaptic connections in the visual cortex, and point to the existence of fine-scale subnetworks dedicated to processing related sensory information.
The transcription regulator, neuron-restrictive silencer factor (NRSF), also known as repressor element-1 silencing transcription factor (REST), plays an important role in neurogenesis and various neuronal diseases such as ischaemia, epilepsy, and Huntington's disease. In these disease processes, neuronal loss is associated with abnormal expression and/or localization of NRSF. Previous studies have demonstrated that NRSF regulates the effect of ethanol on neuronal cells in vitro, however, the role of NRSF in ethanol-induced neuronal cell death remains unclear. We generated nrsf conditional knockout mice using the Cre-loxP system to disrupt neuronal expression of nrsf and its truncated forms. At postnatal day 6, ethanol significantly increased the expression of REST4, a neuron-specific truncated form of NRSF, in the brains of wild type mice, and this effect was diminished in nrsf conditional knockout mice. The apoptotic effect of ethanol was pronounced in multiple brain regions of nrsf conditional mutant mice. These results indicate that NRSF, specifically REST4, may protect the developing brain from ethanol, and provide new evidence that NRSF can be a therapeutic target in foetal alcohol syndrome (FAS).
Documentation of several non-motor deficits in Parkinson's disease (PD) years prior to the onset of clinical motor symptoms has facilitated the exploration of several models to better understand the pre-motor features of the disease. Reports of aversion deficits in early stages of PD have led to the current study focused on neural and behavioral responses to aversion in a rat model of pre-motor PD. To gain insight into the pre-motor stage of PD, rats were administered low dosages of 6-hydroxydopamine in a step-wise manner and assessed at three weeks post the final treatment with behavioral and imaging measures. The pre-motor PD rats exhibited lower arousal and less avoidance behavior in the presence of an aversive odor. These results could not be attributed to selective hyposmia since the PD rats did not exhibit any deficit in the exploration of the odor. The imaging studies showed that the PD group had similar blood oxygenation level dependent (BOLD) activation in the olfactory regions, insular cortex and medial nucleus of amygdala as compared to the control and the sham lesioned groups, and significantly higher BOLD activation in the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). However significantly lower BOLD activation was observed in the basal, lateral and central nucleus of the amygdala in the PD group compared to sham and control animals. Taken together, our results suggest that aversion deficits in the pre-motor stages of the disease maybe a result of inappropriate response generation due to cortico-amygdalar dysfunction.
Circadian (24-h) rhythms influence virtually every aspect of mammalian physiology. The main rhythm generation center is located in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN) of the hypothalamus, and work over the past several years has revealed that rhythmic gene transcription and post-translational processes are central to clock timing. In addition, rhythmic translation control has also been implicated in clock timing; however the precise cell signaling pathways that drive this process are not well known. Here we report that a key translation activation cascade, the mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) pathway, is under control of the circadian clock in the SCN. Using phosphorylated S6 ribosomal protein (pS6) as a marker of mTOR activity, we show that the mTOR cascade exhibits maximal activity during the subjective day, and minimal activity during the late subjective night. Importantly, expression of S6 was not altered as a function of circadian time. Rhythmic S6 phosphorylation was detected throughout the dorsoventral axis of the SCN, thus suggesting that rhythmic mTOR activity was not restricted to a subset of SCN neurons. Rather, rhythmic pS6 expression appeared to parallel the expression pattern of the clock gene period1 (per1). Using a transgenic per1 reporter gene mouse strain, we found a statistically significant cellular level correlation between pS6 and per1 gene expression over the circadian cycle. Further, photic stimulation triggered a coordinate upregulation of per1 and mTOR activation in a subset of SCN cells. Interestingly, this cellular level correlation between mTOR activity and per1 expression appears to be specific, since a similar expression profile for pS6 and per2 or c-FOS was not detected. Finally, we show that mTOR activity is downstream of the ERK/MAPK signal transduction pathway. Together these data reveal that mTOR pathway activity is under the control of the SCN clock, and suggests that mTOR signaling may contribute to distinct aspects of the molecular clock timing process.
I.c.v. administration of the octadecaneuropeptide (ODN), a peptide derived from diazepam-binding inhibitor (DBI), induces anorexigenic and anxiogenic-like actions in rodents. We have recently shown that, in goldfish, i.c.v. injection of ODN also reduces food consumption via the metabotropic endozepine receptor. However, there is little information regarding the structure of DBI and the psychophysiological roles of endozepines in fish. Therefore, in the present study, we isolated and cloned a cDNA encoding goldfish DBI. The deduced sequence exhibits high similarity with non-mammalian DBIs, and we investigated the effect of homologous ODN on psychomotor activity in goldfish. i.c.v. injection of synthetic goldfish ODN at 10 pmol/g body weight (BW) stimulated locomotor activity. Since intact goldfish placed in a tank with both black and white background areas prefers the black compartment, we developed a method for measuring the time taken for fish to move from the black to the white area. I.c.v. administration of diazepam (35 and 350 pmol/g BW) decreased, whereas i.c.v. administration of ODN (10 pmol/g BW) or the central-type benzodiazepine receptor inverse agonist FG-7142 (9 pmol/g BW) increased the time taken to move from the black to the white background area. The anxiogenic-like effect of ODN was blocked by the central-type benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil (100 pmol/g BW), but was not affected by the metabotropic endozepine receptor antagonist cyclo1-8[d-Leu(5)]octapeptide (100 pmol/g BW). These data indicate that ODN can potently affect locomotor and psychomotor activities in goldfish and that this action is mediated via the central-type benzodiazepine receptor-signaling pathway.
Early life experiences, particularly mother-infant interactions, have been shown to influence adult coping and learning abilities via gene-environment interactions. We have developed a paradigm, in which mother contact is used as either a positive or a negative reinforcer in a T-maze, during postnatal days 10-13. In both neonates receiving (RER) or denied (DER) the expected reward, exposure to the memory test in the absence of the mother resulted in a remarkable increase in the number of pCREB immunopositive cells, when compared to their corresponding levels 2 h after the completion of the training process, but also to the levels of nave animals. In the CA3 area, the pattern of pCREB immunoreactivity, when evaluated 2 h after the completion of the training on postnatal day 13 seemed to distinguish between the two different neonatal experiences in the T-maze, with the DER pups showing higher levels of pCREB immunopositive cells than the RER. Exposure to the Morris Water Maze (MWM) during adulthood revealed a memory advantage of the DER animals compared to the RER and the animals not exposed to the neonatal experience. Relevantly, in the DER animals an increased number of pCREB immunopositive cells was observed in the CA3 area even 24 h after the end of MWM training. When also measured after exposure to the probe trial, the number of pCREB immunopositive cells was again higher in the DER compared to the RER animals. In conclusion, we show that a learning experience involving discrepancy during the particularly plastic neonatal period is able to induce long-term effects, which result in enhanced adult hippocampal dependent spatial memory. Furthermore, our data document a role of plasticity molecules like pCREB in mediating hippocampal dependent learning and detection of novelty not only in adulthood, but also more importantly in the neonatal period of the rat.
A degradation of the nigrostriatal dopaminergic (DA-ergic) system is the key component of pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD). Initial clinical symptoms appear 20-30 years after the onset of neurodegeneration, at a 70% DA depletion in the striatum and a 50% loss of nigral DA-ergic neurons. Low efficacy of the therapy might be improved if preclinical diagnostics and preventive therapy are developed. The development of appropriate experimental models should precede clinical trials. This multidisciplinary study first managed to model in mice with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) all together the following stages of parkinsonism: (a) the early presymptomatic stage manifested by a subthreshold degeneration of axons and DA depletion in the striatum without loss of nigral cell bodies; (b) the advanced presymptomatic stage manifested by a subthreshold degeneration of striatal axons and DA depletion and by a subthreshold loss of nigral cell bodies; (c) the advanced presymptomatic stage characterized by threshold depletion of striatal DA and a loss of DA-ergic axons and nigral cell bodies resulting in motor dysfunction. The degeneration of axons proceeds and prevails that of cell bodies suggesting higher sensitivity to MPTP of the former. Compensatory processes were developed in parallel to neurodegeneration that was manifested by the increase of the DA content in individual nigral cell bodies and DA turnover in the striatum. The developed models might be exploited for: (a) an examination of pathogenetic mechanisms not only in the nigrostriatal system but also in other brain regions and in the periphery; (b) a study of the compensatory mechanisms under DA deficiency; (c) a search of precursors of motor disorders and peripheral biomarkers in presymptomatic parkinsonism; (d) the development of preventive therapy aiming to slow down the neurodegeneration and strengthen compensatory processes. Thus, the models of the early and advanced presymptomaic stages and of the early symptomatic stage of parkinsonism were developed in mice with MPTP.
The piriform cortex layer II of young-adult rats presents a population of prenatally generated cells, which express immature neuronal markers, such as the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) or doublecortin (DCX), and display structural characteristics of immature neurons. The number of PSA-NCAM/DCX expressing cells in this region decreases markedly as age progresses, suggesting that these cells differentiate or die. Since the piriform cortex receives a major input from the olfactory bulb and participates in olfactory information processing, it is possible that the immature neurons in layer II are affected by manipulations of the olfactory bulb or olfactory learning. It is not known whether these cells can be induced to differentiate and, if so, what would be their fate. In order to address these questions, we have performed unilateral olfactory bulbectomy (OBX) and an olfactory learning paradigm (taste-potentiated odor aversion, TPOA), in young-adult rats and have studied the expression of different mature and immature neuronal markers, as well as the presence of cell death. We have found that 14 h after OBX there was a dramatic decrease in the number of both PSA-NCAM and DCX expressing cells in piriform cortex layer II, whereas that of cells expressing NeuN, a mature neuronal marker, increased. By contrast, the number of cells expressing glutamate decarboxylase, isoform 67 (GAD67), a marker for interneurons, decreased slightly. Additionally, we have not found evidence of numbers of dying cells high enough to justify the disappearance of immature neurons. Analysis of animals subjected to TPOA revealed that this paradigm does not affect PSA-NCAM expressing cells. Our results strongly suggest that OBX can induce the maturation of immature neurons in the piriform cortex layer II and that these cells do not become interneurons. By contrast, these cells do not seem to play a crucial role in olfactory memory.
We examined the effects of eszopiclone (ESZ), a GABA-A receptor agonist in current clinical use as a hypnotic medication, on the activity of subcortical wake- and sleep-active neuronal populations in the rat brain. Sleep-wake states were quantified after i.p. injections of ESZ (3 and 10 mg/kg) or vehicle administered early in the dark phase, when rats are spontaneously awake. Rats were euthanized 2 h post-injection and brain tissue was processed for c-Fos protein immunoreactivity (IR) and for neurotransmitter markers. ESZ at 3 and 10 mg/kg increased time spent in non-rapid-eye-movement (nonREM) sleep, but had no significant effect on Fos-IR in GABAergic neurons in the preoptic hypothalamus that normally express c-Fos during sleep. Among wake-active cell types examined, Fos-IR in hypocretin (HCRT) neurons in the perifornical lateral hypothalamus (LH) was reduced following 3 and 10 mg/kg ESZ. At 10 mg/kg, ESZ suppressed Fos-IR in cholinergic and noncholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain and in serotonergic and nonserotonegic neurons in the dorsal raphe. Having determined that HCRT neurons were responsive to the low dose of systemic ESZ, we unilaterally perfused ESZ directly into the LH of awake rats, using reverse microdialysis. Perfusion of ESZ at 50 M into the LH for 2 h suppressed waking-related Fos-IR in HCRT neurons, but not in nonHCRT neurons ipsilateral to the dialysis probe. Bilateral LH perfusion of ESZ at 50 M for 2 h early in the dark phase significantly increased sleep. These findings demonstrate that sleep induction by ESZ does not require activation of GABAergic sleep-regulatory neurons in the preoptic hypothalamus, and identify suppression of HCRT neurons in the LH and suppression of basal forebrain and dorsal raphe neurons as potential mechanisms underlying the sleep-promoting effects of ESZ.
We previously described a role for adrenergic signaling in the hippocampus to promote contextual and spatial memory retrieval. A subsequent study performing expression analysis of the immediate-early gene (IEG) Arc suggested that activation of CA1 but not CA3 pyramidal neurons during memory retrieval is impaired in the absence of NE. The current study sought to confirm and extend those observations by performing expression analysis of a second IEG product, Fos, following a much greater variety of testing conditions. In mutant mice lacking NE, induction of Fos was normal in all regions of the hippocampus and amygdala shortly after fear conditioning. In contrast, when testing contextual fear 1 day after training, induction of Fos in CA1 and the central nucleus of the amygdala (CeA), but not CA3, the dentate gyrus or other amygdaloid nuclei, was impaired in the mutant mice. This pattern corresponded to the memory retrieval deficit exhibited by these mice. On the other hand, induction was normal in CA1 and CeA when testing cued fear 1 day after training, or contextual fear 1 week or 1 month after training, conditions in which retrieval are normal in the absence of NE. Acute restoration of NE in the mutant mice before testing but not before training rescued retrieval of contextual fear and restored Fos induction in CA1 and CeA. Because NE facilitates retrieval through the activation of (1)-adrenergic receptors, (1) knockout mice were also examined and found to exhibit reduced induction of Fos in CA1 and CeA following retrieval. Based on these and previous results, we hypothesize that adrenergic signaling is critical for the full activation of CA1 pyramidal neurons in response to excitatory input from CA3 pyramidal neurons conveying retrieved contextual information.
We have investigated the effect of three potential scar-reducing agents applied at a sciatic nerve repair site in C57-black-6 mice. Under anaesthesia the nerve was transected, repaired using four epineurial sutures, and 100 l of either triamcinolone acetonide (1 mg/100 l), an interleukin-10 peptide fragment (125 ng/100 l or 500 ng/100 l) or mannose-6-phosphate (M6P, 200 mM or 600 mM) was injected into and around the nerve. After 6 weeks the extent of regeneration was assessed electrophysiologically by determining the ratio of the compound action potential (CAP) modulus evoked by electrical stimulation of the nerve 2 mm distal or proximal to the repair site. The conduction velocity of the fastest components in the CAP was also calculated. The percentage area of collagen staining (PAS) at the repair site was analysed using Picrosirius Red and image analysis. Comparisons were made with a placebo group (100 l of phosphate buffered saline) and sham-operated controls. The median CAP modulus ratio in the 600 mM M6P group was 0.44, which was significantly higher than in the placebo group (0.24, P=0.012: Kruskal-Wallis test). Conduction velocities were also faster in the 600 mM M6P group (median 30 m s(-1)) than in the placebo group (median 27.8 m s(-1); P=0.0197: Kruskal-Wallis test). None of the other treated groups were significantly different from the placebo, and all had significantly lower CAP ratios than the sham controls (P&lt;0.05). All repair groups had a significantly higher PAS for collagen than sham controls. We conclude that the administration of 600 mM mannose-6-phosphate to a nerve repair site enhances axonal regeneration.
Endothelial dysfunction triggers early pathological changes in vessel walls, potentially leading to the formation of cerebral aneurysm (CA). Endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) are critical in repairing damaged endothelium and could prevent or slow CA formation. We hypothesize that erythropoietin (EPO) stimulates EPCs mobilization, could alter the rate of CA formation and progression. The hypothesis was tested in a rat model of CA. CAs were induced in male Sprague-Dawley rats and treated with s.c. administration of EPO. Circulating EPCs and serum vascular endothelial grow factor (VEGF) were measured be flow cytometry and ELISA, respectively. mRNAs for inducible nitric oxide synthase (iNOS), endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS), matrix metalloproteinase-2 (MMP-2), and MMP-9 in aneurysm tissue were quantified by Real-time PCR. The size, internal elastic lamina (IEL), and media thickness of CAs were evaluated 1 and 3 months after aneurysm induction. Circulating EPCs were significantly lower in CA rats as compared to non-surgical controls. EPO increased levels of circulating EPCs and VEGF. It also decreased iNOS, MMP-2, and MMP-9 mRNA levels, while increased eNOS mRNA in aneurysm tissue. The changes in EPCs and biochemical markers are associated with suppression of new CA formation and prevention of preexisting CA progression. We have shown a close association among circulating EPCs, biochemical markers related to vascular remodeling, and the rate of CA formation and progression. Changes in patterns of cerebral blood flow and hypertension induced by surgical ligations of selected arteries exert significant hemodynamic stress to weaken vessel walls, primarily at sites of basilar bifurcation. The surgical stress also reduced circulating EPCs and slowed vascular repairs. EPO mobilizes EPCs from the bone marrow and promotes their homing. These results suggest that EPCs may serve as a marker for CA progression and EPO a promising candidate for the clinical management of CA.
Changes in brain ultrastructure of fetal rats with intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR) were explored and the effects of antenatal taurine supplementation on their brain ultrastructure were determined. Fifteen pregnant rats were randomly divided into three groups: control group, IUGR model group and IUGR group given antenatal taurine supplements. Taurine was added to the diet of the taurine group at a dose of 300 mg/kg/d from 12 days after conception until natural delivery. Transmission electron microscopy was used to observe ultrastructural changes in the brains of the newborn rats. At the same time, brain cellular apoptosis was detected using TUNEL, and the changes in protein expression of neuron specific enolase and glial fibrillary acidic protein were analyzed using immunohistochemistry. The results showed that: 1) The average body weight and cerebral weight were significantly lower in the IUGR group than in the control group (p&lt;0.01) and both of them were less so after taurine was supplemented (p&lt;0.01). 2) Transmission electron microscopy revealed that brain cortex structures were sparse IUGR rats, showing many scattered apoptotic cells, decreased numbers of synapses, lower glial cell proliferation, and fewer neurons, more sparsely arranged, while these factors were significantly improved with taurine supplementation. 3) The results of TUNEL showed that the counts of apoptotic brain cells in IUGR groups were significantly increased from those in control groups and that taurine could significantly decrease brain cell apoptosis (p&lt;0.001). 4) The results of immunohistochemistry showed that antenatal taurine-supplementation could significantly increase the counts of neuron specific enolase and glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactive cells in fetal rats with IUGR (p&lt;0.001). It can be concluded that it IUGR has a significant detrimental influence on the development of fetal rat brains, and antenatal supplement of taurine can significantly improve the IUGR fetal brain development.
The GABA(B) receptor is important for the function of auditory neurons. We used Western blotting and immunohistochemical methods to examine the level and localization of GABA(B)R2, a required subunit of a functional GABA(B) receptor, in the rat's central auditory system. Results revealed that this subunit was expressed throughout the auditory system with the level being high in the layers I-V of the auditory cortex, medial geniculate nucleus, dorsomedial and lateral parts of the inferior colliculus, and the molecular and fusiform cell layers of the dorsal cochlear nucleus. Labeled cell bodies were found in all the areas showing immunoreactivity. Neuropil labeling was strong in areas with high overall levels of immunoreactivity. Regional distributions of the receptor subunit revealed clear boundaries of some auditory subnuclei including the dorsal and ventral cochlear nuclei and the lateral superior olivary nucleus. Differences in immunoreactivity were found between the central nucleus and the dorsal cortex of the inferior colliculus and between the dorsal and ventral parts of the ventral nucleus of the lateral lemniscus, although no clear boundaries were observed. No differences in immunoreactivity were found between the core and the belt areas of the auditory cortex and among the subdivisions of the medial geniculate nucleus. The regional distribution of the receptor subunit in auditory structures is consistent with inputs to these structures and the cellular localization of the receptor in auditory neurons supports the contribution of the GABA(B) receptor to synaptic responses in these neurons.
Although autologous nerve graft is still the first choice strategy in nerve reconstruction, it has the severe disadvantage of the sacrifice of a functional nerve. Cell transplantation in a bioartificial conduit is an alternative strategy to improve nerve regeneration. Nerve fibrin conduits were seeded with various cell types: primary Schwann cells (SC), SC-like differentiated bone marrow-derived mesenchymal stem cells (dMSC), SC-like differentiated adipose-derived stem cells (dASC). Two further control groups were fibrin conduits without cells and autografts. Conduits were used to bridge a 1 cm rat sciatic nerve gap in a long term experiment (16 weeks). Functional and morphological properties of regenerated nerves were investigated. A reduction in muscle atrophy was observed in the autograft and in all cell-seeded groups, when compared with the empty fibrin conduits. SC showed significant improvement in axon myelination and average fiber diameter of the regenerated nerves. dASC were the most effective cell population in terms of improvement of axonal and fiber diameter, evoked potentials at the level of the gastrocnemius muscle and regeneration of motoneurons, similar to the autografts. Given these results and other advantages of adipose derived stem cells such as ease of harvest and relative abundance, dASC could be a clinically translatable route towards new methods to enhance peripheral nerve repair.
Several lines of epidemiological studies have indicated that caffeine consumption and plasma uric acid (UA) level were negatively correlated with the incidence of some neurodegenerative diseases. We report here a novel mechanism by which these purine derivatives increase neuronal glutathione (GSH) synthesis. Intraperitoneal injection of caffeine or UA into male C57BL/6 mice significantly increased total GSH levels in the hippocampus. Neither SCH58261, an adenosine A2A receptor antagonist, nor rolipram, a phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor, increased GSH levels. Pretreatment with allopurinol, a drug to inhibit UA production, did not change the GSH level in the caffeine-treated mice. Hippocampal CA1 pyramidal neurons treated with caffeine or UA were resistant to oxidant exposure in the slice culture experiments. In experiments with the SH-SY5Y cell line, cysteine uptake was sodium-dependent and pretreatment with caffeine or UA increased cysteine uptake significantly as compared with the control conditions. Slice culture experiments using the hippocampus also showed increased cysteine and GSH contents after the treatment with caffeine or UA. Immunohistochemical analysis showed increased GSH levels in the hippocampal excitatory amino acid carrier-1 (EAAC1)-positive neurons of mice treated with caffeine or UA. These findings suggest that purine derivatives caffeine and UA induce neuronal GSH synthesis by promoting cysteine uptake, leading to neuroprotection.
The matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a family of proteins involved in the remodelling and homeostasis of the extracellular matrix. These proteases have been well studied in the retina and the brain, marking their importance in neuronal cell survival and death [Chintala (2006) Exp Eye Res 82:5-12; Candelario-Jalil et al. (2009) Neuroscience 158:983-994]. The neuroepithelia of the eye and the inner ear share common characteristics. Therefore, we hypothesized that MMPs could play a similar role in the cochlea as described in the retina. We focused on the localization and function of MMP-2 and MMP-9 in the cochlea, by determining their expression and activity under normal conditions and after cochlear damage via aminoglycoside exposition. We examined their expression in 5-day-old Wistar rat cochleas by RT-PCR, real-time PCR, and Western blot. We used immunohistochemistry to investigate their location in the cochleas of adult C57BL/6 mice. We also determined whether or not the exposure of the organs of Corti to aminoglycosides would change MMP-2 and MMP-9 expression patterns. Western blotting identified MMP-2 and MMP-9 in neonatal spiral ganglion, stria vascularis, and to a lesser extent the organ of Corti. Neonatal mRNA expression of MMP-2 was approximately equivalent in all three tissues, while MMP-9 mRNA was highest in spiral ganglion. Immunohistochemistry showed MMP-2 primarily in adult spiral ganglion neurons and inner hair cells, while MMP-9 was found mainly in spiral ganglion neurons, inner hair cells and supporting cells. Organs of Corti treated with gentamicin for 24 h showed an upregulation of MMP-2 and MMP-9 proteins, but did not show a significant upregulation of mRNA expression 3, 6, 12, 24, and 36 h after gentamicin exposure. Inhibition of MMP activity in organs of Corti incubated with an MMP inhibitor in organotypic cultures resulted in hair cell death-suggesting that a basal level of MMP activity is required for hair cell survival.
Luminal hydrogen sulfide (H(2)S) causes colonic pain and referred hyperalgesia in mice through activation of T-type Ca(2+) channels. To test a hypothesis that H(2)S might chelate and remove endogenous Zn(2+) that inhibits the Ca(v)3.2 isoform of T-type Ca(2+) channels, facilitating visceral nociception, we asked if intracolonic (i.col.) administration of Zn(2+) chelators mimics H(2)S-induced visceral nociception. Visceral nociceptive behavior and referred abdominal allodynia/hyperalgesia were determined after i.col. administration of NaHS, a donor for H(2)S, or Zn(2+) chelators in mice. Phospholylation of extracellular signal-regulated protein kinase (ERK) in the spinal cord was analyzed by immunohistochemistry. The visceral nociceptive behavior and referred abdominal allodynia/hyperalgesia caused by i.col. NaHS in mice were abolished by i.col. preadministration of zinc chloride (ZnCl(2)), known to selectively inhibit Ca(v)3.2, but not Ca(v)3.1 or Ca(v)3.3, isoforms of T-type Ca(2+) channels, and by i.p. preadministration of mibefradil, a pan-T-type Ca(2+) channel blocker. Two distinct Zn(2+) chelators, N,N,N',N'-tetrakis(2-pyridylmethyl)ehylenediamine (TPEN) and dipicolinic acid, when administered i.col., mimicked the NaHS-evoked visceral nociceptive behavior and referred abdominal allodynia/hyperalgesia, which were inhibited by mibefradil and by NNC 55-0396, another T-type Ca(2+) channel blocker. Like i.col. NaHS, i.col. TPEN caused prompt phosphorylation of ERK in the spinal dorsal horn, an effect blocked by mibefradil. Removal of luminal Zn(2+) by H(2)S and other Zn(2+) chelators thus produces colonic pain through activation of T-type Ca(2+) channels, most probably of the Ca(v)3.2 isoform. Hence, endogenous Zn(2+) is considered to play a critical role in modulating visceral pain.
Adipose tissue stroma contains a population of mesenchymal stem cells, which support repair of damaged tissues through the protective effects of secreted trophic factors. Neurotrophic factors, including nerve growth factor (NGF) have been identified in media collected from cultured adipose-derived stem cells (ASC). We previously demonstrated that administration of cell-free ASC conditioned medium (ASC-CM) at 24 h after injury reduced lesion volume and promoted functional recovery in a rat model of neonatal brain hypoxic-ischemic (HI) injury. The timing of administration well after the peak in neural cell apoptosis in the affected region suggests that regeneration of lost neurons is promoted by factors in ASC-CM. In this study, we determined which of the factors in ASC-CM could induce neurogenesis by testing the ability of the mixture, either whole or after inactivating specific components, to stimulate neurite outgrowth in vitro using the neurogenic cell line PC12. Neuritogenesis in PC12 cells treated with ASC-CM was observed at a level comparable to that observed with purified recombinant NGF. It was observed that NGF in ASC-CM was mainly responsible for inducing PC12 cell neuritogenesis. Interestingly, both ASC-CM and NGF induced PC12 cell neuritogenesis through activation of the AMP-activated kinase (AMPK) pathway which is the central protein involved in controlling many critical functions in response to changes in the cellular energy status. Pharmacological and genetic inhibition of AMPK activity greatly reduced neuritogenesis in PC12 cells. These results suggest that, in addition to possessing neuroprotective properties, ASC-CM mediates repair of damaged tissues through inducing neuronal differentiation via NGF-induced AMPK activation.
The greater incidence of myocardial infarction, cardiac arrest, and ischemic stroke among women who smoke and use oral contraception (OC) compared to women who do not smoke and who do or do not use OC may be due in part to how nicotine influences endocrine function in women. For example, we recently demonstrated that chronic exposure to nicotine, the addictive agent in tobacco smoke responsible for the elevated risk of cardiac arrest, abolishes the endogenous or exogenous 17-estradiol-conferred protection of the hippocampus against global cerebral ischemia (a potential outcome of cardiac arrest) in naive or ovariectomized female rats. In the current study we examined the hypotheses that (1) a synergistic deleterious effect of nicotine plus oral contraceptives exacerbates post-ischemic hippocampal damage in female rats, and (2) nicotine directly inhibits estrogen-mediated intracellular signaling in the hippocampus. To test first hypothesis and to simulate smoking behavior-induced nicotine levels in the human body, we implanted osmotic pumps containing nicotine in the female rats for 16 days. Furthermore, we mimicked the use of oral contraceptives in females by administering oral contraceptives orally to the rat. Rats exposed to either nicotine alone or in combination with oral contraceptives were subjected to an episode of cerebral ischemia and the resultant brain damage was quantified. These results showed for the first time that nicotine with oral contraceptives did indeed exacerbate post-ischemic CA1 damage as compared to nicotine alone in naive female rats. In ex vivo hippocampal slice cultures, we found that nicotine alone or with 17-estradiol directly hinders estrogen receptors-mediated phosphorylation of cyclic-AMP element binding protein, a process required for neuronal survival and also exacerbates ischemic damage. Thus, nicotine can affect the outcome of cerebral ischemia by influencing brain endocrine function directly rather than through indirect systemic effects.
Cannabis derivatives have become the most widely used illicit substances in developed countries, and constitute a major health concern. The psychoactive compounds contained in cannabis induce their pharmacological effects by the activation of at least two different receptors, CB1 and CB2 cannabinoid receptors. Multiple studies have demonstrated the specific involvement of CB1 cannabinoid receptors in the addictive properties of cannabinoids. Several neurotransmitter systems involved in the addictive effects of other prototypical drugs of abuse, such as the dopaminergic and the opioid system are also involved in cannabis addiction. The participation of other neurochemical systems in behavioural responses of cannabinoids related to their addictive effects has also been reported. This review describes the experimental methods now available to study the pharmacological responses of cannabinoids related to their addictive effects and how these methods have contributed to advance the knowledge of the specific contribution of different neurochemical systems in cannabis addiction.
Acquiring the behavioral significance of sound has repeatedly been shown to correlate with long term changes in response properties of neurons in the adult primary auditory cortex. However, the molecular and cellular basis for such changes is still poorly understood. To address this, we have begun examining the auditory cortical expression of an activity-dependent effector immediate early gene (IEG) with documented roles in synaptic plasticity and memory consolidation in the hippocampus: Arc/Arg3.1. For initial characterization, we applied a repeated 10 min (24 h separation) sound exposure paradigm to determine the strength and consistency of sound-evoked Arc/Arg3.1 mRNA expression in the absence of explicit behavioral contingencies for the sound. We used 3D surface reconstruction methods in conjunction with fluorescent in situ hybridization (FISH) to assess the layer-specific subcellular compartmental expression of Arc/Arg3.1 mRNA. We unexpectedly found that both the intranuclear and cytoplasmic patterns of expression depended on the prior history of sound stimulation. Specifically, the percentage of neurons with expression only in the cytoplasm increased for repeated versus singular sound exposure, while intranuclear expression decreased. In contrast, the total cellular expression did not differ, consistent with prior IEG studies of primary auditory cortex. Our results were specific for cortical layers 3-6, as there was virtually no sound driven Arc/Arg3.1 mRNA in layers 1-2 immediately after stimulation. Our results are consistent with the kinetics and/or detectability of cortical subcellular Arc/Arg3.1 mRNA expression being altered by the initial exposure to the sound, suggesting exposure-induced modifications in the cytoplasmic Arc/Arg3.1 mRNA pool.
Acute low back pain (LBP) is associated with differential changes in motor coordination of deep and superficial trunk muscles. Whether this is related to differential changes in excitability of descending corticomotor inputs remains unclear and was investigated in nine healthy individuals. Fine-wire i.m. electrodes were inserted bilaterally into deep (transversus abdominis (TrA)) and superficial abdominal muscles (obliquus externus abdominis (OE)), and surface electrodes were placed bilaterally over obliquus internus abdominis (OI), rectus abdominis (RA) and lumbar erector spinae (LES) muscles. Corticomotor excitability was assessed as amplitude of motor evoked potentials (MEPs) to transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) at a range of stimulator intensities, at rest and during voluntary abdominal contractions. Pain was induced by injection of hypertonic saline into interspinous ligaments of the lumbar spine. Corticomotor excitability was examined before, during and after the induction of LBP. During pain, amplitude of TrA MEPs to contralateral cortical stimulation was reduced, whereas amplitudes of OE and LES MEPs contralateral and ipsilateral to the stimulated cortex were increased. The findings highlight differential changes in excitability of corticomotor inputs to trunk muscles during acute LBP. Further work is required to reveal whether such changes involve spinal and/or supraspinal centres and their consequence for spine control.
Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA), a neurodegenerative disorder primarily affecting motor neurons, is the most common genetic cause of infant death. This incurable disease is caused by the absence of a functional SMN1 gene and a reduction in full length survival of motor neuron (SMN) protein. In this study, a neuroprotective function of SMN was investigated in differentiated human SH-SY5Y cells using an adenoviral vector to over-express SMN protein. The pro-survival capacity of SMN was assessed in an Akt/PI3-kinase inhibition (LY294002) model, as well as an oxidative stress (hydrogen peroxide) and excitotoxic (glutamate) model. SMN over-expression in SH-SY5Y cells protected against Akt/phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3-kinase) inhibition, but not oxidative stress, nor against excitotoxicity in rat cortical neurons. Western analysis of cell homogenates from SH-SY5Y cultures over-expressing SMN harvested pre- and post-Akt/PI3-kinase inhibition indicated that SMN protein inhibited caspase-3 activation via blockade of calpain-mediated procaspase-3 cleavage. This study has revealed a novel anti-apoptotic function for the SMN protein in differentiated SH-SY5Y cells. Finally, the cell death model described herein will allow the assessment of future therapeutic agents or strategies aimed at increasing SMN protein levels.
Fragile X syndrome is caused by the loss of expression of the fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP). As a RNA binding protein, FMRP functions in translational regulation, localization, and stability of its neuronal target transcripts. The Drosophila homologue, dFMR1, is well conserved in sequence and function with respect to human FMRP. Although dFMR1 is known to express two main isoforms, the mechanism behind production of the second, more slowly migrating isoform has remained elusive. Furthermore, it remains unknown whether the two isoforms may also contribute differentially to dFMR1 function. We have found that this second dFMR1 isoform is generated through an alternative translational start site in the dfmr1 5'UTR. This 5'UTR coding sequence is well conserved in the melanogaster group. Translation of the predominant, smaller form of dFMR1 (dFMR1-S(N)) begins at a canonical start codon (ATG), whereas translation of the minor, larger form (dFMR1-L(N)) begins upstream at a non-canonical start codon (CTG). To assess the contribution of the N-terminal extension toward dFMR1 activity, we generated transgenic flies that exclusively express either dFMR1-S(N) or dFMR1-L(N). Expression analyses throughout development revealed that dFMR1-S(N) is required for normal dFMR1-L(N) expression levels in adult brains. In situ expression analyses showed that either dFMR1-S(N) or dFMR1-L(N) is individually sufficient for proper dFMR1 localization in the nervous system. Functional studies demonstrated that both dFMR1-S(N) and dFMR1-L(N) can function independently to rescue dfmr1 null defects in synaptogenesis and axon guidance. Thus, dfmr1 encodes two functional isoforms with respect to expression and activity throughout neuronal development.
While the effects of exercise on brain cortical activity from pre-to post-exercise have been thoroughly evaluated, few studies have investigated the change in activity during exercise. As such, it is not clear to what extent changes in exercise intensity influence brain cortical activity. Furthermore, due to the difficulty in using brain-imaging methods during complex whole-body movements like cycling, it is unclear to what extent the activity in specific brain areas is altered with incremental exercise intensity over time. Latterly, active electroencephalography (EEG) electrodes combined with source localization methods allow for the assessment of brain activity, measured as EEG current density, within specific cortical regions. The present study aimed to investigate the application of this method during exercise on a cycle ergometer, and to investigate the effect of increasing exercise intensity on the magnitude and location of any changes in electrocortical current density. Subjects performed an incremental cycle ergometer test until subjective exhaustion. Current density of the EEG recordings during each test stage, as well as before and after exercise, was determined. Spatial changes in current density were localized using low-resolution brain electromagnetic tomography (LORETA) to three regions of interest; the primary motor cortex, primary sensory cortex and prefrontal cortex, and were expressed relative to current density within the local lobe. It was demonstrated that the relative current density of the primary motor cortex was intensified with increasing exercise intensity, whereas activity of the primary sensory cortex and that of the prefrontal cortex were not altered with exercise. The results indicate that the combined active EEG/LORETA method allows for the recording of brain cortical activity during complex movements and incremental exercise. These findings indicate that primary motor cortex activity is elevated with incremental exercise intensity during a whole-body movement, like cycling.
Constructing and updating an internal model of verticality is fundamental for maintaining an erect posture and facilitating visuo-spatial processing. The judgment of the visual vertical (VV) has been intensively studied in psychophysical investigations and relies mainly on the integration of visual and vestibular signals, although a contribution of postural and somatosensory signals has been reported. Here we used high-density 192-channel evoked potential (EP) mapping and distributed source localization techniques to reveal the neural mechanisms of VV judgments. VV judgments (judging the orientation of visual lines with respect to the subjective vertical) were performed with and without a tilted visual frame. EP mapping revealed a sequence of neural processing steps (EP maps) of which two were specific for VV judgments. An early EP map, observed at 75-105 ms post-stimulus, was localized in right lateral temporo-occipital cortex. A later EP map (260-290 ms) was localized in bilateral temporo-occipital and parieto-occipital cortex. These data suggest that early VV-related neural processing involves the lateral and ventral visual stream and is related to visual processing concerning orientation, attention and comparison. The later, more dorsal, activation involves multimodal cortex subtending a constantly available and updated internal model of the vertical that we can refer to for the control of one's posture, actions, and visuo-spatial processing.
Stimulus specific adaptation (SSA) is known as a decrease of neuronal response to stimuli that are commonly presented than those rarely occurred. Previous studies have shown that SSA occurs at different levels of auditory pathway, from inferior colliculus (IC), auditory thalamus to auditory cortex (AC). In this study, we further investigated the properties of SSA in rat IC using oddball paradigm. We found that SSA existed even at a lower repetition rate (1 Hz), besides at relatively higher rates (2 Hz) shown in previous studies. We also analyzed the temporal dynamics of adaptation to the entire stimulus sequence. Global and local components were found in the response process. These components include a long-term adaptation during the entire oddball sequence, a short-term increase of responses to common stimuli after rare ones and the effects of stimulus history on current response. By fitting a linear model regarding stimulus local history and global probability, we found both of them affect IC neuronal responses. Our study further supports the existence of SSA in IC and provides detailed properties of the neural processing of novelty detection at midbrain level.
One of the most promising models of Parkinson's disease to have emerged in recent years is one in which the pesticide, rotenone, is administered systemically to laboratory rats. However, this model is associated with peripheral toxicity and high mortality rates which impede its widespread application in preclinical drug discovery research. This study sought to determine if administration of rotenone directly into the rat striatum could also mimic the motor dysfunction and neuropathological features of the human condition while overcoming the toxicity associated with systemic administration. Male Sprague-Dawley rats were infused with control or rotenone solutions into the striatum. The effect of the pesticide on body weight and spontaneous motor function (Corridor, Stepping and Whisker Tests) was assessed ante mortem, and its effect on nigrostriatal integrity (quantitative tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry), -synuclein expression (quantitative -synuclein immunohistochemistry), and striatal neurotransmitter content (HLPC for dopamine, GABA and noradrenaline) was assessed post mortem. Intra-striatal infusion of rotenone had no detrimental effect on the rats' body weight but caused significant impairments in contralateral motor function. Neuropathologically, rotenone caused significant nigrostriatal degeneration and selective loss of dopamine from the striatum but there was no evidence of any change in -synuclein expression in the rotenone-infused rats. This study shows intra-striatal rotenone to be capable of modelling some of the main behavioural and neuropathological features of human Parkinsonism, while being less toxic than its systemic counterpart. Thus, this model may prove to be useful in future Parkinson's disease drug discovery programmes.
Neuronal AMPA receptor complexes comprise a tetramer of GluA pore-forming subunits as well as accessory components, including transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs) and cornichon-2/3 (CNIH-2/3). The mechanisms that control AMPA receptor complex assembly remain unclear. AMPA receptor responses in neurons differ from those in cell lines transfected with GluA plus TARPs -8 or -7, which show unusual resensitization kinetics and non-native AMPA receptor pharmacologies. Using tandem GluA/TARP constructs to constrain stoichiometry, we show here that these peculiar kinetic and pharmacological signatures occur in channels with four TARP subunits per complex. Reducing the number of TARPs per complex produces AMPA receptors with neuron-like kinetics and pharmacologies, suggesting a neuronal mechanism controls GluA/TARP assembly. Importantly, we find that coexpression of CNIH-2 with GluA/TARP complexes reduces TARP stoichiometry within AMPA receptors. In both rat and mouse hippocampal neurons, CNIH-2 also associates with AMPA receptors on the neuronal surface in a -8-dependent manner to dictate receptor pharmacology. In the cerebellum, however, CNIH-2 expressed in Purkinje neurons does not reach the neuronal surface. In concordance, stargazer Purkinje neurons, which express CNIH-2 and -7, display AMPA receptor kinetics/pharmacologies that can only be recapitulated recombinantly by a low -7/GluA stoichiometry. Together, these data suggest that CNIH-2 modulates neuronal AMPA receptor auxiliary subunit assembly by regulating the number of TARPs within an AMPA receptor complex to modulate receptor gating and pharmacology.
Sphingosine kinase (SphK) 1 and 2 phosphorylate sphingosine to generate sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P), a pluripotent lipophilic mediator implicated in a variety of cellular events. Here we show that the activity of -site APP cleaving enzyme-1 (BACE1), the rate-limiting enzyme for amyloid- peptide (A) production, is modulated by S1P in mouse neurons. Treatment by SphK inhibitor, RNA interference knockdown of SphK, or overexpression of S1P degrading enzymes decreased BACE1 activity, which reduced A production. S1P specifically bound to full-length BACE1 and increased its proteolytic activity, suggesting that cellular S1P directly modulates BACE1 activity. Notably, the relative activity of SphK2 was upregulated in the brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The unique modulatory effect of cellular S1P on BACE1 activity is a novel potential therapeutic target for Alzheimer's disease.
Axotomy can trigger profound alterations in the neuronal polarity of adult neurons in vivo. This can manifest itself in the development of new axon-like processes emanating from the tips of distal dendrites. Previously, these processes have been defined as axonal based on their axonal morphology. This study extends this definition to determine whether, more importantly, these processes possess the prerequisite molecular machinery to function as axons. Using a combination of intracellular labeling and immunohistochemistry, we demonstrate that the distribution of voltage-gated sodium channels on these processes matches the arrangement of these channels that is necessary for the initiation and conduction of action potentials. At terminal bouton-like structures they possess key proteins necessary for the release of synaptic vesicles (SV2 and synaptophysin). Thus, axon-like processes emanating from the tips of distal dendrites represent a rearrangement of neuronal polarity whereby axotomized neurons can develop additional functional axons in vivo.
DNA methylation at CpG dinucleotides is associated with gene silencing, stress, and memory. The catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) Val(158) allele in rs4680 is associated with differential enzyme activity, stress responsivity, and prefrontal activity during working memory (WM), and it creates a CpG dinucleotide. We report that methylation of the Val(158) allele measured from peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of Val/Val humans is associated negatively with lifetime stress and positively with WM performance; it interacts with stress to modulate prefrontal activity during WM, such that greater stress and lower methylation are related to reduced cortical efficiency; and it is inversely related to mRNA expression and protein levels, potentially explaining the in vivo effects. Finally, methylation of COMT in prefrontal cortex and that in PBMCs of rats are correlated. The relationship of methylation of the COMT Val(158) allele with stress, gene expression, WM performance, and related brain activity suggests that stress-related methylation is associated with silencing of the gene, which partially compensates the physiological role of the high-activity Val allele in prefrontal cognition and activity. Moreover, these results demonstrate how stress-related DNA methylation of specific functional alleles impacts directly on human brain physiology beyond sequence variation.
The planning and control of sensory-guided movements requires the integration of multiple sensory streams. Although the information conveyed by different sensory modalities is often overlapping, the shared information is represented differently across modalities during the early stages of cortical processing. We ask how these diverse sensory signals are represented in multimodal sensorimotor areas of cortex in macaque monkeys. Although a common modality-independent representation might facilitate downstream readout, previous studies have found that modality-specific representations in multimodal cortex reflect upstream spatial representations. For example, visual signals have a more eye-centered representation. We recorded neural activity from two parietal areas involved in reach planning, area 5 and the medial intraparietal area (MIP), as animals reached to visual, combined visual and proprioceptive, and proprioceptive targets while fixing their gaze on another location. In contrast to other multimodal cortical areas, the same spatial representations are used to represent visual and proprioceptive signals in both area 5 and MIP. However, these representations are heterogeneous. Although we observed a posterior-to-anterior gradient in population responses in parietal cortex, from more eye-centered to more hand- or body-centered representations, we do not observe the simple and discrete reference frame representations suggested by studies that focused on identifying the &quot;best-match&quot; reference frame for a given cortical area. In summary, we find modality-independent representations of spatial information in parietal cortex, although these representations are complex and heterogeneous.
We all appreciate that some of our friends and colleagues are more distractible than others. This variability can be captured by pencil and paper questionnaires in which individuals report such cognitive failures in their everyday life. Surprisingly, these self-report measures have high heritability, leading to the hypothesis that distractibility might have a basis in brain structure. In a large sample of healthy adults, we demonstrated that a simple self-report measure of everyday distractibility accurately predicted gray matter volume in a remarkably focal region of left superior parietal cortex. This region must play a causal role in reducing distractibility, because we found that disrupting its function with transcranial magnetic stimulation increased susceptibility to distraction. Finally, we showed that the self-report measure of distractibility reliably predicted our laboratory-based measure of attentional capture. Our findings distinguish a critical mechanism in the human brain causally involved in avoiding distractibility, which, importantly, bridges self-report judgments of cognitive failures in everyday life and a commonly used laboratory measure of distractibility to the structure of the human brain.

Emotional events tend to be better remembered than non-emotional events. One goal of cognitive and affective neuroscientists is to understand the neural mechanisms underlying this enhancing effect of emotion on memory. A method that has proven particularly influential in the investigation of the memory-enhancing effect of emotion is the so-called subsequent memory paradigm (SMP). This method was originally used to investigate the neural correlates of non-emotional memories, and more recently we and others also applied it successfully to studies of emotional memory (reviewed in). Here, we describe a protocol that allows investigation of the neural correlates of the memory-enhancing effect of emotion using the SMP in conjunction with event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). An important feature of the SMP is that it allows separation of brain activity specifically associated with memory from more general activity associated with perception. Moreover, in the context of investigating the impact of emotional stimuli, SMP allows identification of brain regions whose activity is susceptible to emotional modulation of both general/perceptual and memory-specific processing. This protocol can be used in healthy subjects, as well as in clinical patients where there are alterations in the neural correlates of emotion perception and biases in remembering emotional events, such as those suffering from depression and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD).

High performance computing on the Graphics Processing Unit (GPU) is an emerging field driven by the promise of high computational power at a low cost. However, GPU programming is a non-trivial task and moreover architectural limitations raise the question of whether investing effort in this direction may be worthwhile. In this work, we use GPU programming to simulate a two-layer network of Integrate-and-Fire neurons with varying degrees of recurrent connectivity and investigate its ability to learn a simplified navigation task using a policy-gradient learning rule stemming from Reinforcement Learning. The purpose of this paper is twofold. First, we want to support the use of GPUs in the field of Computational Neuroscience. Second, using GPU computing power, we investigate the conditions under which the said architecture and learning rule demonstrate best performance. Our work indicates that networks featuring strong Mexican-Hat-shaped recurrent connections in the top layer, where decision making is governed by the formation of a stable activity bump in the neural population (a &quot;non-democratic&quot; mechanism), achieve mediocre learning results at best. In absence of recurrent connections, where all neurons &quot;vote&quot; independently (&quot;democratic&quot;) for a decision via population vector readout, the task is generally learned better and more robustly. Our study would have been extremely difficult on a desktop computer without the use of GPU programming. We present the routines developed for this purpose and show that a speed improvement of 5x up to 42x is provided versus optimised Python code. The higher speed is achieved when we exploit the parallelism of the GPU in the search of learning parameters. This suggests that efficient GPU programming can significantly reduce the time needed for simulating networks of spiking neurons, particularly when multiple parameter configurations are investigated.
The neurorehabilitation of brain injury patients usually begins at the hospital, during the acute care, where the aim is essentially at limiting the complications and at beginning the reeducation. The patients benefit then mostly from an inpatient and/or outpatient neurorehabilitation. During all these phases, the rehabilitation declines according to its 3 dimensions, namely: reeducation, rehabilitation and reintegration. In all this process, it is important to remain watchful to the invisible handicaps, such as cognitive impairments, post-traumatic brain injury complaints, behavioural or mood changes. These represent a potential obstacle to the social and professional reintegration.
Lithium, a drug that has long been used to treat bipolar disorder and some other human pathogenesis, has recently been shown to stimulate neural precursor growth. However, the involved mechanism is not clear. Here, we show that lithium induces proliferation but not survival of neural precursor cells. Mechanistic studies suggest that the effect of lithium mainly involved activation of the transcription factor NF-AT and specific induction of a subset of proliferation-related genes. While NF-AT inactivation by specific inhibition of its upstream activator calcineurin antagonized the effect of lithium on the proliferation of neural precursor cells, specific inhibition of the NF-AT inhibitor GSK-3, similar to lithium treatment, promoted neural precursor cell proliferation. One important function of lithium appeared to increase inhibitory phosphorylation of GSK-3, leading to GSK-3 suppression and subsequent NF-AT activation. Moreover, lithium-induced proliferation of neural precursor cells was independent of its role in inositol depletion. These findings not only provide mechanistic insights into the clinical effects of lithium, but also suggest an alternative therapeutic strategy for bipolar disorder and other neural diseases by targeting the non-canonical GSK-3-NF-AT signaling.

Factors involved in adaptation to repeated stress are not well-characterized. For instance, acute footshock (FS) of high intensity appears to be less severe than immobilization (IMO) in light of the speed of post-stress recovery of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis and other physiological variables. However, repeated exposure to IMO consistently resulted in reduction of the HPA response to the same stressor (adaptation), whereas failure to adapt has been usually reported after FS. Thus, in the present work we directly compared the activation of HPA axis and other physiological changes in response to both acute and repeated exposure to IMO and two intensities of FS (medium and high) in adult male rats. Control rats were exposed to the FS boxes but they did not receive shocks. Daily repeated exposure to IMO resulted in significant adaptation of the overall ACTH and corticosterone responses to the stressor. Such a reduction was also observed with repeated exposure to FS boxes and FS-medium, whereas repeated exposure to FS-high only resulted in a small reduction of the corticosterone response during the post-stress period. This suggests that some properties of FS-high make adaptation to it difficult. Interestingly, overall changes in food intake and body weight gain throughout the week of exposure to the stressors reveal a greater impact of IMO than FS-high, indicating that factors other than the intensity of a stressor, at least when evaluated in function of the above physiological variables, can influence HPA adaptation. Since FS exposure is likely to cause more pain than IMO, activation of nociceptive signals above a certain level may negatively affect HPA adaptation to repeated stressors.

A single nucleotide polymorphism in the FTO gene is associated with obesity in humans. Evidence gathered in animals mainly relates energy homeostasis to the central FTO mRNA levels, but our knowledge of the Fto protein distribution and regulation is limited. Fto, a demethylase and transcriptional coactivator, is thought to regulate expression of other genes. Herein, we examined Fto immunoreactivity (IR) in the mouse and rat brain with emphasis on sites governing energy balance. We also studied whether energy status affects central Fto IR. We report that Fto IR, limited to nuclear profiles, is widespread in the brain, in- and outside feeding circuits; it shows a very similar distribution in feeding-related sites in mice and rats. Several areas regulating energy homeostasis display enhanced intensity of Fto staining: the arcuate, paraventricular, supraoptic, dorsomedial, ventromedial nuclei, and dorsal vagal complex. Some regions mediating feeding reward, including the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, have ample Fto IR. We found that differences in energy status between rats fed ad libitum, deprived or refed following deprivation, did not affect the number of Fto-positive nuclei in 10 sites governing consumption for energy or reward. We conclude that Fto IR, widespread in the rodent brain, is particularly abundant in feeding circuits, but the number of Fto-positive neurons is unaffected by changes in energy balance.
The double, fear-driven &quot;passive avoidance/active avoidance&quot; conflict appearing during acquisition of two-way active avoidance, involves high levels of anxiety and a dominant tendency for freezing responses, which in turn run against the appearance of active escape/avoidance behavior. In the present study, by using a large sample genetically heterogeneous (N/Nih-HS) rats, we have tested the hypothesis that rats showing relatively higher levels of context-conditioned freezing (during the initial trials of that task) should show lower efficiency to acquire two-way avoidance behavior, i.e. the prediction that the initial context-conditioned freezing in the shuttle box would be negatively related to avoidance acquisition efficiency. In agreement with such a hypothesis, the results from the three rat subsamples used show that context-conditioned freezing (during the first 5 inter-trial intervals of the 40-trial two-way avoidance session) is negatively correlated (r=-0.34 to r=-0.64, p&lt;0.001) with two-way avoidance acquisition, in a way that subgroups of rats with extremely high or low levels of freezing markedly differ in their avoidance performance: &quot;high freezer&quot; rats show much worse avoidance acquisition than &quot;low freezers&quot;. Moreover, the relationships of conditioned freezing and avoidance acquisition with baseline and fear-potentiated startle, as well as with unconditioned anxiety (in the elevated zero-maze test), have also been studied. Taken collectively, the results indicate that: (i) context conditioned freezing is a reliable (and negative) predictor of two-way avoidance acquisition; (ii) baseline and fear-potentiated startle responses show positive associations with avoidance responding, and (iii) unconditioned anxiety in the elevated zero-maze is also negatively associated with two-way avoidance acquisition. Such patterns of associations are considered to be very informative in regard to the search for (common or differential) neural and genetic mechanisms of different forms of (unlearned or learned) anxious or fear responses.
Activation of dopamine D1 receptors (D1Rs) has been shown to induce epileptiform activity. We studied the molecular changes occurring in the hippocampus in response to the administration of the D1-type receptor agonist, SKF 81297. SKF 81297 at 2.5 and 5.0 mg/kg induced behavioural seizures. Electrophysiological recordings in the dentate gyrus revealed the presence of epileptiform discharges peaking at 30-45 min post-injection and declining by 60 min. Seizures were prevented by the D1-type receptor antagonist, SCH 23390, or the cannabinoid CB1 receptor agonist, CP 55,940. The effect of SKF 81297 was accompanied by increased phosphorylation of the extracellular signal-regulated protein kinases 1 and 2 (ERK), in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus. This effect was also observed in response to administration of other D1-type receptor agonists, such as SKF83822 and SKF83959. In addition, SKF 81297 increased the phosphorylation of the ribosomal protein S6 and histone H3, two downstream targets of ERK. These effects were prevented by genetic inactivation of D1Rs, or by pharmacological inhibition of ERK. SKF 81297 was also able to enhance the levels of Zif268 and Arc/Arg3.1, two immediate early genes involved in transcriptional regulation and synaptic plasticity. These changes may be involved in forms of activity-dependent plasticity linked to the manifestation of seizures and to the ability of dopamine to affect learning and memory.
Channelrhodopsin-2 (ChR2) has become an indispensable tool in neuroscience, allowing precise induction of action potentials with short light pulses. A limiting factor for many optophysiological experiments is the relatively small photocurrent induced by ChR2. We screened a large number of ChR2 point mutants and discovered a dramatic increase in photocurrent amplitude after threonine-to-cysteine substitution at position 159. When we tested the T159C mutant in hippocampal pyramidal neurons, action potentials could be induced at very low light intensities, where currently available channelrhodopsins were unable to drive spiking. Biophysical characterization revealed that the kinetics of most ChR2 variants slows down considerably at depolarized membrane potentials. We show that the recently published E123T substitution abolishes this voltage sensitivity and speeds up channel kinetics. When we combined T159C with E123T, the resulting double mutant delivered fast photocurrents with large amplitudes and increased the precision of single action potential induction over a broad range of frequencies, suggesting it may become the standard for light-controlled activation of neurons.
Visual attention is often understood as a modulatory field acting at early stages of processing, but the mechanisms that direct and fit the field to the attended object are not known. We show that a purely spatial attention field propagating downward in the neuronal network responsible for perceptual organization will be reshaped, repositioned, and sharpened to match the object's shape and scale. Key features of the model are grouping neurons integrating local features into coherent tentative objects, excitatory feedback to the same local feature neurons that caused grouping neuron activation, and inhibition between incompatible interpretations both at the local feature level and at the object representation level.
Eusociality has arisen independently at least 11 times in insects. Despite this convergence, there are striking differences among eusocial lifestyles, ranging from species living in small colonies with overt conflict over reproduction to species in which colonies contain hundreds of thousands of highly specialized sterile workers produced by one or a few queens. Although the evolution of eusociality has been intensively studied, the genetic changes involved in the evolution of eusociality are relatively unknown. We examined patterns of molecular evolution across three independent origins of eusociality by sequencing transcriptomes of nine socially diverse bee species and combining these data with genome sequence from the honey bee Apis mellifera to generate orthologous sequence alignments for 3,647 genes. We found a shared set of 212 genes with a molecular signature of accelerated evolution across all eusocial lineages studied, as well as unique sets of 173 and 218 genes with a signature of accelerated evolution specific to either highly or primitively eusocial lineages, respectively. These results demonstrate that convergent evolution can involve a mosaic pattern of molecular changes in both shared and lineage-specific sets of genes. Genes involved in signal transduction, gland development, and carbohydrate metabolism are among the most prominent rapidly evolving genes in eusocial lineages. These findings provide a starting point for linking specific genetic changes to the evolution of eusociality.
Previous studies of motor imagery have shown that the same neural correlates for actual movement are selectively activated during motor imagery of the same movement. However, little is known about motor imagery of isometric force. The aim of the present study was to investigate the neural correlates involved in motor imagery of isometric finger forces. Ten subjects were instructed to produce a finger flexion or extension force ranging from 10% to 60% of maximal isometric force and to mentally reproduce the force after an eight-second delay period. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) was applied over the hand motor area during imagining the force. We measured the amplitude of motor evoked potentials (MEPs) from the flexor digitorum superfialis (FDS) and the extensor digitorum communis (EDC) muscles and TMS-induced forces from the proximal phalanxes. The results showed that, as compared to the rest condition, the MEP amplitude was greater in the FDS during imagining flexion forces, whereas it was greater in the EDC during imagining extension forces. MEP amplitudes were similar for motor imagery of graded flexion or extension forces. Also, TMS produced flexion forces during imagining flexion forces, whereas it produced extension forces during imagining extension forces. There was no change in the amplitude of TMS-induced forces across graded motor imagery task. These results support the notion that the same neural correlates for actual movement could be selectively activated during motor imagery of the same movement, but demonstrated that the magnitude of isometric force could not be mentally simulated.
Music is experienced and understood on the basis of foreground/background relationships and tension created between actual music and the underlying meter. Polyrhythms create tension between a counter meter and the main meter. Previously, we have shown that Brodmann area 47 (BA47), a brain area associated with processing of language, is activated bilaterally when musicians tap the main meter in a polymetric context emphasizing a counter meter, suggesting that processing of metric elements in music relies on brain areas also involved in language processing. In that study, the tension was created entirely by changes in the stimulus while participants were tapping the main meter. Here we find left-hemispheric BA47 activation in response to a self-produced counter meter on top of a main meter provided by an ecological music excerpt. This data indicates that the activation is linked to polyrhythmic tension, regardless of whether it arises from the stimulus or the task.

This study evaluated the effectiveness of the NSW Restraint Fitting Station Network in preventing incorrect use of rearward facing and forward facing child restraints. The way children used restraints was observed randomly as they arrived at observation sites during a cross-sectional ecological study across New South Wales, Australia. Trained researchers examined restraint system installation once the child left the vehicle. A structured interview was also conducted with the driver. Logistic regression was used to examine the association between parental report of ever having the restraint checked at a Restraint Fitting Station and whether or not the restraint was used correctly, while controlling for potential confounders and accounting for the complex sample design. Odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated. The results demonstrated that children of respondents who did not use Restraint Fitting Stations were 1.8 times more likely to be incorrectly using their restraints (95% CI 1.1-2.8) than children of Restraint Fitting Station users. Regardless of whether or not a Restraint Fitting Station had been used, there was a trend towards a greater likelihood of incorrect restraint use as the length of restraint ownership increased (OR 1.3 95% CI 1.0-1.7). These results are important for developing strategies aimed at reducing child occupant casualties by reducing the rate of incorrect restraint use, and support programs encouraging the use of Restraint Fitting Stations and similar services as a countermeasure to incorrect use.
Proopiomelanocortin (POMC) is a 36kDa glycoprotein implicated in homeostatic balance. We used in situ hybridization histochemistry coupled with quantitative autoradiography to determine the anatomical distribution of POMC mRNA-expressing neurons in the arcuate nucleus (AN) and to examine the effects of prolonged dehydration on POMC gene expression in a semi-desert rodent, Meriones shawi (Shaw's Jird). In the hypothalamus of control animals, POMC mRNA-expressing neurons were exclusively localized in the AN and they showed a differential distribution and density along its rostro-caudal subdivisions. In dehydrated animals, water deprivation caused a decrease in POMC mRNA labeling in the AN. These results suggest that dehydration stress can induce negative regulation of POMC gene expression in this species. A comparative study of weight variation between control and dehydrated animals showed a weight loss followed by stabilization of weight during prolonged dehydration.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) manifests with progressive memory loss and decline of spatial awareness and motor skills. Neurofibrillary tangles (NFTs) represent one of the pathological hallmarks of AD. Previous studies suggest that the enzyme prolyl-peptidyl cis-trans isomerase PIN1 [protein interacting with NIMA (never in mitosis A)-1] recognizes hyperphosphorylated tau (in NFTs) and facilitates its dephosphorylation, thereby recovering its function. This study aims to determine the frequency, severity and distribution of PIN1 immunoreactivity and its relationship to NFTs and other neuropathological markers of neurodegeneration such as amyloid- (A) plaques and transcription-responsive DNA-binding protein of M(r) 43 kDa (TDP-43). Immunohistochemical analysis of 194 patients (46 with AD, 43 with Parkinson's disease/dementia with Lewy bodies, 12 with progressive supranuclear palsy/corticobasal degeneration, 36 with frontotemporal lobar degeneration, 21 with motor neuron disease and 34 non-demented (ND) individuals) revealed an increased frequency and severity of PIN1 immunoreactive inclusions in AD as compared to all diagnostic groups (P &lt; 0.001). The hippocampal and cortical distribution of PIN1 granules was distinct from that of NFTs, A and TDP-43 pathologies, though the frequency of neurons with PIN1 immunoreactivity increased with increasing NFT pathology. There was a progressive increase in PIN1 changes in ND individuals as the degree of AD-type pathological changes increased. Present findings indicate that PIN1 changes are a constant feature of AD pathology and could serve as a biomarker of the onset or spread of AD neuropathology independent of tau or A.




Previous studies of tactile spatial perception focussed either on a single point of stimulation, on local patterns within a single skin region such as the fingertip, on tactile motion, or on active touch. It remains unclear whether we should speak of a tactile field, analogous to the visual field, and supporting spatial relations between stimulus locations. Here we investigate this question by studying perception of large-scale tactile spatial patterns on the hand, arm and back. Experiment 1 investigated the relation between perception of tactile patterns and the identification of subsets of those patterns. The results suggest that perception of tactile spatial patterns is based on representing the spatial relations between locations of individual stimuli. Experiment 2 investigated the spatial and temporal organising principles underlying these relations. Experiment 3 showed that tactile pattern perception makes reference to structural representations of the body, such as body parts separated by joints. Experiment 4 found that precision of pattern perception is poorer for tactile patterns that extend across the midline, compared to unilateral patterns. Overall, the results suggest that the human sense of touch involves a tactile field, analogous to the visual field. The tactile field supports computation of spatial relations between individual stimulus locations, and thus underlies tactile pattern perception.








Better tools for assessing cognitive impairment in the early stages of Alzheimer's disease (AD) are required to enable diagnosis of the disease before substantial neurodegeneration has taken place and to allow detection of subtle changes in the early stages of progression of the disease. The National Institute on Aging and the Alzheimer's Association convened a meeting to discuss state of the art methods for cognitive assessment, including computerized batteries, as well as new approaches in the pipeline. Speakers described research using novel tests of object recognition, spatial navigation, attentional control, semantic memory, semantic interference, prospective memory, false memory and executive function as among the tools that could provide earlier identification of individuals with AD. In addition to early detection, there is a need for assessments that reflect real-world situations in order to better assess functional disability. It is especially important to develop assessment tools that are useful in ethnically, culturally and linguistically diverse populations as well as in individuals with neurodegenerative disease other than AD.
This analysis assesses the 12-month prevalence of coronary heart disease (CHD) in individuals according to their category of alcohol use. The 2001-2002 National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related Conditions study (the NESARC, n = 43,093) identified 16,147 abstinent individuals, 15,884 moderate consumers, 9,578 hazardous drinkers-defined as exceeding sex-specific weekly limits established by the World Health Organization, and 1,484 alcohol-dependent subjects. Diagnoses were generated using the Alcohol Use Disorder and Associated Disabilities Interview Schedule-DSM-IV version. Both moderate and hazardous drinking were associated with decreased odds of CHD when compared with abstinence, whereas odds of CHD were not significantly different between alcohol-dependent and abstinent participants. A moderate or even a hazardous consumption of alcohol is associated with a decreased likelihood of CHD after controlling for sociodemographic, psychiatric, and addictive risk factors. Our study shows that alcohol may have cardioprotective effects not only in moderate drinkers, but also in individuals with patterns of use traditionally considered as hazardous.
Eighty female incarcerated subjects who maintained a long-term methamphetamine (Meth) abstinence, but manifested psychosis, were examined for correlations among symptom severity premorbid diathesis, recurrence, and adverse effects of pharmacotherapy. Baseline symptoms were assessed with a 24-item version of the Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale (BPRS) prior to, and 2 weeks after, the commencement of pharmacotherapy. Fifty-four subjects who had abused volatile solvents in their teenage years commenced Meth abuse at a significantly lower age than the rest of the subjects (18.4 vs. 22.5 years old, p &lt; .001). Twenty-nine patients who had attempted suicide in their lives suffered from premorbid psychiatric disorders significantly more often than those who had never attempted suicide (odds ratio = 8.6, 95% confidence interval [CI]= 2.6-27.8, p &lt; .001). Twenty subjects who manifested spontaneous recurrence had a significantly longer abstinence period (17.5 vs. 12.1 months, p = .049), but suffered from premorbid psychiatric disorders significantly less often (odds ratio = .12, 95% CI = .02- .99, p = .031) than those who manifested nonrecurrent-protracted psychosis. Subjects who eventually suffered from extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS) following pharmacotherapy had higher total BPRS scores at the baseline assessment. The present study provides evidence that a subpopulation of Meth abusers suffered from chronic Meth psychosis in long-term abstinence, and also highlights the involvement of affective symptoms in its severity.
The Mild Cognitive Impairment Screen (MCIS) is a computer-based cognitive assessment designed for clinical and research use in detecting amnestic mild cognitive impairment (aMCI). Performance on the MCIS is reported as the Memory Performance Index (MPI). However, the comparability between the MPI and traditional neuropsychological tests in detecting aMCI, and in differentiating it from Alzheimer's disease (AD) and normal aging has not been examined. A cross-sectional study was conducted to assess the validity of the MPI relative to standard neuropsychological measures. Participants included 12 individuals diagnosed with aMCI, 49 with mild AD, and 25 healthy elderly. The MCIS significantly discriminated among aMCI, AD, and healthy elderly controls. The MCIS is effective in detecting aMCI, and in discriminating it from cognitive changes observed in AD and normal aging. The MCIS may be a valuable tool in the identification of elderly at high risk for dementia due to its ease-of-use and brief administration time.


There has been an alarming increase in the prescription of opiates and opioids for chronic non-cancer pain in the past 15 years. It is estimated that opiate-induced constipation (OIC) is experienced by ~40% of these patients, and that constipation and other gastrointestinal symptoms may dissuade patients from using the required analgesic dose to achieve effective pain relief. Opiates have several effects on gastrointestinal functions, and the inhibition of colonic transit and intestinal and colonic secretion results in constipation. Several different pharmacological approaches are being developed to prevent or treat OIC: prolonged release formulations that contain naloxone (a less specific opiate antagonist that is widely distributed) and a new class of peripherally restricted -opiate receptor antagonists, including methylnaltrexone, alvimopan, tapentadol, NKTR-118, and TD-1211. Novel patient response outcomes have been developed to facilitate demonstration of efficacy and safety of drugs in development for OIC.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) affects approximately 400,000 people in the United States and 2.1 million people worldwide. It is the most common chronic, non-traumatic neurological disorder afflicting young people during their peak productive ages. MS can diminish quality of life (QOL) by interfering with the ability to work, pursue leisure activities, and carry on usual life roles. Symptoms that affect QOL may include impaired mobility, fatigue, depression, pain, spasticity, cognitive impairment, sexual dysfunction, bowel and bladder dysfunction, vision and hearing problems, seizures, and sDwallowing and breathing difficulties. Direct medical costs of MS in the United States are estimated in excess of $10 billion per year. Indirect costs of MS include costs of reduced employment or unemployment, assistive equipment, disability related home modifications, and paid and unpaid personal care. Although direct medical costs predominate in the earlier stages of MS, indirect costs of productivity loss are responsible for higher costs later. Disease-modifying therapies (DMTs) lessen symptoms, reduce relapses, and delay disability progression. Unfortunately, many DMTs might produce only modest improvements in QOL. Although symptom-specific therapies do not delay disease progression, they may delay unemployment and dependency, thereby reducing indirect costs.
The presence of excess fluid in the interstitium and air spaces of the lung presents severe restrictions to gas exchange. The pulmonary endothelial barrier regulates the flux of fluid and plasma proteins from the vascular space into the underlying tissue. The integrity of this endothelial barrier is dynamically regulated by transitions in cAMP (3',5'-cyclic adenosine monophosphate), which are synthesized in discrete subcellular compartments. Cyclic AMP generated in the subplasma membrane compartment acts through PKA and Epac (exchange protein directly activated by cAMP) to tighten cell adhesions, strengthen cortical actin, reduce actomyosin contraction, and decrease permeability. Confining cAMP within the subplasma membrane space is critical to its barrier-protective properties. When cAMP escapes the near membrane compartment and gains access to the cytosolic compartment, or when soluble adenylyl cyclases generate cAMP within the cytosolic compartment, this second messenger activates established cytosolic cAMP signaling cascades to perturb the endothelial barrier through PKA-mediated disruption of microtubules. Thus the concept of cAMP compartmentalization in endothelial barrier regulation is gaining momentum and new possibilities are being unveiled for cytosolic cAMP signaling with the emergence of the bicarbonate-regulated mammalian soluble adenylyl cyclase (sAC or AC10).


There is a substantial body of literature, which has demonstrated that creatine has neuroprotective effects both in vitro and in vivo. Creatine can protect against excitotoxicity as well as against -amyloid toxicity in vitro. We carried out studies examining the efficacy of creatine as a neuroprotective agent in vivo. We demonstrated that creatine can protect against excitotoxic lesions produced by N-methyl-D: -aspartate. We also showed that creatine is neuroprotective against lesions produced by the toxins malonate and 3-nitropropionic acid (3-NP) which are reversible and irreversible inhibitors of succinate dehydrogenase, respectively. Creatine produced dose-dependent neuroprotective effects against MPTP toxicity reducing the loss of dopamine within the striatum and the loss of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra. We carried out a number of studies of the neuroprotective effects of creatine in transgenic mouse models of neurodegenerative diseases. We demonstrated that creatine produced an extension of survival, improved motor performance, and a reduction in loss of motor neurons in a transgenic mouse model of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Creatine produced an extension of survival, as well as improved motor function, and a reduction in striatal atrophy in the R6/2 and the N-171-82Q transgenic mouse models of Huntington's disease (HD), even when its administration was delayed until the onset of disease symptoms. We recently examined the neuroprotective effects of a combination of coenzyme Q10 (CoQ10) with creatine against both MPTP and 3-NP toxicity. We found that the combination of CoQ and creatine together produced additive neuroprotective effects in a chronic MPTP model, and it blocked the development of alpha-synuclein aggregates. In the 3-NP model of HD, CoQ and creatine produced additive neuroprotective effects against the size of the striatal lesions. In the R6/2 transgenic mouse model of HD, the combination of CoQ and creatine produced additive effects on improving survival. Creatine may stabilize mitochondrial creatine kinase, and prevent activation of the mitochondrial permeability transition. Creatine, however, was still neuroprotective in mice, which were deficient in mitochondrial creatine kinase. Administration of creatine increases the brain levels of creatine and phosphocreatine. Due to its neuroprotective effects, creatine is now in clinical trials for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) and HD. A phase 2 futility trial in PD showed approximately a 50% improvement in Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale at one year, and the compound was judged to be non futile. Creatine is now in a phase III clinical trial being carried out by the NET PD consortium. Creatine reduced plasma levels of 8-hydroxy-2-deoxyguanosine in HD patients phase II trial and was well-tolerated. Creatine is now being studied in a phase III clinical trial in HD, the CREST trial. Creatine, therefore, shows great promise in the treatment of a variety of neurodegenerative diseases.
Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1) gene mutations have been reported in familial and sporadic amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). We report a novel G61R SOD1 mutation in a patient with a distinct phenotype including prominent lower motor neuron dysfunction, proximal weakness and atrophy with asymmetrical onset in the thigh and buttock and relentless clinical course. The G61R mutation segregated in three unaffected relatives including the 80-year-old mother and two of the proband's siblings. Potential mechanisms include an autosomal dominant condition with reduced penetrance or a chance association.
It has been repeatedly shown that religiousness and spirituality have positive effects on quality of life (QoL) and outcome in ALS patients. here are, however, very few data on the impact of religiousness/spirituality on ALS caregivers. We determined the impact of religiousness on caregivers and its correlation with quality of life, depression and anxiety. A total of 75 consecutive ALS patients and their informal caregivers were interviewed using tests evaluating religiousness, depression, anxiety, quality of life and satisfaction with life. Results showed that there was a significant correlation between patients and caregivers' public and total religiousness. Caregivers' private religiousness was related to their age and education level, while their public religiousness was related only to their education level. Caregivers' quality of life was related to their private religiousness and satisfaction with life with their total religiousness. We conclude that religiousness is positively associated with ALS caregivers' quality of life and satisfaction with life, in a measure similar to that observed in ALS patients. Health care professionals caring for ALS patients should consider that the needs of the caregivers include religious/spiritual concerns.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressively fatal, incurable, neurodegenerative disorder. In this study, we investigated whether olfactory ensheathing cells (OEC) transplantation could provide protection to motor neurons and enable remyelination in mutant SOD1(G93A) transgenic rats with ALS. Seventy-two rats were divided into four groups: SOD1(G93A) rats (n = 20); medium+SOD1(G93A) rats (n = 20); OECs+SOD1(G93A) rats (n = 24); and another eight wild-type rats were used as controls. About 5 L (1  10(5)) OECs in DF12 medium was injected into the dorsal funiculus of the thoracic spinal cord at a predetermined depth. Survival analysis revealed a significant increase in the survival time in OEC+SOD1(G93A) rats. Body weight records and inclined board test showed a significant difference between OEC+SOD1(G93A) and SOD1(G93A) from the onset at 7 days to 11 days (P &lt; 0.05). Four weeks following transplantation, motor neuron counts in the ventral horn of the spinal cord noted a significant motor neuron loss in SOD1(G93A) rats when compared with wild-type rats (P &lt; 0.001), and much less neuronal loss and collapse was noted in OEC+SOD1(G93A) rats when compared with SOD1(G93A) rats(P &lt; 0.001); immunohistochemistry and Western blot analysis of choline acetyltransferase supported the motor neuron count. Images of confocal microscope indicated that the transplanted OECs had survived for more than 4 weeks and migrated 4.2 mm through the spinal cord. Evidence of remyelination of transplanted OEC was captured with triple fluorescence labeling of green fluorescent protein, neurofilament, and myelin basic protein and was further confirmed by Western blot analysis of MPB. In conclusion, the transplanted OECs could serve as a source of neuroprotection and remyelination to modify the ALS microenvironment.
Intraoperative awareness is defined by both consciousness and explicit memory of surgical events. Although electroencephalographic techniques to detect and prevent awareness are being investigated, no method has proven uniformly reliable. The lack of a standard intraoperative monitor for the brain likely reflects our insufficient understanding of consciousness and memory. In this review, the authors discuss the neurobiology of consciousness and memory, as well as the incidence, risk factors, sequelae, and prevention of intraoperative awareness.

In the context of increasing extinction rates and the potential loss of essential evolutionary biological and anthropological information, it is an important task to support efforts to prepare, preserve, and curate collections of histological brain sections; to disseminate information on such collections in the neuroscience community; and to make the collections publicly available. This review emphasizes the importance of complete, serially sectioned human brains of different ontogenetic stages as well as those of adult and old human individuals for neurobiological and medical research. Such histological sections enable microstructural analyses and anatomical evaluations of functional and structural neuroimaging data, for example, based on magnetic resonance imaging. Here, this review provides the first detailed and updated account of the content of the Stephan, Zilles, and Zilles-Amunts collections, which consist of serially sectioned and cell body- and myelin-stained histological preparations. Finally, this review will give an overview of past and recent research using these collections to increase our understanding of the detailed patterns of divergent brain evolution in primates as well as of the structural organization of the human brain.
The scientific investigation of brains of different vertebrates, both extant and extinct, is of interest for several reasons: for translating medical research on rodent models into practice, for understanding the animals investigated in order to improve conservation and management strategies, and for understanding the evolution of the human brain. The African continent has vast resources that are incredibly valuable to this endeavor, including an enormous variety of extant species, as well as a rich fossil record covering human evolution and many aspects of vertebrate evolution. This paper briefly outlines the current situation in terms of collections in Africa, most of which are found in South Africa. It is hoped that these brief descriptions will increase international scientific interest in the available collections.
The C. U. Arins Kappers brain collection, at the Netherlands Institute for Neuroscience in Amsterdam, is one of the largest and oldest of the world's catalogued repositories of specimens that reveal the course of brain evolution and the resulting panoply of neural biodiversity. Established a century ago, it has served since then as the basis of the encyclopedic texts authored by its founder, as well as research publications into the current time. It consists of 726 specimens: these include 309 mammals, 134 birds, 81 reptiles, 21 amphibians, and 179 &quot;pisces&quot;--a grouping of bony fish, sharks, and cyclostomes. We present here accounts of the history and contents of this treasure trove of research materials.
Owing in large part to the foresight and efforts of Wally Welker, the National Museum of Health and Medicine has become a major repository for collections of brain specimens vital to the study of neurobehavioral evolution. From its origins in the Armed Forces Institute of Pathology, with the collection of largely pathological specimens assembled by Paul Yakovlev, the museum has added to its resources four additional extensive collections, largely consisting of specimens acquired specifically for comparative and evolutionary studies: Welker's collection from the University of Wisconsin-Madison, John I. Johnson's collection from Michigan State University, the Adolf Meyer Collection from the Johns Hopkins University, and the Elizabeth Crosby collections from the University of Michigan. We describe here the history and contents of each of these five collections, to inform the scientific field of the extent and details of these remarkable resources.
The past two decades have witnessed tremendous advances in noninvasive and postmortem neuroscientific techniques, advances that have made it possible, for the first time, to compare in detail the organization of the human brain to that of other primates. Studies comparing humans to chimpanzees and other great apes reveal that human brain evolution was not merely a matter of enlargement, but involved changes at all levels of organization that have been examined. These include the cellular and laminar organization of cortical areas; the higher order organization of the cortex, as reflected in the expansion of association cortex (in absolute terms, as well as relative to primary areas); the distribution of long-distance cortical connections; and hemispheric asymmetry. Additionally, genetic differences between humans and other primates have proven to be more extensive than previously thought, raising the possibility that human brain evolution involved significant modifications of neurophysiology and cerebral energy metabolism.
We describe implementation of a method for digitizing at microscopic resolution brain tissue sections containing normal and experimental data and for making the content readily accessible online. Web-accessible brain atlases and virtual microscopes for online examination can be developed using existing computer and internet technologies. Resulting databases, made up of hierarchically organized, multiresolution images, enable rapid, seamless navigation through the vast image datasets generated by high-resolution scanning. Tools for visualization and annotation of virtual microscope slides enable remote and universal data sharing. Interactive visualization of a complete series of brain sections digitized at subneuronal levels of resolution offers fine grain and large-scale localization and quantification of many aspects of neural organization and structure. The method is straightforward and replicable; it can increase accessibility and facilitate sharing of neuroanatomical data. It provides an opportunity for capturing and preserving irreplaceable, archival neurohistological collections and making them available to all scientists in perpetuity, if resources could be obtained from hitherto uninterested agencies of scientific support.
The Zagreb Collection of developing and adult human brains was founded in 1974 by Ivica Kostovi and consists of 1,278 developing and adult human brains, including 610 fetal, 317 children, and 359 adult brains. It is one of the largest collections of developing human brains. The collection serves as a key resource for many focused research projects and has led to several seminal contributions on mammalian cortical development, such as the discovery of the transient fetal subplate zone and of early bilaminar synaptogenesis in the embryonic and fetal human cerebral cortex, and the first description of growing afferent pathways in the human fetal telencephalon. The Zagreb Collection also serves as a core resource for ever-growing networks of international collaboration and represents the starting point for many young investigators who now pursue independent research careers at leading international institutions. The Zagreb Collection, however, remains underexploited owing to a lack of adequate funding in Croatia. Funding could establish an online catalog of the collection and modern virtual microscopy scanning methods to make the collection internationally more accessible.
The comparative study of vertebrate brains is inherently dependent upon access to a sufficient number of species and specimens to perform meaningful comparisons. Although many studies rely on compiling published information, continued specimen collection, in addition to more extensive use of existing brain collections and natural history museums, are crucial for detailed neuroanatomical comparisons across species. This review highlights the importance of collecting species through a variety of means, details a marsupial brain collection, and stresses the potential of natural history museums as a resource for comparative neuroanatomy. By taking advantage of as many of these resources as possible, researchers can rapidly increase species coverage and generate a better understanding of how the brain evolves.






Dibromoacetic acid (DBAA), a by-product formed during disinfection of drinking water, alters spermatogenesis in rats through defective spermiation. The mechanism underlying this toxicity is not fully understood. In this study, gene expression data generated with microarrays from testes were used to generate a mechanistic understanding of DBAA-induced testicular toxicity. Testes were collected from male Sprague-Dawley rats dosed orally for 1 and 4days with DBAA at 250mg/kg/day. At both time points, DBAA administration induced delayed spermiation in Stage X tubules and regulated the expression of a small number of genes, including a mild but consistent downregulation of cytochrome P450c17 (CYP17) mRNA, an enzyme expressed by Leydig cells and essential for the production of testicular androgens. Downregulation of CYP17 was confirmed at the protein level and its biological significance was substantiated by demonstrating reduced testicular testosterone levels in DBAA-dosed rats. Furthermore, testosterone production by human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG)-stimulated rat primary Leydig cells was reduced following treatment with 100M DBAA. Collectively, these results indicate that DBAA can directly target rat Leydig cells and downregulate testicular CYP17 expression with a resulting decreased testicular testosterone production. This disruption of testicular steroidogenesis is likely to contribute to the mechanism of failed spermiation observed in rats following exposure to DBAA.
Defining evolutionary origins is a means of understanding an organism's position within the integrated web of living beings, and not only to trace characteristics back in time, but also to project forward in an attempt to reveal relationships with more recently evolved forms. Both the vertebrates and arthropods possess condensed nervous systems, but this is dorsal in the vertebrates and ventral in the arthropods. Also, whereas the nervous system in the vertebrates develops from a neural tube in the embryo, that of the arthropods comes from an ectodermal plate. Despite these apparently fundamental differences, it is now generally accepted that life-long neurogenesis, the generation of functionally integrated neurons from progenitor cells, is a common feature of the adult brains of a variety of organisms, ranging from insects and crustaceans to birds and mammals. Among decapod crustaceans, there is evidence for adult neurogenesis in basal species of the Dendrobranchiata, as well as in more recent terrestrial, marine and fresh-water species. The widespread nature of this phenomenon in decapod species may relate to the importance of the adult-born neurons, although their functional contribution is not yet known. The many similarities between the systems generating neurons in the adult brains of decapod crustaceans and mammals, reviewed in this paper, suggest that adult neurogenesis is governed by common ancestral mechanisms that have been retained in a phylogenetically broad group of species.
Traditional hypotheses regarding the relationships of the major arthropod lineages focus on suites of comparable characters, often those that address features of the exoskeleton. However, because of the enormous morphological variety among arthropods, external characters may lead to ambiguities of interpretation and definition, particularly when species have undergone evolutionary simplification and reversal. Here we present the results of a cladistic analysis using morphological characters associated with brains and central nervous systems, based on the evidence that cerebral organization is generally robust over geological time. Well-resolved, strongly supported phylogenies were obtained from a neuromorphological character set representing a variety of discrete neuroanatomical traits. Phylogenetic hypotheses from this analysis support many accepted relationships, including monophyletic Chelicerata, Myriapoda, and Hexapoda, paraphyletic Crustacea and the union of Hexapoda and Crustacea (Tetraconata). They also support Mandibulata (Myriapoda + Tetraconata). One problematic result, which can be explained by symplesiomorphies that are likely to have evolved in deep time, is the inability to resolve Onychophora as a taxon distinct from Arthropoda. Crucially, neuronal cladistics supports the heterodox conclusion that both Hexapoda and Malacostraca are derived from a common ancestor that possessed a suite of discrete neural centers comprising an elaborate brain. Remipedes and copepods, both resolved as basal to Branchiopoda share a neural ground pattern with Malacostraca. These findings distinguish Hexapoda (Insecta) from Branchiopoda, which is the sister group of the clade Malacostraca + Hexapoda. The present study resolves branchiopod crustaceans as descendents of an ancestor with a complex brain, which means that they have evolved secondary simplification and the loss or reduction of numerous neural systems.
The enormous diversity of Arthropoda has complicated attempts by systematists to deduce the history of this group in terms of phylogenetic relationships and phenotypic change. Traditional hypotheses regarding the relationships of the major arthropod groups (Chelicerata, Myriapoda, Crustacea, and Hexapoda) focus on suites of morphological characters, whereas phylogenomics relies on large amounts of molecular sequence data to infer evolutionary relationships. The present discussion is based on expressed sequence tags (ESTs) that provide large numbers of short molecular sequences and so provide an abundant source of sequence data for phylogenetic inference. This study presents well-supported phylogenies of diverse arthropod and metazoan outgroup taxa obtained from publicly-available databases. An in-house bioinformatics pipeline has been used to compile and align conserved orthologs from each taxon for maximum likelihood inferences. This approach resolves many currently accepted hypotheses regarding internal relationships between the major groups of Arthropoda, including monophyletic Hexapoda, Tetraconata (Crustacea + Hexapoda), Myriapoda, and Chelicerata sensu lato (Pycnogonida + Euchelicerata). &quot;Crustacea&quot; is a paraphyletic group with some taxa more closely related to the monophyletic Hexapoda. These results support studies that have utilized more restricted EST data for phylogenetic inference, yet they differ in important regards from recently published phylogenies employing nuclear protein-coding sequences. The present results do not, however, depart from other phylogenies that resolve Branchiopoda as the crustacean sister group of Hexapoda. Like other molecular phylogenies, EST-derived phylogenies alone are unable to resolve morphological convergences or evolved reversals and thus omit what may be crucial events in the history of life. For example, molecular data are unable to resolve whether a Hexapod-Branchiopod sister relationship infers a branchiopod-like ancestry of the Hexapoda, or whether this assemblage originates from a malacostracan-like ancestor, with the morphologically simpler Branchiopoda being highly derived. Whereas this study supports many internal arthropod relationships obtained by other sources of molecular data, other approaches are required to resolve such evolutionary scenarios. The approach presented here turns out to be essential: integrating results of molecular phylogenetics and neural cladistics to infer that Branchiopoda evolved simplification from a more elaborate ancestor. Whereas the phenomenon of evolved simplification may be widespread, it is largely invisible to molecular techniques unless these are performed in conjunction with morphology-based strategies.
Two studies are reported that support the hypothesis that categories that require a multiple-unit, as opposed to a single-unit, representation lead to worse initial acquisition but better generalization. On the basis of the constraints imposed by the procedural-based learning system thought to mediate information-integration categorization, we argue that the need to train multiple units during initial category acquisition slows the procedural-based category learning process and adversely affects learning performance. However, we speculate that better generalization occurs because of the increased likelihood that a novel stimulus will activate at least one of the multiple units needed to represent the category. Relations to other findings in the literature and the implications of this work for training and clinical assessment are discussed.
Information held in visual working memory (VWM) influences the allocation of attention during visual search, with targets matching the contents of VWM receiving processing benefits over those that do not. Such an effect could arise from multiple mechanisms: First, it is possible that the contents of working memory enhance the perceptual representation of the target. Alternatively, it is possible that when a target is presented among distractor items, the contents of working memory operate postperceptually to reduce uncertainty about the location of the target. In both cases, a match between the contents of VWM and the target should lead to facilitated processing. However, each effect makes distinct predictions regarding set-size manipulations; whereas perceptual enhancement accounts predict processing benefits regardless of set size, uncertainty reduction accounts predict benefits only with set sizes larger than 1, when there is uncertainty regarding the target location. In the present study, in which briefly presented, masked targets were presented in isolation, there was a negligible effect of the information held in VWM on target discrimination. However, in displays containing multiple masked items, information held in VWM strongly affected target discrimination. These results argue that working memory representations act at a postperceptual level to reduce uncertainty during visual search.
The human attention system has been subdivided into three networks that appear to be functionally and anatomically independent: alerting, orienting, and executive control. The Attention Network Test (ANT) is a quick and easy tool that measures the efficiency of these three networks by averaging reaction time and accuracy scores across several different cue and flanker conditions. Using ANOVAs and correlation procedures, we found that (a) intranetwork correlations were surprisingly low, and (b) Cue X Flanker interactions were found within alerting, orienting, and executive control measures. Taken together, these findings highlight the interaction between the three networks and the potential difficulty in accurately measuring them with this task.
SJL mice represent a mouse model in which young adult females are susceptible to autoimmune disease, while age-matched males are relatively resistant. T cells primed in female SJL mice secrete cytokines associated with a Th1 phenotype. By contrast, T cells primed in males secrete cytokines associated with a Th2 phenotype. Activation of Th2-type T cells in males vs. Th1 cells in females correlates with increased CD4(+)CD25(+) T regulatory cells (Treg) in males. T cells primed in males depleted of CD4(+)CD25(+) T cells preferentially secrete IFN- and decreased IL-4 and IL-10 compared to CD4(+)CD25(+) T-cell-sufficient males, suggesting that Treg influence subsequent antigen-specific cytokine secretion. Treg from males and females exhibit equivalent in vitro T-cell suppression. Treg from males express increased CTLA-4 and CD62L and preferentially secrete IL-10. These data suggest that an increased frequency of IL-10 secreting Treg in male SJL mice may contribute resistance to autoimmune disease by favoring the development of Th2 immune responses.

We investigated regional grey matter (GM) density in adolescents with Down syndrome (DS) compared to age-matched controls and correlated MRI data with neuropsychological measures in the DS group. Inter-group comparisons documented several GM concentration abnormalities in the participants with DS compared to controls. In the adolescents with DS, intra-group results also showed associations between regional GM density and the neuropsychological measures considered. In particular, GM density of the cerebellum and middle and inferior temporal gyrus was associated with linguistic measures. Short-term memory performances were correlated with the inferior parietal lobule, insula, superior temporal gyrus, medial occipital lobe, and cerebellum. Long-term memory abilities were correlated with GM density in the orbitofrontal cortex, lateral and medial temporal lobe regions, and anterior cingulum and visuo-perceptual abilities with GM density the left middle frontal gyrus. Results of this preliminary study are consistent with a not always efficient brain organization in DS.
In the present study we evaluated long term memory in twenty individuals with molecularly confirmed diagnosis of Noonan syndrome and LEOPARD syndrome, two disorders caused by mutations in genes coding transducers participating in the RAS-MAPK signaling cascade. The profile of explicit long term memory abilities was investigated using PROMEA, which includes a battery of tests specifically developed to assess memory and learning in verbal, visual and spatial domains. Ten individuals (50%) had impaired (5th percentile) or below average (15th percentile) performance on a delayed verbal free recall memory task, four (20%) on a delayed visual recognition memory task, and only one (5%) on a delayed spatial recognition memory task. Our data suggest that dysregulation of the RAS-MAPK cascade may be associated with a pattern of reduced verbal recall memory performance but relative sparing of visual and spatial recognition memory.
Previous studies have shown inconsistent results when reporting brain abnormalities in Williams syndrome (WS). This makes an interpretation of clinical and behavioural data uncertain in terms of anatomical localization of brain tissue changes. In this study we employed voxel based morphometry to directly investigate the regional distribution of grey matter (GM) density as a function of individual neuropsychological profiles in individuals with WS. GM maps were regressed against the neuropsychological measures on which WS individuals performed worse than controls. Results showed an association between the regional GM density in the cerebellum, bilaterally, the right Supplementary Motor Area, the right fusiform gyrus, and measures of morpho-syntactic ability. An association was also found between measures of visuo-spatial and visuo-motor abilities and regional GM density in the left cerebellum, left parietal lobule, right superior and left orbital frontal gyri. The study shows the potential to clarify the anatomical substrate underlying specific cognitive deficits in WS.
Delay discounting refers to the tendency for outcomes that are remote in time to have less value than more immediate outcomes. Steep discounting of delayed outcomes is associated with a variety of social maladies. The degree of sensitivity to delayed outcomes may be a stable and pervasive individual characteristic. In analyses of archival data, the present study found positive correlations between the degree of delay discounting for one outcome (as measured by the Area Under the Curve), and the degree of discounting for other outcomes. Along with additional evidence reviewed, these data suggest that delay discounting may be considered a personality trait. Recent research in epigenetics, neuroscience, and behavior suggests delay discounting may prove to be a beneficial target for therapeutic attempts to produce global reductions in impulsivity related to delay discounting.
Delay discounting is steeper for individuals who drink heavily or are alcohol dependent, but the reasons for this are unclear. Given the substantial genetic component for alcohol dependence it is not unreasonable to ask whether discounting and alcohol dependence have a genetic relationship. For there to be a genetic relationship, delay discounting must have a genetic component (heritability). A review of the human and animal literature suggests that this is the case. Other literature examining whether discounting is a correlated phenotype in individuals who are genetically predisposed to drink (family history positive individuals and selected lines of rats and mice) is mixed, suggesting that networks of genes are critical for the relationship to be seen. The identities of the genes in this network are not yet known, but research examining polymorphisms associated with differences in discounting is beginning to address this issue.
In recent years it has become possible to develop animal models of psychiatric disease in genetically modified mice. While great strides have been made in the development of genetic and neurobiological tools with which to model psychiatric disease, elucidation of neural and molecular mechanisms thought to underlie behavioral phenotypes has been hindered by an inadequate analysis of behavior. This is unfortunate given the fact that the experimental analysis of behavior has created powerful methods for isolating and describing the functional properties of behavioral mechanisms that are capable of providing deep understanding of behavioral phenotypes. A better understanding of the biological basis of normal behavior and its disturbance in psychiatric disease will require the application of these rigorous behavior analytic tools to animal models. In this review we provide an example of a merging of genetic and behavioral methods and illustrate its utility in the analysis of a mouse model of the motivational deficits in schizophrenia. The synergy between basic behavior analysis, neuroscience, and animal models of psychiatric disease has great potential for achieving a deeper understanding of behavior and its neurobiological mechanisms as well as for leading to improvements in diagnosis and treatment in clinical settings.
cAMP-specific PDE (phosphodiesterase) 4 isoforms underpin compartmentalized cAMP signalling in mammalian cells through targeting to specific signalling complexes. Their importance is apparent as PDE4 selective inhibitors exert profound anti-inflammatory effects and act as cognitive enhancers. The p38 MAPK (mitogen-activated protein kinase) signalling cascade is a key signal transduction pathway involved in the control of cellular immune, inflammatory and stress responses. In the present study, we show that PDE4A5 is phosphorylated at Ser147, within the regulatory UCR1 (ultraconserved region 1) domain conserved among PDE4 long isoforms, by MK2 (MAPK-activated protein kinase 2, also called MAPKAPK2). Phosphorylation by MK2, although not altering PDE4A5 activity, markedly attenuates PDE4A5 activation through phosphorylation by protein kinase A. This modification confers the amplification of intracellular cAMP accumulation in response to adenylate cyclase activation by attenuating a major desensitization system to cAMP. Such reprogramming of cAMP accumulation is recapitulated in wild-type primary macrophages, but not MK2/3-null macrophages. Phosphorylation by MK2 also triggers a conformational change in PDE4A5 that attenuates PDE4A5 interaction with proteins whose binding involves UCR2, such as DISC1 (disrupted in schizophrenia 1) and AIP (aryl hydrocarbon receptor-interacting protein), but not the UCR2-independent interacting scaffold protein -arrestin. Long PDE4 isoforms thus provide a novel node for cross-talk between the cAMP and p38 MAPK signalling systems at the level of MK2.
The pace of discovery in biochemistry and genetics and its effect on clinical medicine places new curricular challenges in medical school education. We sought to evaluate students' understanding of neurogenetics and its clinical applications to design a pilot curriculum into the clinical neurology clerkship. We utilized a needs assessment and a written examination to evaluate the genetics knowledge of 81 third- and fourth-year medical students. The needs assessment surveyed students' self-perceptions of their own understanding of basic and clinically related genetic principles and clinical skills, as well as the most effective educational methods. Medical students reported more competence with basic science learned during the preclinical years than clinical concepts, and they demonstrated relatively low knowledge levels in clinical neurogenetics concepts on the examination, with an average of 29% correct on questions pertaining to genetic counseling compared with 82% correct with regard to inheritance patterns. Common, cross-specialty clinical skills were attained (e.g. internet search, family histories), while at least half of students reported minimal understanding or awareness of key genetics websites (e.g. OMIM) and indications for support group recommendations and genetics referrals. Teaching these more specific genetics skills and concepts needs to be emphasized in the clinical curriculum.
Glucocorticoid (GC) is an adrenal steroid hormone that controls a variety of physiological processes such as metabolism, immune response, cardiovascular activity, and brain function. In addition to GC induction in response to stress, even in relatively undisturbed states its circulating level is subjected to a robust daily variation with a peak around the onset of the active period of the day. It has long been believed that the synthesis and secretion of GC are primarily regulated by the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) neuroendocrine axis. However, recent chronobiological research strongly supports the idea that multiple regulatory mechanisms along with the classical HPA neuroendocrine axis underlie the diurnal rhythm of circulating GC. Most notably, recent studies demonstrate that the molecular circadian clockwork is heavily involved in the daily GC rhythm at multiple levels. The daily GC rhythm is implicated in various human diseases accompanied by abnormal GC levels. Patients with such diseases frequently show a blunted GC rhythmicity and, more importantly, circadian rhythm-related symptoms. In this review, we focus on recent advances in the understanding of the circadian regulation of adrenal GC and its implications in human health and disease.
Adenosine acts in parallel as a neuromodulator and as a homeostatic modulator in the central nervous system. Its neuromodulatory role relies on a balanced activation of inhibitory A(1) receptors (A1R) and facilitatory A(2A) receptors (A2AR), mostly controlling excitatory glutamatergic synapses: A1R impose a tonic brake on excitatory transmission, whereas A2AR are selectively engaged to promote synaptic plasticity phenomena. This neuromodulatory role of adenosine is strikingly similar to the role of adenosine in the control of brain disorders; thus, A1R mostly act as a hurdle that needs to be overcame to begin neurodegeneration and, accordingly, A1R only effectively control neurodegeneration if activated in the temporal vicinity of brain insults; in contrast, the blockade of A2AR alleviates the long-term burden of brain disorders in different neurodegenerative conditions such as ischemia, epilepsy, Parkinson's or Alzheimer's disease and also seem to afford benefits in some psychiatric conditions. In spite of this qualitative agreement between neuromodulation and neuroprotection by A1R and A2AR, it is still unclear if the role of A1R and A2AR in the control of neuroprotection is mostly due to the control of glutamatergic transmission, or if it is instead due to the different homeostatic roles of these receptors related with the control of metabolism, of neuron-glia communication, of neuroinflammation, of neurogenesis or of the control of action of growth factors. In spite of this current mechanistic uncertainty, it seems evident that targeting adenosine receptors might indeed constitute a novel strategy to control the demise of different neurological and psychiatric disorders.
In this mini-review/opinion article we describe evidence that multiple cellular and molecular alterations in Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis involve perturbed cellular calcium regulation, and that alterations in synaptic calcium handling may be early and pivotal events in the disease process. With advancing age neurons encounter increased oxidative stress and impaired energy metabolism, which compromise the function of proteins that control membrane excitability and subcellular calcium dynamics. Altered proteolytic cleavage of the -amyloid precursor protein (APP) in response to the aging process in combination with genetic and environmental factors results in the production and accumulation of neurotoxic forms of amyloid -peptide (A). A undergoes a self-aggregation process and concomitantly generates reactive oxygen species that can trigger membrane-associated oxidative stress which, in turn, impairs the functions of ion-motive ATPases and glutamate and glucose transporters thereby rendering neurons vulnerable to excitotoxicity and apoptosis. Mutations in presenilin-1 that cause early-onset AD increase A production, but also result in an abnormal increase in the size of endoplasmic reticulum calcium stores. Some of the events in the neurodegenerative cascade can be counteracted in animal models by manipulations that stabilize neuronal calcium homeostasis including dietary energy restriction, agonists of glucagon-like peptide 1 receptors and drugs that activate mitochondrial potassium channels. Emerging knowledge of the actions of calcium upstream and downstream of A provides opportunities to develop novel preventative and therapeutic interventions for AD. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: 11th European Symposium on Calcium.
In this paper we review some novel aspects related to the way adenosine A(2A) receptors (A(2A)R) modulate the action of BDNF or its high-affinity receptors, the TrkB receptors, on synaptic transmission and plasticity, as well as upon cholinergic currents and GABA transporters. Evidence has been accumulating that adenosine A(2A)Rs are required for most of the synaptic actions of BDNF. In some cases, where A(2A)Rs are constitutively activated (e.g. by endogenous extracellular adenosine), the need for A(2A)R activation for the maintenance of the synaptic influences of BDNF can be envisaged from the loss of BDNF effects upon blockade of adenosine A(2A)Rs or upon removal of extracellular adenosine with adenosine deaminase. In some other cases, it is necessary to enhance extracellular adenosine levels (e.g. depolarization) or to further activate A(2A)Rs (e.g. with selective agonists) to trigger a BDNF neuromodulatory role at the synapses. Age- and cell-dependent differences may determine the above two possibilities, but in all cases it is quite clear that there is close interplay between adenosine A(2A)Rs and BDNF TrkB receptors at synapses. The role of lipid rafts in this cross-talk will be discussed. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: &quot;Adenosine Receptors&quot;.
T-cells are circulating dopamine-sensitive cells and may mirror, at the peripheral level, biochemical modifications occurring in dopaminergic neurons. The human CD4+ T leukemic Jurkat cell line has been thoroughly used and characterized as a suitable cell model to investigate T-cell signaling and apoptosis. Here, we describe their characterization as a model of circulating dopamine-sensitive cells and their response to a dopamine challenge by analyzing changes in the cell proteome. Jurkat cells express both D1- and D2-like dopamine receptors and both membrane and vesicular transporters, while they lack D4 receptor and tyrosine hydroxylase expression. A saturating, non-toxic, non-oxidant 50M dopamine challenge induces the upregulation of an interacting chaperone network known to protect specifically dopaminergic neurons, thus validating T-cells as a biomarker discovery source in Parkinson's disease. Remodeling of the distribution pattern of -actin and 14-3-3 isoforms is consistently observed upon dopamine treatment. As a whole, dopamine-specific alterations here observed might represent a biosensor for dopamine response at the peripheral level.
Neuronal cell death due to apoptosis is a common characteristic of neurodegenerative diseases. In this study, we report protective effect of 2-ethoxy-4,5-diphenyl-1,3-oxazine-6-one (EDPOO) against lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-induced cell death in rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells, as assessed by MTT test, acridine orange/ethidium bromide staining, determination of Bax, Bcl-2 and caspase-3 levels. We further show that this compound could increase heat shock proteins Hsp-70 and Hsp-32 levels. EDPOO also modulates nuclear levels of Nrf2 and NF-B, transcription factors that are activated by intracellular reactive oxygen species and/or mediators generated due to chemical exposure of cells. Pretreatment of the cells with this oxazine derivative also increases -GCS level, as well as antioxidant enzyme activities, in a dose-dependent manner. Protective effect of this compound could represent a promising approach for treatment of neurodegenerative diseases.
For the last two decades, a large number of studies have investigated the effects of mobile phone radiation on the human brain and cognition using behavioral or neurophysiological measurements. This review evaluated previous findings with respect to study design and data analysis. Provocation studies found no evidence of subjective symptoms attributed to mobile phone radiation, suggesting psychological reasons for inducing such symptoms in hypersensitive people. Behavioral studies previously reported improved cognitive performance under exposure, but it was likely to have occurred by chance due to multiple comparisons. Recent behavioral studies and replication studies with more conservative statistics found no significant effects compared with original studies. Neurophysiological studies found no significant effects on cochlear and brainstem auditory processing, but only inconsistent results on spontaneous and evoked brain electrical activity. The inconsistent findings suggest possible false positives due to multiple comparisons and thus replication is needed. Other approaches such as brain hemodynamic response measurements are promising but the findings are few and not yet conclusive. Rigorous study design and data analysis considering multiple comparisons and effect size are required to reduce controversy in this important field of research.
Calcium-dependent signals are key triggers of the molecular mechanisms underlying learning and memory and dysregulation of calcium homeostasis in the aging brain has been proposed to underlie aging-dependent cognitive decline. Mechanisms triggered by calcium in neurons include activity-dependent activation of transcription responsible for the synthesis of molecules underlying the long-term changes of neuronal function. Effectors of calcium signaling with a primordial role in transcription regulation are calcium signal-regulated transcription factors. In this review, we summarize the current knowledge of the contribution of key calcium signal-regulated transcription factors, namely CREB, NFAT, and DREAM, to memory formation. We further describe evidence for dysregulation of the activity of these factors during aging.
Mitochondrial Ca(2+) homeostasis is an important component of the calcium-mediated cellular response to extracellular stimuli. It controls key organelle functions, such as aerobic metabolism and the induction of apoptotic cell death, and shapes the spatiotemporal pattern of the cytosolic [Ca(2+)] increase. We here summarize both the main roles of Ca(2+) signals within mitochondria and the emerging molecular information that is starting to unravel the composition of the signaling apparatus and reveal potential pharmacological targets in this process of utmost pathophysiological relevance.
Recently, there have been a number of proposals regarding how biologically plausible neural networks might perform probabilistic inference (Rao, Neural Computation, 16(1):1-38, 2004; Eliasmith and Anderson, Neural engineering: computation, representation and dynamics in neurobiological systems, 2003; Ma etal., Nature Neuroscience, 9(11):1432-1438, 2006; Sahani and Dayan, Neural Computation, 15(10):2255-2279, 2003). To be able to repeatedly perform such inference, it is essential that the represented distributions be appropriately normalized. Past approaches have considered normalization mechanisms independently of inference, often leaving them unexplored, or appealing to a notion of divisive normalization that requires pooling across many neurons. Here, we demonstrate how normalization and inference can be combined into an appropriate connection matrix, eliminating the need for pooling or a division-like operation. We algebraically demonstrate that such a solution is available regardless of the inference being performed. We show that such a solution is relevant to neural computation by implementing it in a recurrent spiking neural network.



The conundrum of why subordinate individuals assist dominants at the expense of their own direct reproduction has received much theoretical and empirical attention over the last 50 years. During this time, birds and mammals have taken centre stage as model vertebrate systems for exploring why helpers help. However, fish have great potential for enhancing our understanding of the generality and adaptiveness of helping behaviour because of the ease with which they can be experimentally manipulated under controlled laboratory and field conditions. In particular, the freshwater African cichlid, Neolamprologus pulcher, has emerged as a promising model species for investigating the evolution of cooperative breeding, with 64 papers published on this species over the past 27 years. Here we clarify current knowledge pertaining to the costs and benefits of helping in N. pulcher by critically assessing the existing empirical evidence. We then provide a comprehensive examination of the evidence pertaining to four key hypotheses for why helpers might help: (1) kin selection; (2) pay-to-stay; (3) signals of prestige; and (4) group augmentation. For each hypothesis, we outline the underlying theory, address the appropriateness of N. pulcher as a model species and describe the key predictions and associated empirical tests. For N. pulcher, we demonstrate that the kin selection and group augmentation hypotheses have received partial support. One of the key predictions of the pay-to-stay hypothesis has failed to receive any support despite numerous laboratory and field studies; thus as it stands, the evidence for this hypothesis is weak. There have been no empirical investigations addressing the key predictions of the signals of prestige hypothesis. By outlining the key predictions of the various hypotheses, and highlighting how many of these remain to be tested explicitly, our review can be regarded as a roadmap in which potential paths for future empirical research into the evolution of cooperative breeding are proposed. Overall, we clarify what is currently known about cooperative breeding in N. pulcher, address discrepancies among studies, caution against incorrect inferences that have been drawn over the years and suggest promising avenues for future research in fishes and other taxonomic groups.
A novel series of tetralin containing amino imidazoles, derived from modification of the corresponding phenyl acetic acid derivatives is described. Replacement of the amide led to identification of a potent series of tetralin-amino imidazoles with robust central efficacy. The reduction of brain A in guinea pigs in the absence of changes in B-cells suggested a potential therapeutic index with respect to APP processing compared with biomarkers of notch related toxicity. Optimization of the FTOC to plasma concentrations at the brain A EC(50) lead to the identification of compound 14f (PF-3084014) which was selected for clinical development.
The synthesis and structure-activity relationship (SAR) of a novel series of di-substituted imidazoles, derived from modification of DAPT, are described. Subsequent optimization led to identification of a highly potent series of inhibitors that contain a -amine in the imidazole side-chain resulting in a robust in vivo reduction of plasma and brain A in guinea pigs. The therapeutic index between A reductions and changes in B-cell populations were studied for compound 10 h.
Behavioural robustness at antibody and immune network level is discussed. The robustness of the immune response that drives an autonomous mobile robot is examined with two computational experiments in the autonomous mobile robots trajectory generation context in unknown environments. The immune response is met based on the immune network metaphor for different low-level behaviours coordination. These behaviours are activated when a robot sense the appropriate conditions in the environment in relation to the network current state. Results are obtained over a case study in computer simulation as well as in laboratory experiments with a Khepera II microrobot. In this work, we develop a set of tests where such an immune response is externally perturbed at network or low-level behavioural modules to analyse the robust capacity of the system to unexpected perturbations. Emergence of robust behaviour and high-level immune response relates to the coupling between behavioural modules that are selectively engaged with the environment based on immune response. Experimental evidence leads discussions on a dynamical systems perspective of behavioural robustness in artificial immune systems that goes beyond the isolated immune network response.
Microelectrode array (MEA) technology holds tremendous potential in the fields of biodetection, lab-on-a-chip applications, and tissue engineering by facilitating noninvasive electrical interaction with cells in vitro. To date, significant efforts at integrating the cellular component with this detection technology have worked exclusively with neurons or cardiac myocytes. We investigate the feasibility of using MEAs to record from skeletal myotubes derived from primary myoblasts as a way of introducing a third electrogenic cell type and expanding the potential end applications for MEA-based biosensors. We find that the extracellular action potentials (EAPs) produced by spontaneously contractile myotubes have similar amplitudes to neuronal EAPs. It is possible to classify myotube EAPs by biological signal source using a shape-based spike sorting process similar to that used to analyze neural spike trains. Successful spike-sorting is indicated by a low within-unit variability of myotube EAPs. Additionally, myotube activity can cause simultaneous activation of multiple electrodes, in a similar fashion to the activation of electrodes by networks of neurons. The existence of multiple electrode activation patterns indicates the presence of several large, independent myotubes. The ability to identify these patterns suggests that MEAs may provide an electrophysiological basis for examining the process by which myotube independence is maintained despite rapid myoblast fusion during differentiation. Finally, it is possible to use the underlying electrodes to selectively stimulate individual myotubes without stimulating others nearby. Potential uses of skeletal myotubes grown on MEA substrates include lab-on-a-chip applications, tissue engineering, co-cultures with motor neurons, and neural interfaces.





Impulse control disorders are common in Parkinson's disease, occurring in 13.6% of patients. Using a pharmacological manipulation and a novel risk taking task while performing functional magnetic resonance imaging, we investigated the relationship between dopamine agonists and risk taking in patients with Parkinson's disease with and without impulse control disorders. During functional magnetic resonance imaging, subjects chose between two choices of equal expected value: a 'Sure' choice and a 'Gamble' choice of moderate risk. To commence each trial, in the 'Gain' condition, individuals started at $0 and in the 'Loss' condition individuals started at -$50 below the 'Sure' amount. The difference between the maximum and minimum outcomes from each gamble (i.e. range) was used as an index of risk ('Gamble Risk'). Sixteen healthy volunteers were behaviourally tested. Fourteen impulse control disorder (problem gambling or compulsive shopping) and 14 matched Parkinson's disease controls were tested ON and OFF dopamine agonists. Patients with impulse control disorder made more risky choices in the 'Gain' relative to the 'Loss' condition along with decreased orbitofrontal cortex and anterior cingulate activity, with the opposite observed in Parkinson's disease controls. In patients with impulse control disorder, dopamine agonists were associated with enhanced sensitivity to risk along with decreased ventral striatal activity again with the opposite in Parkinson's disease controls. Patients with impulse control disorder appear to have a bias towards risky choices independent of the effect of loss aversion. Dopamine agonists enhance sensitivity to risk in patients with impulse control disorder possibly by impairing risk evaluation in the striatum. Our results provide a potential explanation of why dopamine agonists may lead to an unconscious bias towards risk in susceptible individuals.
Abnormalities in motor sequence learning have been observed in non-manifesting carriers of the DYT1 dystonia mutation. Indeed, motor sequence learning deficits in these subjects have been associated with increased cerebellar activation during task performance. In the current study, we determined whether similar changes are also present in clinically manifesting DYT1 carriers as well as in carriers of other primary dystonia mutations such as DYT6. Additionally, we determined whether sequence learning performance and associated brain activation in these subjects correlate with previously described genotype-related abnormalities of cerebellar pathway integrity and striatal D2 dopamine receptor binding. Nineteen DYT1 carriers (10 non-manifesting DYT1: 51.515.1 years; nine manifesting DYT1: 46.115.1 years) and 12 healthy control subjects (42.815.3 years) were scanned with H2(15)O positron emission tomography while performing controlled sequence learning and reference tasks. Eleven DYT6 carriers (four non-manifesting DYT6: 38.022.1; seven manifesting DYT6: 35.314.2 years) were evaluated during task performance without concurrent imaging. DYT1 and DYT6 carriers also underwent diffusion tensor magnetic resonance imaging for the assessment of tract integrity and 11C-raclopride positron emission tomography to measure caudate/putamen D2 receptor binding. These imaging measures were correlated with sequence learning performance and associated activation responses. Sequence learning deficits of similar magnitude were observed in manifesting and non-manifesting DYT1 carriers. In contrast, learning deficits were not detected in DYT6 carriers, irrespective of clinical penetrance. Affected DYT1 carriers exhibited significant increases in sequence learning-related activation in the left lateral cerebellar cortex and in the right premotor and inferior parietal regions. Increases in premotor cortical activation observed in the mutation carriers correlated with reductions in cerebellar pathway integrity measured using magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging and probabilistic tractography. Additionally, the cerebellar tract changes correlated with reductions in dentate nucleus activation recorded during task performance. Sequence learning performance and task-related activation responses did not correlate with striatal D2 receptor binding. In summary, we found that sequence learning deficits and concomitant increases in cerebellar activation are specific features of the DYT1 genotype. The close relationship between reduced cerebellar pathway integrity and increased learning-related activation of the premotor cortex is compatible with the view of DYT1 dystonia as a neurodevelopmental circuit disorder.
Although cervical spondylotic myelopathy is a common cause of chronic spinal cord dysfunction in humans, little is known about the molecular mechanisms underlying the progressive neural degeneration characterized by this condition. Based on animal models of cervical spondylotic myelopathy and traumatic spinal cord injury, we hypothesized that Fas-mediated apoptosis and inflammation may play an important role in the pathobiology of human cervical spondylotic myelopathy. We further hypothesized that neutralization of the Fas ligand using a function-blocking antibody would reduce cell death, attenuate inflammation, promote axonal repair and enhance functional neurological outcomes in animal models of cervical spondylotic myelopathy. We examined molecular changes in post-mortem human spinal cord tissue from eight patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy and four control cases. Complementary studies were conducted using a mouse model of cervical spondylotic myelopathy (twy/twy mice that develop spontaneous cord compression at C2-C3). We observed Fas-mediated apoptosis of neurons and oligodendrocytes and an increase in inflammatory cells in the compressed spinal cords of patients with cervical spondylotic myelopathy. Furthermore, neutralization of Fas ligand with a function-blocking antibody in twy/twy mice reduced neural inflammation at the lesion mediated by macrophages and activated microglia, glial scar formation and caspase-9 activation. It was also associated with increased expression of Bcl-2 and promoted dramatic functional neurological recovery. Our data demonstrate, for the first time in humans, the potential contribution of Fas-mediated cell death and inflammation to the pathobiology of cervical spondylotic myelopathy. Complementary data in a murine model of cervical spondylotic myelopathy further suggest that targeting the Fas death receptor pathway is a viable neuroprotective strategy to attenuate neural degeneration and optimize neurological recovery in cervical spondylotic myelopathy. Our findings highlight the possibility of medical treatments for cervical spondylotic myelopathy that are complementary to surgical decompression.
Early onset ataxia with ocular motor apraxia and hypoalbuminaemia/ataxia-oculomotor apraxia 1 is a recessively inherited ataxia caused by mutations in the aprataxin gene. We previously reported that patients with frameshift mutations exhibit a more severe phenotype than those with missense mutations. However, reports on genotype-phenotype correlation in early onset ataxia with ocular motor apraxia and hypoalbuminaemia are controversial. To clarify this issue, we studied 58 patients from 39 Japanese families, including 40 patients homozygous for c.689_690insT and nine patients homozygous or compound heterozygous for p.Pro206Leu or p.Val263Gly mutations who were compared with regard to clinical phenotype. We performed Kaplan-Meier analysis and log-rank tests for the ages of onset of gait disturbance and the inability to walk without assistance. The cumulative rate of gait disturbance was lower among patients with p.Pro206Leu or p.Val263Gly mutations than among those homozygous for the c.689_690insT mutation (P=0.001). The cumulative rate of inability to walk without assistance was higher in patients homozygous for the c.689_690insT mutation than in those with p.Pro206Leu or p.Val263Gly mutations (P=0.004). Using a Cox proportional hazards model, we found that the homozygous c.689_690insT mutation was associated with an increased risk for onset of gait disturbance (adjusted hazard ratio: 6.60) and for the inability to walk without assistance (adjusted hazard ratio: 2.99). All patients homozygous for the c.689_690insT mutation presented ocular motor apraxia at &lt;15 years of age. Approximately half the patients homozygous for the c.689_690insT mutation developed cognitive impairment. In contrast, in the patients with p.Pro206Leu or p.Val263Gly mutations, only 50% of the patients exhibited ocular motor apraxia and they never developed cognitive impairment. The stepwise multivariate regression analysis using sex, age and the number of c.689_690insT alleles as independent variables revealed that the number of c.689_690insT alleles was independently and negatively correlated with median motor nerve conduction velocities, ulnar motor nerve conduction velocities and values of serum albumin. In the patient with c.[689_690insT]+[840delT], p.[Pro206Leu]+[Pro206Leu] and p.[Pro206Leu]+[Val263Gly] mutations, aprataxin proteins were not detected by an antibody to the N-terminus of aprataxin. Furthermore Pro206Leu and Val263Gly aprataxin proteins are unstable. However, the amount of the 689_690insT aprataxin messenger RNA was also decreased, resulting in more dramatic reduction in the amount of aprataxin protein from the c.689_690insT allele. In conclusion, patients with early onset ataxia with ocular motor apraxia and hypoalbuminaemia homozygous for the c.689_690insT mutation show a more severe phenotype than those with a p.Pro206Leu or p.Val263Gly mutation.
Machado-Joseph disease, also known as spinocerebellar ataxia type 3, is the most common of the dominantly inherited ataxias worldwide and is characterized by mutant ataxin-3 misfolding, intracellular accumulation of aggregates and neuronal degeneration. Here we investigated the implication of autophagy, the major pathway for organelle and protein turnover, in the accumulation of mutant ataxin-3 aggregates and neurodegeneration found in Machado-Joseph disease and we assessed whether specific stimulation of this pathway could mitigate the disease. Using tissue from patients with Machado-Joseph disease, transgenic mice and a lentiviral-based rat model, we found an abnormal expression of endogenous autophagic markers, accumulation of autophagosomes and decreased levels of beclin-1, a crucial protein in the early nucleation step of autophagy. Lentiviral vector-mediated overexpression of beclin-1 led to stimulation of autophagic flux, mutant ataxin-3 clearance and overall neuroprotective effects in neuronal cultures and in a lentiviral-based rat model of Machado-Joseph disease. These data demonstrate that autophagy is a key degradation pathway, with beclin-1 playing a significant role in alleviating Machado-Joseph disease pathogenesis.
Major depressive disorder has been associated with activation of inflammatory processes as well as with reductions in innate, adaptive and non-specific immune responses. The objective of this study was to evaluate the association between major depression and a disease-relevant immunologic response, namely varicella-zoster virus (VZV)-specific immunity, in elderly adults. A cross-sectional cohort study was conducted in 104 elderly community dwelling adults  60years of age who were enrolled in the depression substudy of the shingles prevention study, a double blind, placebo-controlled vaccine efficacy trial. Fifty-two subjects had a current major depressive disorder, and 52 age- and sex-matched controls had no history of depression or any mental illness. VZV-specific cell-mediated immunity (VZV-CMI) was measured by VZV responder cell frequency (VZV-RCF) and interferon- enzyme-linked immunospot (ELISPOT) assays, and antibody to VZV was measured by an enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay against affinity-purified VZV glycoproteins (gpELISA). VZV-CMI, measured by VZV-RCF, was significantly lower in the depressed group than in the controls (p&lt;0.001), and VZV-RCF was inversely correlated with the severity of depressive symptoms in the depressed patients. In addition, an age-related reduction in VZV-RCF was observed in the depressed patients, but not in the controls. Furthermore, there was a trend for depressive symptom severity to be associated with lower ELISPOT counts. Finally, VZV-RCF was higher in depressed patients treated with antidepressant medications as compared to untreated depressed patients. Since lower levels of VZV-RCF appear to explain the increased risk and severity of herpes zoster observed in older adults, these findings suggest that, in addition to increasing age, depression may increase the risk and severity of herpes zoster.
Glioma cells release soluble factors, which induce the expression of membrane type 1 matrix metalloprotease (MT1-MMP) in tumor associated microglia and then exploit MT1-MMP mediated matrix degradation for invasion. Here, we show that minocycline blocked the increase in MT1-MMP expression and activity in cultivated microglia stimulated with glioma conditioned medium. Glioma growth within an organotypic brain slice preparation was reduced by minocycline and this reduction depended on the presence of microglia. Glioma growth in an experimental mouse model was strongly reduced by the addition of minocycline to drinking water, compared to untreated controls. Coherently, we observed in our orthotopic glioma implantation model, that MT1-MMP was abundantly expressed in glioma associated microglia in controls, but was strongly attenuated in tumors of minocycline treated animals. Overall, our study indicates that the clinically approved antibiotic minocycline is a promising new candidate for adjuvant therapy against malignant gliomas.
Fatigue, a common symptom of many acute and chronic medical conditions, reduces both quality of life and workplace productivity and can be disabling. However, the pathophysiologic mechanisms that underlie fatigue can be difficult to study in human populations due to the patient heterogeneity, the variety of underlying causes and potential triggering events, and an inability to collect samples that may be essential to elucidation of mechanisms (e.g., brain). Although the etiology of chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS) remains elusive, some studies have implicated viral infections, including Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), a human gammaherpesvirus, as a potential factor in the pathogenesis of CFS. Murine gammaherpesvirus 68 (HV68) is a mouse pathogen that shares many similarities with human HVs, including EBV. In this study, we use HV68-infected C57BL/6J mice as a model system for studying the impact of chronic viral infection on sleep-wake behavior, activity patterns, and body temperature profiles. Our data show that HV68 alters sleep, activity, and temperature in a manner suggestive of fatigue. In mice infected with the highest dose used in this study (40,000plaque forming units), food intake, body weight, wheel running, body temperature, and sleep were normal until approximately 7days after infection. These parameters were significantly altered during days 7 through 11, returned to baseline levels at day 12 after infection, and remained within the normal range for the remainder of the 30-day period after inoculation. At that time, both infected and uninfected mice were injected with lipopolysaccharide (LPS), and their responses monitored. Uninfected mice given LPS developed a modest and transient febrile response during the initial light phase (hours 12 through 24) after injection. In contrast, infected mice developed changes in core body temperatures that persisted for at least 5days. Infected mice showed an initial hypothermia that lasted for approximately 12h, followed by a modest fever that persisted for several hours. For the remainder of the 5-day recording period, they showed mild hypothermia during the dark phase. Running wheel activity of infected mice was reduced for at least 5days after injection of LPS, but for only 12h in uninfected mice. Collectively, these observations indicate that (1) physiologic and behavioral processes in mice are altered and recover during an early phase of infection, and (2) mice with latent HV68 infection have an exacerbated response to challenge with LPS. These findings indicate that laboratory mice with HV68 infections may provide a useful model for the study of fatigue and other physiologic and behavioral perturbations that may occur during acute and chronic infection with gammaherpesviruses.
Recent studies have suggested that DNA methylation is implicated in age-related changes in gene expression as well as in cognition. DNA methyltransferase 3a (Dnmt3a), which catalyzes DNA methylation, is essential for memory formation and underlying changes in neuronal and synaptic plasticity. Because caloric restriction (CR) and upregulation of antioxidants have been suggested as strategies to attenuate age-related alterations in the brain, we hypothesized that both a diet restricted in calories and transgenic overexpression of normal human Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD) attenuate age-related changes in Dnmt3a in the aging mouse hippocampus. For this purpose, we performed qualitative and quantitative analyses of Dnmt3a-immunoreactivity (IR) for the hippocampal dentate gyrus (DG), CA3 and CA1-2 regions in 12- and 24-month-old mice from 4 groups, i.e. (1) wild-type (WT) mice on a control diet (WT-CD), (2) SOD-CD mice, (3) WT mice on CR (WT-CR), and (4) SOD-CR. Qualitative analyses revealed two types of Dnmt3a immunoreactive cells: type I cells--present throughout all hippocampal cell layers showing moderate levels of nuclear Dnmt3a-IR, and type II cells--a subpopulation of hippocampal cells showing very intense nuclear Dnmt3a-IR, and colocalization with Bromodeoxyuridine. Quantitative analyses indicated that the age-related increase in Dnmt3a-IR within the CA3 and CA1-2 in type I cells was attenuated by CR, but not by SOD overexpression. In contrast, the density of type II Dnmt3a immunoreactive cells showed an age-related reduction, without significant effects of both CR and SOD. These changes in Dnmt3a levels in the mouse hippocampus may have a significant impact on gene expression and associated cognitive functioning.
Dysarthria following surgical resection of childhood posterior fossa tumour (PFT) is most commonly documented in a select group of participants with mutism in the acute recovery phase, thus limiting knowledge of post-operative prognosis for this population of children as a whole. Here we report on the speech characteristics of 13 cases seen long-term after surgical treatment for childhood PFT, unselected for the presence of post-operative mutism (mean time post-surgery=6y10m, range 1;4-12;6 years, two had post-operative mutism), and examine factors affecting outcome. Twenty-six age- and sex- matched healthy controls were recruited for comparison. Participants in both groups had speech assessments using detailed perceptual and acoustic methods. Over two-thirds of the group (69%) with removal of PFT had a profile of typically mild dysarthria. Prominent speech deficits included consonant imprecision, reduced rate, monopitch and monoloudness. We conclude that speech deficits may persist even up to 10 years post-surgery in participants who have not shown mutism in the acute phase. Of cases with unilateral lesions, poorer outcomes were associated with right cerebellar tumours compared to left, consistent with the notion based on adult data that speech is controlled by reciprocal right cerebellar/left frontal interactions. These results confirm the important role of the cerebellum in the control of fine speech movements in children.

Prenatal systemic inflammation has been implicated in neurological diseases, but optimal animal models have not been developed. We investigated whether a partial genetic deletion of glial cell line-derived neurotrophic factor (Gdnf(+/-)) increased vulnerability of dopamine (DA) neurons to prenatal lipopolysaccharide (LPS). LPS [0.01 mg/kg intraperitoneal (i.p.)] or saline was administered to wild-type (WT) or Gdnf(+/-) pregnant mice on gestational day 9.5. Male offspring were examined at 3 weeks, 3 and 12 months of age. There was a progressive degeneration of tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)-positive neurons in the substantia nigra (SN) with age in Gdnf(+/-) but not in WT mice, with no observed effects on locus coeruleus (LC) noradrenergic neurons or DA neurons of the ventral tegmental area. Inflammatory markers were elevated in SN of LPS treated offspring, with exacerbation in Gdnf(+/-) mice. Intracellular accumulation of -synuclein (-syn) immunoreactivity in DA neurons of SN was observed in all groups of Gdnf(+/-) and in WT mice with prenatal LPS, with altered distribution between pars reticulata (pr) and pars compacta (pc). The findings suggest that prenatal LPS leads to accelerated neuropathology in the SN with age, and that a partial loss of GDNF exacerbates these effects, providing a novel model for age-related neuropathology of the nigrostriatal DA system.




Resistance to platinum- and taxane-based chemotherapy remains a major clinical impediment to effective management of epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC). To gain insights into resistance mechanisms, we compared gene and confirmed expression patterns of novel EOC cell lines selected for paclitaxel and carboplatin resistance. Here, we report that resistance can be conferred by downregulation of the Polo-like kinase Plk2. Mechanistic investigations revealed that downregulation occurred at the level of transcription via associated DNA methylation of the CpG island in the Plk2 gene promoter in cell lines, primary tumors, and patient sera. Inhibitory RNA (RNAi)-mediated knockdown and ectopic overexpression established a critical functional role for Plk2 in determining apoptotic sensitivity to paclitaxel and carboplatin. In drug-resistant human EOC cell lines, Plk2 promoter methylation varied with the degree of drug resistance and transcriptional silencing of the promoter. RNAi-dependent knockdown of Plk2 abrogated G(2)-M cell-cycle blockade by paclitaxel, conferring resistance to both paclitaxel and platinum. Conversely, ectopic expression of Plk2 restored sensitivity to G(2)-M cell-cycle blockade and cytotoxicity triggered by paclitaxel. In clinical cases, DNA methylation of the Plk2 CpG island in tumor tissue was associated with a higher risk of relapse in patients treated postoperatively with carboplatin and paclitaxel (P = 0.003). This trend was also reflected in the analysis of matched serum samples. Taken together, our results implicate Plk2 as a clinically important determinant of chemosensitivity, in support of the candidacy of Plk2 as a theranostic marker to inform EOC management.
N-cadherin is a homophilic cell adhesion molecule that plays important roles in many aspects of neuronal development. In order to better understand the function of N-cadherin mediated cell-cell contact in activity-dependent dendrite development, we generated a number of new tools. EC1, consisting of the first extracellular domain of N-cadherin, can specifically inhibit N-cadherin, but not E-cadherin, mediated cell-cell contact, both when over-expressed in neurons and added as a purified protein. Ncad-HA is an extracellularly epitope-tagged version of N-cadherin that, when over-expressed under the activity-independent pCS2min promoter, can be used to assay surface N-cadherin level following various manipulations. These tools are likely to be very useful for studying the function of N-cadherin in multiple aspects of neural circuit development.
Neuronal differentiation from expanded human ventral mesencephalic neural precursor cells (NPCs) is very limited. Astrocytes are known to secrete neurotrophic factors, and so in order to enhance neuronal survival from NPCs, we tested the effect of regional astrocyte-conditioned medium (ACM) from the rat cortex, hippocampus and midbrain on this process. Human NPC's were expanded in FGF-2 before differentiation for 1 or 4 weeks in ACM. The results show that ACM from the hippocampus and midbrain increase the number of neurons from expanded human NPCs, an effect that was not observed with cortical ACM. In addition, both hippocampal and midbrain ACM increased the number and length of phosphorylated neurofilaments. MALDI-TOF analysis used to determine differences in media revealed that although all three regional ACMs had cystatin C, -2 macroglobulin, extracellular matrix glycoprotein and vimentin, only hippocampal and midbrain ACM also contained clusterin, which when immunodepleted from midbrain ACM eliminated the observed effects on neuronal differentiation. Furthermore, clusterin is a highly glycosylated protein that has no effect on cell proliferation but decreases apoptotic nuclei and causes a sustained increase in phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase, implicating its role in cell survival and differentiation. These findings further reveal differential effects of regional astrocytes on NPC behavior and identify clusterin as an important mediator of NPC-derived neuronal survival and differentiation.
In a presynaptic nerve terminal, neurotransmitter release is largely restricted to specialized sites called active zones. Active zones consist of a complex protein network, and they organize fusion of synaptic vesicles with the presynaptic plasma membrane in response to action potentials. Rab3-interacting molecules (RIMs) are central components of active zones. In a recent series of experiments, we have systematically dissected the molecular mechanisms by which RIMs operate in synaptic vesicle release. We found that RIMs execute two critical functions of active zones by virtue of independent protein domains. They tether presyanptic Ca(2+) channels to the active zone, and they activate priming of synaptic vesicles by monomerizing homodimeric, constitutively inactive Munc13. These data indicate that RIMs orchestrate synaptic vesicle release into a coherent process. In conjunction with previous studies, they suggest that RIMs form a molecular platform on which plasticity of synaptic vesicle release can operate.
The neuronal Cdk5 activator p35 is involved in a multitude of neuronal activities, including cytoskeletal organization. We show here that p35 directly interacts with filamentous actin (F-actin) but not with monomeric actin (G-actin). Through binding, p35 induces the formation of actin bundles and stabilizes F-actin against dilution-induced depolymerization. p35 forms intermolecular self-associations, suggesting that p35 cross-links actin filaments into bundles via its intermolecular self-association. p35 dimerization and association with F-actin occur at the N-terminal region that is absent in the calpain-cleaved product p25, indicating that such p35 properties are lost by its truncation induced under neurotoxic conditions. Using p35 phosphorylated by Cdk5 and a mutational approach, we demonstrate that the phosphorylation of p35 promotes its homodimerization and p35-induced formation of F-actin bundles. In addition, the phosphorylation regulates p35 distribution to microtubule and actin cytoskeletons. Together, these observations define a novel function for p35 in cytoskeletal regulation.
The purpose of this study was to analyze the rapid effects of the antiepileptic drugs valproate, lamotrigine, and levetiracetam on excitability and firing properties of hippocampal neurons. The drug effects on resting potential, action potential, and repetitive firing properties were studied in whole-cell current-clamp recordings of CA1 neurons in rat brain slices. Lamotrigine changed action potential rising slope by -24  38 V/s (mean  SD), peak amplitude by -6.8  5.0 mV, and maximum firing frequency by -60  13%. Lamotrigine thereto increased the voltage threshold by 4.3  4.2 mV and augmented the action potential attenuation during repetitive firing. All effects were significant (P &lt; 0.01 to P &lt; 0.0002) compared to control cells. Valproate and levetiracetam showed no significant effects on these parameters. None of the tested drugs had a significant effect on the resting potential. The lamotrigine effects are consistent with sodium channel blocking which may explain or contribute to the antiepileptic mode of action. Valproate and levetiracetam did not show these effects and the mechanism of their antiepileptic action need to be different. These findings (valproate) differ in some respects from findings reported in cultured or dissociated neurons. In a slice where the neurons have largely preserved connections, drug effects are likely to be more similar to the therapeutic action in the brain.
Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is a neurodegenerative disease that is caused by deletion of the SMN (Survival of Motor Neuron) gene. The SMN protein is essential for cell survival and co-localized with TIA-1/R and G3BP, two characteristic markers of stress granules (SGs). To further study the SMN function in stress granules and in response to stress, we generated stable cell lines with SMN knockdown. Our data indicate that suppression of SMN drastically reduces cellular ability to form stress granules in response to stress treatment. In addition, we show that SMN deficiency sensitizes cells to sodium arsenite and H(2)O(2), two well-known stress inducers, leading to cell death at a much lower concentration of inducers in SMN knockdown cells than in control cells. Interestingly, the cell death is correlated with formation of stress granules, suggesting that involvement of SMN in formation of stress granules may play an important role in cell survival. Furthermore, rescue of SGs formation by overexpression of G3BP can reverse the defective formation of stress granules and results in partial abrogation of cell death against SMN deficiency. We deduce that modulation of stress response may be useful for potential SMN treatment.
Stimulus-induced exocytosis of large dense-core vesicles (LDCVs) leads to discharge of neuropeptides and fusion of LDCV membranes with the plasma membrane. However, the contribution of LDCVs to the properties of the neuronal membrane remains largely unclear. The present study found that LDCVs were associated with multiple receptors, channels and signaling molecules, suggesting that neuronal sensitivity is modulated by an LDCV-mediated mechanism. Liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry combined with immunoblotting of subcellular fractions identified 298 proteins in LDCV membranes purified from the dorsal spinal cord, including G-protein-coupled receptors, G-proteins and other signaling molecules, ion channels and trafficking-related proteins. Morphological assays showed that -opioid receptor 1 (DOR1), 2 adrenergic receptor (AR), G(i2), voltage-gated calcium channel 21 subunit and P2X purinoceptor 2 were localized in substance P (SP)-positive LDCVs in small-diameter dorsal root ganglion neurons, whereas 1 AR, Wnt receptor frizzled 8 and dishevelled 1 were present in SP-negative LDCVs. Furthermore, DOR1/G(i2)/G(15)/phospholipase C 2 complexes were associated with LDCVs. Blockade of the DOR1/G(i2) interaction largely abolished the LDCV localization of G(i2) and impaired stimulation-induced surface expression of G(i2). Thus, LDCVs serve as carriers of receptors, ion channels and preassembled receptor signaling complexes, enabling a rapid, activity-dependent modulation of neuronal sensitivity.
Single- and double-immunostaining techniques were used systematically to study the distribution pattern and neurochemical density of oxytocin-immunoreactive (-ir) neurons in the digestive tract of the guinea pig. Oxytocin immunoreactivity was distributed widely in the guinea pig gastrointestinal tract; 3%, 13%, 17%, 15%, and 10% of ganglion neurons were immunoreactive for oxytocin in the myenteric plexuses of the gastric corpus, jejunum, ileum, proximal colon, and distal colon, respectively, and 36%, 40%, 52%, and 56% of ganglion neurons were immunoreactive for oxytocin in the submucosal plexuses of the jejunum, ileum, proximal colon, and distal colon, respectively. In the myenteric plexus, oxytocin was expressed exclusively in the intrinsic enteric afferent neurons, as identified by calbindin 28 K. In the submucosal plexuses, oxytocin was expressed in non-cholinergic secretomotor neurons, as identified by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide. Oxytocin-ir nerve fibers in the inner circular muscle layer possibly arose from the myenteric oxytocin-ir neurons, and oxytocin-ir nerve fibers in the mucosa possibly arose from both the myenteric and submucosal oxytocin-ir neurons. Thus, oxytocin in the digestive tract might be involved in gastrointestinal tract motility mainly via the regulation of the inner circular muscle and the balance of the absorption and secretion of water and electrolytes.
The binding of Neuregulin-1 (Nrg1) to the epidermal growth factor family of receptor tyrosine kinases (ErbB) mediates intercellular and intracellular communication and regulates a broad spectrum of biological processes, such as tumorigenesis and myelination. Recombinant Nrg1 has been shown to control prolactin (PRL) secretion from rat prolactinoma GH3 cells. However, the endogenous expression of Nrg1 and its role in PRL secretion in GH3 cells are not known. In this study, we demonstrate that type III Nrg1 isoforms are endogenously expressed in GH3 cells. An in vitro functional analysis by using short interfering RNA against Nrg1 has revealed that endogenous Nrg1 regulates PRL secretion from GH3 cells in part in an ErbB-3-receptor-dependent manner, with no significant effects on growth hormone secretion. Therefore, Nrg1 is a specific modulator of PRL secretion in GH3 cells. Additionally, the co-localization of Nrg1 and ErbB-2 receptor, which is shared by both ErbB-3 and ErbB-4 receptors in the formation of heterodimers, has been detected in one out of five human prolactinoma tissues. Our findings suggest that GH3 cells intrinsically express a group of type III Nrg1 isoforms that regulate PRL secretion through an autocrine/paracrine mechanism. Further investigation into the role of Nrg1 on PRL secretion should provide clues to advance the clinical management of prolactinoma.

The perception of faces evokes characteristic electrophysiological responses at discrete loci in human fusiform gyrus and adjacent ventral occipitotemporal cortical sites. Prominent among these responses are a surface-negative potential at 200-ms postonset (face-N200) and face-induced spectral perturbations in the gamma band (face-ERSP). The degree to which these responses represent activity in the same cortical loci and the degree to which they are influenced by the same perceptual and task variables are unknown. We evaluated this anatomical colocalization and functional correlation in 2 experiments in which the electrocorticogram was recorded from subdural electrodes in 51 participants. Experiment 1 investigated the category specificity of the ERSP and its colocalization with the face-N200. Experiment 2 examined differences in face-N200 and face-ERSP to face stimuli that varied in featural complexity. We found that ERSP is a category-specific phenomenon with separate, though overlapping, category sensitivities as the N200. Further, the presence of face-ERSP at an electrode site significantly predicted the presence and amplitude of face-N200 at that site. However, the converse was not true in that face-N200 was evoked by impoverished face stimuli that did not induce face-ERSP. These results demonstrate that these electrophysiological responses reflect separate components of the brain's face processing system.
A controversial question in cognitive neuroscience is whether comprehension of words and sentences engages brain mechanisms specific for decoding linguistic meaning or whether language comprehension occurs through more domain-general sensorimotor processes. Accumulating behavioral and neuroimaging evidence suggests a role for cortical motor and premotor areas in passive action-related language tasks, regions that are known to be involved in action execution and observation. To examine the involvement of these brain regions in language and nonlanguage tasks, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) on a group of 21 healthy adults. During the fMRI session, all participants 1) watched short object-related action movies, 2) looked at pictures of man-made objects, and 3) listened to and produced short sentences describing object-related actions and man-made objects. Our results are among the first to reveal, in the human brain, a functional specialization within the ventral premotor cortex (PMv) for observing actions and for observing objects, and a different organization for processing sentences describing actions and objects. These findings argue against the strongest version of the simulation theory for the processing of action-related language.
Evidence suggests that the right inferior frontal cortex (IFC) plays a specialized role in response inhibition. However, more recent findings indicate a broader role for this region in attentional control. Here, we used functional magnetic resonance imaging to examine the functional role of the right IFC in attention, inhibition, and response control in 2 experiments that employed novel variations of the go/no-go task. Across the 2 experiments, we observed a graded response in the right insula/IFC, whereby increasing response control demands led to an increase in activation. The results are consistent with the hypothesis that this region plays a key role in the integration of bottom-up, sensory information with top-down, response-related information to facilitate flexible, goal-directed behavior.
Responses to sound in the auditory cortex are influenced by the preceding history of firing. We studied the time course of auditory adaptation in primary auditory cortex (A1) from awake, freely moving rats. Two identical stimuli were delivered with different intervals ranging from 50 ms to 8 s. Single neuron recordings in the awake animal revealed that the response to a sound is influenced by sounds delivered even several seconds earlier, the second one usually yielding a weaker response. To understand the role of neuronal intrinsic properties in this phenomenon, we obtained intracellular recordings from rat A1 neurons in vitro and mimicked the same protocols of adaptation carried out in awake animals by means of depolarizing pulses of identical duration and intervals. The intensity of the pulses was adjusted such that the first pulse would evoke a similar number of spikes as its equivalent in vivo. A1 neurons in vitro adapted with a similar time course but less than in awake animals. At least two potassium currents participated in the in vitro adaptation: a Na(+)-dependent K(+) current and an apamin-sensitive K(+) current. Our results suggest that potassium currents underlie at least part of cortical auditory adaptation during the awake state.
The Reelin signaling pathway is essential for proper cortical development, but it is unclear to whether Reelin function is primarily important for cortical layering or neuron migration. It has been proposed that Reelin is perhaps required only for somal translocation but not glial-dependent locomotion. This implies that the location of neurons responding to Reelin is restricted to the outer regions of the cortical plate (CP). To determine whether Reelin is required for migration outside of the CP, we used time-lapse imaging to track the behavior of cells undergoing locomotion in the germinal zones. We focused on the migratory activity in the ventricular/subventricular zones where the first transition of bipolar to multipolar migration occurs and where functional Reelin receptors are known to be expressed. Despite Reelin loss, neurons had no difficulty in undergoing radial migration and indeed displayed greater migratory speed. Additionally, compared with the wild-type, reeler neurons displayed altered trajectories with greater deviation from a radial path. These results suggest that Reelin loss has early consequences for migration in the germinal zones that are portrayed as defective radial trajectories and migratory speeds. Together, these abnormalities can give rise to the increased cell dispersion observed in the reeler cortex.
Principal neurons in the adult cerebral cortex undergo synaptic, dendritic, and spine remodeling in response to different stimuli, and several reports have demonstrated that the polysialylated form of the neural cell adhesion molecule (PSA-NCAM) participates in these plastic processes. However, there is only limited information on the expression of this molecule on interneurons and on its role in the structural plasticity of these cells. We have found that PSA-NCAM is expressed in mature interneurons widely distributed in all the extension of the cerebral cortex and have excluded the expression of this molecule in most principal cells. Although PSA-NCAM expression is generally considered a marker of immature neurons, birth-dating analyses reveal that these interneurons do not have an adult or perinatal origin and that they are generated during embryonic development. PSA-NCAM expressing interneurons show reduced density of perisomatic and peridendritic puncta expressing different synaptic markers and receive less perisomatic synapses, when compared with interneurons lacking this molecule. Moreover, they have reduced dendritic arborization and spine density. These data indicate that PSA-NCAM expression is important for the connectivity of interneurons in the adult cerebral cortex and that its regulation may play an important role in the structural plasticity of inhibitory networks.
Mouse and rat chromaffin cells (MCCs, RCCs) fire spontaneously at rest and their activity is mainly supported by the two L-type Ca(2+) channels expressed in these cells (Ca(v)1.2 and Ca(v)1.3). Using Ca(v)1.3(-/-) KO MCCs we have shown that Ca(v)1.3 possess all the prerequisites for carrying subthreshold currents that sustain low frequency cell firing near resting (0.5 to 2 Hz at -50 mV): low-threshold and steep voltage dependence of activation, slow and incomplete inactivation during pulses of several hundreds of milliseconds. Ca(v)1.2 contributes also to pacemaking MCCs and possibly even Na(+) channels may participate in the firing of a small percentage of cells. We now show that at potentials near resting (-50 mV), Ca(v)1.3 carries equal amounts of Ca(2+) current to Ca(v)1.2 but activates at 9 mV more negative potentials. MCCs express only TTX-sensitive Na(v)1 channels that activate at 24 mV more positive potentials than Ca(v)1.3 and are fully inactivating. Their blockade prevents the firing only in a small percentage of cells (13%). This suggests that the order of importance with regard to pacemaking MCCs is: Ca(v)1.3, Ca(v)1.2 and Na(v)1. The above conclusions, however, rely on the proper use of DHPs, whose blocking potency is strongly holding potential dependent. We also show that small increases of KCl concentration steadily depolarize the MCCs causing abnormally increased firing frequencies, lowered and broadened AP waveforms and an increased facility of switching &quot;non-firing&quot; into &quot;firing&quot; cells that may lead to erroneous conclusions about the role of Ca(v)1.3 and Ca(v)1.2 as pacemaker channels in MCCs.
An increased understanding of the factors affecting behavioral and neurological responses to alcohol and alcohol physiology is necessary given the tremendous toll alcohol abuse and alcoholism exert on individuals and society. At the behavioral and molecular levels, the response to alcohol appears remarkably conserved from Drosophila to humans, suggesting that investigations across model species can provide insight into the identification of common modulatory factors. We investigated the interaction between the circadian clock and alcohol sensitivity, alcohol tolerance, and alcohol absorbance in Drosophila melanogaster. Using a loss-of-righting reflex (LoRR) assay, we found that flies exhibit a circadian rhythm in the LoRR, with the greatest sensitivity to alcohol occurring from mid to late night, corresponding to the flies' inactive phase. As predicted, a circadian rhythm in the LoRR was absent in circadian mutant flies and under conditions in which the circadian clock was nonfunctional. Circadian modulation of the response to alcohol was not due to circadian regulation of alcohol absorbance. Similar to other animals, Drosophila develop acute and chronic tolerance to alcohol upon repeat exposures. We found that the circadian clock did not modulate the development of acute alcohol tolerance measured as the difference in sensitivity to alcohol between nave and pre-exposed flies. Thus, the circadian clock modulates some, but not all, of the behavioral responses to alcohol exposure, suggesting that specific mechanisms underlie the observed circadian modulation of LoRR rather than global cellular circadian regulation. This study provides valuable new insights in our understanding of the circadian modulation of alcohol-induced behaviors that ultimately could facilitate preventative measures in combating alcohol abuse and alcoholism.

Glaucoma is one of the most important eye diseases resulting in blindness worldwide. It affects the inner retina and is without signs and symptoms in the early stages, making early detection of glaucoma important for eye care professionals. Electroretinography (ERG) is an objective technique used to measure retinal electrical responses, which directly reflect retinal function. The multifocal electroretinogram (mfERG) is a relatively new tool in this area. Various modifications of the mfERG stimulation paradigms such as fast flicker, low contrast, slow sequence, global flash and luminance-modulation have been developed in recent years. Using these techniques and a better understanding of the mfERG characteristics has resulted in greater effectiveness of the mfERG in the diagnosis of glaucoma. It is likely that sensitive clinical mfERG measurement protocols for early detection of glaucomatous damage will be possible in the near future.
Toll-like receptors are innate immunity receptors that activate inflammation and adaptive immunity. Our objectives were to analyze the association between TLR3, 7, 8 and 9 expressions and clinical outcome in patients with ischemic stroke and the expression of inflammatory molecules. One hundred-ten patients with ischemic stroke were included within 12h of symptoms onset. Stroke severity was evaluated by the NIHSS, and functional outcome was assessed at 3 months by the modified Rankin Scale. Infarct volume at 4-7 days was measured on Computed Tomography imaging. TLR7 and TLR8 at different time points were independently associated with poor outcome. TLR8 was also correlated with infarct volumes. Furthermore, TLR7 and TLR8 on admission were correlated with levels of IL6 and IL1 at 24h, 72 h and 7 days. In conclusion, TLR 7 and TLR8 expressions are associated with poor outcome and greater inflammatory response in acute ischemic stroke.



Both vision and cognitive problems are commonplace in multiple sclerosis. Previous research suggests that MS patients with compromised near vision perform more poorly on visually mediated cognitive tests. Consequently it has been recommended that neuropsychologists who evaluate MS patients with poor corrected near vision should rely primarily on auditory neuropsychological tests. However, no research has examined the association between vision problems and performance on non-visual neuropsychological tests in MS. Moreover, little if any research has examined the association between more sensitive measures of vision impairment and cognitive difficulties in MS. The objective of this study was to examine the relationship between visual acuity and cognition in MS. A total of 65 MS patients were administered a visual and neuropsychological evaluation. Visual examination included an assessment of visual acuity, low-contrast visual acuity (5%, 2.5%, and 1.25% illuminated charts) and near visual acuity. Poorer high-contrast, near, and low-contrast visual acuity were significantly associated with poorer performance on visual, non-visual, and motor-based neuropsychological tests. Neuropsychologists should be aware that poor corrected vision in MS is associated with poor performance in all cognitive and motor domains. Results suggest the need for further exploration of visual acuity biomarkers of disease progression in MS.


Patients with post-Lyme disease syndrome (PLDS) report persistent symptoms of pain, fatigue, and/or concentration and memory disturbances despite antibiotic treatment for Lyme borreliosis. The etiopathogenesis of these symptoms remains unknown and no effective therapies have been identified. We sought to examine the antiborrelia antibody profile in affected patients with the aim of finding clues to the mechanism of the syndrome and its relationship to the original spirochetal infection. Serum specimens from 54 borrelia-seropositive PLDS patients were examined for antibodies to Borrelia burgdorferi proteins p18, p25, p28, p30, p31, p34, p39, p41, p45, p58, p66, p93, and VlsE by automated immunoblotting and software-assisted band analysis. The presence of serum antibodies to the 31-kDa band was further investigated by examination of reactivity against purified recombinant OspA protein. Control specimens included sera from 14 borrelia-seropositive individuals with a history of early localized or disseminated Lyme disease who were symptom free (post-Lyme healthy group), as well as 20 healthy individuals without serologic evidence or history of Lyme disease. In comparison to the post-Lyme healthy group, higher frequencies of antibodies to p28 (P &lt; 0.05), p30 (P &lt; 0.05), p31 (P &lt; 0.0001), and p34 (P &lt; 0.05) proteins were found in the PLDS group. Assessment of antibody reactivity to recombinant OspA confirmed the presence of elevated levels in PLDS patients (P &lt; 0.005). The described antiborrelia antibody profile in PLDS offers clues about the course of the antecedent infection in affected patients, which may be useful for understanding the pathogenic mechanism of the disease.
Glatiramer acetate is a synthetic, random copolymer widely used as a first-line agent for the treatment of relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (MS). While earlier studies primarily attributed its clinical effect to a shift in the cytokine secretion of CD4+ T helper (T(h)) cells, growing evidence in MS and its animal model, experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE), suggests that glatiramer acetate treatment is associated with a broader immunomodulatory effect on cells of both the innate and adaptive immune system. To date, glatiramer acetate-mediated modulation of antigen-presenting cells (APC) such as monocytes and dendritic cells, CD4+ T(h) cells, CD8+ T cells, Foxp3+ regulatory T cells and antibody production by plasma cells have been reported; in addition, most recent investigations indicate that glatiramer acetate treatment may also promote regulatory B-cell properties. Experimental evidence suggests that, among these diverse effects, a fostering interplay between anti-inflammatory T-cell populations and regulatory type II APC may be the central axis in glatiramer acetate-mediated immune modulation of CNS autoimmune disease. Besides altering inflammatory processes, glatiramer acetate could exert direct neuroprotective and/or neuroregenerative properties, which could be of relevance for the treatment of MS, but even more so for primarily neurodegenerative disorders, such as Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease. In this review, we provide a comprehensive and critical overview of established and recent findings aiming to elucidate the complex mechanism of action of glatiramer acetate.
Inflammatory signals generated within the brain and peripheral nervous system direct diverse biological processes. Key amongst the inflammatory molecules is tumor necrosis factor- (TNF-), a potent pro-inflammatory cytokine that, via binding to its associated receptors, is considered to be a master regulator of cellular cascades that control a number of diverse processes coupled to cell viability, gene expression, synaptic integrity and ion homeostasis. Whereas a self-limiting neuroinflammatory response generally results in the resolution of an intrinsically or extrinsically triggered insult by the elimination of toxic material or injured tissue to restore brain homeostasis and function, in the event of an unregulated reaction, where the immune response persists, inappropriate chronic neuroinflammation can ensue. Uncontrolled neuroinflammatory activity can induce cellular dysfunction and demise, and lead to a self-propagating cascade of harmful pathogenic events. Such chronic neuroinflammation is a typical feature across a range of debilitating common neurodegenerative diseases, epitomized by Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, in which TNF- expression appears to be upregulated and may represent a valuable target for intervention. Elaboration of the protective homeostasis signaling cascades from the harmful pathogenic ones that likely drive disease onset and progression could aid in the clinical translation of approaches to lower brain and peripheral nervous system TNF- levels, and amelioration of inappropriate neuroinflammation.

This review highlights the key role of modularity and the additive factors method in functional neuroimaging. Our focus is on structure-function mappings in the human brain and how these are disclosed by brain mapping. We describe how modularity of processing (and possibly processes) was a key point of reference for establishing functional segregation as a principle of brain organization. Furthermore, modularity plays a crucial role when trying to characterize distributed brain responses in terms of functional integration or coupling among brain areas. We consider additive factors logic and how it helped to shape the design and interpretation of studies at the inception of brain mapping, with a special focus on factorial designs. We look at factorial designs in activation experiments and in the context of lesion-deficit mapping. In both cases, the presence or absence of interactions among various experimental factors has proven essential in understanding the context-sensitive nature of distributed but modular processing and discerning the nature of (potentially degenerate) structure-function relationships in cognitive neuroscience.
Semantic priming refers to the finding that a word response is facilitated if it is preceded by a related word compared to when it is preceded by an unrelated word. Dallas and Merikle (Can J Psychol 30: 15-21 1976a; Bull Psychon Soc 8: 441-444 1976b) demonstrated that semantic priming occurred under conditions in which a pair of simultaneously displayed words was previewed for over a second prior to the onset of a cue indicating which of the words should be pronounced aloud (postcue task). In contrast, semantic interference effects have been reported for postcue picture-naming tasks (Dean et al. in J Exp Psychol Learn Mem Cogn 27: 733-743, 2001; Humphreys et al. in J Exp Psychol Learn Mem Cogn 21: 961-980, 1995). According to Dean et al., the semantic interference effects in postcue picture naming occur because the integration of the object and the cued attribute in memory is more difficult for categorically related pictures than for unrelated pictures. The aim of this experiment was to determine whether this idea was true for postcue word pronunciation tasks. Participants completed two postcue tasks, one requiring pronunciation of the target word indicated by a locational cue and another requiring pronunciation of the location of a centrally presented word. Results indicated a semantic priming effect only for the locational cue condition suggesting that the integration of the cue and identity information was unaffected by word context. These data suggest that priming in a postcue word pronunciation task may be due to feedback from residual activation within the semantic system facilitating access to the target word's phonology.
Semantic memory is the subsystem of human memory that stores knowledge of concepts or meanings, as opposed to life-specific experiences. How humans organize semantic information remains poorly understood. In an effort to better understand this issue, we conducted a verbal fluency experiment on 200 participants with the aim of inferring and representing the conceptual storage structure of the natural category of animals as a network. This was done by formulating a statistical framework for co-occurring concepts that aims to infer significant concept-concept associations and represent them as a graph. The resulting network was analyzed and enriched by means of a missing links recovery criterion based on modularity. Both network models were compared to a thresholded co-occurrence approach. They were evaluated using a random subset of verbal fluency tests and comparing the network outcomes (linked pairs are clustering transitions and disconnected pairs are switching transitions) to the outcomes of two expert human raters. Results show that the network models proposed in this study overcome a thresholded co-occurrence approach, and their outcomes are in high agreement with human evaluations. Finally, the interplay between conceptual structure and retrieval mechanisms is discussed.
Presenilin (PS) mutations are the main cause of Familial Alzheimer's Disease (FAD) and have been demonstrated to cause an imbalance of intracellular Ca(2+) homeostasis. Though PS1 and 2 are generally considered to behave similarly in terms of their effects on Ca(2+) handling, we have recently described a novel function, which is unique to PS2, i.e., the modulation of ER-mitochondria juxtaposition. Accordingly, PS2, but not PS1, affects the Ca(2+) cross-talk between these organelles, a key feature in determining cell fate. In particular, PS2 overexpression, and more drastically that of FAD-linked PS2 mutants, strongly increases the interaction between ER and mitochondria, thus facilitating mitochondrial Ca(2+) uptake. The likely mechanisms behind this phenomenon and its potential effects in cell physiology and pathology are discussed.
Recent work from our interdisciplinary research group has revealed the emergence of inter-brain synchronization across multiple frequency bands during social interaction.1 Our findings result from the close collaboration between experts who study neural dynamics and developmental psychology. The initial aim of the collaboration was to combine knowledge from these two fields in order to move from a classical one-brain neuroscience towards a novel two-body approach. A new technique called hyperscanning has made it possible to study the neural activity of two individuals simultaneously. However, this advanced methodology was not sufficient in itself. What remained to be found was a way to promote real-time reciprocal social interaction between two individuals during brain recording and analyze the neural and behavioral phenomenon from an inter-individual perspective. Approaches used in infancy research to study nonverbal communication and coordination, between a mother and her child for example, have so far been poorly applied to neuroimaging experiments. We thus adapted an ecological two-body experiment inspired by the use of spontaneous imitation in preverbal infants. Numerous methodological and theoretical problems had to be overcome, ranging from the choice of a common time-unit for behavioral and brain recordings to the creation of algorithms for data processing between distant brain regions in different brains. This article will discuss the underlying issues and perspectives involved in elucidating the pathway from individual to social theories of cognition.
For most animals, eating entails the risk of being poisoned. Learning how to identify foods with toxins is an important mechanism that reduces the risk of poisoning. While conditioned food aversions have been studied in vertebrates for over 50 years, the neural circuits underlying this form of learning have been difficult to elucidate because of their complexity. Insects, such as fruit flies and honeybees, are important models for the study of the neural mechanisms of learning and memory, but conditioned food aversions have not yet been reported from either species. My collaborators and I recently established that the honeybee has the ability to learn to avoid odors associated with toxins in food using two independent neural pathways. In these experiments, we found that honeybees can learn to associate scents with toxins that they can pre-ingestively detect using their proboscis. This form of learning is primarily mediated by the neurotransmitter, dopamine. We also found a second mechanism: bees can learn to avoid odors associated with the malaise caused by ingesting toxins. This form of learning is mediated by serotonin. Our data are the first to show that two different mechanisms account for conditioned food aversions in insects.
Various hypotheses about the role of the anterior temporal lobe (ATL) in language processing have been proposed. One hypothesis is that it binds the semantic/conceptual properties of words, functioning as a hub for linking modality-specific conceptual properties of objects. This hypothesis predicts that damage to ATL would give rise to impaired conceptual knowledge of all categories. A related school of hypotheses assumes that the left ATL is critical for lexical retrieval, with different sub-regions potentially important for different categories of items. We examined these hypotheses by studying a case of surgical resection of left ATL due to a low-grade glioma (LGG). Thorough language assessments performed four months after the operation revealed the following profile: the patient showed intact conceptual knowledge for all categories of items tested using both accuracy and response latency measures; he suffered from name retrieval deficits for proper names (people and place names) and artifacts (including tools), but showed no name retrieval difficulties for animate things. This pattern of results challenges both target hypotheses about the role of ATL in language processing tested here.
Multiple complications can ensue in the cardiovascular, renal, and nervous systems during diabetes mellitus (DM). Given that endothelial cells (ECs) are susceptible targets to elevated serum D-glucose, identification of novel cellular mechanisms that can protect ECs may foster the development of unique strategies for the prevention and treatment of DM complications. Erythropoietin (EPO) represents one of these novel strategies but the dependence of EPO upon Wnt1 and its downstream signaling in a clinically relevant model of DM with elevated D-glucose has not been elucidated. Here we show that EPO can not only maintain the integrity of EC membranes, but also prevent apoptotic nuclear DNA degradation and the externalization of membrane phosphatidylserine (PS) residues during elevated D-glucose over a 48-hour period. EPO modulates the expression of Wnt1 and utilizes Wnt1 to confer EC protection during elevated D-glucose exposure, since application of a Wnt1 neutralizing antibody, treatment with the Wnt1 antagonist DKK-1, or gene silencing of Wnt1 with Wnt1 siRNA transfection abrogates the protective capability of EPO. EPO through a novel Wnt1 dependent mechanism controls the post-translational phosphorylation of the &quot;pro-apoptotic&quot; forkhead member FoxO3a and blocks the trafficking of FoxO3a to the cell nucleus to prevent apoptotic demise. EPO also employs the activation of protein kinase B (Akt1) to foster phosphorylation of GSK-3 that appears required for EPO vascular protection. Through this inhibition of GSK-3, EPO maintains -catenin activity, allows the translocation of -catenin from the EC cytoplasm to the nucleus through a Wnt1 pathway, and requires -catenin for protection against elevated D-glucose since gene silencing of -catenin eliminates the ability of EPO as well as Wnt1 to increase EC survival. Subsequently, we show that EPO requires modulation of both Wnt1 and FoxO3a to oversee mitochondrial membrane depolarization, cytochrome c release, and caspase activation during elevated D-glucose. Our studies identify critical elements of the protective cascade for EPO that rely upon modulation of Wnt1, Akt1, FoxO3a, GSK-3, -catenin, and mitochondrial apoptotic pathways for the development of new strategies against DM vascular complications.


Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents the most common form of senile dementia and represents a tremendous health problem as the world population is aging. AD is characterized by the accumulation of amyloid -peptide (A) in the brain and the loss of cholinergic neurons in the basal forebrain. Accumulation of soluble and insoluble assemblies of A in the brain is a crucial event in AD pathogenesis and the presence of amyloid plaques in the brain is required for definitive identification of AD. Yet, there is no correlation between amyloid plaques and the degree of dementia. In the past two decades researchers have devoted their effort to study and explain the mechanisms involved in the pathology of this devastating disease. Studies from different areas of the natural and medical sciences have provided important information towards the elucidation of some of the pathological processes that take place in AD. An aspect of crucial importance is the aggregation state of A peptide and its role in neuropathology. Here, we discuss recent studies aimed at the identification of A protein aggregates, the characterization of their toxic potential and the development of therapeutic strategies that target A aggregation.

The transcription factor Evx1 is expressed in the joints between individual lepidotrichia (bony ray) segments and at the distal tips of the lepidotrichia in developing zebrafish fins. It is also expressed in the apical growth zone in regenerating fins. However, so far there is no functional evidence that addresses whether Evx1 is required for any aspect of fin development or regeneration. In this study, we use a novel mutation in evx1 to address this. We find that Evx1 is not required for either fin outgrowth or regeneration. All of the fins form normally in evx1 mutants, and there are no significant changes in fin length. In contrast, Evx1 is required for lepidotrichia joint formation during both fin development and regeneration. This is a very specific phenotype as both lepidotrichia hemisegment separations and lepidotrichia bifurcations still form normally in evx1 mutant fins, as do joints in the more proximal endoskeletal radials.
In general, growth and differentiation are mutually exclusive, but they are cooperatively regulated during the course of development. Thus, the process of a cell's transition from growth to differentiation is of general importance for the development of organisms, and terminally differentiated cells such as nerve cells never divide. Meanwhile, the growth rate speeds up when cells turn malignant. The cellular slime mold Dictyostelium discoideum grows and multiplies as long as nutrients are supplied, and its differentiation is triggered by starvation. A critical checkpoint (growth/differentiation transition or GDT point), from which cells start differentiating in response to starvation, has been precisely specified in the cell cycle of D. discoideum Ax-2 cells. Accordingly, integration of GDT point-specific events with starvation-induced events is needed to understand the mechanism regulating GDTs. A variety of intercellular and intracellular signals are involved positively or negatively in the initiation of differentiation, making a series of cross-talks. As was expected from the presence of the GDT point, the cell's positioning in cell masses and subsequent cell-type choices occur depending on the cell's phase in the cell cycle at the onset of starvation. Since novel and multiple functions of mitochondria in various respects of development including the initiation of differentiation have been directly realized in Dictyostelium cells, they are also reviewed in this article.
Neurodegeneration with brain iron accumulation (NBIA) comprises a heterogeneous group of progressive complex motor disorders characterized by the presence of high brain iron, particularly within the basal ganglia. A number of autosomal recessive NBIA syndromes can present in childhood, most commonly pantothenate kinase-associated neurodegeneration (PKAN; due to mutations in the PANK2 gene) and phospholipase A2 group 6-associated neurodegeneration (PLAN; associated with genetic defects in PLA2G6). Mutations in the genes that cause these two neuroaxonal dystrophies are thought to disrupt the normal cellular functions of phospholipid remodelling and fatty acid metabolism. A significant proportion of children with an NBIA phenotype have no genetic diagnosis and there are, no doubt, additional as yet undiscovered genes that account for a number of these cases. NBIA disorders can be diagnostically challenging as there is often phenotypic overlap between the different disease entities. This review aims to define the clinical, radiological, and genetic features of such disorders, providing the clinician with a stepwise approach to appropriate neurological and genetic investigation, as well as a clinical management strategy for these neurodegenerative syndromes.
For children and adolescents with cerebral palsy (CP) classified as Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) level III there is no running-based field test available to assess their cardiorespiratory fitness. The current study investigated whether a shuttle run test can be reliably (test-retest) performed in a group of children with spastic diplegia (eight male, five female) classified as GMFCS level III. Thirteen children (mean age 12 y, SD 3 y) had to walk/run in squares of 7.5m delimited by cones. The auditory signals from the GMFCS II compact disc (as used in a previous reliability and validation study) were used during the test, resulting in a starting speed of 1.5 km/hour with a graded increase in speed of 0.19 km/hour per minute (shuttle). Intraclass correlation coefficients (two-way mixed) for achieved shuttles were 0.98. The standard error of measurement was 0.48 levels and the smallest detectable change was 1.32 shuttles. The results are the first indication that the shuttle run test protocol could be reliably performed in this population.

In hamsters, individual differences in offensive aggression are associated with impulsive choice, leading to the characterization of a distinct impulsive-aggressive phenotype. This study had two goals: to determine the developmental trajectory of the maturation of this phenotype and to address its parental lineage. Interestingly, individuals most aggressive as adults were less likely to attack in early puberty. However, looking at the transition of agonistic behavior from play fighting to adult aggression, impulsive-aggressive individuals were less likely to engage in play fighting attacks and more likely to engage in more mature agonistic behavior. Additionally, parental lineages were compared for the aggressive responses expressed by their adult offspring. Most impulsive-aggressive individuals were offspring of few select males, which were more likely to produce this phenotype, without an association with females or specific litters. These findings identify an abnormal and accelerated development of agonistic behavior in impulsive-aggressive individuals and a likelihood of heritability.
Consistent with social neuroscience perspectives on adolescent development, previous cross-sectional research has found diverging mean age-related trends for sensation seeking and impulsivity during adolescence. The present study uses longitudinal data on 7,640 youth from the National Longitudinal Study of Youth Children and Young Adults, a nationally representative sample assessed biennially from 1994 to 2006. Latent growth curve models were used to investigate mean age-related changes in self-reports of impulsivity and sensation seeking from ages 12 to 24 years, as well individual differences in these changes. Three novel findings are reported. First, impulsivity and sensation seeking showed diverging patterns of longitudinal change at the population level. Second, there was substantial person-to-person variation in the magnitudes of developmental change in both impulsivity and sensation seeking, with some teenagers showing rapid changes as they matured and others maintaining relatively constant levels with age. Finally, the correlation between age-related changes in impulsivity and sensation seeking was modest and not significant. Together, these results constitute the first support for the dual systems model of adolescent development to derive from longitudinal behavioral data.
Fluid intelligence (Gf) predicts performance on a wide range of cognitive activities, and children with impaired Gf often experience academic difficulties. Previous attempts to improve Gf have been hampered by poor control conditions and single outcome measures. It is thus still an open question whether Gf can be improved by training. This study included 4-year-old children (N = 101) who performed computerized training (15 min/day for 25 days) of either non-verbal reasoning, working memory, a combination of both, or a placebo version of the combined training. Compared to the placebo group, the non-verbal reasoning training group improved significantly on Gf when analysed as a latent variable of several reasoning tasks. Smaller gains on problem solving tests were seen in the combination training group. The group training working memory improved on measures of working memory, but not on problem solving tests. This study shows that it is possible to improve Gf with training, which could have implications for early interventions in children.
The goal of this study was to determine whether intensive training can ameliorate cognitive skills in children. Children aged 7 to 9 from low socioeconomic backgrounds participated in one of two cognitive training programs for 60 minutes/day and 2 days/week, for a total of 8 weeks. Both training programs consisted of commercially available computerized and non-computerized games. Reasoning training emphasized planning and relational integration; speed training emphasized rapid visual detection and rapid motor responses. Standard assessments of reasoning ability - the Test of Non-Verbal Intelligence (TONI-3) and cognitive speed (Coding B from WISC IV) - were administered to all children before and after training. Neither group was exposed to these standardized tests during training. Children in the reasoning group improved substantially on TONI (Cohen's d = 1.51), exhibiting an average increase of 10 points in Performance IQ, but did not improve on Coding. By contrast, children in the speed group improved substantially on Coding (d = 1.15), but did not improve on TONI. Counter to widespread belief, these results indicate that both fluid reasoning and processing speed are modifiable by training.
A fundamental question in brain development is how precursor cells generate a diverse group of neural progeny in an ordered manner. Drosophila neuroblasts sequentially express the transcription factors Hunchback (Hb), Krppel (Kr), Pdm1/Pdm2 (Pdm) and Castor (Cas). Hb is necessary and sufficient to specify early-born temporal identity and, thus, Hb downregulation is essential for specification of later-born progeny. Here, we show that distal antenna (dan) and distal antenna-related (danr), encoding pipsqueak motif DNA-binding domain protein family members, are detected in all neuroblasts during the Hb-to-Cas expression window. Dan and Danr are required for timely downregulation of Hb in neuroblasts and for limiting the number of early-born neurons. Dan and Danr function independently of Seven-up (Svp), an orphan nuclear receptor known to repress Hb expression in neuroblasts, because Dan, Danr and Svp do not regulate each other and dan danr svp triple mutants have increased early-born neurons compared with either dan danr or svp mutants. Interestingly, misexpression of Hb can induce Dan and Svp expression in neuroblasts, suggesting that Hb might activate a negative feedback loop to limit its own expression. We conclude that Dan/Danr and Svp act in parallel pathways to limit Hb expression and allow neuroblasts to transition from making early-born neurons to late-born neurons at the proper time.
The field of autoimmune encephalopathies has expanded rapidly in the last few years. It is now well-established that a substantial proportion of encephalitides are associated with autoantibodies directed against the extracellular domains of cell-surface proteins which are critical in the regulation of neuronal excitability. These include LGI1, CASPR2, contactin-2 (VGKC-complex antibodies), and the NMDA, AMPA, and GABA(B) receptors. The clinical importance of these conditions lies in their frequent immunotherapy-response and, less commonly, their association with distinctive tumors. Studies which have examined cohorts of patients defined by these serum antibodies have identified a number of clinical features that have helped understand the core phenotypes of these conditions. In addition, sensitive antibody assays have allowed the expansion of the phenotypes to include a minority of patients with isolated epilepsies or psychoses. There is also evidence that autoimmune encephalitis may progress to adult-onset hippocampal sclerosis. Clinical, and accumulating scientific, data strongly suggest direct pathogenicity of these autoantibodies. The generation of the autoantibody, in some patients, can be explained by the presence of tumors which express their antigenic target. Serum antibody levels are higher than their levels in CSF in the vast majority of cases. However, the majority of patients do not harbor a tumor and the etiology of the disease in these patients is less clear. Below, we suggest models for the etiology and pathogenic mechanisms of these autoantibodies by incorporating concepts such as serum generation of the autoantibodies, the blood-brain barrier, intrathecal antibody production, and prodromal infections.
Stroke, traumatic brain injury (TBI), and spinal cord injury (SCI) cause irreversible damage to the nervous system. Although these are neurological disorders, pathology and loss of function also occur outside the nervous system and are often not easily explained by paralysis or impaired neural function. Emerging data indicate that much of the pathological sequelae that accompanies CNS trauma has characteristics of a self-directed immunological disease. Here, we outline those data, describing basic mechanisms of B cell activation and autoantibody synthesis after CNS injury. A summary of the anti-CNS autoantibodies that have been identified in humans and animals is provided along with a discussion of how autoantibodies may affect survival of neuronal and non-neuronal tissues and whether autoimmune reactions are feasible therapeutic targets after CNS trauma.

Evidence from a number of substance abuse populations suggests that substance abuse is associated with a cluster of differences in cognitive processes. However, investigations of this kind in non-clinical samples are relatively few. The present study examined the ability of alcohol-attentional bias (an alcohol Stroop task), impulsive decision-making (a delay discounting task), and impaired inhibitory control (a GO-NOGO task) to: (a) discriminate problem from non-problem drinkers among a sample of college students; (b) predict scores on the Alcohol Use Disorders Identification Test (AUDIT; a measure of alcohol consumption, drinking behaviour, and alcohol-related problems) across all of the student drinkers; (c) predict AUDIT scores within the subgroups of problem and non-problem student drinkers. In logistic regression controlling for gender and age, student drinkers with elevated alcohol-attentional bias and impulsive decision-making were over twice as likely to be a problem than a non-problem drinker. Multiple regression analysis of the entire sample revealed that all three cognitive measures were significant predictors of AUDIT scores after gender and age had been controlled; the cognitive variables together accounted for 48% of the variance. Moreover, subsequent multiple regressions revealed that impaired inhibitory control was the only significant predictor of AUDIT scores for the group of non-problem drinkers, and alcohol-attentional bias and impulsive decision-making were the only significant predictors of AUDIT scores for the group of problem drinkers. Finally, both impulsive decision-making and impaired inhibitory control were significantly correlated with alcohol-attentional bias across the whole sample. Implications are discussed relating to the development of problematic drinking.
Despite the high incidence of toluene abuse in adolescents, little is known regarding the effect of binge exposure on neurochemical profiles during this developmental stage. In the current study, the effects of binge toluene exposure during adolescence on neurotransmitter levels were determined using high-resolution proton magnetic resonance spectroscopy ex vivo at 11.7T. Adolescent male Sprague-Dawley rats were exposed to toluene (0, 8000, or 12,000 ppm) for 15 min twice daily from postnatal day 28 (P28) through P34 and then euthanized either 1 or 7 days later (on P35 or P42) to assess glutamate (GLU), glutamine, and GABA levels in intact tissue punches from the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC), anterior striatum and hippocampus. In the mPFC, toluene reduced GLU 1 day after exposure, with no effect on GABA, while after 7 days, GLU was no longer affected but there was an increase in GABA levels. In the hippocampus, neither GABA nor GLU was altered 1 day after exposure, whereas 7 days after exposure, increases were observed in GABA and GLU. Striatal GLU and GABA levels measured after either 1 or 7 days were not altered after toluene exposure. These findings show that 1 week of binge toluene inhalation selectively alters these neurotransmitters in the mPFC and hippocampus in adolescent rats, and that some of these effects endure at least 1 week after the exposure. The results suggest that age-dependent, differential neurochemical responses to toluene may contribute to the unique behavioral patterns associated with drug abuse among older children and young teens.
Clear cell adenocarcinoma is an extremely rare tumor of the head and neck region. We report a case of a 75-year-old Caucasian woman with a 10-day history of hemoptysis but with no pain or other significant symptoms. A head and neck computed tomography scan with contrast medium showed an irregular, soft-tissue-like, irregularly enhanced lesion of the base of the tongue extending to its posterolateral portion. The tumor reached the lateral wall of the oropharynx, which showed a nonhomogeneous aspect. The patient underwent resection of the tumor via a conservative transmandibular approach. A clear cell adenocarcinoma of the base of the tongue is rarely a primary malignant lesion; it is more frequently a secondary lesion from a metastatic renal tumor. Because of this neoplasm's relatively slow growth rate and low incidence of metastasis or local recurrence, the gold standard of treatment is complete excision of the tumor with a sufficient tumor-free margin.

Although weight loss is among the most commonly cited reasons for using methamphetamine (MA), little is known about the association between eating disorders and treatment outcomes in this population. This study examined psychiatric, substance use, and functional outcomes of MA users (N = 526) with bulimia nervosa 3 years after treatment for MA dependence. Bulimia nervosa was observed among 2.4% (N = 13) of the participants and was associated with poorer MA use outcomes, increased health service utilization, and higher levels of functional impairment. Addressing MA use among adults with eating disorders may be helpful as a means of improving treatment outcomes.

The ESF-EMBO conference 'Functional Neurobiology in Minibrains' was held in the sunny Spanish seaside resort of Sant Feliu de Guxols in October 2010. The meeting brought together approximately 100 scientists to discuss the interactions between neurobiology and robotics.


Data on the effects of antiepileptic drugs on the immune system are frequently inconsistent and sometimes conflicting because the effects of drugs cannot be separated from those of seizures, first-generation drugs have been most intensively investigated, the patient's genetic background, the mechanism of action and the pharmacokinetic profile of AEDs and the concurrent use of immunosuppressant drugs may act as confounders. Valproate, carbamazepine, phenytoin, vigabatrin, levetiracetam, and diazepam have been found to modulate the immune system activity by affecting humoral and cellular immunity. AEDs are associated with pharmacokinetic interactions (most frequently occurring with carbamazepine, phenytoin, phenobarbital and valproate). Hepatic metabolism is the primary site of interaction for both AEDs and immunotherapies (ACTH, dexamethasone, hydrocortisone, methylprednisolone, cyclophosphamide, methotrexate, rituximab), which entail induction or inhibition of drug effects. However, the clinical importance of these drug interactions is still far from defined. An important adverse effect of the action of AEDs on the immune system is antiepileptic hypersensitivity syndrome (AHS), a life-threatening, idiosyncratic cutaneous reaction to aromatic AEDs resulting in end organ damage. Phenytoin, carbamazepine, phenobarbital, lamotrigine, oxcarbazepine, felbamate, and zonisamide have been implicated. The pathogenic mechanisms of AHS are incompletely understood.
Experimental evidence strongly indicates a significant role for inflammatory and immune mediators in initiation of seizures and epileptogenesis. Here we will summarize data supporting the involvement of IL-1, TNF- and toll-like receptor 4 in seizure generation and the process of epileptogenesis. The physiological homeostasis and control over brain immune response depends on the integrity of the blood-brain barrier, transforming growth factor (TGF)- signaling and leukocyte migration. To what extent targeting the immune system is successful in preventing epileptogenesis, and which signaling pathway should be beleaguered is still under intensive research.
In this article, we review the incidence and significance of seizures in well-established autoimmune disorders, including multiple sclerosis (MS), diabetes mellitus, celiac disease, thyroid disease, and systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE). The five following presentations discuss the incidence and possible pathogenesis of epilepsies that are found in these well-known autoimmune conditions. There is a large body of evidence describing the clinical presentation of seizures with MS and SLE, and showing that refractory epilepsy can complicate these already challenging disorders. However, the mechanisms involved are complex and generally not well understood. Neurologic syndromes, including seizure disorders, can also be a feature of celiac disease (CD) or subclinical CD, sometimes associated with cerebral calcification. The association between type-1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) and epilepsy is unclear and requires more definitive epidemiologic analysis, despite the fact that antibodies to glutamic acid decarboxylase may provide a link between the two conditions. The association between thyroid disorders and encephalopathies, often termed Hashimoto's encephalopathy, is well known but the pathogenic significance of antithyroid antibodies in this condition is still debated. In general, the relationships between autoimmune mechanisms and seizures in these conditions are unclear; the seizures are likely to be caused by a variety of mechanisms, including ischemia, neuronal damage, and specific and nonspecific immunity.

Hypothalamic hamartoma (HH) is a relatively rare cause of epilepsy, mainly affecting children. Nearly all patients develop gelastic seizures, often followed by other focal seizure types. Our case illustrates the mechanisms of epileptogenesis in HH. The patient developed gelastic attacks as a baby, and secondarily generalized seizures and drop attacks at 9 years of age. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) confirmed the presence of a HH. Presurgical assessment with intracranial electroencephalography (EEG) monitoring recorded gelastic seizures with generalized epileptiform activity. Functional stimulation of the hamartoma provoked gelastic attacks. Single pulse electrical stimulation (SPES) was used to identify epileptogenic cortex. SPES of the left cingular cortex provoked generalized responses similar to the spontaneous generalized discharges. Our results suggest that long-standing history of epilepsy in patients with HH may be related to additional sources of epileptogenic activity. Electrical stimulation performed in this patient provided additional data to favor the hypothesis of secondarily epileptogenesis in the cingulate gyrus independently from the primary origin in the HH.

With a multiple case report analysis we demonstrate that hypersexuality more often results from right hemisphere (RH) (n=26) than left hemisphere (LH) (n=7) lesions, possibly because of LH release after the RH lesion, and that ictal orgasm more often occurs in patients with right-sided (n=23) than left-sided (n=8) seizure foci, with the symptom probably resulting from RH activation. The LH may be specialized for increasing sexual tension, whereas the RH may be specialized for release of this tension (orgasm), the former being catabolic and the latter anabolic. Several other interpretations of the findings are also discussed.
Neonatal stroke presents with seizures that are usually treated with phenobarbital. We hypothesized that anticonvulsants would attenuate ischemic injury, but that the dose-dependent effects of standard anticonvulsants would impact important age-dependent and injury-dependent consequences. In this study, ischemia induced by unilateral carotid ligation in postnatal day 12 (P12) CD1 mice was immediately followed by an i.p. dose of vehicle, low-dose or high-dose phenobarbital. Severity of acute behavioral seizures was scored. 5-Bromo-2'-deoxyuridine (BrdU) was administered from P18 to P20, behavioral testing performed, and mice perfused at P40. Atrophy quantification and counts of BrdU/NeuN-labeled cells in the dentate gyrus were performed. Blood phenobarbital concentrations were measured. 30mg/kg phenobarbital reduced acute seizures and chronic brain injury, and restored normal weight gain and exploratory behavior. By comparison, 60mg/kg was a less efficacious anticonvulsant, was not neuroprotective, did not restore normal weight gain, and impaired behavioral and cognitive recovery. Hippocampal neurogenesis was not different between treatment groups. These results suggest a protective effect of lower-dose phenobarbital, but a lack of this effect at higher concentrations after stroke in P12 mice.

First line treatment of metastatic melanoma includes the methylating agent dacarbazine or its analogue temozolomide (TMZ) with improved pharmacokinetics and tolerability. However, the prognosis of the metastatic disease is poor and several trials are evaluating TMZ in polychemotherapy protocols. The novel glutathione transferase P1-1 (GSTP1-1) inhibitor 6-(7-nitro-2,1,3-benzoxadiazol-4-ylthio)hexanol (NBDHEX) has recently shown activity against melanoma through c-Jun N-terminal kinase activation. In this study we have investigated the in vitro and in vivo efficacy of NBDHEX and TMZ combination against melanoma. The results indicated that NBDHEX and TMZ exerted in vitro synergistic anti-proliferative effects in murine B16 and human A375 melanoma cells. In B16 cells TMZ as single agent caused cell accumulation at the G(2)/M phase of cell cycle, whereas NBDHEX induced mainly apoptotic effects. NBDHEX provoked a higher level of p53 phosphorylation with respect to TMZ and the drug combination caused a more than additive increase of p53 activation. The in vivo efficacy of NBDHEX and TMZ has been investigated in an orthotopic B16 model. Treatment with NBDHEX provoked a reduction of tumour growth comparable to that obtained with TMZ, whereas the drug combination significantly increased tumour growth inhibition with respect to the single agents, without worsening TMZ myelotoxicity. Immunohistochemical analysis of tumour grafts revealed a profound reduction of Cyclin D1 and CD31 in all treatment groups; VEGF expression was, instead, markedly decreased only in NBDHEX or NBDHEX and TMZ treated samples. These findings indicate that NBDHEX represents a good candidate for combination therapies including TMZ, offering new perspectives for the treatment of melanoma.
Nectins are cell-cell adhesion molecules involved in the formation of various intercellular junctions and the establishment of apical-basal polarity at cell-cell adhesion sites. To have a better understanding of the roles of nectins in the formation of cell-cell junctions, we searched for new cytoplasmic binding partners for nectin. We report that nectin-1 associates with membrane palmitoylated protein 3 (MPP3), one of the human homologues of a Drosophila tumor suppressor gene, Disc large. Two major forms of MPP3 at 66 and 98 kDa were detected, in conjunction with nectin-1, suggesting that an association between the two may occur in various cell types. Nectin-1 recruits MPP3 to cell-cell contact sites, mediated by a PDZ-binding motif at the carboxyl terminus of nectin-1. Association with MPP3 increases cell surface expression of nectin-1 and enhances nectin-1 ectodomain shedding, indicating that MPP3 regulates trafficking and processing of nectin-1. Further study showed that MPP3 interacts with nectin-3, but not with nectin-2, showing that the association of nectins with MPP3 is isoform-specific. MPP5, another MPP family member, interacts with nectins with varying affinity and facilitates surface expression of nectin-1, nectin-2, and nectin-3. These data suggest that wide interactions between nectins and MPP family members may occur in various cell-cell junctions and that these associations may regulate trafficking and processing of nectins.

Traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) is followed by massive infiltration and activation of myeloid cells such as neutrophils and macrophages, but the functions of these cells are controversial. In this study, our objective was to elucidate the in vivo role of a signaling pathway involved in activation of these innate immune cells in SCI using myeloid cell-specific IB kinase (IKK)- conditional knockout (ikkmye) mice. In these mice, the ikk gene has been specifically deleted from myeloid cells, compromising their in vivo IKK/NF-B-dependent activation. We found that ikkmye mice had significantly reduced neutrophil and macrophage infiltrations after SCI compared to ikk(+/+) controls. SCI-induced proinflammatory gene expression was also reduced in ikkmye mice. Reduced neuroinflammation in ikkmye mice was accompanied by attenuated neuronal loss and behavioral deficits in motor activity. In addition, the SCI-induced expression of CXC ligand 1 was reduced in ikkmye mice, which may be responsible for the reduced neutrophil infiltration in these mice. Our data demonstrate that IKK--dependent myeloid cell activation potentiates neuroinflammation and neuronal damage after SCI.
Ring chromosome 18 [r(18)] is a disorder in which one or both ends of chromosome 18 are lost and joined forming a ring-shaped figures. R(18) patients can therefore show features of 18q-, 18p- syndrome or a combination of both, depending on the size of the 18p and 18q deleted regions. The phenotype of the r(18) is characterized by developmental delay/mental retardation, typical facial dysmorphisms, major abnormalities and immunological problems. Here we report a case of de novo mosaic r(18) with a characterization by array-based comparative genomic hybridization analysis, and discuss the phenotypic correlation in r(18) also through a comparison with previously described cases of the literature.



Gastrectomy (Gsx) is associated with altered emotional function and a predisposition to depression/anxiety disorders. Here we investigated the effects of Gsx on emotional reactivity in rats and explored the underlying neurobiological mechanisms. Gsx- and sham-operated rats were exposed to behavioural tests that explore anxiety- and depression-like behaviour (open field, black and white box, elevated plus maze, social interaction, forced swim) as well as memory (object recognition). The potential neurobiological mechanisms underlying these differences were explored by measuring (i) turnover of candidate neurotransmitter systems in the nucleus accumbens, (ii) hippocampal neurogenesis by BrdU labelling or by analysis of candidate genes involved in neuronal growth and (iii) changes in mRNA expression of candidate genes in dissected hippocampal and amygdala tissue. Data from individual behavioural tests as well as from multivariate analysis revealed differing emotional reactivity between Gsx- and sham-operated rats. Gsx rats showed reduced emotional reactivity in a new environment and decreased depression-like behaviour. Accumbal serotonin and dopamine turnover were both reduced in Gsx rats. Gsx also led to a memory deficit, although hippocampal neurogenesis was unaffected. Of the many candidate genes studied by real-time RT-PCR, we highlight a Gsx-associated decrease in expression of Egr-1, a transcription factor linked to neural plasticity and cognition, in the hippocampus and amygdala. Thus, Gsx induces an alteration of emotional reactivity and a memory/cognitive deficit that is associated with reduced turnover of serotonin and dopamine in the nucleus accumbens and decreased expression of Egr-1 in the hippocampus and amygdala.
Proprioceptive afferent (PA) information is integrated with signals from descending pathways, including the corticospinal tract (CST), by spinal interneurons in the dorsal horn and intermediate zone for controlling movements. PA spinal projections, and the reflexes that they evoke, develop prenatally. The CST projects to the spinal cord postnatally, and its connections are subsequently refined. Consequently, the tract becomes effective in transmitting control signals from motor cortex to muscle. This suggests sequential development of PAs and the CST rather than co-development. In this study we determined if there was also late postnatal refinement of PA spinal connections, which would support PA-CST co-development. We examined changes in PA spinal connections at 4 weeks of age, when CST terminations are immature, at 8 weeks, after CST refinement, and at 11 weeks, when CST terminations are mature. We electrically stimulated PA afferents in the deep radial nerve. Evoked PA responses were small and not localized at 4 weeks. By 8 and 11 weeks, responses were substantially larger and maximal in laminae VI and dorsal VII. We used intramuscular injection of cholera toxin  subunit to determine the distribution of PAs from the extensor carpii radialis muscle in the cervical enlargement at the same ages as in the electrophysiological studies. We found a reduction of the distribution of PAs with age that paralleled the physiological changes. This age-related sharpening of PA spinal connections also paralleled CST development, suggesting coordinated PA-CST co-development rather than sequential development. This is likely to be important for the development of adaptive motor control.
Major depressive disorder is a chronic disabling disease, often triggered and exacerbated by stressors of a social nature. Hippocampal volume reductions have been reported in depressed patients. In support of the neurogenesis theory of depression, in several stress-based animal models of depression, adult hippocampal neurogenesis was reduced and subsequently rescued by parallel antidepressant treatment. Here, we investigated whether repeated social defeat and subsequent individual housing for 3months induces long-lasting changes in adult hippocampal neurogenesis in rats, and whether these can be normalized by late antidepressant treatment, as would match human depression. Neurogenesis was analysed by stereological quantification of the number of immature doublecortin (DCX)-immunopositive cells, in particular young (class I) and more mature (class II) DCX(+) cells, to distinguish differential effects of stress or drug treatment on these subpopulations. Using this social defeat paradigm, the total DCX(+) cell number was significantly reduced. This was most profound for older (class II) DCX(+) cells with long apical dendrites, whereas younger, class I cells remained unaffected. Treatment with the broad-acting tricyclic antidepressant imipramine, only during the last 3weeks of the 3-month period after social defeat, completely restored the reduction in neurogenesis by increasing both class I and II DCX(+) cell populations. We conclude that despite the lack of elevated corticosterone plasma levels, neurogenesis is affected in a lasting manner by a decline in a distinct neuronal population of more mature newborn cells. Thus, the neurogenic deficit induced by this social defeat paradigm is long-lasting, but can still be normalized by late imipramine treatment.
The role of the cerebellum is well characterized for many motor processes and for some cognitive tasks, although its contribution to lateralized spatial judgement has never been probed directly. To address this omission, we investigated the effects of cerebellar disruption on two different line bisection tasks in eight healthy subjects. Based on previous evidence of crossed cerebellar-cortical connections we predicted a shift in the perceived midline that would occur in opposite directions depending on the cerebellar hemisphere targeted. Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), given at 1-Hz (600 pulses), was used as a non-invasive way to interfere with processing in the cerebellar cortex. Performance was assessed for both 'physical' line bisection using a newly developed Landmark variant task and for 'mental' line bisection using number pairs. The effects for number line bisection were lateralized--left but not right cerebellar rTMS increased rightward errors, whereas for physical line bisection rTMS to either hemisphere did not affect performance. Effects due to neck muscle contraction and changes in eye position were ruled out with appropriate control stimulation sites, and eye-tracking. The results confirm the role of the cerebellum in spatial judgement, and, for the first time, demonstrate direct cerebellar involvement in the generation of the midline in 'imaginal' (number) space. The difference between number line and physical line bisection effects is discussed with reference to pre-existing models of cerebellar hemispheric specialization and functional topography.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) play important roles during development and also in adult organisms by regulating the expression of multiple target genes. Here, we studied the function of miR-133b during zebrafish spinal cord regeneration and show upregulation of miR-133b expression in regenerating neurons of the brainstem after transection of the spinal cord. miR-133b has been shown to promote tissue regeneration in other tissue, but its ability to do so in the nervous system has yet to be tested. Inhibition of miR-133b expression by antisense morpholino (MO) application resulted in impaired locomotor recovery and reduced regeneration of axons from neurons in the nucleus of the medial longitudinal fascicle, superior reticular formation and intermediate reticular formation. miR-133b targets the small GTPase RhoA, which is an inhibitor of axonal growth, as well as other neurite outgrowth-related molecules. Our results indicate that miR-133b is an important determinant in spinal cord regeneration of adult zebrafish through reduction in RhoA protein levels by direct interaction with its mRNA. While RhoA has been studied as a therapeutic target in spinal cord injury, this is the first demonstration of endogenous regulation of RhoA by a microRNA that is required for spinal cord regeneration in zebrafish. The ability of miR-133b to suppress molecules that inhibit axon regrowth may underlie the capacity for adult zebrafish to recover locomotor function after spinal cord injury.
Neuroscience of the self has focused on high-level mechanisms related to language, memory or imagery of the self. However, recent evidence suggests that low-level mechanisms such as multisensory and sensorimotor integration may play a fundamental role in self-related processing. Here we used virtual reality technology and visuo-tactile conflict to study such low-level mechanisms and manipulate where participants experienced their self to be localized (self-location). Frequency analysis and electrical neuroimaging of co-recorded high-resolution electroencephalography revealed body-specific alpha band power modulations in bilateral sensorimotor cortices. Furthermore, alpha power in the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) was correlated with the degree of experimentally manipulated self-location. We argue that these alpha oscillations in sensorimotor cortex and mPFC reflect self-location as manipulated through multisensory conflict.
It is now widely accepted that remembering the past and imagining the future rely on a number of shared processes and recruit a similar set of brain regions. However, memory and future thinking place different demands on a range of processes. For instance, although remembering should lead to early associative retrieval of event details, event construction may be slower for future events, for which details from different memories are combined. In order to shed light on the question of how the brain distinguishes between memories and future thoughts, we investigated the differences in the electrophysiological correlates of the vivid elaboration of future and past events. In the slow cortical potentials of 24 healthy human participants, differences during early elaboration were observed at temporo-parietal and parieto-occipital electrode sites, presumably reflecting differential recruitment of sensory and semantic detail retrieval. Additional differences emerged over the right pre-frontal cortex during later elaboration, which could be linked to differential retrieval demands. In conclusion, the time course differences, which presumably reflect the varying recruitment of sub-processes engaged during mental time travel, will help to understand the mechanisms with which the brain separates memories from future thoughts.
The vast majority of human peripheral nerve injuries occur in the upper limb, whereas the most animal studies have been conducted using the hindlimb models of neuropathic pain, involving damages of the sciatic or lumbar spinal nerve(s). We attempted to develop a rat forelimb model of peripheral neuropathy by partial injury of the median and ulnar nerves. The halves of each nerve were transected by microscissors at about 5mm proximal from the elbow joint and behavioral signs of neuropathic pain, such as mechanical and cold allodynia, and heat hyperalgesia, were monitored up to 126 days following nerve injury. Mechanical allodynia was assessed by measuring the forepaw withdrawal threshold to von Frey filaments, and cold allodynia was evaluated by measuring the time spent in lifting or licking the forepaw after applying acetone to it. Heat hyperalgesia was also monitored by investigating the forepaw withdrawal latencies using the Hargreaves' test. After the nerve injury, the experimental animals exhibited long-lasting clear neuropathic pain-like behaviors, such as reduced forepaw withdrawal threshold to von Frey filaments, the increased response duration of the forepaw to acetone application, and the decreased withdrawal latency to radiant heat stimulation. These behaviors were significantly alleviated by administration of gabapentin (5 or 50mg/kg, i.p.) in a dose-dependent manner. Therefore, these abnormal sensitivities are interpreted as the signs of neuropathic pain following injury of the median and ulnar nerves. Our rat forelimb model of neuropathic pain may be useful for studying human neuropathic pain and screening for valuable drug candidates.
Previous studies showed that triptans and other 5-HT(1B/1D)-receptor agonists attenuate hyper-responsiveness to mechanical stimulation of the face in a rat model of trigeminal neuropathic pain, probably by activating 5-HT(1B/1D)-receptors on primary afferent nociceptive fibers. We now tested whether blockade of post-synaptic receptors for the excitatory amino acid glutamate released by these fibers would increase this action. We thus evaluated whether ()1-hydroxy-3-aminopyrrolidine-2-one (HA-966), an antagonist at the glycine/D-serine site of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-receptors, would potentiate the anti-allodynic action of dihydroergotamine and zolmitriptan in rats with chronic constriction injury to the infraorbital nerve (CCI-ION). Complementary studies were performed with other NMDA-receptor ligands and in rats with chronic constriction injury to the sciatic nerve (CCI-SN) for comparison. Injury was produced by loose ligatures of the nerves. Responsiveness to mechanical stimulation (vibrissae or hindpaw territories) with von Frey filaments was used to evaluate allodynia 2 weeks after nerve ligature. Rats received NMDA-receptor ligands or saline 20 min before dihydroergotamine (25-100 g/kg, i.v.) or zolmitriptan (25-100 g/kg, s.c.). HA-966 (2.5mg/kg, s.c.), inactive on its own, enhanced the anti-allodynic effects of dihydroergotamine (eightfold increase) and zolmitriptan (threefold increase) in CCI-ION rats, but these drugs exerted no effects in allodynic CCI-SN rats. NMDA-receptor blockade by memantine (5mg/kg, i.p.) also enhanced, whereas activation at glycine/NMDA site by D-cycloserine (3mg/kg, i.p.) reduced the anti-allodynic properties of zolmitriptan in CCI-ION rats. Combined administration of NMDA-receptor antagonist and 5-HT(1B/1D)-receptor agonist may be a promising approach for alleviating trigeminal neuropathic pain.
Neuropeptide S (NPS) is an endogenous brain peptide produced by neurons located in the lower brainstem, and functional studies suggest that NPS has arousing effects. Because its receptors are found in reward-associated regions throughout the brain, we evaluated whether intraventricular NPS injections elicit reward-related effects in rats. Rats increased lever presses that led to intraventricular administration of NPS (0.34-34 pmol per infusion) in a dose dependent manner, with a cue-assisted procedure. Cue-assisted self-administration of NPS was decreased by systemic administration of the dopamine receptor antagonist SCH 23390 (0.025 mg/kg, i.p.) or the hypocretin-1 (orexin-1) receptor antagonist SB 334867 (20 mg/kg, i.p.). In addition, intraventricular NPS injections (1000 pmol) induced conditioned place preference, whereas a lower dose (100 pmol) of NPS induced conditioned place aversion. Finally, NPS injections (100-1000 pmol) acutely facilitated locomotor activity, whereas repeated NPS injections did not lead to locomotor sensitization. Our data suggest that intraventricular NPS injections have reward-like effects in that NPS weakly facilitates seeking and induces positive reinforcement. These effects may depend on intact dopamine and hypocretin systems.
Social isolation of rats immediately after weaning is thought to represent an animal model of anxiety-like disorders. This mildly stressful condition reduces the cerebrocortical and plasma concentrations of 3-hydroxy-5-pregnan-20-one (3,5-TH PROG) as well as increases the sensitivity of rats to the effects of acute ethanol administration on the concentrations of this neuroactive steroid. We further investigated the effects of voluntary consumption of ethanol at concentrations increasing from 2.5 to 10% over 4 weeks of isolation. Isolated rats showed a reduced ethanol preference compared with group-housed animals. Ethanol consumption did not affect the isolation-induced down-regulation of BDNF or Arc, but it attenuated the increase in the cerebrocortical concentration of 3,5-TH PROG induced by foot-shock stress in both isolated and group-housed animals as well as increased the percentage of number of entries made by socially isolated rats into the open arms in the elevated plus-maze test. Ethanol consumption did not affect expression of the  subunit of the GABA(A) receptor in the hippocampus of group-housed or isolated rats, whereas it up-regulated the  subunit throughout the hippocampus under both conditions. The results suggest that low consumption of ethanol may ameliorate some negative effects of social isolation on stress sensitivity and behavior.
Using the rodent activity-based anorexia (ABA) model that mimics clinical features of anorexia nervosa that include food restriction-induced hyperlocomotion, we found that plasma ghrelin levels are highly associated with food anticipatory behaviour, measured by running wheel activity in rats. Furthermore, we showed that ghrelin receptor (GHS-R1A) knockout mice do not anticipate food when exposed to the ABA model, unlike their wild type littermate controls. Likewise, food anticipatory activity in the ABA model was suppressed by a GHS-R1A antagonist administered either by acute central (ICV) injection to rats or by chronic peripheral treatment to mice. Interestingly, the GHS-R1A antagonist did not alter food intake in any of these models. Therefore, we hypothesize that suppression of the central ghrelin signaling system via GHS-R1A provides an interesting therapeutic target to treat hyperactivity in patients suffering from anorexia nervosa.

Operative for nearly a decade, California's voter-initiated Proposition 36 program offers many offenders community-based substance abuse treatment in lieu of likely incarceration. Research has documented program successes and plans for replication have proliferated, yet very little is known about how the Proposition 36 program works or practices for achieving optimal program outcomes. In this article, we identify policies and practices that key stakeholders perceive to be most responsible for the successful delivery of court-supervised substance abuse treatment to offenders under Proposition 36. Data was collected via focus groups conducted with 59 county stakeholders in six high-performing counties during 2009. Discussion was informed by seven empirical indicators of program performance and outcomes and was focused on identifying and describing elements contributing to success. Program success was primarily attributed to four strategies, those that: (1) fostered program engagement, monitored participant progress, and sustained cooperation among participants; (2) cultivated buy-in among key stakeholders; (3) capitalized on the role of the court and the judge; and (4) created a setting which promoted a high-quality treatment system, utilization of existing resources, and broad financial and political support for the program. Goals and practices for implementing each strategy are discussed. Findings provide a &quot;promising practices&quot; resource for Proposition 36 program evaluation and improvement and inform the design and study of other similar types of collaborative justice treatment efforts.
Dropped head syndrome (DHS) is a relatively rare condition, with a broad differential diagnosis. This deformity has significant implications on the health and quality of life of affected individuals. While surgery seems to be an obvious therapeutic option, there is a paucity of information on surgical intervention with no clear consensus on an optimal approach or timing. We present a case of DHS in a young woman to illustrate this condition, and review the current literature. Although at present the only definitive solution for correction and stabilization of DHS is surgical intervention involving multilevel instrumented fixation and fusion, this condition requires a persistent medical workup and treatment of reversible causes before surgical intervention is contemplated.
We investigated the role of crowding in saccadic selection during visual search. To guide eye movements, often information from the visual periphery is used. Crowding is known to deteriorate the quality of peripheral information. In four search experiments, we studied the role of crowding, by accompanying individual search elements by flankers. Varying the difference between target and flankers allowed us to manipulate crowding strength throughout the stimulus. We found that eye movements are biased toward areas with little crowding for conditions where a target could be discriminated peripherally. Interestingly, for conditions in which the target could not be discriminated peripherally, this bias reversed to areas with strong crowding. This led to shorter search times for a target presented in areas with stronger crowding, compared to a target presented in areas with less crowding. These findings suggest a dual role for crowding in visual search. The presence of flankers similar to the target deteriorates the quality of the peripheral target signal but can also attract eye movements, as more potential targets are present over the area.

It is well known that prediction is used to overcome processing delays within the motor system and ocular control is no exception. Motion extrapolation is one mechanism that can be used to overcome the visual processing delay. Expectations based on previous experience or cognitive cues are also capable of overcoming this delay. The present experiment was designed to examine how smooth pursuit is altered by cognitive information about the time and/or direction of an upcoming change in target direction. Subjects visually tracked a cursor as it moved at a constant velocity on a computer screen. The target initially moved from left to right and then abruptly reversed horizontal direction and traveled along one of seven possible oblique paths. In half of the trials, a cue was present throughout the trial to signal the position (as well as the time), and/or the direction of the upcoming change. Whenever a position cue (which will be referred to as a timing cue throughout the paper) was present, there were clear anticipatory adjustments to the horizontal velocity component of smooth pursuit. In the presence of a timing cue, a directional cue also led to anticipatory adjustments in the vertical velocity, and hence the direction of smooth pursuit. However, without the timing cue, a directional cue alone produced no anticipation. Thus, in this task, a cognitive spatial cue about the new direction could not be used unless it was made explicit in the time domain.
Head/body motion-related sensory signals are transformed in second-order vestibular neurons (2VN) into commands for appropriate motor reactions that stabilize gaze and posture during locomotion. In all vertebrates, these neurons form functional subgroups with different membrane properties and response dynamics, compatible with the necessity to process a wide range of motion-related sensory signals. In frog, 2VN subdivide into two well-defined populations with distinctly different intrinsic membrane properties, discharge dynamics and synaptic response characteristics. Tonic 2VN form low-pass filters with membrane properties that cause synaptic amplification, whereas phasic 2VN form band-pass filters that cause shunting of repetitive inputs. The different, yet complementary, filter properties render tonic neurons suitable for integration and phasic neurons for differentiation and event detection. Specific insertion of phasic 2VN into local vestibular networks of inhibitory interneurons reinforces the functional consequences of the intrinsic membrane properties of this particular cell type with respect to the processing of afferent sensory signals. Thus, the combination of matching intrinsic cellular and emerging network properties generates sets of neuronal elements that form adjustable, frequency-tuned filter components for separate transformation of the various dynamic aspects of head motion-related signals. The overall frequency tuning of central vestibular neurons differs between vertebrates along with variations in species-specific locomotor dynamics, thereby illustrating an ecophysiological plasticity of the involved neuronal elements. Moreover, separation into multiple, dynamically different subtypes at any neuronal level along the vestibulo-motor reflex pathways suggests an organization of head motion-related sensory-motor transformation in parallel, frequency-tuned channels.
A vector summation model of the action of galvanic stimuli on the semicircular canals has been shown to explain empirical balance and perceptual responses to binaural-bipolar stimuli. However, published data suggest binaural-monopolar stimuli evoke responses that are in the reverse direction of the model prediction. Here, we confirm this by measuring balance responses to binaural-monopolar stimulation as movements of the upper trunk. One explanation for the discrepancy is that the galvanic stimulus might evoke an oppositely directed balance response from the otolith organs that sums with and overrides the semicircular canal response. We tested this hypothesis by measuring sway responses across the full range of head pitch. The results showed some modulation of sway with pitch such that the maximal response occurred with the head in the primary position. However, the effect fell a long way short of that required to reverse the canal sway response. This indicates that the model is incomplete. Here, we examine alterations to the model that could explain both the bipolar and monopolar-evoked behavioural responses. An explanation was sought by remodelling the canal response with more recent data on the orientation of the individual canals. This improved matters but did not reverse the model prediction. However, the model response could be reversed by either rotating the entire labyrinth in the skull or by altering the gains of the individual canals. The most parsimonious solution was to use the more recent canal orientation data coupled with a small increase in posterior canal gain.
We characterized the three-dimensional angular vestibulo-ocular reflex (3D aVOR) of adult C57BL6 mice during static tilt testing, sinusoidal, and high-acceleration rotations and compared it with that of another lateral-eyed mammal with afoveate retinae (chinchilla) and two primate species with forward eye orientation and retinal foveae (human and squirrel monkey). Noting that visual acuity in mice is poor compared to chinchillas and even worse compared to primates, we hypothesized that the mouse 3D aVOR would be relatively low in gain (eye-velocity/head-velocity) compared to other species and would fall off for combinations of head rotation velocity and frequency for which peak-to-peak position changes fall below the minimum visual angle resolvable by mice. We also predicted that as in chinchilla, the mouse 3D aVOR would be more isotropic (eye/head velocity gain independent of head rotation axis) and better aligned with the axis of head rotation than the 3D aVOR of primates. In 12 adult C57BL6 mice, binocular 3D eye movements were measured in darkness during whole-body static tilts, 20-100/s whole-body sinusoidal rotations (0.02-10 Hz) and acceleration steps of 3,000/s to a 150/s plateau (dominant spectral content 8-12 Hz). Our results show that the mouse has a robust static tilt counter-roll response gain of ~0.35 (eye-position /head-position ) and mid-frequency aVOR gain (~0.6-0.8), but relatively low aVOR gain for high-frequency sinusoidal head rotations and for steps of head rotation acceleration (~0.5). Due to comparatively poor static visual acuity in the mouse, a perfectly compensatory 3D aVOR would confer relatively little benefit during high-frequency, low-amplitude movements. Therefore, our data suggest that the adaptive drive for maintaining a compensatory 3D aVOR depends on the static visual acuity in different species. Like chinchillas, mice have a much more nearly isotropic 3D aVOR than do the primates for which comparable data are available. Relatively greater isotropy in lateral-eyed species without retinal foveae (e.g., mice and chinchillas in the present study) compared to forward-eyed species with retinal foveae (e.g., squirrel monkeys and humans) suggests that the parallel resting optic axes and/or radially symmetric retinal foveae of primates underlie their characteristically low 3D aVOR gain for roll head rotations.
Genome wide transcriptional profiling and large scale proteomics have emerged as two powerful methods to dissect the molecular properties of specific neural tissues or cell types on a global scale. Several genome-wide transcriptional profiling and proteomics studies have been published on cultured olfactory ensheathing cells (OEC). In this article we present a meta-analysis of all five published and publicly available micro-array gene expression datasets of cultured early-passage-OB-OEC with other cell types (Schwann cells, late-passage-OB-OEC, mucosa-OEC, an OEC cell line, and acutely dissected OEC). The aim of this meta-analysis is to identify genes and molecular pathways that are found in multiple instead of one isolated study. 454 Genes were detected in at least three out of five microarray datasets. In this &quot;Top-list&quot;, genes involved in the biological processes &quot;growth of neurites&quot;, &quot;blood vessel development&quot;, &quot;migration of cells&quot; and &quot;immune response&quot; were strongly overrepresented. By applying network analysis tools, molecular networks were constructed and Hub-genes were identified that may function as key genes in the above mentioned interrelated processes. We also identified 7 genes (ENTPD2, MATN2, CTSC, PTHLH, GLRX1, COL27A1 and ID2) with uniformly higher or lower expression in early-passage-OB-OEC in all five microarray comparisons. These genes have diverse but intriguing roles in neuroprotection, neurite extension and/or tissue repair. Our meta-analysis provides novel insights into the molecular basis of OB-OEC-mediated neural repair and can serve as a repository for investigators interested in the molecular biology of OEC. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Understanding olfactory ensheathing glia and their prospect for nervous system repair.
Olfactory ensheathing cells (OEC), which normally associate closely with but do not myelinate axons in situ, myelinate axons in the adult mammalian spinal cord. They are of clinical interest as candidate cells for autologous transplantation but the ability of OEC to myelinate axons in vitro has been controversial. To clarify this issue, we isolated OEC from olfactory bulbs (OB) of juvenile and adult rats expressing GFP and analyzed their ability to myelinate axons. Using a well-defined assay for myelination of dorsal root ganglia (DRG) axons in culture, we found that OEC from juvenile pups associated with and then myelinated DRG axons. OEC assembled into bundles with the axons by 1week and required more than a week before myelination on axons was detected. In contrast, rat Schwann cells did not bundle axons and they formed P0(+) and MBP(+) myelin segments after as little as 1week. Most of the OEC in culture exhibited staining for calponin, a marker that was not found on Schwann cells in culture, whereas in both OEC and Schwann cell populations nearly all cells were positive for p75NTR and GFAP. These results confirm previous reports showing only subtle immunological differences between Schwann cells and OEC. Besides differences in the rate of myelination, we detected two additional functional differences in the interactions of OEC and Schwann cells with DRG axons. First, the diameter of OEC generated myelin was greater than for Schwann cell myelin on DRG axons. Second, OEC but not Schwann cells myelinated DRG axons in the absence of vitamin C. OEC isolated from adult OB were also found to bundle and myelinate DRG axons but the latter occurred only after incubation times of at least 3weeks. The results indicate that adult OEC require longer incubation times than juvenile OEC to myelinate axons and suggest that patterns of myelination by OEC and Schwann cells are distinguishable at least on axons in vitro. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: Understanding olfactory ensheathing glia and their prospect for nervous system repair.
The area postrema (AP) is a sensory circumventricular organ characterized by extensive fenestrated vasculature and neurons which are capable of detecting circulating signals of osmotic, cardiovascular, immune and metabolic status. The AP can communicate these messages via efferent projections to brainstem and hypothalamic structures that are able to orchestrate an appropriate response. We have used microarrays to profile the transcriptome of the AP in the Sprague-Dawley (SD) and Wistar-Kyoto rat and present here a comprehensive catalogue of gene expression, focusing specifically on the population of ion channels, receptors and G protein-coupled receptors expressed in this sensory tissue; of the G protein-coupled receptors expressed in the rat AP, we identified 36% that are orphans, having no established ligand. We have also looked at the ways in which the AP transcriptome responds to the physiological stressors of 72 h dehydration (DSD) and 48 h fasting (FSD) and have performed microarrays in these conditions. Comparison between the DSD and SD or between FSD and SD revealed only a modest number of AP genes that are regulated by these homeostatic challenges. The expression levels of a much larger number of genes are altered in the spontaneously hypertensive rat AP compared with the normotensive Wistar-Kyoto control rat, however. Finally, analysis of these 'hypertension-related' elements revealed genes that are involved in the regulation of both blood pressure and immune function and as such are excellent targets for further study.

The understanding of seizures and epilepsy as a disease has accelerated to reflect advances in the understanding of the interplay of seizures and epilepsy on neurophysiology, neuroplasticity, sleep, neuropsychology, behavior and social functioning of the individual, which interact with and can be affected by an individual's quality of life, educational development and occupational success. Updates in the treatment of status epilepticus, epilepsy in children and adults (particularly women), and psychogenic nonepileptic seizures/attacks have been announced. There is increasing emphasis on untangling the interactive forces of new antiepileptic medications from epilepsy/seizures on the neurophysiological, neuropsychologic and psychiatric/behavioral functioning of individuals with epilepsy. The role of GABA in the pathophysiology of seizures and status epilepticus has led to novel therapy proposals. Neurostimulation technologies and neurosurgical procedures have improved the clinical outcomes of patients with epilepsy, and have led to important advances in understanding the neuropathophysiology of epilepsy/seizures and brain plasticity. For example, neurostimulation allows long-term in vivo electroneurophysiological recordings of specific brain regions that has not been previously possible in humans. The 64th Annual Meeting of the American Epilepsy Society and the 3rd Biennial North American Regional Epilepsy Congress provided state-of-the-art updates to scientific and clinical practice issues in the treatment of epilepsy.
Apoptosis is a form of programmed cell death that is implicated in both pathological and physiological processes throughout the body. Its imaging in vivo with intravenous radiolabelled-annexin V has been heralded as an important advance, with around 30 clinical trials demonstrating its application in the early detection and monitoring of disease, and the assessment of efficacy of potential and existing therapies. A recent development has been the use of fluorescently labeled annexin V to visualize single retinal cells undergoing the process of apoptosis in vivo with ophthalmoscopy. This has been given the acronym DARC (Detection of Apoptosing Retinal Cells). DARC so far has only been used experimentally, but clinical trials are starting shortly in glaucoma patients. Results suggest that DARC may provide a direct assessment of retinal ganglion cell health. By enabling early assessment and quantitative analysis of cellular degeneration in glaucoma, it is hoped that DARC can identify patients before the onset of irreversible vision loss. Furthermore, in addition to aiding the tracking of disease, it may provide a rapid and objective assessment of potential and effective therapies, providing a new and meaningful clinical endpoint in glaucomatous disease that is so badly needed.


The nuclear factor-B (NF-B) is known to be activated in many cancer types including lung, ovarian, astrocytomas, melanoma, prostate as well as glioblastoma, and has been shown to correlate with disease progression. We have cloned a novel NF-B-based reporter system (five tandem repeats of NF-B responsive genomic element (NF; 14bp each)) to drive the expression cassette for both a fusion between the yeast cytosine deaminase and uracil phosphoribosyltransferase (CU) as a therapeutic gene and the secreted Gaussia luciferase (Gluc) as a blood reporter, separated by an internal ribosomal entry site (NF-CU-IGluc). We showed that malignant tumor cells have high expression of Gluc, which correlates to high activation of NF-B. When NF-B was further activated by tumor necrosis factor- in these cells, we observed up to 10-fold increase in Gluc levels and therefore transgene expression in human glioma cells served to greatly enhance the sensitization of these cells to the prodrug, 5-fluorocytosine both in cultured cells and in vivo subcutaneous tumor xenograft model. This inducible system provides a tool to enhance the expression of imaging and therapeutic genes for cancer therapy.
Fibroblast growth factor (FGF)-2 is known to have important pleiotropic effects in neuronal and glial cells during various physiological and pathological events. To investigate the role of endogenous FGF-2 in the differentiation of astrocytes, we studied the expression of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in the hindbrain of the FGF-2 null mouse. GFAP was drastically decreased in a region-specific manner in the hindbrain of the adult and developing FGF-2 null mouse without an associated change in the expression of alternate markers for astrocytes. The deficit was evident in the astrocytes of pontine and medullary gray matter but not in the white matter. The astrocytes of the gray and white matter were seen to express FGF-2 and FGF receptors in a distinct pattern. The methylation of histone H3 at lysine 4 residue (H3K4me2) associated with the STAT (signal transducer and activator of transcription)-binding site of the GFAP promoter was significantly decreased in the gray matter of the FGF-2 null mouse, suggesting a role for FGF-2 in the epigenetic regulation of astrocyte differentiation in vivo. These observations underscore the importance of FGF-2 in astroglial differentiation in the hindbrain and the heterogeneity of astrocytes in their requirement for FGF-2 as a differentiation inducing signal.
Neuroimaging has contributed profoundly to our understanding of the pathophysiology of psychiatric disorders but has had little impact on treatment. An important goal in neuroscience research is identifying biological markers that predict subsequent response to given treatments. This approach may be especially valuable when considering high-risk and high-cost treatments such as psychiatric neurosurgery. Here, we review neuroimaging findings pertaining to treatment-refractory major depression and obsessive-compulsive disorder, and imaging markers that predict response to neurotherapeutic interventions. Thus far, studies conducted with neurotherapeutic interventions have found patterns of predictive brain activity that are similar to those conducted with pharmacological treatments. The predictive neural correlates are concordant with pathophysiological models of major depressive and obsessive-compulsive disorder. These promising findings should motivate additional work establishing the reliability and cost-effectiveness of neuroimaging to predict treatment response across psychiatric diagnoses and interventions.


Postpartum headache is quite common and often related to potentially ominous cerebrovascular accidents. As illustrated in previously published reports, spontaneous cervical artery dissection is a rare but possible cause of headache in the postpartum. We provide 2 additional cases to the 19 described so far, including the first ever report of migraine with aura-like symptoms. Additionally, we summarize the literature and we speculate about the possible etiopathological mechanism underlying this condition.


Investigations of auditory neuronal firing rate as a function of sound level have revealed a wide variety of rate-level function shapes, including neurons with nonmonotonic or level-tuned functions. These neurons have an unclear role in auditory processing but have been found to be quite common. In the present study of awake marmoset primary auditory cortex (A1) neurons, 56% (305 out of 544), when stimulated with tones at the highest sound level tested, exhibited a decrement in driven rate of at least 50% from the maximum. These nonmonotonic neurons demonstrated significantly lower response thresholds than monotonic neurons, although both populations exhibited thresholds skewed toward lower values. Nonmonotonic neurons significantly outnumbered monotonic neurons in the frequency range 6-13 kHz, which is the frequency range containing most marmoset vocalization energy. Spontaneous rate was inversely correlated with threshold in both populations, and spontaneous rates of nonmonotonic neurons had significantly lower values than spontaneous rates of monotonic neurons, although distributions of maximum driven rates were not significantly different. Finally, monotonicity was found to be organized within electrode penetrations like characteristic frequency but with less structure. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that nonmonotonic neurons play a unique role in representing sound level, particularly at the lowest sound levels and for complex vocalizations.
The association between levels of circulating endothelial progenitor cells (EPCs) and heart transplant recipients (HTX) with cardiac allograft vasculopathy (CAV) is under debate. The chemokine receptor CXCR4 plays an important role in the mobilization of progenitor cells and is implicated in pathological conditions, including cardiovascular disease. This study aims to evaluate the association between EPCs and CXCR4-positive cells in HTX patients. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) from 34 HTX patients and 25 control participants were analyzed by flow cytometry for CXCR4-positive cells and EPCs. Endothelial progenitor cells were defined by the expression of a range of hematopoietic and endothelial lineage markers in different combinations. The ability to form endothelial cell colonies in vitro was also assessed by colony-forming unit (CFU) assay. Phenotypic analysis of EPCs by flow cytometry revealed similar levels in HTX patients compared to controls. In addition, no difference was observed between levels of EPCs or CFU number in patients with and without CAV. By contrast, CFU assay revealed a reduced number of CFUs in HTX patients compared to controls (3.3%  0.95 and 13.3%  4.5%, respectively, P = 0.014). Likewise, levels of CXCR4-positive cells were significantly reduced (15.9  1.4 in patients vs 24.8  3.3% in controls, P &lt; 0.01), negatively correlated with Framingham risk score (rho = -0.4, P = 0.02) and the number of risk factors (rho = -0.3, P = 0.049). Levels of CXCR4-positive cells were also correlated with CFU number (r = 0.65, P = 0.0005). These findings further develop our understanding of the role of EPCs and endothelial CFUs in cardiovascular disease, in addition to highlighting the potential importance of CXCR4 in heart transplantation.
Recording evoked local field potentials (LFPs) in the hippocampus in vivo has yielded us useful information about the neural mechanisms of learning and memory. Although this technique has been used in studies of the hippocampus of rodents, lagomorphs, and felines, it has not yet been applied to the primate hippocampus. Here, we report a method for recording evoked LFPs in the hippocampus of monkeys. A stimulation electrode and a recording electrode were implanted in the perforant pathway and dentate gyrus, respectively, under the guidance of electrophysiological recording. With a low stimulus intensity just above the threshold, the potential appeared as a slow positive-wave component, which was regarded as field excitatory postsynaptic potential (putative fEPSP); as stimulation intensity increased, the fEPSP amplitude increased, followed by a sharp negative component which was regarded as putative population spike. When the coordinates of the recording or stimulation electrode were moved stepwise, we observed a systematic change in the waveforms of evoked LFPs; this change corresponded to the structural arrangement through which the electrode passed. In a test for short-term synaptic plasticity by paired-pulse stimulation, potentials evoked by the second pulse were influenced by the first one in a manner dependent on interpulse intervals. In a test for long-term synaptic plasticity by high-frequency stimulation, the slopes of the fEPSPs and the area of population spikes were increased for more than 1 h. These results indicate that the method developed in the present study is useful for testing theories of hippocampal functions in primates.
Rather than being a static, species specific trait, reproductive behavior in female amphibians is variable within an individual during the breeding season when females are capable of reproductive activity. Changes in receptivity coincide with changes in circulating estrogen. Estrogen is highest at the point when females are ready to choose a male and lay eggs. At this time female receptivity (her probability of responding to a male vocal signal) is highest and her selectivity among conspecific calls (measured by her probability of responding to a degraded or otherwise usually unattractive male signal) is lowest. These changes occur even though females retain the ability to discriminate different acoustic characteristics of various conspecific calls. After releasing her eggs, female amphibians quickly become less receptive and more choosy in terms of their responses to male sexual advertisement signals. Male vocal signals stimulate both behavior and estrogen changes in amphibian females making mating more probable. The changes in female reproductive behavior are the same as those generally accepted as indicative of a change in female sexual arousal leading to copulation. They are situationally triggered, gated by interactions with males, and decline with the consummation of sexual reproduction with a chosen male. The changes can be triggered by either internal physiological state or by the presence of stimuli presented by males, and the same stimuli change both behavior and physiological (endocrine) state in such a way as to make acceptance of a male more likely. Thus amphibian females demonstrate many of the same general characteristics of changing female sexual state that in mammals indicate sexual arousal.
The ability to detect neuronal activity emanating from deep brain structures such as the hippocampus using magnetoencephalography has been debated in the literature. While a significant number of recent publications reported activations from deep brain structures, others reported their inability to detect such activity even when other detection modalities confirmed its presence. In this article, we relied on realistic simulations to show that both sides of this debate are correct and that these findings are reconcilable. We show that the ability to detect such activations in evoked responses depends on the signal strength, the amount of brain noise background, the experimental design parameters, and the methodology used to detect them. Furthermore, we show that small signal strengths require contrasts with control conditions to be detected, particularly in the presence of strong brain noise backgrounds. We focus on one localization technique, the adaptive spatial filter (beamformer), and examine its strengths and weaknesses in reconstructing hippocampal activations, in the presence of other strong brain sources such as visual activations, and compare the performance of the vector and scalar beamformers under such conditions. We show that although a weight-normalized beamformer combined with a multisphere head model is not biased in the presence of uncorrelated random noise, it can be significantly biased in the presence of correlated brain noise. Furthermore, we show that the vector beamformer performs significantly better than the scalar under such conditions. We corroborate our findings empirically using real data and demonstrate our ability to detect and localize such sources.
Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a complex disease that has two phases: a degenerative phase often referred to as nonneovascular AMD (non-NVAMD) or dry AMD and a phase dominated by growth of new blood vessels in the subretinal space, referred to as NVAMD or wet AMD. Advances in the understanding of the molecular pathogenesis of NVAMD have led to new drug therapies that have provided major benefits to patients. However, those treatments require frequent intraocular injections that in many patients must be continued indefinitely to maintain visual benefits. Gene transfer to augment expression of endogenous antiangiogenic proteins is an alternative approach that has the potential to provide long-term stability in patients with NVAMD. Studies in animal models that mimic aspects of NVAMD have identified several possible transgenes, and a clinical trial in patients with advanced NVAMD has suggested that the approach may be feasible. Many important questions remain, but the rationale and preliminary data are compelling. The results of two ongoing clinical trials may answer several of the questions and help direct future research.
Functional deficiency of the X-linked methyl-CPG binding protein 2 (MeCP2) leads to the neurodevelopmental disorder Rett syndrome (RTT). Due to random X-chromosome inactivation (XCI), most RTT patients are females who are heterozygous for the MECP2 mutation and therefore mosaic in MeCP2 deficiency. Some MECP2 heterozygote females are found to have unbalanced XCI, which may affect the severity of neurological symptoms seen in these patients; however, whether MeCP2 deficiency affects XCI in the postnatal and adult brain is unclear. Here we developed a novel MeCP2 mosaic mouse model in which the X chromosome containing the wild-type Mecp2 expresses a green fluorescent protein (GFP) transgene, while the X chromosome harboring the mutant Mecp2 does not. Due to random XCI, the neurons in the female MeCP2 mosaic mice express either wild-type MeCP2 (GFP+) or mutant MeCP2 (GFP-), and the two can be distinguished by GFP fluorescence. Using this mouse model, we evaluated XCI in female heterozygote mice from 3 to 9 months after birth. We found that MeCP2 deficiency does not affect XCI at 3 months of age, but does alter the proportion of wild-type MeCP2-expressing neurons at later ages, suggesting that MeCP2 impacts XCI patterns in an age-dependent manner. Given the important function of MeCP2 in neuronal development, our data could shed light on how MeCP2 deficiency affects postnatal brain functions and the dynamic changes in the neurological symptoms of RTT.
Spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA), or Kennedy's disease, is a late-onset motor neuron disease (MND) caused by an abnormal expansion of the CAG repeat in the androgen receptor (AR) gene on the X-chromosome, encoding a polyglutamine (poly-Q) sequence in the protein product. Mutant poly-Q-expanded AR protein is widely expressed but leads to selective lower motoneuron death. Although the mechanisms that underlie SBMA remain unclear, defective axonal transport has been implicated in MND and other forms of poly-Q disease. Transcriptional dysregulation may also be involved in poly-Q repeat pathology. We therefore examined axonal transport in a mouse model of SBMA recapitulating many aspects of the human disease. We found no difference in the expression levels of motor and the microtubule-associated protein tau, in the spinal cord and sciatic nerve of wild-type (WT) and SBMA mice at various stages of disease progression. Furthermore, we found no alteration in binding properties of motor proteins and tau to microtubules. Moreover, analysis of axonal transport rates both in cultured primary motoneurons in vitro and in vivo in the sciatic nerve of adult WT and mutant SBMA mice demonstrated no overt axonal transport deficits in these systems. Our results therefore indicate that unlike other motoneuron and poly-Q diseases, axonal transport deficits do not play a significant role in the pathogenesis of SBMA.
One of the known causes of hypertension is vascular compression on the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVLM). However, it remains unknown whether RVLM vascular compression causes the significant variability in blood pressure observed during acute ischemic stroke. The purpose of this study was to evaluate differences in blood pressure variability and prognosis in acute ischemic stroke patients based on the presence or absence of RVLM vascular compression. We evaluated 56 patients with acute ischemic stroke. Blood pressure was measured every 6 h for 72 h after admission and evaluated with successive variation (SV). The presence of RVLM vascular compression was evaluated using time-of-flight 3D magnetic resonance imaging. Neurological severity was evaluated using the National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale (NIHSS) at admission and 14 days after admission, and clinical improvement was determined by taking the difference in the NIHSS scores between admission and at 14 days. Patient clinical outcome was evaluated with the modified Rankin scale on discharge. Vascular compression of the RVLM was identified in 15 patients (26.8%). The proportion of patients showing clinical improvement was significantly higher in the non-compression group (odds ratio, 0.21 (95% CI = 0.06-0.78); P = 0.01). The SV value for systolic blood pressure was significantly higher in the compression group (P &lt; 0.0001). We found that patients with RVLM vascular compression had a greater variability in blood pressure during the acute ischemic stroke phase, which may be related to poorer prognosis.
Life is complex and all about movement, which allows us to interact with the environment and communicate with each other. The human nervous system is capable of performing a simultaneous and integrated control of 100-150 mechanical degrees of freedom of movement in the body via tensions generated by about 700 muscles. In its widest context, movement is carried out by a sensory motor system comprising multiple sensors (visual,auditory, and proprioceptive),multiple actuators (muscles acting on the skeletal system),and an intermediary processor that can be summarized as a multiple-inputmultiple-output nonlinear dynamic time-varying control system. This grand control system is capable of responding with remarkable accuracy,speed, appropriateness,versatility, and adaptability to a wide spectrum of continuous and discrete stimuli and conditions and is certainly orders of magnitude more complex and sophisticated than the most advanced robotic systems currently available. In the last decades,a great deal of research has been carried out in the fields of functional evaluation of human performance and rehabilitation engineering. These fields combine knowledge, concepts, and methods from across many disciplines (e.g., biomechanics,neuroscience, and physiology), with the aim of developing apparatuses and methods fort he measurement and analysis of complex sensory motor performance and the ultimate goal of enhancing the execution of different tasks in both healthy people and persons with reduced capabilities from different causes (injury, disease, amputation,and neural degeneration).
Cortical neuroprostheses that employ repeated electrical stimulation of cortical areas with fixed stimulus parameters, are faced with the problem of large trial-by-trial variability of evoked potentials. This variability is caused by the ongoing cortical signal processing, but it is an unwanted phenomenon if one aims at imprinting neural activity as precisely as possible. Here, we use local field potentials measured by one microelectrode, located at a distance of 200 microns from the stimulation site, to drive the electrically evoked potential toward a desired target potential by real-time adaptation of the stimulus intensity. The functional relationship between ongoing cortical activity, evoked potential, and stimulus intensity was estimated by standard machine learning techniques (support vector regression with problem-specific kernel function) from a set of stimulation trials with randomly varied stimulus intensities. The smallest deviation from the target potential was achieved for low stimulus intensities. Further, the observed precision effect proved time sensitive, since it was abolished by introducing a delay between data acquisition and stimulation. These results indicate that local field potentials contain sufficient information about ongoing local signal processing to stabilize electrically evoked potentials. We anticipate that adaptive low intensity microstimulation will play an important role in future cortical prosthetic devices that aim at restoring lost sensory functions.
Magnetization-prepared acquisitions offer a trade-off between image contrast and scan efficiency for magnetic resonance imaging. Because the prepared signals gradually decay, the contrast can be improved by frequently repeating the preparation, which in turn significantly increases the scan time. A common solution is to perform the data collection progressing from low- to high-spatial-frequency samples following each preparation. Unfortunately, this leads to loss of spatial resolution, and thereby image blurring. In this work, a new technique is proposed that first corrects the signal decay in high-frequency data to mitigate the resolution loss and improve the image contrast without reducing the scan efficiency. The proposed technique then employs a sparsity-based nonlinear reconstruction to further improve the image quality. In addition to reducing the amplified high-frequency noise, this reconstruction extrapolates missing k-space samples in the case of undersampled compressed-sensing acquisitions. The technique is successfully demonstrated for noncontrast-enhanced flow-independent angiography of the lower extremities, an application that substantially benefits from both the signal compensation and the nonlinear reconstruction.
This paper describes an artificial neuron structure and an efficient learning procedure in the complex domain. This artificial neuron aims at incorporating an improved aggregation operation on the complex-valued signals. The aggregation operation is based on the idea underlying the weighted root-power mean of input signals. This aggregation operation allows modeling the degree of compensation in a natural manner and includes various aggregation operations as its special cases. The complex resilient propagation algorithm ([Formula: see text]-RPROP) with error-dependent weight backtracking step accelerates the training speed significantly and provides better approximation accuracy. Finally, performance evaluation of the proposed complex root-power mean neuron with the [Formula: see text]-RPROP learning algorithm on various typical examples is given to understand the motivation.
We have investigated the molecular mechanisms underlying the peculiar cross-presentation efficiency of human dendritic cells (DCs) differentiated from monocytes in the presence of Granulocyte-Macrophage Colony-Stimulating Factor (GM-CSF) and Interferon (IFN)- (IFN-DCs). To this end, we evaluated the capability of IFN-DCs to present and cross-present epitopes derived from Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV) or human melanoma-associated antigens after exposure to cell lysates or apoptotic cells. In an autologous setting, IFN-DCs loaded with Lymphoblastoid Cell Lines (LCL) lysates or apoptotic LCL were highly efficient in expanding, respectively, EBV-specific class II- or class I-restricted memory T cell responses. Of note, IFN-DCs loaded with apoptotic LCL were more potent than fully mature DCs in triggering the cytotoxicity of CD8(+) T lymphocytes recognizing a subdominant HLA-A*0201-restricted epitope derived from EBV latent membrane protein 2 (LMP2). In addition, IFN-DCs loaded with apoptotic human melanoma cells were highly efficient in cross-presenting the MART-1(27-35) epitope to a specific CD8(+) cytotoxic T cell clone, and this functional activity was proteasome-dependent. These IFN-DC properties were associated with an enhanced expression of all the immunoproteasome subunits as well as of TAP-1, TAP-2 and tapasin, and, interestingly, to a higher proteasome proteolytic activity as compared to immature or mature DCs. Altogether, these results highlight new mechanisms by which IFN- influences antigen processing and cross-presentation ability of monocyte-derived DCs, with potentially important implications for the development of DC-based therapeutic vaccines.
This study investigated the effects of surgical placement of permanent arterial catheters on plasma corticosterone levels, fecal corticosterone excretion and body weight in male BALB/c/Sca mice. In addition, the effects of voluntarily ingested buprenorphine in doses of 0.5 and 1.0 mg/kg body weight on these parameters were studied. A catheter was placed in the carotid artery during isoflurane anesthesia. Immediately after surgery, the mice were connected to an AccuSampler  and blood samples for plasma corticosterone quantification were collected automatically during the first 24 h postoperatively. All fecal boli produced 24 h before and 24 h after surgery were collected for fecal corticosterone excretion measures and the pre- and post-operative body weights were registered. Plasma corticosterone levels were in the range of 150-300 ng/ml after the surgical procedure and the body weight was significantly lower 24 h after surgery compared to its pre-operative value. Contrary to what was expected, the total fecal corticosterone excretion was significantly reduced 24 h after surgery, as was the defecation. Buprenorphine treatment significantly lowered the plasma corticosterone levels, but had no effect on fecal corticosterone excretion or body weight change. It was concluded that surgical placement of an arterial catheter induces a significant stress response, as judged by its effect on plasma corticosterone and body weight. Voluntary ingestion of buprenorphine improved postoperative recovery by lowering plasma corticosterone concentrations. Neither fecal corticosterone excretion nor body weight change seems suitable for postoperative stress assessment in mice in the present experimental setup.
-Synuclein (-syn), a protein involved in the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease (PD), is known to accumulate in mitochondria, disrupt mitochondrial function. However, the molecular mechanisms that link these pathological responses have not been investigated. In rats overexpressing -syn in the substantia nigra (SN) through adeno-associated virus (AAV) transduction, about 50% of tyrosine hydroxylase positive neurons were lost after 24 weeks. Overexpression of -syn was also associated with morphological deformation of mitochondria and depolarization of the mitochondrial membrane potential (m). Both co-immunoprecipitation and confocal microscopy demonstrated that mitochondrial -syn associated with adenylate translocator (ANT), a component of the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP). The depolarization of m was partially reversed in vitro by bongkrekic acid (BKA), an inhibitor of ANT, suggesting that the molecular association between -syn and ANT facilitated m depolarization. Concomitant with -syn accumulation in mitochondria, abnormal mitochondrial morphology, m depolarization, and loss of TH-positive neurons, there was a decrease in apoptosis-inducing factor (AIF) within the mitochondrial matrix, suggesting possible translocation to the cytosol. Our findings suggest that overexpression of -syn may cause mitochondrial defects in dopaminergic neurons of the substantia nigra through an association with adenylate translocator and activation of mitochondria-dependent cell death pathways. Disruption of normal mitochondrial function may contribute to the loss of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease.
Complaints of patients with chronic pain may increase when the weather changes. The exact mechanism for weather change-induced pain has not been clarified. We have previously demonstrated that artificially lowering barometric pressure (LP) intensifies pain-related behaviors in rats with neuropathic pain [chronic constriction injury (CCI) and spinal nerve ligation (SNL)]. In the present study, we examined the rate and magnitude of LP that aggravates neuropathic pain. We measured pain-related behaviors [number of paw lifts to von Frey hair (VFH) stimulation] in awake rats after SNL or CCI surgery, and found that rates of decompression 5 hPa/h and 10 hPa/h and magnitudes of decompression 5 hPa and 10 hPa augmented pain-related behaviors in SNL and CCI rats, respectively. These results indicate that LP within the range of natural weather patterns augments neuropathic pain in rats, and that SNL rats are more sensitive to LP than CCI rats.
We found that adenosine 5'-monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK), which is considered the &quot;fuel sensor&quot; of mammalian cells because it directly responds to the depletion of the fuel molecule ATP, is strongly activated by tumor-like hypoxia and glucose deprivation. We also observed abundant AMPK activity in tumor cells in vivo, using subcutaneous tumor xenografts prepared from cells transformed with oncogenic H-Ras. Such rapidly growing transplants of tumor cells, however, represent fully developed tumors that naturally contain energetically stressed microenvironments that can activate AMPK. Therefore, to investigate the induction of AMPK activity during experimental tumorigenesis, we used an established model of brain tumor (glioma) development in the offspring of rats exposed prenatally to the mutagen N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea. We observed that immunostaining for a specific readout of AMPK activity (AMPK-dependent phosphorylation of acetyl-CoA carboxylase) was prominent during N-ethyl-N-nitrosourea-initiated neurocarcinogenesis, from the occurrence of early hyperplasia (microtumors) to the emergence of large gliomas. Moreover, we observed that immunostaining for activating phosphorylation of AMPK correlated with the same stages of glioma development, notably in mitotic tumor cells in which the signal showed punctate as well as cytoplasmic patterns associated with spindle formation. Based on these observations, we propose that neurocarcinogenesis requires AMPK-dependent regulation of cellular energy metabolism.
The subplate zone is a transient cytoarchitectonic compartment of the fetal telencephalic wall and contains a population of subplate neurons which are the main neurons of the fetal neocortex and play a key role in normal development of cerebral cortical structure and connectivity. While the subplate zone disappears during the perinatal and early postnatal period, numerous subplate neurons survive and remain embedded in the superficial (gyral) white matter of adolescent and adult brain as so-called interstitial neurons. In both fetal and adult brain, subplate/interstitial neurons belong to two major classes of cortical cells: (a) projection (glutamatergic) neurons and (b) local circuit (GABAergic) interneurons. As interstitial neurons remain strategically positioned at the cortical/white matter interface through which various cortical afferent systems enter the deep cortical layers, they probably serve as auxiliary interneurons involved in differential &quot;gating&quot; of cortical input systems. It is widely accepted that prenatal lesions which alter the number of surviving subplate neurons (i.e., the number of interstitial neurons) and/or the nature of their involvement in cortical circuitry represent an important causal factor in pathogenesis of at least some types of schizophrenia--e.g., in the subgroup of patients with cognitive impairment and deficits of frontal lobe functions. The abnormal functioning of cortical circuitry in schizophrenia becomes manifest during the adolescence, when there is an increased demand for proper functioning of the prefrontal cortex. In this review, we describe developmental history of subplate zone, subplate neurons and surviving interstitial neurons, as well as presumed consequences of the increased number of GABAergic interstitial neurons in the prefrontal cortex. We propose that the increased number of GABAergic interstitial neurons leads to the increased inhibition of prefrontal cortical neurons. This inhibitory action of GABAergic interstitial neurons is facilitated by their strategic position at the cortical/white matter interface where limbic and modulatory afferent pathways enter the prefrontal cortex. Thus, enlarged population of inhibitory interstitial neurons (even if they represent a minor fraction of total neuron number, as in the cerebral cortex itself) may alter the differential &quot;gating&quot; of limbic and modulatory inputs (as well as other cortical and subcortical inputs) and cause a functional disconnectivity between the prefrontal and limbic cortex in the adolescent brain. In conclusion, fetal subplate neurons and surviving postnatal interstitial neurons are important modulators of cortical functions in both normal and schizophrenic cerebral cortex.
DiGeorge, or 22q11 deletion syndrome (22q11DS), the most common survivable human genetic deletion disorder, is caused by deletion of a minimum of 32 contiguous genes on human chromosome 22, and presumably results from diminished dosage of one, some, or all of these genes--particularly during development. Nevertheless, the normal functions of 22q11 genes in the embryo or neonate, and their contribution to developmental pathogenesis that must underlie 22q11DS are not well understood. Our data suggests that a substantial number of 22q11 genes act specifically and in concert to mediate early morphogenetic interactions and subsequent cellular differentiation at phenotypically compromised sites--the limbs, heart, face and forebrain. When dosage of a broad set of these genes is diminished, early morphogenesis is altered, and initial 22q11DS phenotypes are established. Thereafter, functionally similar subsets of 22q11 genes--especially those that influence the cell cycle or mitochondrial function--remain expressed, particularly in the developing cerebral cortex, to regulate neurogenesis and synaptic development. When dosage of these genes is diminished, numbers, placement and connectivity of neurons and circuits essential for normal behavior may be disrupted. Such disruptions likely contribute to vulnerability for schizophrenia, autism, or attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder seen in most 22q11DS patients.
Bipolar disorder (BPD) and schizophrenia (SZ) are severe psychiatric illnesses with a combined prevalence of 4%. A disturbance of energy metabolism is frequently observed in these disorders. Several pieces of evidence point to an underlying dysfunction of mitochondria: (i) decreased mitochondrial respiration; (ii) changes in mitochondrial morphology; (iii) increases in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) polymorphisms and in levels of mtDNA mutations; (iv) downregulation of nuclear mRNA molecules and proteins involved in mitochondrial respiration; (v) decreased high-energy phosphates and decreased pH in the brain; and (vi) psychotic and affective symptoms, and cognitive decline in mitochondrial disorders. Furthermore, transgenic mice with mutated mitochondrial DNA polymerase show mood disorder-like phenotypes. In this review, we will discuss the genetic and physiological components of mitochondria and the evidence for mitochondrial abnormalities in BPD and SZ. We will furthermore describe the role of mitochondria during brain development and the effect of current drugs for mental illness on mitochondrial function. Understanding the role of mitochondria, both developmentally as well as in the ailing brain, is of critical importance to elucidate pathophysiological mechanisms in psychiatric disorders.
Psychological stress is a contributing factor for a wide variety of neuropsychiatric diseases including substance use disorders, anxiety, depression and schizophrenia. However, it has not been conclusively determined how stress augments the symptoms of these diseases. Here we review evidence that the ventral hippocampus may be a site of convergence whereby a number of seemingly discrete risk factors, including stress, may interact to precipitate psychosis in schizophrenia. Specifically, aberrant hippocampal activity has been demonstrated to underlie both the elevated dopamine neuron activity and associated behavioral hyperactivity to dopamine agonists in a verified animal model of schizophrenia. In addition, stress, psychostimulant drug use, prenatal infection and select genetic polymorphisms all appear to augment ventral hippocampal function that may therefore exaggerate or precipitate psychotic symptoms. Such information is critical for our understanding into the pathology of psychiatric disease with the ultimate aim being the development of more effective therapeutics.

Recent evidence suggests an involvement of the endocannabinoid system in the regulation of emotional behaviour and ethanol intake. Here we investigated age-specific acute behavioural effects of the cannabinoid receptor agonist WIN 55,212-2 (WIN) on anxiety-related behaviour and voluntary ethanol consumption in rats. Animals were treated with WIN (1.2 mg/kg)/vehicle at puberty onset on postnatal day (PD) 40, or at adulthood (PD 100). Animals were tested in the elevated plus-maze (EPM) and the light/dark emergence test (EMT) and for the initial response to alcohol in a free-choice ethanol consumption paradigm. Acute WIN treatment increased anxiety-related behaviours, and this effect was found to be partially more pronounced in pubertal than adult rats. Additionally, increased intake of higher ethanol solutions after cannabinoid treatment was only observed in pubertal rats. These drug-induced behavioural changes during puberty are paralleled by induction of the NR1 subunit of the NMDA receptor in the medial prefrontal cortex and the striatum. Moreover, pubertal but not adult WIN administration increased the levels of the scaffold protein Homer in these brain regions. Enhanced CB receptor levels in the reinforcement system were also observed in pubertal compared to adult rats. These data support the notion that puberty is a highly vulnerable period for the aversive effects of cannabinoid exposure. In particular, augmented ethanol intake in pubertal cannabinoid-exposed animals might be related to some extent to increased emotional behaviour and in particular to enhanced NMDA and CB receptor signalling.
There is a need to identify clinically useful biomarkers in major depressive disorder (MDD). In this context the functional connectivity of the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) to other areas of the affect regulation circuit is of interest. The aim of this study was to identify neural changes during antidepressant treatment and correlates associated with the treatment outcome. In an exploratory analysis it was investigated whether functional connectivity measures moderated a response to mirtazapine and venlafaxine. Twenty-three drug-free patients with MDD were recruited from the Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy of the Ludwig-Maximilians University in Munich. The patients were subjected to a 4-wk randomized clinical trial with two common antidepressants, venlafaxine or mirtazapine. Functional connectivity of the OFC, derived from functional magnetic resonance imaging with an emotional face-matching task, was measured before and after the trial. Higher OFC connectivity with the left motor areas and the OFC regions prior to the trial characterized responders (p&lt;0.05, false discovery rate). The treatment non-responders were characterized by higher OFC-cerebellum connectivity. The strength of response was positively correlated with functional coupling between left OFC and the caudate nuclei and thalami. Differences in longitudinal changes were detected between venlafaxine and mirtazapine treatment in the motor areas, cerebellum, cingulate gyrus and angular gyrus. These results indicate that OFC functional connectivity might be useful as a marker for therapy response to mirtazapine and venlafaxine and to reconstruct the differences in their mechanism of action.


Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) infection, particularly symptomatic infection, is closely associated with multiple sclerosis (MS). The strength of this association, the interaction of EBV infection with genetic risk factors and emerging immunological data have resulted in some investigators arguing that this association may be causative. Causation, however, is a complex science and more extensive and definitive data is required to convince the wider community that EBV is the pivotal factor in the complex causal pathway that ultimately leads to the development of MS.

Zebra finches produce a learned song that is rich in harmonic structure and highly stereotyped. More is generally known about how birds learn and produce this song than how they perceive it. Here, zebra finches were trained with operant techniques to discriminate changes in natural and synthetic song motifs. Results show that zebra finches are quite insensitive to changes to the overall envelope of the motif since they were unable to discriminate more than a doubling in inter-syllable interval durations. By contrast, they were quite sensitive to changes in individual syllables. A series of tests with synthetic song syllables, including some made of frozen noise and Schroeder harmonic complexes, showed that birds used a suite of acoustic cues in normal listening but they could also distinguish among syllables simply on the basis of the temporal fine structure in the waveform. Thus, while syllable perception is maintained by multiple redundant cues, temporal fine structure features alone are sufficient for syllable discrimination and may be more important for communication than previously thought.
Distortion product otoacoustic emissions (DPOAEs) measured in the ear canal represent the vector sum of components produced at two regions of the basilar membrane by distinct cochlear mechanisms. In this study, the effect of stimulus level on the 2f(1)- f(2) DPOAE phase was evaluated in 22 adult subjects across a three-octave range. Level effects were examined for the mixed DPOAE signal measured in the ear canal and after unmixing components to assess level effects individually on the distortion (generated at the f(1), f(2) overlap) and reflection (at f(dp)) sources. Results show that ear canal DPOAE phase slope becomes steeper with decreasing level; however, component analysis further explicates this result, indicating that interference between DPOAE components (rather than a shift in mechanics related to distortion generation) drives the level dependence of DPOAE phase measured in the ear canal. The relative contribution from the reflection source increased with decreasing level, producing more component interference and, at times, a reflection-dominated response at the lowest stimulus levels. These results have implications for the use of DPOAE phase to study cochlear mechanics and for the potential application of DPOAE phase for clinical purposes.
Scaling symmetry appears to be a fundamental property of the cochlea as evidenced by invariant distortion product otoacoustic emission (DPOAE) phase above 1-1.5 kHz when using frequency-scaled stimuli. Below this frequency demarcation, phase steepens. Cochlear scaling and its breaking have been described in the adult cochlea but have not been studied in newborns. It is not clear whether immaturities in cochlear mechanics exist at birth in the human neonate. In this study, DPOAE phase was recorded with a swept-tone protocol in three, octave-wide segments from 0.5 to 4 kHz. The lowest-frequency octave was targeted with increased signal averaging to enhance signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and focus on the apical half of the newborn cochlea where breaks from scaling have been observed. The results show: (1) the ear canal DPOAE phase was dominated by the distortion-source component in the low frequencies; thus, the reflection component cannot explain the steeper slope of phase; (2) DPOAE phase-frequency functions from adults and infants showed an unambiguous discontinuity around 1.4 and 1 kHz when described using two- and three-segment fits, respectively, and (3) newborns had a significantly steeper slope of phase in the low-frequency portion of the function which may suggest residual immaturities in the apical half of the newborn cochlea.


The present work describes the validation of a novel aqueous in situ derivatization procedure with trimethyloxonium tetrafluoroborate (TMO) as methylating agent for the simultaneous, quantitative analysis of (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and 11-nor-(9)-tetrahydrocannabinol carboxylic acid (THC-COOH) in human urine. The derivatizing agent is directly added to the urine sample and the methyl-derivatives are then recovered by liquid-liquid extraction procedure. Gas chromatography-mass spectrometry was used to detect the derivatives in selected ion monitoring mode. The limits of detection were 0.7 ng/mL for THC and 0.5 ng/mL for THC-COOH, whereas the limits of quantification were 1.9 and 0.9 ng/mL, respectively. The method has been applied to 60 real samples both positive and negative to immunochemical screening test resulting to be very useful and reliable in routine analysis of THC-COOH in human urine for toxicological and forensic purposes.
The present study investigated the effect of trans-spinal direct current (tsDC) on the firing rate, pattern, and amplitude of spontaneous activity of the tibial nerve and on the magnitude of cortically elicited triceps surae (TS) muscle contractions. The effect of combined tsDC and repetitive cortical electrical stimulation (rCES) on the amplitude of cortically elicited TS twitches was also investigated. Stimulation was applied by two disk electrodes (0.79 cm(2)): one was located subcutaneously over the vertebral column (T(10)-L(1)) and was used to deliver anodal DC (a-tsDC) or cathodal DC (c-tsDC) (density range:  0.64 to  38.2 A/m(2)), whereas the other was located subcutaneously on the lateral aspect of the abdomen and served as a reference. While the application of a-tsDC significantly increased the spike frequency and amplitude of spontaneous discharges compared with c-tsDC, c-tsDC made the spontaneous discharges more rhythmic. Cortically elicited TS twitches were depressed during a-tsDC and potentiated after termination. Conversely, cortically elicited TS twitches were enhanced during c-tsDC and depressed after termination. While combined a-tsDC and rCES produced similar effects as a-tsDC alone, combined c-tsDC and rCES showed the greatest increase in cortically elicited TS twitches. tsDC appears to be a powerful neurostimulation tool that can differentially modulate spinal cord excitability and corticospinal transmission.
Regeneration of functional connectivity within a neural network after different degrees of lesion is of utmost clinical importance. To test pharmacological approaches aimed at recovering from a total or partial damage of neuronal connections within a circuit, it is necessary to develop a precise method for controlled ablation of neuronal processes. We combined a UV laser microdissector to ablate neural processes in vitro at single neuron and neural network level with infrared holographic optical tweezers to carry out force spectroscopy measurements. Simultaneous force spectroscopy, down to the sub-pico-Newton range, was performed during laser dissection to quantify the tension release in a partially ablated neurite. Therefore, we could control and measure the damage inflicted to an individual neuronal process. To characterize the effect of the inflicted injury on network level, changes in activity of neural subpopulations were monitored with subcellular resolution and overall network activity with high temporal resolution by concurrent calcium imaging and microelectrode array recording. Neuronal connections have been sequentially ablated and the correlated changes in network activity traced and mapped. With this unique combination of electrophysiological and optical tools, neural activity can be studied and quantified in response to controlled injury at the subcellular, cellular, and network level.

Krabbe disease is an infantile-onset progressive leukodystrophy. The classic presentation includes excessive irritability, muscle hypertonicity, developmental delay, failure to thrive, peripheral neuropathy, seizures, and optic nerve atrophy. The authors report a rare case of optic nerve enlargement early in infantile Krabbe disease. Their case demonstrates proximal prechiasmatic enlargement of the nerves. They discuss the pathophysiological and clinical correlation of optic nerve enlargement in Krabbe disease and in other disorders. Although Krabbe disease does not feature in initial differential of optic nerve enlargement in children, its inclusion and early identification facilitate a timely diagnosis of this rapidly progressive fatal disease.
Carpal tunnel syndrome is uncommon in children and is associated with an underlying etiology in the majority of cases. The diagnosis of the condition in childhood is dependent on a high degree of clinical suspicion, careful clinical examination, and judicious use of confirmatory investigations. The authors report a novel cause of carpal tunnel syndrome in a child, and discuss the investigation and management strategies in childhood carpal tunnel syndrome.


The neurotrophin brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and its receptor tropomyosin-related kinase B (TrkB) have emerged as key mediators in the pathophysiology of several mood disorders, including anxiety and depression. However, therapeutic compounds that interact with TrkB receptors have been difficult to develop. Using a combination of structure-based in silico screening and high-capacity functional assays in recombinant and neuronal cells, we identified a low-molecular weight TrkB ligand (ANA-12) that prevented activation of the receptor by BDNF with a high potency. ANA-12 showed direct and selective binding to TrkB and inhibited processes downstream of TrkB without altering TrkA and TrkC functions. KIRA-ELISA analysis demonstrated that systemic administration of ANA-12 to adult mice decreased TrkB activity in the brain without affecting neuronal survival. Mice administered ANA-12 demonstrated reduced anxiety- and depression-related behaviors on a variety of tests predictive of anxiolytic and antidepressant properties in humans. This study demonstrates that structure-based virtual screening strategy can be an efficient method for discovering potent TrkB-selective ligands that are active in vivo. We further propose that ANA-12 may be a valuable tool for studying BDNF/TrkB signaling and may constitute a lead compound for developing the next generation of therapeutic agents for the treatment of mood disorders.
Malignant peripheral nerve-sheath tumours (MPNST) with a rhabdomyomatous component are referred to as malignant triton tumours. Cervical tritons are rare, with only one previous report. We present a 28-year-old male patient with a malignant triton tumor involving the cervical spine with neurofibromatosis Type 1 presenting with symptoms of rapidly progressive cord compression. Radiology was suggestive of a MPNST with hemorrhage at the C2-C3 level. He underwent surgery with decompression of the intradural, and a small part of the extradural, component. To our knowledge this is the first report of a cervical triton tumor presenting with an intratumoral bleed.
Ultrasound (US) is being used increasingly in intraoperative imaging. Its reliability in identifying low-grade gliomas (LGG), however, has not been shown definitively. We compared the quality and reliability of high-end two-dimensional (2D) ultrasound (US) and 1.5 Tesla intraoperative MRI (iopMRI) images in 11 patients with LGG. The parameters evaluated were: tumor border; internal structure; vascularity, location, and relation to landmarks and vessels; and accuracy in detecting remnants. Both methods allowed good visualization of internal characteristics of the tumor and its location. The tumor border was clear on 10 of 11 MRI and on 9 of 11 US. During surgery, however, the quality of US images diminished, leading to some difficulties in interpretation. One small superficial remnant was not identified and in one patient an artifact was falsely interpreted as a remnant. While iopMRI appeared superior for visualizing different stages of hemispheric LGG resection, 2D US still allows accurate initial tumor delineation and for almost real-time control of tumor resection.
There is an emergent literature suggesting that East Asians and Westerners differ in cognitive processes because of cultural biases to process information holistically (East Asians) or analytically (Westerners). To evaluate the possibility that such differences are accompanied by differences in brain structure, we conducted a large comparative study on cognitively matched young and old adults from two cultural/ethnic groups--Chinese Singaporeans and non-Asian Americans--that involved a total of 140 persons. Young predominantly White American adults were found to have higher cortical thickness in frontal, parietal, and medial-temporal polymodal association areas in both hemispheres. These findings were replicated using voxel-based morphometry applied to the same data set. Differences in cortical thickness observed between young volunteers were not significant in older subjects as a whole. However, group differences were evident when high-performing old were compared. Although the observed differences in gray matter may be rooted in strategic differences in cognition arising from ethnic/cultural differences, alternative explanations involving genetic heritage and environmental factors are also considered.
Two experiments investigated the processes underlying the picture superiority effect on recognition memory. Studied pictures were associated with higher accuracy than studied words, regardless of whether test stimuli were words (Experiment 1) or pictures (Experiment 2). Event-related brain potentials (ERPs) recorded during test suggested that the 300-500 msec FN400 old/new effect, hypothesized to be related to familiarity-based recognition, benefited from study/test congruity, such that it was larger when study and test format remained constant than when they differed. The 500-800 msec parietal old/new effect, hypothesized to be related to recollection, benefited from studying pictures, regardless of test format. The parallel between the accuracy and parietal ERP results suggests that picture superiority may arise from encoding the distinctive attributes of pictures in a manner that enhances their later recollection. Furthermore, when words were tested, opposite effects of studying words versus studying pictures were observed on the FN400 (word &gt; picture) versus parietal (picture &gt; word) old/new effects--providing strong evidence for a crossover interaction between these components that is consistent with a dual-process perspective.
Neurog1 (Ngn1, Neurod3, neurogenin1) is a basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) transcription factor essential for neuronal differentiation and subtype specification during embryogenesis. Due to the transient expression of Neurog1 and extensive migration of neuronal precursors, it has been challenging to understand the full complement of Neurog1 lineage cells throughout the central nervous system (CNS). Here we labeled and followed Neurog1 lineages using inducible Cre-flox recombination systems with Neurog1-Cre and Neurog1-CreER(T2) BAC (bacterial artificial chromosome) transgenic mice. Neurog1 lineage cells are restricted to neuronal fates and contribute to diverse but discrete populations in each brain region. In the forebrain, Neurog1 lineages include mitral cells and glutamatergic interneurons in the olfactory bulb, pyramidal and granule neurons in the hippocampus, and pyramidal cells in the cortex. In addition, most of the thalamus, but not the hypothalamus, arises from Neurog1 progenitors. Although Neurog1 lineages are largely restricted to glutamatergic neurons, there are multiple exceptions including Purkinje cells and other GABAergic neurons in the cerebellum. This study provides the first overview of the spatiotemporal fate map of Neurog1 lineages in the CNS.
The meninges produce essential signaling molecules and major protein components of the pial basement membrane during normal brain development. Disruptions in the pial basement membrane underlie neural ectopia seen in those congenital muscular dystrophies (CMDs) caused by mutations in genes involved in O-mannosyl glycosylation. In mammals, biosynthesis of O-mannosyl glycans is initiated by a complex of mutually indispensable protein O-mannosyltransferases 1 and 2 (POMT1 and 2). To study the roles of O-mannosylation in brain development we generated a conditional allele of POMT2. POMT2 nulllizygosity resulted in embryonic lethality because of a defective Reichert's membrane. Brain-specific deletion of POMT2 resulted in hypoglycosylation of -dystroglycan (DG) and abolished laminin binding activity. The effect of POMT2 deletion on brain development was dependent on timing, as earlier deletion resulted in more severe phenotypes. Multiple brain malformations including overmigration of neocortical neurons and migration failure of granule cells in the cerebellum were observed. Immunofluorescence staining and transmission electron microscopy revealed that these migration defects were closely associated with disruptions in the pial basement membrane. Interestingly, POMT2 deletion in the meninges (and blood vessels) did not disrupt the development of the neocortex. Thus, normal brain development requires protein O-mannosylation activity in neural tissue but not the meninges. These results suggest that gene therapy should be directed to the neural tissue instead of the meninges.
Cannabinoid receptor type 1 (CB1R) participates in developmental processes in the central nervous system (CNS). The rodent retina represents an interesting and valuable model for studying CNS development, because it contains well-identified cell types with clearly established and distinct developmental timelines. Very little is known about the distribution or function of CB1R in the developing retina. In this study, we investigated the expression pattern of CB1R in the rat retina during all stages of postnatal development. Western blots were performed on retinal tissue at different time points between P1 and adulthood. In order to identify the cells expressing the receptor and the age at which this expression started, immunohistochemical co-staining was carried out for CB1R and markers of the different cell types comprising the retina. CB1R was already present at P1 in various cell types, i.e., ganglion, amacrine, horizontal, and mitotic cells. In the course of development, it appeared in cone photoreceptors and bipolar cells. For some cell types (bipolar, Mller, and some amacrine cells), CB1R was transiently expressed, suggesting a potential role of this receptor in developmental processes, such as migration, morphological changes, sub-identity acquisition, and patterned retinal spontaneous activity. Our results also indicated that CB1R is largely expressed in the adult retina (cone photoreceptors and horizontal, most amacrine, and retinal ganglion cells), and may therefore contribute to retinal functions. Overall these results indicate that, as shown in other structures of the brain, CB1R could play an instrumental role in the development and function of the retina.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) is widely expressed in the brain and its biological effects are mediated through a variety of receptors. We examined, using immunohistochemistry, expression of the Y2 receptor (R) protein in the adult mouse brain and its association with NPY and the Y1R, as well as a range of additional neurotransmitters and signaling-related molecules, which previously have not been defined. Our main focus was on the hippocampal formation (HiFo), amygdaloid complex, and hypothalamus, considering the known functions of NPY and the wide expression of NPY, Y1R, and Y2R in these regions. Y2R-like immunoreactivity (-LI) was distributed in nerve fibers/terminal endings throughout the brain axis, without apparent colocalization with NPY or the Y1R. Occasional coexistence between NPY- and Y1R-LI was found in the HiFo. Following colchicine treatment, Y2R-LI accumulated in cell bodies that coexpressed -aminobutyric acid (GABA) in a population of cells in the amygdaloid complex and lateral septal nucleus, but not in the HiFo. Instead, Y2R-positive nerve terminals appeared to surround GABA-immunoreactive (ir) cells in the HiFo and other neuronal populations, e.g., NPY-ir cells in HiFo and tyrosine hydroxylase-ir cells in the hypothalamus. In the HiFo, Y2R-ir mossy fibers coexpressed GABA, glutamic acid decarboxylase 67 and calbindin, and Y2R-LI was found in the same fibers that contained the presynaptic metabotropic glutamate receptor 2, but not together with any of the three vesicular glutamate transporters. Our findings provide further support that Y2R is mostly presynaptic, and that Y2Rs thus have a modulatory role in mediating presynaptic neurotransmitter release.

Neurons tuned for stimulus duration were first discovered in the auditory midbrain of frogs. Duration-tuned neurons (DTNs) have since been reported from the central auditory system of both echolocating and non-echolocating mammals, and from the central visual system of cats. We hypothesize that the functional significance of auditory duration tuning likely varies between species with different evolutionary histories, sensory ecologies, and bioacoustic constraints. For example, in non-echolocating animals such as frogs and mice the temporal filtering properties of auditory DTNs may function to discriminate species-specific communication sounds. In echolocating bats duration tuning may also be used to create cells with highly selective responses for specific rates of frequency modulation and/or pulse-echo delays. The ability to echolocate appears to have selected for high temporal acuity in the duration tuning curves of inferior colliculus neurons in bats. Our understanding of the neural mechanisms underlying sound duration selectivity has improved substantially since DTNs were first discovered almost 50 years ago, but additional research is required for a comprehensive understanding of the functional role and the behavioral significance that duration tuning plays in sensory systems.
Widely divergent vertebrates share a common central temporal mechanism for representing periodicities of acoustic waveform events. In the auditory nerve, periodicities corresponding to frequencies or rates from about 10 Hz to over 1,000 Hz are extracted from pure tones, from low-frequency complex sounds (e.g., 1st harmonic in bullfrog calls), from mid-frequency sounds with low-frequency modulations (e.g., amplitude modulation rates in cat vocalizations), and from time intervals between high-frequency transients (e.g., pulse-echo delay in bat sonar). Time locking of neuronal responses to periodicities from about 50 ms down to 4 ms or less (about 20-300 Hz) is preserved in the auditory midbrain, where responses are dispersed across many neurons with different onset latencies from 4-5 to 20-50 ms. Midbrain latency distributions are wide enough to encompass two or more repetitions of successive acoustic events, so that responses to multiple, successive periods are ongoing simultaneously in different midbrain neurons. These latencies have a previously unnoticed periodic temporal pattern that determines the specific times for the dispersed on-responses.
Target-distance computation by cortical neurons sensitive to echo delay is an essential characteristic of the auditory system of insectivorous bats. To assess if functional requirements such as detection of small insects versus larger stationary surfaces of plants are reflected in cortical properties, we compare delay-tuned neurons in a frugivorous (C. perspicillata, CP) and an insectivorous (P. parnellii, PP) bat species that belong to related families within the superfamily of Noctilionoidea. The bandwidth and shape of delay-tuning curves and the range of characteristic delays are similar in both species and hence are not related to different echolocation strategies. Most units respond at 2-6 ms echo delay with most sensitive thresholds of 20-30 dB SPL. In CP, units tuned to delays &gt;12 ms are slightly more abundant and are more sensitive than in PP. All delay-tuned neurons in CP reliably respond to single pure-tone stimuli, whereas such responses are only observed in 49% of delay-tuned units in PP. The cortical representation of echo delay (chronotopy) covers a larger area in CP but is less precise than described in PP. Since chronotopy is absent in certain other insectivorous bat species, it is open if these differences in topography are related to echolocation behaviour.
If A &gt; B, and B &gt; C, it follows logically that A &gt; C. The process of reaching that conclusion is called transitive inference (TI). Several mechanisms have been offered to explain transitive performance. Scanning models claim that the list is scanned from the ends of the list inward until a match is found. Positional discrimination models claim that positional uncertainty accounts for accuracy and reaction time patterns. In Experiment 1, we trained rhesus monkeys (Macaca mulatta) and humans (Homo sapiens) on adjacent pairs (e.g., AB, BC, CD, DE, EF) and tested them with previously untrained nonadjacent pairs (e.g., BD). In Experiment 2, we trained a second list and tested with nonadjacent pairs selected between lists (e.g., B from List 1, D from List 2). We then introduced associative competition between adjacent items in Experiment 3 by training 2 items per position (e.g., BC, BC) before testing with untrained nonadjacent items. In all 3 experiments, humans and monkeys showed distance effects in which accuracy increased, and reaction time decreased, as the distance between items in each pair increased (e.g., BD vs. BE). In Experiment 4, we trained adjacent pairs with separate 9- and 5-item lists. We then tested with nonadjacent pairs selected between lists to determine whether list items were chosen according to their absolute position (e.g., D, 5-item list &gt; E, 9-item list), or their relative position (e.g., D, 5-item list &lt; E, 9-item list). Both monkeys' and humans' choices were most consistent with a relative positional organization.
Cooperation is a cognitively demanding, complex social behavior, found primarily in primates. Here we investigated mutualism in rats (Rattus Norvegicus), a simple form of cooperation in which two subjects work on operant task, receiving immediate and simultaneous sucrose reward for a joint action. To receive the sucrose reward, familiar pairs of rats were required to nose poke simultaneously. Following 44 training days, we examined the relation of social contact and ultrasonic vocalizations to the rat's cooperative behavior by testing the effects of inserting opaque, wire-mesh, or no partition--between subjects. Cooperative behavior (simultaneous nose-poking): (a) increased gradually during initial training; (b) decreased with the opaque partition (restricting visual, acoustic, and physical communication); (c) increased with a wire mesh partition restricting only physical contact); and (d) increased with the number of 50 kHz USV &quot;happy&quot; calls and the intensity of social interaction. The possibility of studying the development of cooperative behavior in laboratory rats using a simple procedure based on commercially available equipment may prove useful in modeling determinants of social behavior.

Many synapses exhibit temporally complex forms of activity-dependent short-term synaptic plasticity. The diversity of these phenomena reflects the evolutionary specialization of synapses within networks. We examined the properties of transmission and plasticity, in vivo, at an identified, specialized axo-axonic nicotinic synapse between the goldfish Mauthner cell and one of its targets, the cranial relay neuron (CRN), using intracellular paired recordings and low frequency (0.33-2 Hz) train stimulations. Depression of successive excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs), which dominates short-term plasticity, had two components. A fast component reduced the amplitude of EPSP(2), to less than 50% of EPSP(1). A slow component produced an additional 10-30% of amplitude reduction and developed with a time constant of tens of seconds. The latencies of the later depressed responses were 0.1 ms longer than that of EPSP(1), suggesting a reduced release probability. The Ca(2+) chelators EGTA and BAPTA, injected presynaptically, reduced all EPSPs and slowed development of the second component of depression. Interestingly, spike broadening, produced by injecting K(+) channel blockers, reduced release, but accelerated the kinetics of the slow component. Finally, Ba(2+) in the external medium enhanced release, and reduced the first component and slowed the development of the second component of depression. Taken together, these last two results, which are in contrast to observations at other synapses, and the two-component depression suggest atypical release properties at the output synapses of the Mauthner cell, which triggers an escape behavior. We suggest that the second component of depression provides an additional safety factor to prevent repetitive firing of the CRN.

Burnout symptoms, which are characterized by exhaustion, cynicism, and a reduced sense of professional efficacy, may deleteriously affect cognitive function in military personnel. A total of 32 U.S. Military Special Operations personnel enrolled in Survival School completed measures of trauma history, dissociation, and burnout before training. They then completed the Groton Maze Learning Test (GMLT), a neuropsychological measure of integrative visuospatial executive function during three field-based phases of Survival School-enemy evasion, captivity/interrogation, and escape/release from captivity. Lower pre-training perceptions of professional efficacy were associated with reduced executive function during all of the field-based phases of Survival School, even after adjustment for years of education, cynicism, and baseline GMLT scores. Magnitudes of decrements in executive function in Marines with low efficacy relative to those with high efficacy increased as training progressed and ranged from .58 during enemy evasion to .99 during escape/release from captivity. Pre-training perceptions of burnout may predict visuospatial executive function during naturalistic training-related stress in military personnel. Assessment of burnout symptoms, particularly perceptions of professional efficacy, may help identify military personnel at risk for stress-related executive dysfunction. (JINS, 2011, 17, 494-501).
Given the importance of social dysfunction in schizophrenia, many studies have explored how social cognition, and, particularly, Theory of Mind (ToM) may affect patients' social interactions. In the present study, we investigated the impact of ToM deficits on social interactions, taking into account overall neuropsychological functioning as well as clinical and demographic characteristics. We assessed 28 patients with schizophrenia and 30 healthy participants on a series of tasks including tests of ToM, neuropsychological tests focused on functions potentially relevant to ToM and role plays as an indicator of social interactions. Patients performed more poorly than healthy controls across most ToM and some of the neuropsychological tests. Correlations and hierarchical regression analyses indicated the impact of some, but not all, facets of ToM on patients' social interactions, over and above neuropsychological functioning, positive and negative symptom ratings, duration of illness and demographic characteristics. These findings suggest that remediation of ToM deficits in patients with schizophrenia may help to improve their social interactions. (JINS, 2011, 17, 511-521).
Alcoholism and HIV-1 infection each affect components of selective attention and cognitive control that may contribute to deficits in emotion processing based on closely interacting fronto-parietal attention and frontal-subcortical emotion systems. Here, we investigated whether patients with alcoholism, HIV-1 infection, or both diseases have greater difficulty than healthy controls in resolving conflict from emotional words with different valences. Accordingly, patients with alcoholism (ALC, n = 20), HIV-1 infection (HIV, n = 20), ALC + HIV comorbidity (n = 22), and controls (CTL, n = 16) performed an emotional Stroop Match-to-Sample task, which assessed the contribution of emotion (happy, angry) to cognitive control (Stroop conflict processing). ALC + HIV showed greater Stroop effects than HIV, ALC, or CTL for negative (ANGRY) but not for positive (HAPPY) words, and also when the cue color did not match the Stroop stimulus color; the comorbid group performed similarly to the others when cue and word colors matched. Furthermore, emotionally salient face cues prolonged color-matching responses in all groups. HIV alone, compared with the other three groups, showed disproportionately slowed color-matching time when trials featured angry faces. The enhanced Stroop effects prominent in ALC + HIV suggest difficulty in exercising attentional top-down control on processes that consume attentional capacity, especially when cognitive effort is required to ignore negative emotions. (JINS, 2011, 17, 537-550).
This study characterized the relationship between apolipoprotein E (APOE) status and residual semantic abilities in amnestic mild cognitive impairment (MCI). APOE status (4 carrier/non 4 carrier) was determined in 30 amnestic MCIs and in 22 healthy matched non 4 carrier controls. The lexical characteristics (age of acquisition, typicality, familiarity) of words produced in a category fluency task were determined. MCIs produced fewer words than controls and these were also earlier acquired and more familiar. The words produced by MCI 4 carriers were earlier acquired than those of non 4 carriers. Analyses limited to the first 10 words produced by patients and controls showed similar findings and also revealed that MCI subgroups retrieved first more typical words than controls. Follow up showed higher conversion to Alzheimer's disease (AD) in MCI 4 carriers than in non 4 carriers. These findings show that a significant proportion of phenotype variability in performance on category fluency in people at increased AD risk is influenced by genetic factors. These findings explain why category fluency deficits, together with episodic memory deficits, are the only consistent early deficits in MCI patients who convert to AD. (JINS, 2011, 17, 423-430).
Accumulating evidence indicates that interleukin (IL)-27, a member of the IL-12 family of cytokines, antagonizes pathological Th17 effector cell responses. Relatively little is known about the cytokines that regulate human Th17 cells. In this study, we investigated the effect of IL-27 on the differentiation of human Th17 cells and on committed memory Th17 cells. We demonstrate that IL-27 suppresses the development of human Th17 cells by downregulating retinoid orphan nuclear receptor C expression and that this inhibition is associated with the induction of the intracellular signaling factors STAT1 and induction of the suppressor of cytokine signaling protein 1. The IL-27-mediated inhibition of IL-17 is independent of IL-10. We show that IL-27 inhibits differentiation of nave T cells into IL-17(+) T cells under different Th17 polarizing conditions. IL-27 suppresses other Th17 subset cytokines such as IL-22 and IL-21 but not tumor necrosis factor-. Moreover, we also show that IL-27 inhibits IL-17 production by committed Th17 memory cells, which is independent of IL-10. These studies show that IL-27 negatively regulates both the developing and committed human Th17 responses and therefore may be a promising therapeutic approach in the treatment of Th17-mediated diseases.
Recent studies have reported that cognitive inflexibility associated with impairments in a frontal-striatal circuit and parietal region is a core cognitive deficit of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD). However, few studies have examined progressive changes in these regions following clinical improvement in obsessive-compulsive symptoms. To determine if treatment changes the aberrant activation pattern associated with task switching in OCD, we examined the activation patterns in brain areas after treatment. The study was conducted on 10 unmedicated OCD patients and 20 matched controls using event-related functional magnetic resonance imaging. Treatment improved the clinical symptoms measured by the Yale-Brown Obsessive Compulsive Scale and behavioral flexibility indicated by the switching cost. At baseline, OCD showed significantly less activation in the dorsal and ventral frontal-striatal circuit and parietal regions under the task-switch minus task-repeat condition compared with controls. After treatment, the neural responses in the ventral frontal-striatal circuit in OCD were partially normalized, whereas the activation deficit in dorsal frontoparietal regions that mediate shifting attention or behavioral flexibility persisted. It is suggested that altered brain activation in ventral frontal-striatal regions in OCD patients is associated with their cognitive flexibility and changes in these regions may underlie the pathophysiology of OCD.
While an ethical obligation to report findings of clinical research to trial participants is increasingly recognised, the academic debate is often vague about what kinds of data should be fed back and how such a process should be organised. In this article, we present a classification of different actors, processes and data involved in the feedback of research results pertaining to an individual. In a second step, we reflect on circumstances requiring further ethical consideration. In regard to a concrete research setting--the one of clinico-genomic research--we discuss what kinds of difficulties have to be faced when returning individual research results to trial participants. In a last step, we elaborate on a stepwise model to trigger the individual feedback process. Hence, this paper gives guidance on how to feedback individual research results in a specific research setting and responds at the same time to new challenges in the debate on the duty to return individual research findings.
The 3D spatial arrangement of particles or cells, for example glial cells, with respect to other particles or cells, for example neurons, can be characterized by the radial number density function, which expresses the number density of so-called 'secondary' particles as a function of their distance to a 'primary' particle. The present paper introduces a new stereological method, the saucor, for estimating the radial number density using thick isotropic uniform random or vertical uniform random sections. In the first estimation step, primary particles are registered in a disector. Subsequently, smaller counting windows are drawn with random orientation around every primary particle, and the positions of all secondary particles within the windows are recorded. The shape of the counting windows is designed such that a large portion of the volume close to the primary particle is examined and a smaller portion of the volume as the distance to the primary object increases. The experimenter can determine the relation between these volumina as a function of the distance by adjusting the parameters of the window graph, and thus reach a good balance between workload and obtained information. Estimation formulae based on the Horvitz-Thompson theorem are derived for both isotropic uniform random and vertical uniform random designs. The method is illustrated with an example where the radial number density of neurons and glial cells around neurons in the human neocortex is estimated using thick vertical sections for light microscopy. The results indicate that the glial cells are clustered around the neurons and the neurons have a tendency towards repulsion from each other.
The small heat shock protein HSP20 is known to be cardioprotective during times of stress and the mechanism underlying its protective abilities depends on its phosphorylation on Ser16 by PKA (protein kinase A). Although the external stimuli that trigger Ser16 phosphorylation have been well studied, the events that modulate spatial and temporal control of this modification remain to be clarified. Here, we report that inhibition of cAMP phosphodiesterase-4 (PDE4) induces the phosphorylation of HSP20 in resting cardiac myocytes and augments its phosphorylation by PKA following -adrenergic stimulation. Moreover, using peptide array technology, in vitro binding studies, co-immunoprecipitation techniques and immunocytochemistry, we show that HSP20 binds directly to PDE4 within a region of the conserved catalytic domain. We also show that FRET-based, genetically-encoded cAMP reporters anchored to HSP20 exhibit a larger response to PDE4 inhibition compared to free cytosolic cAMP reporters, suggesting that the interaction with PDE4 is crucial in modulating the highly localised pool of cAMP to which HSP20 is exposed. Using information gleaned from peptide array analyses, we developed a cell-permeable peptide that serves to inhibit the interaction of PDE4 with HSP20. Disruption of the HSP20-PDE4 complex, using this peptide, suffices to induce phosphorylation of HSP20 by PKA and to protect against the hypertrophic response measured in neonatal cardiac myocytes following chronic -adrenergic stimulation.
RNA interference (RNAi) is the process of sequence-specific posttranslational gene silencing triggered by double-stranded RNAs (dsRNAs). RNAi is a widely used approach for studying gene function. However, studies have shown that using siRNA can lead to off-target effects when the siRNA contains sufficient sequence identity to non-target mRNA sequences. One of the important steps in designing dsRNA is verification that it has sequence identity to only the target mRNA. In this report, we propose an approach for primary screening dsRNAs for potential off-target effects by using rapid amplification of cDNA ends. This method can be especially useful for model systems using species that have limited availability of sequence data.
Mitochondrial dysfunction has been implicated in the pathogenesis of sporadic, idiopathic Parkinson disease. In some cases, mitochondrial DNA primary genetic abnormalities, or more commonly, secondary rearrangements due to polymerase gamma (POLG1) gene mutation, can directly cause parkinsonism. The case of a Parkinson disease patient with some signs or symptoms suggestive of mitochondrial disease (i.e., ptosis, myopathy, neuropathy) is a relatively common event in the neurological practice. Mitochondrial parkinsonisms do not have distinctive features allowing an immediate diagnosis, and a negative family history does not rule out a possible diagnosis of mitochondrial disorder. In this article, we do not revise the mitochondrial hypothesis of sporadic, idiopathic Parkinson disease, extensively discussed elsewhere, but we review POLG1-related parkinsonism and other well-defined forms of &quot;mitochondrial parkinsonisms&quot;, with mtDNA mutations or rearrangements. Lastly, we try to introduce a possible diagnostic approach for patients with parkinsonism and suspected mitochondrial disorder.


Sequence variants at or near the leucine-rich repeat kinase 2 (LRRK2) locus have been associated with susceptibility to three human conditions: Parkinson's disease (PD), Crohn's disease and leprosy. As all three disorders represent complex diseases with evidence of inflammation, we hypothesized a role for LRRK2 in immune cell functions. Here, we report that full-length Lrrk2 is a relatively common constituent of human peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) including affinity isolated, CD14(+) monocytes, CD19(+) B cells, and CD4(+) as well as CD8(+) T cells. Up to 26% of PBMC from healthy donors and up to 43% of CD14(+) monocytes were stained by anti-Lrrk2 antibodies using cell sorting. PBMC lysates contained full-length (&gt;260 kDa) and higher molecular weight Lrrk2 species. The expression of LRRK2 in circulating leukocytes was confirmed by microscopy of human blood smears and in sections from normal midbrain and distal ileum. Lrrk2 reactivity was also detected in mesenteric lymph nodes and spleen (including in dendritic cells), but was absent in splenic mononuclear cells from lrrk2-null mice, as expected. In cultured bone marrow-derived macrophages from mice we made three observations: (i) a predominance of higher molecular weight lrrk2; (ii) the reduction of autophagy marker LC3-II in (R1441C)lrrk2-mutant cells (&lt;31%); and (iii) a significant up-regulation of lrrk2 mRNA (&gt;fourfold) and protein after exposure to several microbial structures including bacterial lipopolysaccharide and lentiviral particles. We conclude that Lrrk2 is a constituent of many cell types in the immune system. Following the recognition of microbial structures, stimulated macrophages respond with altered lrrk2 gene expression. In the same cells, lrrk2 appears to co-regulate autophagy. A pattern recognition receptor-type function for LRRK2 could explain its locus' association with Crohn's disease and leprosy risk. We speculate that the role of Lrrk2 in immune cells may also be relevant to the susceptibility of developing PD or its progression.
Professor Jellinger first identified that striatal A deposition at postmortem seemed to differentiate cases of dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) from those with Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD), a finding subsequently questioned. Our replication study in 34 prospectively studied cases assessed the ability of striatal A deposition to differentiate DLB from PDD, and also assessed the relationship between striatal and cortical A deposition and -synuclein-immunoreactive pathologies, using previously published protocols. Cases with DLB had significantly shorter durations and greater dementia severities compared with cases with PDD. Striatal A-immunoreactive plaques were only consistently found in cases with DLB and correlated with both the severity (positive correlation) and duration (negative correlation) of dementia. Striatal A-immunoreactive plaques also positively correlated with the severity of -synuclein-immunoreactive pathologies as well as cortical A-positive plaques. Striatal A deposition positively predicted dementia in Lewy body cases with high specificity and had the greatest sensitivity to differentiate DLB from PDD with 100% negative predictive value. These data suggest that striatal A deposition in Lewy body diseases contributes to early dementia and in these cases may impact on the efficacy of treatments targeting the striatum.
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a rapidly progressive and ultimately fatal neurodegenerative disease with an average survival of 3 years from symptom onset. Rapid and conclusive early diagnosis is essential if interventions with disease-modifying therapies are to be successful. Cytoskeletal modification and inflammation are known to occur during the pathogenesis of ALS. We measured levels of cytoskeletal proteins and inflammatory markers in the CSF of ALS, disease controls and healthy subjects. We determined threshold values for each protein that provided the optimal sensitivity and specificity for ALS within a training set, as determined by receiver operating characteristic analysis. Interestingly, the optimal assay was a ratio of the levels for phosphorylated neurofilament heavy chain and complement C3 (pNFH/C3). We next applied this assay to a separate test set of CSF samples to verify our results. Overall, the predictive pNFH/C3 ratio identified ALS with 87.3% sensitivity and 94.6% specificity in a total of 71 ALS subjects, 52 disease control subjects and 40 healthy subjects. In addition, the level of CSF pNFH correlated with survival of ALS patients. We also detected increased pNFH in the plasma of ALS patients and observed a correlation between CSF and plasma pNFH levels within the same subjects. These findings support large-scale prospective biomarker studies to determine the clinical utility of diagnostic and prognostic signatures in ALS.
Manganese is an essential trace element, and a contrast agent of potential interest for brain magnetic resonance imaging. Brain overexposure to manganese, however induces a neurodegenerative syndrome. Imaging data suggest that manganese appearance into the CSF precedes its accumulation into the cerebral parenchyma. We therefore investigated manganese uptake and transport at the blood-CSF barrier. Like lead, the non protein-bound divalent manganese accumulated into the rat choroid plexus. The metal accumulation was especially high in developing animals. Using a differentiated cellular model of the blood-CSF barrier, we demonstrated that manganese crosses the choroid plexus epithelium by a concentrating, unidirectional blood-to-CSF transport mechanism. This transport was inhibited by calcium, which is also transported into the CSF against its concentration gradient. The permeability barrier function towards lipid-insoluble compound and the organic anion transport property of the blood-brain interface were affected by exposure of the blood-facing membrane of choroidal cells to micromolar concentrations of manganese, but its antioxidant capacity was not. The unidirectional transport of manganese across the choroid plexus provides the anatomo-functional basis linking the systemic exposure to manganese with the spreading pattern of manganese accumulation observed in brain imaging, and explains the polarized sensitivity of choroidal epithelial cells to manganese toxicity.
Rho GTPases are small GTP binding proteins belonging to the Ras superfamily which act as molecular switches that regulate many cellular function including cell morphology, cell to cell interaction, cell migration and adhesion. In neuronal cells, Rho GTPases have been proposed to regulate neuronal development and synaptic plasticity. However, the role of Rho GTPases in neurosecretion is poorly documented. In this review, we discuss data that highlight the importance of Rho GTPases and their regulators into the control of neurotransmitter and hormone release in neurons and neuroendocrine cells, respectively.
In addition to progressive dementia, Alzheimer's disease (AD) is characterized by increased incidence of seizure activity. Although originally discounted as a secondary process occurring as a result of neurodegeneration, more recent data suggest that alterations in excitatory-inhibitory (E/I) balance occur in AD and may be a primary mechanism contributing AD cognitive decline. In this study, we discuss relevant research and reports on the GABA(A) receptor in developmental disorders, such as Down syndrome, in healthy aging, and highlight documented aberrations in the GABAergic system in AD. Stressing the importance of understanding the subunit composition of individual GABA(A) receptors, investigations demonstrate alterations of particular GABA(A) receptor subunits in AD, but overall sparing of the GABAergic system. In this study, we review experimental data on the GABAergic system in the pathobiology of AD and discuss relevant therapeutic implications. When developing AD therapeutics that modulate GABA it is important to consider how E/I balance impacts AD pathogenesis and the relationship between seizure activity and cognitive decline.
Current evidence suggests that Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a multi-factorial disease that starts with accumulation of multiple proteins. We have previously proposed that inhibition of -secretase may impair membrane recycling causing neurodegeneration starting at synapses (Sambamurti K., Suram A., Venugopal C., Prakasam A., Zhou Y., Lahiri D. K. and Greig N. H. A partial failure of membrane protein turnover may cause Alzheimer's disease: a new hypothesis. Curr. Alzheimer Res., 3, 2006, 81). We also proposed familal AD mutations increase A42 by inhibiting -secretase. Herein, we discuss the failure of Eli Lilly's -secretase inhibitor, semagacestat, in clinical trials in the light of our hypothesis, which extends the problem beyond toxicity of A aggregates. We elaborate that -secretase inhibitors lead to accumulation of amyloid precursor protein C-terminal fragments that can later be processed by -secretase to yields bursts of A to facilitate aggregation. Although we do not exclude a role for toxic A aggregates, inhibition of -secretase can affect numerous substrates other than amyloid precursor protein to affect multiple pathways and the combined accumulation of multiple peptides in the membrane may impair its function and turnover. Taken together, protein processing and turnover pathways play an important role in maintaining cellular homeostasis and unless we clearly see consistent disease-related increase in their levels or activity, we need to focus on preserving their function rather than inhibiting them for treatment of AD and similar diseases.
Understanding how neural activity is functionally linked to the stem cell niche, is assuming ever increasing importance as hippocampal neurogenesis is shown to be important for modulating the behavioural responses to stress and for certain forms of learning and memory. Neuropeptides such as neuropeptide Y and vasoactive intestinal peptide have emerged as important mediators for signalling local interneuron activity to subgranular zone precursors, however, little is known regarding the effects of neuropeptides that are extrinsic modulators of hippocampal information processing. Here, we show that the galanin GalR2/3 agonist Gal2-11 is both trophic and proliferative for postnatal subgranular precursors and proliferating neuroblasts at 10 nM and is purely trophic at doses as low as 100 pM. We found no effect mediated via GalR1. As galanin is co-released from noradrenergic and serotonergic projection neurons to the dentate gyrus, these findings support a direct effect of galanin on hippocampal neurogenesis, which may partly mediate its antidepressant effect via GalR2/3 receptors.
Depression is one of the most common, costly and severe psychopathologies worldwide. Its incidence, however, differs significantly between the sexes, and depression rates in women are twice those of men. Interestingly, this sex difference emerges during adolescence. Although the adolescent period is characterised by major physical and behavioural transformations, it is unclear why the incidence of depression increases so dramatically in girls during this otherwise generally healthy developmental period. Although psychological and environmental factors are also involved, we discuss the neuroendocrinological factors determining adolescent vulnerability to depression. In particular, we address the role of sex steroids in mood regulation, hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis maturation and sexual differentiation of the brain, with a focus on hippocampal plasticity.
Many biologically active neurosteroids, including dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), are synthesised in the brain. DHEA is a potent endogenous modulator of several neuronal functions, and alterations of DHEA are correlated with various neurobiological deficits. The cytochrome P450 17-hydroxylase/C(17,20)-lyase (P450C(17) ) plays a pivotal role in the synthesis of DHEA from pregnenolone and progesterone. We investigated the immunohistochemical localisation and molecular expression of P450C(17) in the superior, lateral, medial and inferior vestibular nuclei (VCN) of adult male rats by western blotting and indirect immunofluorescence analysis. Immunoreactive P450C(17) was widely distributed in all VCN and the expression of P450C(17) was confirmed by western blot analysis. The present study demonstrates, for the first time, the presence and anatomical distribution of P450C(17) in the VCN. Given that neurosteroids can modulate neuronal activities in the medial vestibular nucleus, DHEA synthesised in the VCN may play an important role in the control of specific activities at this level.
Adult male quail show high levels of aromatase activity in the preoptic area-hypothalamus (POA-HYP), which parallels the high number of aromatase-immunoreactive cells and elevated mRNA concentrations detected in this brain region by in situ hybridisation. Interestingly, females display considerably lower aromatase activity than males but have almost equal numbers of aromatase-immunoreactive cells and express similar levels of aromatase mRNA. Aromatase activity in the male POA-HYP can be rapidly regulated by calcium-dependent phosphorylations, in the absence of changes in enzyme concentration. In the present study, we investigated whether aromatase activity is differentially regulated by phosphorylations in males and females. A linear increase in accumulation of aromatisation products was observed in both sexes as a function of time but the rate of conversion was slower in females. Saturation analysis confirmed the lower maximum velocities (V(max) ) in females but indicated a similar affinity (K(m) ) in both sexes. Aromatase activity in females reacted differentially to manipulations of intracellular calcium. In particular, chelating calcium with ethylene glycol tetraacetic acid (EGTA) resulted in a larger increase of enzymatic activity in males than in females, especially in the presence of ATP. A differential reaction to kinase inhibitors was also observed between males and females (i.e. a larger increase in aromatase activity in females than in males after exposure to specific inhibitors). These findings suggest that the nature of aromatase is conserved between the sexes, although the control of its activity by calcium appears to be different. Additional characterizations of intracellular calcium in both sexes would therefore be appropriate to better understand aromatase regulation.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterised both clinically and pathologically by features that distinguish it from other parkinsonian disorders including, for instance, multiple system atrophy and progressive supranuclear palsy. The aetiologies of PD includes both genetic and environmental influences. Several single gene causes of autosomal dominant and recessive PD have been described. Recent genome-wide association (GWA) studies have identified a number of risk alleles for PD. No specific environmental cause has been defined but several factors have been described which influence the risk for PD. Mitochondrial dysfunction, free radical mediated damage, inflammatory change and proteasomal dysfunction have been thought to play a role in PD pathogenesis. Autophagy is now recognised as an important component of the cell's mechanism for protein turnover and has relevance for PD. There is some convergence and overlap of pathogenetic pathways between environmental and genetic factors. The importance of identifying the molecular and biochemical events that lead to PD lies in the prospect that novel drug targets will emerge and that new compounds will be developed that slow the progression of the disease.
Failures in clinical studies that were aimed to prove disease-modifying effects of treatments in Parkinson's disease (PD) raise the question as to whether basic sciences have had an impact in clinical practice. This question implies that despite well-publicized results obtained by intensive genetic and pathogenetic research, e.g. the identification of mutations and cellular biochemical pathways that underlie Parkinson-specific neurodegeneration, no relevant disease-modifying treatment options have been developed. This view neglects the fact that today there are plenty of dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic and surgical treatment options, and that PD was not treatable 50years ago. This progress was made possible only by basic science. In this review, we underline the success of previous basic science for daily practice in PD and its impact for the understanding and development of an early diagnosis. Early, even pre-symptomatic diagnosis might be key to successfully establish disease-modifying treatments.

Behet's disease (BD) is a chronic inflammatory multisystem disorder which can involve the central nervous system (CNS). Cerebral venous thrombosis (CVT) is one of its major neurological manifestations. We aimed to review the epidemiologic and clinical features of CVT in patients with BD, as well as the available data on therapeutic interventions and prognosis. Systematic review of all observational studies of BD patients was done. Search strategy included electronic searches of MEDLINE (1966-August 2009). Occurrence of CVT in BD and Neuro-Behet patients, occurrence of CVT as the inaugural manifestation of BD, clinical and neuro-imaging characteristics of CVT, prothrombotic evaluation, treatment options and prognosis were extracted. A meta-analysis of available results was performed when feasible. Twenty-three studies were included, with 290 cases of CVT in patients with BD. The incidence of CVT per 1,000 person-years was 3 (95% CI: 1-8), being higher in retrospective studies (3.2, 95% CI: 1-10) than in prospective studies (2.7, 95% CI: 1-13). Among patients with neurologic involvement, the incidence rate was 15.1/1,000 person-years. The onset was progressive in 77% of the patients. Intracranial hypertension syndrome was a frequent presentation of CVT in BD. The most frequent sites of occlusion were the superior sagittal and the transverse sinus. Most of the studies did not evaluate the prevalence of prothrombotic disorders. Treated CVT was associated with a good prognosis. CVT is a frequent neurological manifestation of BD. When treated, BD-associated CVT bears a good prognosis. There is insufficient information regarding the role of concomitant prothrombotic disorders and specific treatments.
The major intermediate cytoskeletal protein of astrocytes, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), and that of axons, neurofilament light protein (NFL), may both be released into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) during pathological processes in the central nervous system (CNS). We investigated GFAP and NFL levels in CSF as possible biomarkers for progression in multiple sclerosis (MS). Patients with relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS, n = 15) or secondary progressive MS (SPMS, n = 10) and healthy control subjects (n = 28) were examined twice with an interval of 8-10 years apart. Neurological deficits were scored with the Expanded Disability Status Scale (EDSS). GFAP and NFL levels were determined in CSF by enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA). GFAP levels and NFL levels correlated with age (r and r (s) = 0.50, p = 0.006). Adjusting for age, MS patients had increased GFAP levels compared with controls (p = 0.03) and GFAP levels correlated with neurological disability (EDSS, r = 0.51, p &lt; 0.05) and disease progression [Multiple Sclerosis Severity Score (MSSS), r = 0.47, p &lt; 0.05]. The mean annual increase of GFAP was 6.5 ng/L for controls, 8.1 ng/L for RRMS patients, and 18.9 ng/L for SPMS patients. GFAP level at the first examination had predictive value for neurological disability 8-10 years later (EDSS, r = 0.45, p &lt; 0.05) but not for EDSS increase between the examinations. NFL levels were not significantly increased in MS patients compared with controls and had no relationship to disability or progression and no prognostic value for disability development. GFAP, a marker for astrogliosis, is a potential biomarker for MS progression and may have a role in clinical trials for assessing the impact of therapies on MS progression.
Intracerebral haematoma (ICH) occurs in one-third of patients with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage (SAH) and is associated with poor prognosis. Identification of risk factors for ICH from aneurysmal rupture may help in balancing risks of treatment of unruptured aneurysms. We assessed potential clinical and aneurysmal risk factors for ICH from aneurysmal rupture. In all 310 SAH patients admitted to our service between 2005 and 2007, we compared clinical risk factors (gender, age, smoking, hypertension, history of SAH and family history) of patients with and without an ICH. From the latest admitted, 50 patients with and 50 without ICH, we compared the location, shape and direction of blood flow of the aneurysms on CT-angiography. Relative risks (RRs) of ICH were 1.2 (95% confidence interval, CI):0.7-1.8) for males, 1.0 (95%CI:0.7-1.4) for age  55 year, 1.0 (95%CI:0.6-1.6) for smoking, 0.9 (95%CI:0.5-1.5) for hypertension, 0.6 (95%CI:0.1-3.8) for history of SAH and 0.5 (95%CI:0.2-1.3) for family history of SAH. RRs of ICH were 1.8 (95%CI:1.2-2.5) for MCA aneurysms, 0.5 (95%CI:0.3-1.0) for ICA aneurysms, 0.4 (95%CI:0.1-1.3) for posterior circulation aneurysms, and 0.7 (95%CI:0.3-1.3) for multilobed aneurysms. The RRs of other aneurysmal characteristics varied between 0.9 and 1.2. Patients with MCA aneurysms are at a higher risk of developing ICH. The other aneurysmal or clinical factors have no or only minor influence on the risk of ICH after rupture and are, therefore, not helpful in deciding on treatment of unruptured aneurysms.
Gait disturbance is the most common symptom in idiopathic normal-pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH). However, its pathophysiology in iNPH has not been clarified. Some researchers have hypothesized that the mesencephalic locomotor region, which is a functionally defined area in the brainstem playing an important role in locomotion, is involved in the development of gait disturbance in iNPH. The purpose of the study was to investigate whether the midbrain is involved in the manifestation of gait disturbance in iNPH. Twenty-one iNPH patients who showed clinical improvements after shunt surgery were studied. Brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was performed and clinical symptoms were assessed before and 1 year after surgery. Gait disturbance was assessed by the Timed Up and Go test and gait subcategory of the iNPH Grading Scale, a validated assessment tool for iNPH symptoms. Anteroposterior, left-to-right diameter and cross-sectional areas of the midbrain were measured at the inferior collicular level of axial images in MRI. The diameters and cross-sectional area of the midbrain at baseline did not show significant correlation with gait assessments at baseline (Spearman's correlation). The midbrain measurement did not show significant difference between the baseline and postoperative values (paired t test), and its change rates did not show significant correlation with the change (rates) of the gait assessments. In this study there were no findings to suggest involvement of the midbrain in the manifestation of gait disturbance in iNPH. The hypothesis that the mesencephalic locomotor region is involved in the manifestation of gait disturbance in iNPH needs to be reconsidered.



The authors assessed the prognostic value of muscle ultrasonography in 31 patients with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and compared it with accepted prognostic variables like functional capacity (measured with the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Functional Rating Scale (ALSFRS)) and muscle strength. Each patient was examined once. The following ultrasonography parameters were determined: muscle thickness, echo intensity (EI) and the presence of fasciculations. Correlations between baseline measurements, preslope values and survival were calculated. EI, disease duration, muscle strength preslope and ALSFRS-R preslope correlated with survival. Using a stepwise multivariate analysis, the combination of EI preslope and ALSFRS-R preslope was shown to have the best predictive value for survival.
Liponeurocytoma is not exclusive to the cerebellar or fourth ventricular location. Since its inclusion in the central nervous system tumor classification in 2000, six cases with similar radiological, histomorphological and immunohistochemical features have also been described in the lateral ventricles. In the present study, we report clinical, radiological and pathological findings of three supratentorial and one cerebellar liponeurocytoma from our records, evaluated with an extensive panel of immunohistochemistry, and review published cases in the literature. The immunohistochemical pattern of supratentorial and infratentorial liponeurocytomas are almost identical, which indicates that these tumors are homologous.
DiGeorge syndrome, or velocardiofacial syndrome (DGS/VCFS), is a rare and usually sporadic congenital genetic disorder resulting from a constitutional microdeletion at chromosome 22q11.2. While rare cases of malignancy have been described, likely due to underlying immunodeficiency, central nervous system tumors have not yet been reported. We describe an adolescent boy with DGS/VCFS who developed a temporal lobe pleomorphic xanthoastrocytoma. High-resolution single nucleotide polymorphism array studies of the tumor confirmed a constitutional 22q11.21 deletion, and revealed acquired gains, losses and copy number neutral loss of heterozygosity of several chromosomal regions, including a homozygous deletion of the CDKN2A/B locus. The tumor also demonstrated a common V600E mutation in the BRAF oncogene. This is the first reported case of a patient with DiGeorge syndrome developing a CNS tumor of any histology and expands our knowledge about low-grade CNS tumor molecular genetics.
Retraction of distal sensory axons is a prominent feature in diabetic peripheral neuropathy (DPN), a process amenable to insulin therapy. Nevertheless, diabetic patients and long-term diabetic mice develop motor deficits after longer durations of DPN, a process that may be related to insulin deficiency. To compare the efficacy of intranasal delivery of insulin (IN-I) and subcutaneous insulin (Subc-I) in preventing motor deficits in a long-term mouse model of DPN, IN-I or Subc-I, 0.87 IU daily or placebo was delivered in separate cohorts of diabetic and nondiabetic CD1 mice for 8 months. Radiolabeled detection was used to assess insulin delivery and biodistribution. Biweekly behavioral tests and monthly electrophysiological and multipoint quantitative studies assessed motor function deficits. Morphometric analysis of spinal cord, peripheral nerve, muscle innervation, and specific molecular markers were evaluated at and before the end point. Despite progressive distal axonal terminal loss, numbers and caliber of motor neurons were preserved. There were no differences in glycemia between IN-I and Subc-I-treated mice. Intranasal delivery of insulin and, to a lesser extent, Subc-I, protected against electrophysiological decline, loss of neuromuscular junctions, and loss of motor behavioral skills. Intranasal delivery of insulin was associated with greater preservation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase signaling pathway involving Akt, cyclic AMP response element binding protein,and glycogen synthase kinase 3 but did not alter extracellular signal-regulated kinase, mitogen-activated protein kinase/extracellular signal-regulated kinase, or c-Jun amino-terminal kinase. Thus, direct delivery of insulin to the nervous system might prevent motor deficit in human type 1 diabetes by preservation of the phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase-Akt pathway rather than only affecting glycemic levels; the effects of insulin on other signaling pathways may, however, play additional roles.
The adult pattern of neural connectivity is shaped by repulsive and attractive factors, many of which are modulated by activity. Although much is known about the actions of these factors when studied in isolation, little is known about how they interact. To address this question, we examined the effects of sequential or coapplication of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) and Fc-conjugated ephrin-A5 or EphA5 in cultured embryonic hippocampal neurons. BDNF promotes neurite outgrowth and synapse formation, and when applied acutely, it elicits an increase in ongoing synaptic activity. Members of the ephrin family of ligands and receptors can be repulsive and prevent formation of synaptic contacts. Acute exposure to either ephrin-A5-Fc or EphA5-Fc transiently enhanced synaptic activity when applied alone, but when applied prior to BDNF, they dramatically reduced the electrophysiological effects of the neurotrophin. Conversely, BDNF had no effect on subsequently applied ephrin-A5-Fc or EphA5-Fc. Consistent with this, ephrin-A5-Fc also prevented BDNF-induced activation of p42/44 MAPK. The effect of ephrin-A5-Fc appears to be presynaptic, as it prevented the BDNF-induced increase in spontaneous miniature postsynaptic current frequency, whereas EphA5-Fc did not. These results suggest that these factors can be categorized differently, with the contact-mediated activation of EphA receptors by ephrin-A5 overriding the diffusion-mediated effect of BDNF.
Acute ankle injuries are common problems and often lead to persistent pain. To investigate the underlying mechanism of ankle sprain pain, the response properties of spinal dorsal horn neurons were examined after ankle sprain. Acute ankle sprain was induced manually by overextending the ankle of a rat hindlimb in a direction of plantarflexion and inversion. The weight-bearing ratio (WBR) of the affected foot was used as an indicator of pain. Single unit activities of dorsal horn neurons in response to plantarflexion and inversion of the foot or ankle compression were recorded from the medial part of the deep dorsal horn, laminae IV-VI, in normal and ankle-sprained rats. One day after ankle sprain, rats showed significantly reduced WBRs on the affected foot, and this reduction was partially restored by systemic morphine. The majority of deep dorsal horn neurons responded to a single ankle stimulus modality. After ankle sprain, the mean evoked response rates were significantly increased, and afterdischarges were developed in recorded dorsal horn neurons. The ankle sprain-induced enhanced evoked responses were significantly reduced by morphine, which was reversed by naltrexone. The data indicate that movement-specific dorsal horn neuron responses were enhanced after ankle sprain in a morphine-dependent manner, thus suggesting that hyperactivity of dorsal horn neurons is an underlying mechanism of pain after ankle sprain.
Acupuncture is shown to be effective in producing analgesia in ankle sprain pain in humans and animals. To examine the underlying mechanisms of the acupuncture-induced analgesia, the effects of electroacupuncture (EA) on weight-bearing forces (WBR) of the affected foot and dorsal horn neuron activities were examined in a rat model of ankle sprain. Ankle sprain was induced manually by overextending ligaments of the left ankle in the rat. Dorsal horn neuron responses to ankle movements or compression were recorded from the lumbar spinal cord using an in vivo extracellular single unit recording setup 1 day after ankle sprain. EA was applied to the SI-6 acupoint on the right forelimb (contralateral to the sprained ankle) by trains of electrical pulses (10 Hz, 1-ms pulse width, 2-mA intensity) for 30 min. After EA, WBR of the sprained foot significantly recovered and dorsal horn neuron activities were significantly suppressed in ankle-sprained rats. However, EA produced no effect in normal rats. The inhibitory effect of EA on hyperactivities of dorsal horn neurons of ankle-sprained rats was blocked by the -adrenoceptor antagonist phentolamine (5 mg/kg ip) but not by the opioid receptor antagonist naltrexone (10 mg/kg ip). These data suggest that EA-induced analgesia in ankle sprain pain is mediated mainly by suppressing dorsal horn neuron activities through -adrenergic descending inhibitory systems at the spinal level.
This study investigated whether cathodal transcranial direct current stimulation (c-tDCS) of left primary motor cortex (M1) modulates excitability of ipsilateral propriospinal premotoneurons (PNs) in healthy humans. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) of the right motor cortex was used to obtain motor evoked potentials (MEPs) from the left biceps brachii (BB) while participants maintained contraction of the left BB. To examine presumed PN excitability, left BB MEPs were compared with those conditioned by median nerve stimulation (MNS) at the left elbow. Interstimulus intervals between TMS and MNS were set to produce summation at the C3-C4 level of the spinal cord. MNS facilitated BB MEPs elicited at TMS intensities near active motor threshold but inhibited BB MEPs at slightly higher intensities, indicative of putative PN modulation. c-tDCS suppressed the facilitatory and inhibitory effects of MNS. Sham tDCS did not alter either component. There was no effect of c-tDCS and sham tDCS on nonconditioned left BB MEPs or on the ipsilateral silent period of left BB. Right first dorsal interosseous MEPs were suppressed by c-tDCS. These results indicate that M1 c-tDCS can be used to modulate excitability of ipsilateral projections to presumed PNs controlling the proximal arm muscle BB. This technique may hold promise for promoting motor recovery of proximal upper limb function after stroke.
During reinforcement and sequence learning, dopaminergic neurons fire bursts of action potentials. Dopaminergic neurons in vivo receive strong background excitatory and inhibitory inputs, suggesting that one mechanism by which bursts may be produced is disinhibition. Unfortunately, these inputs are lost during slice preparation and are not precisely controlled during in vivo experiments. In the present study we show that dopaminergic neurons can be shifted into a balanced state in which constant synaptic N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) and GABA(A) conductances are mimicked either pharmacologically or using dynamic clamp. From this state, a disinhibition burst can be evoked by removing the background inhibitory conductance. We demonstrate three functional characteristics of network-based disinhibition that promote high-frequency, short-latency bursting in dopaminergic neurons. First, we found that increasing the total background NMDA and GABA(A) synaptic conductances increased the intraburst firing frequency and reduced its latency. Second, we found that the disinhibition burst is sensitive to the proportion of background inhibitory input that is removed. In particular, we found that high-frequency, short-latency bursts were enhanced by increasing the degree of disinhibition. Third, the time course over which inhibition is removed had a large effect on the burst, namely, that synchronous removal of weak inhibitory inputs produces bursts of high intraburst frequency and shorter latency. Our results suggest that fast, more precisely timed bursts can be evoked by complete and synchronous disinhibition of dopaminergic neurons in a high-conductance state.
Behavioral studies have used visuo-tactile conflicts between a participant's body and a visually presented fake or virtual body to investigate the importance of bodily perception for self-consciousness (bodily self-consciousness). Illusory self-identification with a fake body and changes in tactile processing--modulation of visuo-tactile cross-modal congruency effects (CCEs)--were reported in previous findings. Although proprioceptive signals are deemed important for bodily self-consciousness, their contribution to the representation of the full body has not been studied. Here we investigated whether and how self-identification and tactile processing (CCE magnitude) could be modified by altering proprioceptive signals with 80-Hz vibrations at the legs. Participants made elevation judgments of tactile cues (while ignoring nearby lights) during synchronous and asynchronous stroking of a seen fake body. We found that proprioceptive signals during vibrations altered the magnitude of self-identification and mislocalization of touch (CCE) in a synchrony-dependent fashion: we observed an increase of self-identification and CCE magnitude during asynchronous stroking. In a second control experiment we studied whether proprioceptive signals per se, or those from the lower limbs in particular, were essential for these changes. We applied vibrations at the upper limbs (which provide no information about the position of the participant's body in space) and in this case observed no modulation of bodily self-consciousness or tactile perception. These data link proprioceptive signals from the legs that are conveyed through the dorsal column-medial lemniscal pathway to bodily self-consciousness. We discuss their integration with bodily signals from vision and touch for full-body representations.
Trace eyeblink classical conditioning (tEBCC) can be accelerated by making training trials contingent on the naturally generated hippocampal 3- to 7-Hz theta rhythm. However, it is not well-understood how the presence (or absence) of theta affects stimulus-driven changes within the hippocampus and how it correlates with patterns of neural activity in other essential trace conditioning structures, such as the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC). In the present study, a brain-computer interface delivered paired or unpaired conditioning trials to rabbits during the explicit presence (T(+)) or absence (T(-)) of theta, yielding significantly faster behavioral learning in the T(+)-paired group. The stimulus-elicited hippocampal unit responses were larger and more rhythmic in the T(+)-paired group. This facilitation of unit responses was complemented by differences in the hippocampal local field potentials (LFP), with the T(+)-paired group demonstrating more coherent stimulus-evoked theta than T(-)-paired animals and both unpaired groups. mPFC unit responses in the rapid learning T(+)-paired group displayed a clear inhibitory/excitatory sequential pattern of response to the tone that was not seen in any other group. Furthermore, sustained mPFC unit excitation continued through the trace interval in T(+) animals but not in T(-) animals. Thus theta-contingent training is accompanied by 1) acceleration in behavioral learning, 2) enhancement of the hippocampal unit and LFP responses, and 3) enhancement of mPFC unit responses. Together, these data provide evidence that pretrial hippocampal state is related to enhanced neural activity in critical structures of the distributed network supporting the acquisition of tEBCC.
Cortical neurons are organized in columns, distinguishable by their physiological properties and input-output organization. Columns are thought to be the fundamental information-processing modules of the cortex. The barrel cortex of rats and mice is an attractive model system for the study of cortical columns, because each column is defined by a layer 4 (L4) structure called a barrel, which can be clearly visualized. A great deal of information has been collected regarding the connectivity of neurons in barrel cortex, but the nature of the input to a given L4 barrel remains unclear. We measured this input by making comprehensive maps of whisker-evoked activity in L4 of rat barrel cortex using recordings of multiunit activity and current source density analysis of local field potential recordings of animals under light isoflurane anesthesia. We found that a large number of whiskers evoked a detectable response in each barrel (mean of 13 suprathreshold, 18 subthreshold) even after cortical activity was abolished by application of muscimol, a GABA(A) agonist. We confirmed these findings with intracellular recordings and single-unit extracellular recordings in vivo. This constitutes the first direct confirmation of the hypothesis that subcortical mechanisms mediate a substantial multiwhisker input to a given cortical barrel.
Juvenile animal brains are highly plastic and thus often achieve better functional recovery after injury compared with adult brains. Recently, Umeda et al. (Umeda T, Takahashi M, Isa K, Isa T. J Neurophysiol 104: 1707-1716, 2010) have shown that the remodeling of both corticospinal and extra-pyramidal pathways can contribute to the recovery of grasping and reaching ability in hemidecorticated juvenile rats. They have further unveiled the strengthening of the cortico-reticulo-spinal pathway after injury, that mediates the fast excitation of ipsilateral motoneurons for functional recovery.

The close homolog of the adhesion molecule L1 (CHL1) is important during CNS development, but a study with CHL1 knockout mice showed greater functional recovery after spinal cord injury (SCI) in its absence. We investigated CHL1 expression from 1 to 28 days after clinically relevant contusive SCI in Sprague-Dawley rats. Western blot analysis showed that CHL1 expression was significantly up-regulated at day 1 and further increased over 4 weeks after SCI. Immunohistochemistry of tissue sections showed that CHL1 in the intact spinal cord was expressed at low levels. By 1 day and through 4 weeks after SCI, CHL1 became highly expressed in NG2(+) cells. Hypertrophic GFAP(+) astrocytes also expressed CHL1 by 1 week after injury. The increase in CHL1 protein paralleled that of NG2 in the first week and GFAP between 1 and 4 weeks after injury. At 4 weeks, NG2(+) /CHL1(+) cells and GFAP(+) /CHL1(+) astrocytes were concentrated at the boundary between residual spinal cord tissue and the central lesion. NF200(+) spinal cord axons approached but did not penetrate this boundary. In contrast, CHL1(+) cells in the central lesion at 1 week and later colabeled with p75 and NG2 and were chronically associated with many NF200(+) axons, presumably axons that had sprouted in association with CHL1(+) Schwann cells infiltrating the cord after contusion. Thus, our study demonstrates up-regulation of CHL1 in multiple cell types and locations in a rat model of contusion injury and suggests that this molecule may be involved both in inhibition of axonal regeneration and in recovery processes after SCI.


Berengario da Carpi was one of the most famous physicians of the 16th century, a recognized master of anatomy and surgery, an emblematic &quot;Renaissance man&quot; who combined his medical experience and engineering knowledge to design new surgical instruments, and effectively used the arts of writing and drawing to describe state-of-the-art medicine and provide illustrations of anatomical structures. His greatest contribution to medicine was to write the most important work on craniocerebral surgery of the 16th century, the Tractatus de Fractura Calvae sive Cranei (Treatise on Fractures of the Calvaria or Cranium), in which he described an entire set of surgical instruments to be used for cranial operations to treat head traumas that became a reference for later generations of physicians. This was a systematic treatise covering the mechanisms, classification, and medical and surgical treatment of head traumas, and can be considered a milestone in the history of neurotraumatology.
The clinical benefit of early magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in severe and moderate head injury is unclear. We sought to explore the prognostic value of the depth of lesions depicted with early MRI, and also to describe the prevalence and impact of traumatic brainstem lesions. In a cohort of 159 consecutive patients with moderate to severe head injury (age 5-65 years and surviving the acute phase) admitted to a regional level 1 trauma center, 106 (67%) were examined with MRI within 4 weeks post-injury. Depth of lesions in MRI was categorized as: hemisphere level, central level, and brainstem injury (BSI). The outcome measure was Glasgow Outcome Scale Extended (GOSE) 12 months post-injury. Forty-six percent of patients with severe injuries and 14% of patients with moderate injuries had BSI. In severe head injury, central or brainstem lesions in MRI, together with higher Rotterdam CT score, pupillary dilation, and secondary adverse events were significantly associated with a worse outcome in age-adjusted analyses. Bilateral BSI was strongly associated with a poor outcome in severe injury, with positive and negative predictive values of 0.86 and 0.88, respectively. In moderate injury, only age was significantly associated with outcome in multivariable analyses. Limitations of the current study include lack of blinded outcome evaluations and insufficient statistical power to assess the added prognostic value of MRI when combined with clinical information. We conclude that in patients with severe head injury surviving the acute phase, depth of lesion on the MRI was associated with outcome, and in particular, bilateral brainstem injury was strongly associated with poor outcomes. In moderate head injury, surprisingly, there was no association between MRI findings and outcome when using the GOSE score as outcome measure.
Spinal root avulsion leads to a progressive loss of axotomized motoneurons (MNs). Nowadays, there is no effective treatment to prolong MN survival that could permit recovery as a result of delayed surgical repair. Administration of Sigma-1 receptor (Sig-1R) ligands has been reported to promote beneficial effects after several types of neural injury. In order to shed light of whether Sig-1R ligands could promote MN survival after root avulsion, L4-L5 spinal roots were unilaterally avulsed in adult rats and the Sig-1R agonist Pre084 was administered at different doses. The ventral spinal cords of the animals were studied from 3 to 21 days post-operation (DPO) by using histological, immunohistochemical, and Western blot techniques. Daily treatment with 0.25mg/kg Pre084 significantly promoted MN survival (68% vs 43% in untreated rats) at 21 DPO, an effect that was antagonized by coadministration of BD1063, an antagonist of Sig-1R. There was a reduction in astroglial- associated immunoreactivity in rats treated with Pre084. Moreover, Pre084 produced an increase in the Sig-1R co-chaperone BiP within MNs, and an increase of GDNF expression by astrocytes in the ventral horn early after injury. Although the mechanisms promoting MN survival by Pre084 remain unclear, we hypothesize that it is mediated at least in part through the increase in these cytoprotective factors. Therefore, early application of Sig-1R agonist appears to be a promising therapy to improve MN survival after root avulsion.
Nutritional therapy is a challenging but necessary dimension in the management of diabetes and neurodegenerative changes associated with it. The study evaluates the effect of vitamin D(3) in preventing the altered function of cholinergic, insulin receptors and GLUT3 in the cerebral cortex of diabetic rats. Muscarinic M3 acetylcholine receptors in pancreas control insulin secretion. Vitamin D(3) treatment in M3 receptor regulation in the pancreatic islets was also studied. Radioreceptor binding assays and gene expression was done in the cerebral cortex of male Wistar rats. Immunocytochemistry of muscarinic M3 receptor was studied in the pancreatic islets using specific antibodies. Y-maze was used to evaluate the exploratory and spatial memory. Diabetes induced a decrease in muscarinic M1, insulin and vitamin D receptor expression and an increase in muscarinic M3, 7 nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, acetylcholine esterase and GLUT3 expression. Vitamin D(3) and insulin treatment reversed diabetes-induced alterations to near control. Diabetic rats showed a decreased Y-maze performance while vitamin D(3) supplementation improved the behavioural deficit. In conclusion, vitamin D(3) shows a potential therapeutic effect in normalizing diabetes-induced alterations in cholinergic, insulin and vitamin D receptor and maintains a normal glucose transport and utilisation in the cortex. In addition vitamin D(3) modulated muscarinic M3 receptors activity in pancreas and plays a pivotal role in controlling insulin secretion. Hence our findings proved, vitamin D(3) supplementation as a potential nutritional therapy in ameliorating diabetes mediated cortical dysfunctions and suggest an interaction between vitamin D(3) and muscarinic M3 receptors in regulating insulin secretion from pancreas.


Positron emission tomography (PET) neuroimaging in nonhuman primates has led to significant advances in our current understanding of the neurobiology and treatment of stimulant addiction in humans. PET neuroimaging has defined the in vivo biodistribution and pharmacokinetics of abused drugs and related these findings to the time course of behavioral effects associated with their addictive properties. With novel radiotracers and enhanced resolution, PET neuroimaging techniques have also characterized in vivo drug interactions with specific protein targets in the brain, including neurotransmitter receptors and transporters. In vivo determinations of cerebral blood flow and metabolism have localized brain circuits implicated in the effects of abused drugs and drug-associated stimuli. Moreover, determinations of the predisposing factors to chronic drug use and long-term neurobiological consequences of chronic drug use, such as potential neurotoxicity, have led to novel insights regarding the pathology and treatment of drug addiction. However, similar approaches clearly need to be extended to drug classes other than stimulants. Although dopaminergic systems have been extensively studied, other neurotransmitter systems known to play a critical role in the pharmacological effects of abused drugs have been largely ignored in nonhuman primate PET neuroimaging. Finally, the study of brain activation with PET neuroimaging has been replaced in humans mostly by functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI). There has been some success in implementing pharmacological fMRI in awake nonhuman primates. Nevertheless, the unique versatility of PET imaging will continue to complement the systems-level strengths of fMRI, especially in the context of nonhuman primate drug abuse research.
The cysteine prodrug N-acetylcysteine (NAC) has been shown to reduce reinstatement of cocaine seeking by normalization of glutamatergic tone. However, enduring inhibition of cocaine seeking produced by NAC has not been explored under different withdrawal conditions. Thus, the present study determined whether chronic NAC administered during daily extinction training or daily abstinence after withdrawal from cocaine self-administration would reduce cocaine seeking. Rats self-administered intravenous cocaine during daily 2-h sessions for 12 days, followed by daily extinction or abstinence sessions. During this period, rats received daily injections of saline or NAC (60 or 100 mg/kg). Subsequently, rats were tested for cocaine seeking via conditioned cue, cue + cocaine-primed, and context-induced relapse. Chronic NAC administration blunted cocaine seeking under multiple experimental protocols. Specifically, NAC attenuated responding during cue and cue + cocaine-primed reinstatement tests after extinction and context, cue, and cue + cocaine relapse tests after abstinence. Protection from relapse by NAC persisted well after treatment was discontinued, particularly when the high dose was combined with extinction trials. The finding that NAC reduced cocaine seeking after drug treatment was discontinued has important implications for the development of effective antirelapse medications. These results support recent preclinical and clinical findings that NAC may serve as an effective treatment for inhibiting relapse in cocaine addicts.
To investigate the roles of G-protein receptor kinases (GRKs) in the light responses of vertebrate photoreceptors, we generated transgenic zebrafish lines, the rods of which express either cone GRK (GRK7) or rod GRK (GRK1) in addition to the endogenous GRK1, and we then measured the electrophysiological characteristics of single-cell responses and the behavioural responses of intact animals. Our study establishes the zebrafish expression system as a convenient platform for the investigation of specific components of the phototransduction cascade. The addition of GRK1 led to minor changes in rod responses. However, exogenous GRK7 in GRK7-tg animals led to lowered rod sensitivity, as occurs in cones, but surprisingly to slower response kinetics. Examination of responses to long series of very dim flashes suggested the possibility that the GRK7-tg rods generated two classes of single-photon response, perhaps corresponding to the interaction of activated rhodopsin with GRK1 (giving a standard response) or with GRK7(giving a very small response). Behavioural measurement of optokinetic responses (OKR) in intact GRK7-tg zebrafish larvae showed that the overall rod visual pathway was less sensitive, in accord with the lowered sensitivity of the rods. These results help provide an understanding for the molecular basis of the electrophysiological differences between cones and rods.
In mammals there are three types of low-voltage-activated (LVA) calcium channels,Cav3.1, Cav3.2 and Cav3.3, which all give rise to T-type Ca2+currents. T-type Ca2+currents have long been known to be highly enriched in a sub-population of medium-sized sensory neurones in the dorsal root ganglia (DRG). However, the identity of the T-type-rich sensory neurones has remained controversial and the precise physiological role of the Cav3.2 calcium channel in these sensory neurones has not been directly addressed. Here we show, using Cav3.2/ mutant mice,that these channels are essential for the normal temporal coding of moving stimuli by specialized skin mechanoreceptors called D-hair receptors.We show that D-hair receptors from Cav3.2/ fire approximately 50% fewer spikes in response to ramp-and-hold displacement stimuli compared to wild type receptors. The reduced sensitivity of D-hair receptors in Cav3.2/ mice is chiefly due to an increase in the mechanical threshold and a substantial temporal delay in the onset of high-frequency firing to moving stimuli.We examined the receptive properties of other cutaneous mechano receptors and A- and C-fibre nociceptors in Cav3.2/ mice, but found no alteration in their mechanosensitivity compared to Cav3.2+/+mice. However, C-fibre nociceptors recorded in Cav3.2/ mutant mice displayed a small but statistically significant reduction in their spiking rate during noxious heat ramps when compared to C-fibres in control mice. The T-type calcium channel Cav3.2 is thus not only a highly specific marker of D-hair receptors but is also required to maintain their high sensitivity and above all to ensure ultra rapid temporal detection of skin movement.
We examined whether activity of the nucleus basalis of Meynert (NBM) regulates regional cerebral cortical blood flow (rCBF) in mice, using laser speckle and laser Doppler flowmetry. In anesthetized mice, unilateral focal stimulation, either electrical or chemical, of the NBM increased rCBF of the ipsilateral cerebral cortex in the frontal, parietal and occipital lobes, independent of changes in systemic blood pressure. Most of vasodilative responses to low intensity stimuli (2 times threshold intensity: 2T) were abolished by atropine (a muscarinic cholinergic blocker), whereas responses to higher intensity stimuli (3T) were abolished by atropine and mecamylamine (a nicotinic cholinergic blocker). Blood flow changes were largest when the tip of the electrode was located within the area containing cholinergic neurons shown by choline acetyltransferase-immunocytochemistry. These results suggest that cholinergic projections from basal forebrain neurons in mice cause vasodilation in the ipsilateral cerebral cortex by a combination of muscarinic and nicotinic mechanisms, as previously found in rats and cats.
Electrical stimulation of the superior ovarian nerve in rats reduces both the plasma flow rate of ovarian venous blood (ovarian blood flow) and the ovarian estradiol secretion rate. Here, we examined the possible roles of alpha-adrenoceptors in these processes. The reduction of the plasma flow rate was blocked by an alpha 1- (prazosin), but not by an alpha 2- (yohimbine) adrenoceptor blocker. In contrast, the reduction of the estradiol secretion rate was blocked by yohimbine but not by prazosin. We conclude that ovarian vascular and estradiol secretory responses to superior ovarian nerve activation are mediated by alpha 1- and alpha 2-adrenoceptors, respectively.
Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) affects regions that support autobiographical memory (AM) retrieval, such as the hippocampus, amygdala and ventral medial prefrontal cortex (PFC). However, it is not well understood how PTSD may impact the neural mechanisms of memory retrieval for the personal past. We used a generic cue method combined with parametric modulation analysis and functional MRI (fMRI) to investigate the neural mechanisms affected by PTSD symptoms during the retrieval of a large sample of emotionally intense AMs. There were three main results. First, the PTSD group showed greater recruitment of the amygdala/hippocampus during the construction of negative versus positive emotionally intense AMs, when compared to controls. Second, across both the construction and elaboration phases of retrieval the PTSD group showed greater recruitment of the ventral medial PFC for negatively intense memories, but less recruitment for positively intense memories. Third, the PTSD group showed greater functional coupling between the ventral medial PFC and the amygdala for negatively intense memories, but less coupling for positively intense memories. In sum, the fMRI data suggest that there was greater recruitment and coupling of emotional brain regions during the retrieval of negatively intense AMs in the PTSD group when compared to controls.
Extinction of fear is important for treating stress-related conditions particularly post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD). Although traditional extinction presents the feared stimulus by itself, there is evidence from both clinical and basic research that repeatedly presenting the feared stimulus by itself does not prevent fear from returning. This renewal or relapse can be &quot;thwarted&quot; by unpaired extinction-presentations of the feared stimulus and the event producing the fear. However, no matter how effective standard unpaired extinction may be in the laboratory, repeated presentation of a traumatic event is untenable. To make an unpaired extinction procedure more clinically relevant, we classically conditioned the rabbit nictitating membrane response using electrical stimulation or air puff as the unconditioned stimulus and then during unpaired extinction reduced both the intensity of the unconditioned stimulus and the days of unpaired stimulus presentations. We found unpaired extinction reduced conditioned and exaggerated unconditioned responding (an animal analog of PTSD called conditioning-specific reflex modification) and could be accomplished with a weak unconditioned stimulus as long as extended presentations were used. Surprisingly, brief presentations of a weak unconditioned stimulus or extended presentations of a strong one made the exaggerated responses stronger. One implication is that brief treatment may not just be ineffectual; it may heighten the symptoms of PTSD. Another implication is that using strong stimuli may also heighten those symptoms.
Major depressive disorder (MDD) is characterized by the presence of disturbances in emotional processing. However, the neural correlates of these alterations, and how they may be affected by therapeutic interventions, remain unclear. The present study addressed these issues in a preliminary investigation using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) to examine neural responses to positive, negative, and neutral pictures in unmedicated MDD patients (N = 22) versus controls (N = 14). After this initial scan, MDD patients were treated with cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) and scanned again after treatment. Within regions that showed pre-treatment differences between patients and controls, we tested the association between pre-treatment activity and subsequent treatment response as well as activity changes from pre- to post-treatment. This study yielded three main findings. First, prior to treatment and relative to controls, patients exhibited overall reduced activity in the ventromedial prefrontal cortex (PFC), diminished discrimination between emotional and neutral items in the amygdala, caudate, and hippocampus, and enhanced responses to negative versus positive stimuli in the left anterior temporal lobe (ATL) and right dorsolateral PFC. Second, CBT-related symptom improvement in MDD patients was predicted by increased activity at baseline in ventromedial PFC as well as the valence effects in the ATL and dorsolateral PFC. Third, from pre- to post-treatment, MDD patients exhibited overall increases in ventromedial PFC activation, enhanced arousal responses in the amygdala, caudate, and hippocampus, and a reversal of valence effects in the ATL. The study was limited by the relatively small sample that was able to complete both scan sessions, as well as an inability to determine the influence of comorbid disorders within the current sample. Nevertheless, components of the neural networks corresponding to emotion processing disturbances in MDD appear to resolve following treatment and are predictive of treatment response, possibly reflecting improvements in emotion regulation processes in response to CBT.
Studies investigating the relationship between cigarette smoking and prolactin secretion in the general population have yielded inconsistent results. Many antipsychotic drugs increase prolactin secretion, but there are no published studies that have investigated the relationship between smoking and prolactinaemia in antipsychotic-treated patients. We obtained prolactin levels from 228 antipsychotic-treated patients in secondary care mental health services and investigated the relationship between prolactinaemia and cigarette smoking. Twenty-three percent (n = 52) of patients had hyperprolactinaemia. Patients prescribed typical or a combination of typical and atypical antipsychotics had a significantly higher prevalence of hyperprolactinaemia and higher mean prolactin concentration. Both current and ex-cigarette smokers had significantly lower mean prolactin levels and a lower prevalence of hyperprolactinaemia, but after controlling for potentially confounding variables, only current smoking status was a significant predictor of lower prolactin levels (OR 2.3, 95% CI 1.2 to 4.7, p = 0.002). In this preliminary, cross-sectional study, there was a robust statistical relationship between cigarette smoking and prolactinaemia. The mechanism(s) underpinning this association needs further investigation.
The persistence of psychotic, affective, cognitive, and psychosocial symptoms despite medications is commonly observed in schizophrenic patients. The present study was a 24-week double-blind, randomized, placebo-controlled trial aimed to explore the efficacy of topiramate add-on pharmacotherapy on clinical symptomatology and cognitive functioning in a sample of treatment-resistant schizophrenic patients receiving clozapine. After clinical and cognitive assessments were randomly allocated to receive either up to 200 mg/day of topiramate or a placebo. A final sample of 43 patients completed the study. The results obtained indicate that topiramate appeared to be scarcely effective for reducing clinical symptomatology in schizophrenic patients who have had an incomplete clinical response to clozapine. Regarding cognitive functioning, in our sample a trend to experience cognitive impairment in the examined domains was observed, as the patients included in the topiramate groups expressed cognitive complaints partially confirmed by a mild worsening of performances on certain cognitive tasks. Schizophrenia is a heterogeneous disorder with regard to pathophysiology; therefore, data reflecting the mean response of a sample of patients may fail to reveal therapeutic effects. More research is needed to better identify subgroups of patients with peculiar features which may account for responsivity to experimental medications and augmentation strategies.

Endometrial glands represent an important source of nutrients for the conceptus during the first trimester. Their secretions are enriched with carbohydrates, and glycogen accumulates within the syncytiotrophoblast of the placenta. It has been assumed that fetal and placental metabolism follow adult pathways, although it is now appreciated that early development occurs in a low-oxygen environment. In past decades, a novel family of putative insulin mediators, inositol phosphoglycans (IPGs), was discovered. These molecules act as allosteric activators and/or inhibitors of enzymes and transduction proteins involved in the control of cell signalling and metabolic pathways, and determine the specificity of responses after activation of the insulin receptor. One member, IPG P-type, activates pyruvate dehydrogenase phosphatase (PDH-Pase), glycogen synthase phosphatase, and glycerol-3-phosphate acyltransferase. Activation of key phosphatases play a major role in the regulation of glucose disposal by oxidative metabolism via PDH, and the non-oxidative storage by glycogen synthesis, both pathways classically known to be regulated by insulin. High concentrations of IPG P-type in amniotic fluid suggest a role in the regulation of carbohydrate metabolism in the fetal-placental unit. Glycogen accumulation in the syncytiotrophoblast also occurs in preeclamptic pregnancies, and is consistently associated with higher placental levels of IPG P-type. Here, we explore the relationship between nutrients provided by the endometrial glands during early pregnancy, IPG P-type and fetal metabolic requirements. We also discuss whether a disconnect between the placental/fetal metabolic state and oxygen tension could lead to a preeclamptic-type syndrome via leakage of Warburg/IPG mediators into the maternal circulation.
To identify target groups for injury prevention in male amateur soccer players under 35 years of age. A computer-assisted telephone survey with a 12-month recall period for injuries in a representative sample of Dutch citizens from the Injuries and Physical Activity Netherlands (IPAN)-database. A comparison of the volume of soccer injuries, the incidence and the need for medical attention per level of exposure and age category. The incidence in seniors was twice that of juniors (17.5% versus 8.1%; odds ratio (OR=2.4). In juniors the overall incidence was lowest in the category with the least amount of soccer exposure time (0-3 h: 2.9%; 3-5 h: 13.0%; 5+ h: 12.3%). A comparable result was found in seniors: (0-3 h: 12.0%; 3-5 h: 21.6%; 5+ h: 21.5%). Within each level of soccer exposure, a different incidence was found in juniors and seniors (0-3 h: OR=4.6; 3-5 h: OR=1.8; 5+ h: OR=1.9). Ankle, knee and upper leg injuries were most common (59.9%). Contusions, strains and sprains dominated (78.1%). Body region and type of injuries were similar in both age categories. Medical treatment for injuries was equally necessary in both age groups. Senior male amateur soccer players and particularly the more skilled seniors (involved in soccer at least 3 h per week), should be primarily targeted for studies on injury risk factors and prevention programs.
Previous analyses, including the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) rt-PA Stoke Trial, have assessed the clinical treatment efficacy only at single study point, but did not assess efficacy using outcomes collected at multiple time points and incorporate within-patient correlation. The data from the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial was analyzed with repeated-measures analysis with generalized estimating equations (GEE) approach using dichotomized outcomes (modified Rankin Scale [mRS], National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale [NIHSS], Barthel Index [BI], and Glasgow Outcome Scale [GOS]). The results were compared with data from previous analyses. All of the outcome variables at different time points were significantly correlated. rt-PA was superior to placebo overall and at specific time points individually. The overall odds of having minimal or no disability (mRS score 0 or 1) for patients treated with rt-PA was higher than those treated with placebo (odds ratio [OR], 2.1; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.5-3.0). The ORs were 2.3 (95% CI, 1.5-3.4) times higher at 3 months, 1.9 (95% CI, 1.3-2.8) times higher at 6 months, and 2.0 (95% CI, 1.3-2.9) times higher at 12 months. A similar treatment effect also was observed with the NIHSS, BI, and GOS. Compared with previous analyses, an augmented treatment effect with larger ORs and smaller P values were observed. Repeated-measures analysis provides an alternative method for assessing treatment effect, as demonstrated in the analysis of data from the NINDS rt-PA Stroke Trial. This method could be used in future stroke trials in which outcomes of interest are collected at multiple time points.
Synchrotrons are capable of producing intense low-energy X-rays that enable the photoactivation of high-Z elements. Photoactivation therapy (PAT) consists of loading tumors with photoactivatable drugs and thereafter irradiating them at an energy, generally close to the K-edge of the element, that enhances the photoelectric effect. To date, three major photoactivatable elements are used in PAT: platinum (cisplatin and carboplatin), iodine (iodinated contrast agents and iododeoxyuridine) and gadolinium (motexafin gadolinium). However, the molecular and cellular events specific to PAT and the radiobiological properties of these photoactivatable drugs are still misknown. Here, it is examined how standard and synchrotron X-rays combined with photoactivatable drugs impact on the cellular response of human endothelial cells. These findings suggest that the radiolysis products of the photoactivatable drugs may participate in the synergetic effects of PAT by increasing the severity of radiation-induced DNA double-strand breaks. Interestingly, subpopulation of highly damaged cells was found to be a cellular pattern specific to PAT. The data show that the efficiency of emerging anti-cancer modalities involving synchrotron photoactivation strongly depends on the choice of photoactivatable drugs, and important series of experiments are required to secure their clinical transfer before applying to humans.

A fashionable view in comparative psychology states that primates possess self-awareness because they exhibit mirror self-recognition (MSR), which in turn makes it possible to infer mental states in others (&quot;theory-of-mind&quot;; ToM). In cognitive neuroscience, an increasingly popular position holds that the right hemisphere represents the centre of self-awareness because MSR and ToM tasks presumably increase activity in that hemisphere. These two claims are critically assessed here as follows: (1) MSR should not be equated with full-blown self-awareness, as it most probably only requires kinaesthetic self-knowledge and does not involve access to one's mental events; (2) ToM and self-awareness are fairly independent and should also not be taken as equivalent notions; (3) MSR and ToM tasks engage medial and left brain areas; (4) other self-awareness tasks besides MSR and ToM tasks (e.g., self-description, autobiography) mostly recruit medial and left brain areas; (5) and recent neuropsychological evidence implies that inner speech (produced by the left hemisphere) plays a significant role in self-referential activity. The main conclusions reached based on this analysis are that (a) organisms that display MSR most probably do not possess introspective self-awareness, and (b) self-related processes most likely engage a distributed network of brain regions situated in both hemispheres.

Fast chemical shift imaging (CSI) techniques are advantageous in metabolic imaging of hyperpolarized compounds due to the limited duration of the signal amplification. At the same time, reducing the acquisition time in hyperpolarized imaging does not necessarily lead to the conventional penalty in signal-to-noise ratio that occurs in imaging at thermal equilibrium polarization levels. Here a high-performance gradient insert was used in combination with undersampled spiral CSI to increase either the imaging speed or the spatial resolution of hyperpolarized (13)C metabolic imaging on a clinical 3T MR scanner. Both a single-shot sequence with a total acquisition time of 125 ms and a three-shot sequence with a nominal in-plane resolution of 1.5 mm were implemented. The k-space trajectories were measured and then used during image reconstruction. The technique was applied to metabolic imaging of the rat brain in vivo after the injection of hyperpolarized [1-(13)C]-pyruvate. Dynamic imaging afforded the measurement of region-of-interest-specific time courses of pyruvate and its metabolic products, while imaging at high spatial resolution was used to better characterize the spatial distribution of the metabolite signals.
Fibromyalgia (FM) is a chronic widespread pain disorder often seen in primary care practices. Advances in the understanding of FM pathophysiology and clinical presentation have improved the recognition and diagnosis of FM in clinical practice. Fibromyalgia is a clinical diagnosis based on signs and symptoms and is appropriate for primary care practitioners to make. The hallmark symptoms used to identify FM are chronic widespread pain, fatigue, and sleep disturbances. Awareness of common mimics of FM and comorbid disorders will increase confidence in establishing a diagnosis of FM.
The long-term metabolic and cardiovascular responses to caloric restriction (CR) are poorly understood. We examined the responses to one year of CR in FBNF1 rats housed in cool (COOL; T(a)=15 C) or thermoneutral (TMN; T(a)=30 C) conditions. Rats were acclimated to COOL or TMN for 2 months, instrumented for cardiovascular telemetry and studied in calorimeters. Baseline caloric intake, oxygen consumption (VO(2)), mean arterial blood pressure (MAP), and heart rate (HR) were determined prior to assignment to ad lib (AL) or CR groups (30-40% CR) within each T(a) (n = 8). Groups of rats were studied after 10 weeks CR, one year CR, and after 4 days of re-feeding. Both 10 weeks and one year of CR reduced HR and VO(2) irrespective of T(a). Evaluation of the relationship between metabolic organ mass (liver, heart, brain, and kidney mass) and energy expenditure revealed a clear shift induced by CR to reduce expenditure per unit metabolic mass in both COOL and TMN groups. Re-feeding resulted in prompt elevations of HR and VO(2) to levels observed in control rats. These findings are consistent with the hypothesis that long term CR produces sustained reductions in metabolic rate and heart rate in rats.
The vertebrate neuroepithelium can be subdivided into non-boundary and boundary regions. The boundary regions act as signaling centers for regional specification and neurogenesis in the neighboring non-boundary regions. An important question is how boundary regions are specified and maintained during brain development. In this study, we report that Pax6, a homeodomain transcription factor, regulates boundary-cell specification between rhombomeres of the developing rat hindbrain. We compared expression patterns of four boundary-cell markers, including PLZF (Zbtb16), Ring1A (Ring1), Wnt5a, and cadherin7 (Cdh7), in wild-type and Pax6 loss-of-function mutant hindbrains and found that the expression of Zbtb16, Ring1, and Wnt5a was down-regulated in the rhombomere boundaries, while Cdh7 expression was up-regulated in the non-boundary regions of the Pax6 mutant hindbrain. Morphological observations revealed that the boundary regions were larger and that the interface between the boundary and non-boundary regions was obscured in the Pax6 mutant hindbrain. We also found ectopic neuronal differentiation in the boundary cells of the Pax6 mutant hindbrain. In addition, we observed that Hes5 was down-regulated and that Neurogenin2 (Neurog2) was up-regulated in the boundary regions of the Pax6 mutant hindbrain. Because Hes genes have been shown to inhibit neuronal differentiation by repressing proneural genes, Pax6 may act through this pathway to prevent neurogenesis in the boundary cells. Taken together, Pax6 seems to be required for coordinating boundary-cell specification and reducing neurogenesis within the hindbrain boundary region.
Recordings of brain electrophysiological activity provide the most direct reflect of neural function. Information contained in these signals varies as a function of the spatial scale at which recordings are done: from single cell recording to large scale macroscopic fields, e.g., scalp EEG. Microscopic and macroscopic measurements and models in Neuroscience are often in conflict. Solving this conflict might require the developments of a sort of bio-statistical physics, a framework for relating the microscopic properties of individual cells to the macroscopic or bulk properties of neural circuits. Such a framework can only emerge in Neuroscience from the systematic analysis and modeling of the diverse recording scales from simultaneous measurements. In this article we briefly review the different measurement scales and models in modern neuroscience to try to identify the sources of conflict that might ultimately help to create a unified theory of brain electromagnetic fields. We argue that seen the different recording scales, from the single cell to the large scale fields measured by the scalp electroencephalogram, as derived from a unique physical magnitude--the electric potential that is measured in all cases--might help to conciliate microscopic and macroscopic models of neural function as well as the animal and human neuroscience literature.
From a neurobiological level to epidemiological studies, there are four strands of evidence in the scientific literature that indicate that light therapy could be an effective treatment for some people with epilepsy. (1) Sunlight is important in the endogenous production and regulation of melatonin and vitamin D, both of which influence seizure thresholds. Although melatonin influences seizure thresholds, the relationship is complex. General down-regulating effects may have different effects on seizure thresholds for people with generalised and partial epilepsy syndromes. Specific actions within the hippocampus may mean that patients with temporal lobe epilepsy are particularly susceptible to the endogenous expression of melatonin via inhibitory actions on dopaminergic activity reducing seizure thresholds. (2) If suppression of melatonin results in fewer seizures this should be evident in seasonal variations in seizure frequencies. Seizure frequencies increase in the winter and on dull overcast days. Within this larger circannual rhythm, local light conditions are also associated with variations in seizure frequencies. Controlling for seasonal patterns, complex partial seizures are significantly less likely to occur on bright sunny days, than on dull days with fewer hours of sunshine, regardless of the time of year. (3) On a wider scale, some epidemiological studies also suggest a lower prevalence of epilepsy in southern Europe compared to Scandinavia and Northern Europe. (4) Light therapy is an established medical treatment for depression. Recent research suggests that some forms of epilepsy and depression are bi-directional conditions. The mechanism of action underlying light therapy for affective disorders remains the subject of much research but is thought to involve the enhancement of the monoaminergic systems targeted by antidepressant drugs (serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine); systems also implicated in a number of epilepsy syndromes. In this paper, we propose the hypothesis that exposure to high intensity light may be an effective, non-invasive add-on treatment for people with temporal lobe epilepsy. Although it is more likely to be palliative than curative, it may help smooth out some of the seasonal peaks in seizure frequencies, a pattern that increases the risk of serious manifestations of the condition such as status epilepticus and sudden unexpected death in epilepsy.

Tracing the connections from brain functions to education is a major goal of modern neuroscience. By providing insights into the abilities and constraints of the learning brain, neuroscience can help to explain why some learning environments work while others fail. The results presented here provide the first insights into neuropedagogy of reasoning.
The interest of the scientific community for cell penetrating peptides (CPP) has been growing exponentially for these last years, and the list of novel CPP is increasing. These peptides are powerful tools for the delivery of cargoes to their site of action. Indeed, several drugs that cannot translocate through the cell plasma membrane have been successfully delivered into cells when grafted to a CPP. Various cargoes have been linked to CPP, such as oligonucleotides, pharmacologically active drugs, contrast agents for imaging, or nanoparticles as platforms for multigrafting purposes This review illustrates the fabulous potential of CPP and the diversity of their use, but their most interesting application appears their future clinical use for the treatment of various pathological conditions.

Neisseria meningitidis, the meningococcus, is naturally competent for transformation throughout its growth cycle. The uptake of exogenous DNA into the meningococcus cell during transformation is a multi-step process. Beyond the requirement for type IV pilus expression for efficient transformation, little is known about the neisserial proteins involved in DNA binding, uptake and genome integration. This study aimed to identify and characterize neisserial DNA binding proteins in order to further elucidate the multi-factorial transformation machinery. The meningococcus inner membrane and soluble cell fractions were searched for DNA binding components by employing 1D and 2D gel electrophoresis approaches in combination with a solid-phase overlay assay with DNA substrates. Proteins that bound DNA were identified by MS analysis. In the membrane fraction, multiple components bound DNA, including the neisserial competence lipoprotein ComL. In the soluble fraction, the meningococcus orthologue of the single-stranded DNA binding protein SSB was predominant. The DNA binding activity of the recombinant ComL and SSB proteins purified to homogeneity was verified by electromobility shift assay, and the ComL-DNA interaction was shown to be Mg+-dependent. In 3D models of the meningococcus ComL and SSB predicted structures, potential DNA binding sites were suggested. ComL was found to co-purify with the outer membrane, directly interacting with the secretin PilQ. The combined use of 1D/2D solid-phase overlay assays with MS analysis was a useful strategy for identifying DNA binding components. The ComL DNA binding properties and outer membrane localization suggest that this lipoprotein plays a direct role in neisserial transformation, while neisserial SSB is a DNA binding protein that contributes to the terminal part of the transformation process.
The effect of microsphere delivered Nerve Growth Factor (NGF) in a poly-lactic-co-glycolic-acid (PLGA) 85/15 nerve conduit bridging a 10mm rat sciatic nerve gap was assessed, comparing nine groups (n = 6): PLGA conduits filled with saline, saline and NGF, saline with blank microspheres; four different NGF microspheres (5, 20, 50, and 100 mg/ml); an autologous graft and sciatic nerve gap. Histomorphometry, retrograde tracing, electrophysiology, and functional outcomes were evaluated up to 16 weeks. The autologous graft showed the largest fascicular area (0.65 mm(2) ) and had a significantly greater number of myelinated fibers (P &lt; 0.0001). Electrophysiology showed Compound Muscle Action Potential (CMAP) recordings for the autologous graft returning at 6 weeks after nerve transection, reaching their highest amplitude of 3.6 mV at endpoint. No significant differences were found in functional evaluation between groups or between conduits with microspheres and the saline filled conduit. A PLGA 85/15 nerve conduit is capable of sustaining nerve regeneration. The microsphere delivery system does not interfere with regeneration.
Cerebellar Purkinje neurons (PNs) possess a well characterized propensity to fuse with bone marrow-derived cells (BMDCs), producing heterokaryons with Purkinje cell identities. This offers the potential to rescue/repair at risk or degenerating PNs in the inherited ataxias, including Spinocerebellar Ataxia 1 (SCA1), by introducing therapeutic factors through BMDCs to potentially halt or reverse disease progression. In this study, we combined gene therapy and a stem cell-based treatment to attempt repair of at-risk PNs through cell-cell fusion in a Sca1(154Q/2Q) knock-in mouse model. BMDCs enriched for the hematopoietic stem cell (HSC) population were genetically modified using adeno-associated viral vector 7 (AAV7) to carry SCA1 modifier genes and transplanted into irradiated Sca1(154Q/2Q) mice. Binucleated Purkinje heterokaryons with sex-mismatched donor Y chromosomes were detected and successfully expressed the modifier genes in vivo. Potential effects of the new genome within Purkinje heterokaryons were evaluated using nuclear inclusions (NIs) as a biological marker to reflect possible modifications of the SCA1 disease process. An overall decrease in number of NIs and an increase in the number of surviving PNs were observed in treated Sca1(154Q/2Q). Furthermore, Bergmann glia were found to have fusogenic potential with the donor population and reveal another potential route of therapeutic entry into at-risk cells of the SCA1 cerebellum. This study presents a first step towards a proof-of-principle that combines somatic cellular fusion events with a neuroprotective gene therapy approach for providing potential neuronal protection/repair in a variety of neurodegenerative disorders.
Early telencephalic development is dependent on the spatially and temporally coordinated regulation by essential signaling factors. For example, members of the Bone Morphogenetic Protein (BMP) family, such as BMP4, are crucial for proper development of dorsal telencephalic structures. Stimulation of multipotent telencephalic neural stem cells (NSCs) with BMP4 induces differentiation primarily into astrocytic and mesenchymal cells. However, BMP4-mediated mesenchymal differentiation is inhibited at certain culture conditions of NSCs, corresponding to in vivo developmental contexts. These inhibitory mechanisms are not fully understood and the terminal fate of non-astrocytic BMP4 treated NSCs under these conditions is unclear. Here we show that secreted factors inhibited BMP4-mediated mesenchymal differentiation of telencephalic NSCs. BMP4 mediated a dramatic and direct up-regulation of endogenous noggin levels, that in turn exerted a concentration-dependent inhibition of BMP4-mediated mesenchymal differentiation of NSCs. Instead, BMP4 exposure of NSCs induced neuronal differentiation in mesenchyme-preventing conditions, whereas treatment with recombinant noggin alone did not. Wnt signaling is known to be essential for the development of neurons derived from the dorsal telencephalon, and co-stimulation of NSCs with BMP4+Wnt3a resulted in a synergistic effect yielding significantly increased number of mature neurons compared to stimulation with each factor alone. Thus whereas only a subset of BMP4-induced neurons derived from telencephalic NSCs, responded to glutamate receptor (GluR) agonists, over 80% of BMP4+Wnt3a-induced neurons responded appropriately to GluR-agonists. Our results increase the understanding of the role for BMP4 in differentiation of telencephalic multipotent progenitors, and reveal novel implications for noggin and Wnt3a in these events.
During brain development, the neocortex shows periods of enhanced plasticity, which enables the acquisition of knowledge and skills that we use and build on in adult life. Key to persistent modifications of neuronal connectivity and plasticity of the neocortex are molecular changes occurring at the synapse. Here we used isobaric tag for relative and absolute quantification to measure levels of 467 synaptic proteins in a well-established model of plasticity in the mouse visual cortex and the regulation of its critical period. We found that inducing visual cortex plasticity by monocular deprivation during the critical period increased levels of kinases and proteins regulating the actin-cytoskeleton and endocytosis. Upon closure of the critical period with age, proteins associated with transmitter vesicle release and the tubulin- and septin-cytoskeletons increased, whereas actin-regulators decreased in line with augmented synapse stability and efficacy. Maintaining the visual cortex in a plastic state by dark rearing mice into adulthood only partially prevented these changes and increased levels of G-proteins and protein kinase A subunits. This suggests that in contrast to the general belief, dark rearing does not simply delay cortical development but may activate signaling pathways that specifically maintain or increase the plasticity potential of the visual cortex. Altogether, this study identified many novel candidate plasticity proteins and signaling pathways that mediate synaptic plasticity during critical developmental periods or restrict it in adulthood.
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a devastating autoimmune disorder of the central nervous system (CNS) for which there is no efficacious cure. Thanks to numerous preclinical and clinical studies, drugs able to mitigate the inexorable course of the disease have been made available recently. Still, there is a terrible need for compounds capable of reducing the severity of the autoimmune attack and of blocking progression of the disorder. Also, besides the classic immunosuppressive strategies, it is now appreciated that compounds directly targeting neuronal death can be of relevance to the treatment of MS patients. Acetylation homeostasis is a key regulator of both immune cell activation and neuronal survival. Of note, potent histone deacetylase inhibitors (HDACi) endowed with antiinflammatory and neuroprotective properties have been identified. Efficacy of HDACi in experimental models of MS has been reported consistently. In this review, we provide an appraisal of the literature on HDACi and MS, also discussing the mechanisms by which HDACi can suppress the autoimmune attack to the CNS.
Advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) contribute to the pathogenesis of diabetes mellitus and atherosclerosis by promoting vascular endothelial cell proliferation, migration, damage and death. In this study, we examined the role of autophagy in HUVECs exposed to AGE-modified bovine serum albumin (AGE-BSA). HUVECs incubated with AGE-BSA for 6 h showed an increase in the formation of acidic vesicular organelles and autophagosomes. AGE-BSA-induced upregulation of microtubule associated protein 1 light chain 3-II (LC3-II), a marker of autophagy, was abolished by pretreatment with the autophagy inhibitor 3-methyladenine (3-MA), and was increased by rapamycin, an autophagy inducer. The increase of lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) leakage induced by AGE-BSA was increased by 3-MA, but not rapamycin. An oxidative inhibitor, -tocopherol, decreased not only the AGE-BSA-induced increase of reactive oxygen species, but also the upregulation of LC3-II protein levels. These results suggest that AGE-BSA increases the level of autophagy, which is protective against HUVEC injury, and that ROS play a role in this activation of autophagy.
Attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) is a common, highly heritable neurodevelopmental syndrome characterized by hyperactivity, inattention and increased impulsivity. To detect micro-deletions and micro-duplications that may have a role in the pathogenesis of ADHD, we carried out a genome-wide screen for copy number variations (CNVs) in a cohort of 99 children and adolescents with severe ADHD. Using high-resolution array comparative genomic hybridization (aCGH), a total of 17 potentially syndrome-associated CNVs were identified. The aberrations comprise 4 deletions and 13 duplications with approximate sizes ranging from 110kb to 3Mb. Two CNVs occurred de novo and nine were inherited from a parent with ADHD, whereas five are transmitted by an unaffected parent. Candidates include genes expressing acetylcholine-metabolizing butyrylcholinesterase (BCHE), contained in a de novo chromosome 3q26.1 deletion, and a brain-specific pleckstrin homology domain-containing protein (PLEKHB1), with an established function in primary sensory neurons, in two siblings carrying a 11q13.4 duplication inherited from their affected mother. Other genes potentially influencing ADHD-related psychopathology and involved in aberrations inherited from affected parents are the genes for the mitochondrial NADH dehydrogenase 1  subcomplex assembly factor 2 (NDUFAF2), the brain-specific phosphodiesterase 4D isoform 6 (PDE4D6) and the neuronal glucose transporter 3 (SLC2A3). The gene encoding neuropeptide Y (NPY) was included in a 3Mb duplication on chromosome 7p15.2-15.3, and investigation of additional family members showed a nominally significant association of this 7p15 duplication with increased NPY plasma concentrations (empirical family-based association test, P=0.023). Lower activation of the left ventral striatum and left posterior insula during anticipation of large rewards or losses elicited by functional magnetic resonance imaging links gene dose-dependent increases in NPY to reward and emotion processing in duplication carriers. These findings implicate CNVs of behaviour-related genes in the pathogenesis of ADHD and are consistent with the notion that both frequent and rare variants influence the development of this common multifactorial syndrome.
Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is a genetic disease affecting about one in every 3,500 boys. This X-linked pathology is due to the absence of dystrophin in muscle fibers. This lack of dystrophin leads to the progressive muscle degeneration that is often responsible for the death of the DMD patients during the third decade of their life. There are currently no curative treatments for this disease but different therapeutic approaches are being studied. Gene therapy consists of introducing a transgene coding for full-length or a truncated version of dystrophin complementary DNA (cDNA) in muscles, whereas pharmaceutical therapy includes the use of chemical/biochemical substances to restore dystrophin expression or alleviate the DMD phenotype. Over the past years, many potential drugs were explored. This led to several clinical trials for gentamicin and ataluren (PTC124) allowing stop codon read-through. An alternative approach is to induce the expression of an internally deleted, partially functional dystrophin protein through exon skipping. The vectors and the methods used in gene therapy have been continually improving in order to obtain greater encapsidation capacity and better transduction efficiency. The most promising experimental approaches using pharmaceutical and gene therapies are reviewed in this article.
As the field of movement disorders has developed and matured over the past 25 years, psychogenic movement disorders have become increasingly recognized in subspecialty clinics. The diagnosis can be challenging and should be based on positive features rather than a purely exclusionary approach. The clinical phenotype can be quite varied, although certain categories of abnormal movement are more common than others. Electrophysiological studies may be particularly useful in establishing the diagnosis, especially with respect to tremor and myoclonus, and an argument can be made for adding a &quot;laboratory-supported definite&quot; category to earlier classification schemes. The diagnosis of psychogenic dystonia remains a major challenge, although there are some recent promising developments with respect to the evaluation of cortical plasticity that require further study. The pathogenesis of psychogenic movement disorders is poorly understood; insights may be provided from the study of other neurological conversion disorders such as psychogenic hemiparesis. Psychogenic movement disorders typically result in considerable disability and negatively impact quality of life to the same or greater extent than do many organic movement disorders. Treatment is extremely challenging, and many patients experience chronic disability despite various therapeutic interventions. Given the personal and societal impact of these problems, further advances in our understanding of their pathogenesis and the subsequent development of effective therapies are sorely needed.
Paroxysmal movement disorders are a relatively rare and heterogenous group of conditions manifesting as episodic dyskinesia lasting a brief duration. Three forms are clearly recognized, namely, paroxysmal kinesigenic (PKD), nonkinisegenic (PNKD), and exercise induced (PED). There have been major advances in the understanding of the pathophysiological mechanisms and the genetics of these disorders, leading to better clinical definitions based on genotype-phenotype correlations in the familial idiopathic forms. PKD is genetically heterogenous, but there is linkage to chromosome 16 in a number of families. PNKD is due to mutations of the MR-1 gene. PED is genetically heterogenous, but a number of familial and sporadic cases may be due to GLUT-1 gene mutations. The GLUT1 gene-related form of PED may respond to a ketogenic diet. Potassium and calcium channel mutations underlie the 2 main forms of episodic ataxia (EA1 and EA2), whereas benign torticollis of infancy may also be a calcium channel disorder.
The last 25 years have seen remarkable advances in our understanding of the genetic etiologies of dystonia, new approaches into dissecting underlying pathophysiology, and independent progress in identifying effective treatments. In this review we highlight some of these advances, especially the genetic findings that have taken us from phenomenological to molecular-based diagnoses. Twenty DYT loci have been designated and 10 genes identified, all based on linkage analyses in families. Hand in hand with these genetic findings, neurophysiological and imaging techniques have been employed that have helped illuminate the similarities and differences among the various etiological dystonia subtypes. This knowledge is just beginning to yield new approaches to treatment including those based on DYT1 animal models. Despite the lag in identifying genetically based therapies, effective treatments, including impressive benefits from deep brain stimulation and botulinum toxin chemodenervation, have marked the last 25 years. The challenge ahead includes continued advancement into understanding dystonia's many underlying causes and associated pathology and using this knowledge to advance treatment including preventing genetic disease expression.
Parkinson's disease (PD) is characterized by protein accumulation in the form of Lewy bodies and neurites. It is thus reasonable to consider that alterations in protein handling in the form of increased production, impaired clearance, or both might be central to the etiopathogenesis of the disease. Increasing genetic, laboratory and pathologic evidence has accumulated over the past 25 years supporting this hypothesis. A vicious cycle could develop in which increased protein accumulation from any cause could lead to interference with lysosomal and proteasomal clearance mechanisms causing further protein accumulation. Eventually, protein accumulation could overwhelm the cell's defenses and lead to the formation of toxic oligomers and amyloid-based inclusions such as Lewy bodies, disruption of critical cell processes, and ultimately neurodegeneration. More recent findings of Lewy pathology in implanted embryonic dopamine neurons in PD patients raises the intriguing possibility that PD might be a prion disorder. These concepts suggests new targets and novel candidate therapies that might be neuroprotective for PD.
The past 25 years have seen a major expansion of knowledge concerning the cause of Parkinson's disease provided by an understanding of environmental and genetic factors that underlie the loss of nigral dopaminergic neurons. Based on the actions of toxins, postmortem investigations, and gene defects responsible for familial Parkinson's disease, there is now a general consensus about the mechanisms of cell death that contribute to neuronal loss in Parkinson's disease. Mitochondrial dysfunction, oxidative stress, altered protein handling, and inflammatory change are considered to lead to cell dysfunction and death by apoptosis or autophagy. Ageing is the single most important risk factor for Parkinson's disease, and the biochemical changes that are a consequence of aging amplify these abnormalities in Parkinson's disease brain. What remains to be determined is the combination and sequence of events leading to cell death and whether this is identical in all brain regions where pathology occurs and in all individuals with Parkinson's disease. Focusing on those events that characterize Parkinson's disease, namely, mitochondrial dysfunction and Lewy body formation, may be the key to further advancing the understanding of pathogenesis and to taking these mechanisms forward as a means of defining targets for neuroprotection.
The identification of the widespread deposition of fibrillized -synuclein in Lewy bodies and Lewy neurites in the brains of patients with Parkinson's disease in 1997 has had a profound impact on how the disease is now conceptualized. The previous focus on the loss of the dopaminergic nigrostriatal system, the concept of subcortical dementia, and the idea that Parkinson's disease was dominated by motor impairment have all given way to research assessing more diverse brain regions, clinical symptoms, and phenotypes. It is now recognized that Parkinson's disease is more than just a loss of midbrain dopaminergic neurons in association with Lewy bodies. There are now several theories on how the disease develops and progresses currently being validated in a variety of studies, although many of these theories have yet to incorporate the phenotypic clinical and pathological changes associated with age. A particularly exciting new area of research involves the cell-to-cell transmission of pathogenic proteins. The recent consensus definition of Parkinson's disease dementia will allow its pathologic substrates to be determined. These advances have progressed to a stage where the preclinical stages of Parkinson's disease and its specific signs and symptoms are being predicted and tested clinically. Such strategies herald a future wave of preventive strategies for Parkinson's disease and its clinical symptoms.
Over the last 25 years, clinical neurophysiology has made many advances in the understanding, diagnosis, and even treatment of different movement disorders. Transcranial magnetic stimulation has been the biggest technical advance. Progress in pathophysiology includes improved knowledge about bradykinesia in Parkinson's disease, loss of inhibition and increased plasticity in dystonia, abnormal startle in hyperekplexia, and various features of psychogenic movement disorders that can aid diagnosis. Studies have been done looking at the use of noninvasive brain stimulation for therapy, but effects are generally small.

Circulating T cells and monocytes expressing T-bet, pSTAT1 and pSTAT3 increase in relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS) during relapse. Natalizumab (NZB) is an effective drug in RRMS, but exacerbation of the disease after its discontinuation has been described in some patients. The aim of this research was to study the effect of NZB treatment on circulating lymphomonocyte subpopulations expressing T-bet, pSTAT1, pSTAT3 and CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ regulatory T cells. Flow cytometry was used to evaluate the percentages of circulating CD4+ and CD8+ T cells, CD14+ monocytes and B cells expressing T-bet, pSTAT1, and pSTAT3, and CD4+CD25+Foxp3+ regulatory T cells from RRMS patients before and after 6-12 NZB infusions. In NZB-treated RRMS patients, the percentages of CD4+pSTAT1+ and CD8+pSTAT1+ T cells, CD14+pSTAT1+ monocytes, CD4+T-bet+, CD8+T-bet+ and CD4+pSTAT3+ T cells and CD14+pSTAT3+ monocytes increased after 12 drug infusions and were similar to those observed in untreated relapsing RRMS patients. Otherwise in vitro NZB exposure of peripheral blood mononuclear cells from untreated RRMS patients and controls had no effect. It was concluded that NZB treatment determines an accumulation of CD4+pSTAT1+, CD8+pSTAT1+, CD4+T-bet+, CD8+T-bet+ and CD4+STAT3+ T cells in peripheral blood that may account for the exacerbation of the disease observed in some patients after the discontinuation of the drug.


Cannabinoids enhance the function of glycine receptors (GlyRs). However, little is known about the mechanisms and behavioral implication of cannabinoid-GlyR interaction. Using mutagenesis and NMR analysis, we have identified a serine at 296 in the GlyR protein critical for the potentiation of I(Gly) by (9)-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), a major psychoactive component of marijuana. The polarity of the amino acid residue at 296 and the hydroxyl groups of THC are critical for THC potentiation. Removal of the hydroxyl groups of THC results in a compound that does not affect I(Gly) when applied alone but selectively antagonizes cannabinoid-induced potentiating effect on I(Gly) and analgesic effect in a tail-flick test in mice. The cannabinoid-induced analgesia is absent in mice lacking 3GlyRs but not in those lacking CB1 and CB2 receptors. These findings reveal a new mechanism underlying cannabinoid potentiation of GlyRs, which could contribute to some of the cannabis-induced analgesic and therapeutic effects.
We sought to identify new susceptibility loci for Alzheimer's disease through a staged association study (GERAD+) and by testing suggestive loci reported by the Alzheimer's Disease Genetic Consortium (ADGC) in a companion paper. We undertook a combined analysis of four genome-wide association datasets (stage 1) and identified ten newly associated variants with P  1  10(-5). We tested these variants for association in an independent sample (stage 2). Three SNPs at two loci replicated and showed evidence for association in a further sample (stage 3). Meta-analyses of all data provided compelling evidence that ABCA7 (rs3764650, meta P = 4.5  10(-17); including ADGC data, meta P = 5.0  10(-21)) and the MS4A gene cluster (rs610932, meta P = 1.8  10(-14); including ADGC data, meta P = 1.2  10(-16)) are new Alzheimer's disease susceptibility loci. We also found independent evidence for association for three loci reported by the ADGC, which, when combined, showed genome-wide significance: CD2AP (GERAD+, P = 8.0  10(-4); including ADGC data, meta P = 8.6  10(-9)), CD33 (GERAD+, P = 2.2  10(-4); including ADGC data, meta P = 1.6  10(-9)) and EPHA1 (GERAD+, P = 3.4  10(-4); including ADGC data, meta P = 6.0  10(-10)).

Deficiency in fragile X mental retardation protein (FMRP) results in fragile X syndrome (FXS), an inherited form of intellectual disability. Despite extensive research, it is unclear how FMRP deficiency contributes to the cognitive deficits in FXS. Fmrp-null mice show reduced adult hippocampal neurogenesis. As Fmrp is also enriched in mature neurons, we investigated the function of Fmrp expression in neural stem and progenitor cells (aNSCs) and its role in adult neurogenesis. Here we show that ablation of Fmrp in aNSCs by inducible gene recombination leads to reduced hippocampal neurogenesis in vitro and in vivo, as well as markedly impairing hippocampus-dependent learning in mice. Conversely, restoration of Fmrp expression specifically in aNSCs rescues these learning deficits in Fmrp-deficient mice. These data suggest that defective adult neurogenesis may contribute to the learning impairment seen in FXS, and these learning deficits can be rectified by delayed restoration of Fmrp specifically in aNSCs.
Developing skeletal myofibers in vertebrates are intrinsically 'pre-patterned' for motor nerve innervation. However, the intrinsic factors that regulate muscle pre-patterning remain unknown. We found that a functional skeletal muscle dihydropyridine receptor (DHPR, the L-type Ca(2+) channel in muscle) was required for muscle pre-patterning during the development of the neuromuscular junction (NMJ). Targeted deletion of the 1 subunit of DHPR (Cacnb1) in mice led to muscle pre-patterning defects, aberrant innervation and precocious maturation of the NMJ. Reintroducing Cacnb1 into Cacnb1(-/-) muscles reversed the pre-patterning defects and restored normal development of the NMJ. The mechanism by which DHPRs govern muscle pre-patterning is independent of their role in excitation-contraction coupling, but requires Ca(2+) influx through the L-type Ca(2+) channel. Our findings indicate that the skeletal muscle DHPR retrogradely regulates the patterning and formation of the NMJ.
We found a previously unknown form of homeostatic synaptic plasticity in multisensory neurons in the optic tectum of Xenopus laevis tadpoles. Individual tectal neurons are known to receive converging inputs from multiple sensory modalities. We observed that long-term alterations in either visual or mechanosensory activity in vivo resulted in homeostatic changes specific to each sensory modality. In contrast with typical forms of homeostatic synaptic plasticity, such as synaptic scaling, we found that this type of plasticity occurred in a pathway-specific manner that is more reminiscent of hebbian-type plasticity.
Amyloid-(1-42) (A) is thought to be a major mediator of the cognitive deficits in Alzheimer's disease. The ability of A to inhibit hippocampal long-term potentiation provides a cellular correlate of this action, but the underlying molecular mechanism is only partially understood. We found that a signaling pathway involving caspase-3, Akt1 and glycogen synthase kinase-3 is an important mediator of this effect in rats and mice.
Individuals with nonsyndromic congenital retinal nonattachment (NCRNA) are totally blind from birth. The disease afflicts 1% of Kurdish people living in a group of neighboring villages in North Khorasan, Iran. We found that NCRNA is caused by a 6,523-bp deletion that spans a remote cis regulatory element 20 kb upstream from ATOH7 (Math5), a bHLH transcription factor gene that is required for retinal ganglion cell (RGC) and optic nerve development. In humans, the absence of RGCs stimulates massive neovascular growth of fetal blood vessels in the vitreous and early retinal detachment. The remote ATOH7 element appears to act as a secondary or 'shadow' transcriptional enhancer. It has minimal sequence similarity to the primary enhancer, which is close to the ATOH7 promoter, but drives transgene expression with an identical spatiotemporal pattern in the mouse retina. The human transgene also functions appropriately in zebrafish, reflecting deep evolutionary conservation. These dual enhancers may reinforce ATOH7 expression during early critical stages of eye development when retinal neurogenesis is initiated.
Corticobasal degeneration (CBD) is a rare, progressive neurodegenerative disorder with onset in the 5(th) to 7(th) decade of life. It is associated with heterogeneous motor, sensory, behavioral and cognitive symptoms, which make its diagnosis difficult in a living patient. The etiology of CBD is unknown; however, neuropathological and genetic evidence supports a pathogenetic role for microtubule-associated protein tau. CBD pathology is characterized by circumscribed cortical atrophy with spongiosis and ballooned neurons; the distribution of these changes dictates the patient's clinical presentation. Neuronal and glial tau pathology is extensive in gray and white matter of the cortex, basal ganglia, diencephalon and rostral brainstem. Abnormal tau accumulation within astrocytes forms pathognomonic astrocytic plaques. The classic clinical presentation, termed corticobasal syndrome (CBS), comprises asymmetric progressive rigidity and apraxia with limb dystonia and myoclonus. CBS also occurs in conjunction with other diseases, including Alzheimer disease and progressive supranuclear palsy. Moreover, the pathology of CBD is associated with clinical presentations other than CBS, including Richardson syndrome, behavioral variant frontotemporal dementia, primary progressive aphasia and posterior cortical syndrome. Progress in biomarker development to differentiate CBD from other disorders has been slow, but is essential in improving diagnosis and in development of disease-modifying therapies.
As the global financial downturn continues, its impact on neuroscientists - both on an individual level and at the level of their research institute - becomes increasingly apparent. How is the economic crisis affecting neuroscience funding, career prospects, international collaborations and scientists' morale in different parts of the world? Nature Reviews Neuroscience gauged the opinions of a number of leading neuroscientists: the President of the Society for Neuroscience, the President Elect of the British Neuroscience Association, the former President of the Japan Neuroscience Society, the President of the Federation of European Neuroscience Societies and the Director of the US National Institute of Mental Health. Their responses provide interesting and important insights into the regional impact of the global financial downturn, with some causes for optimism for the future of neuroscience research.
Given recent experimental results suggesting that neural circuits may evolve through multiple firing states, we develop a framework for estimating state-dependent neural response properties from spike train data. We modify the traditional hidden Markov model (HMM) framework to incorporate stimulus-driven, non-Poisson point-process observations. For maximal flexibility, we allow external, time-varying stimuli and the neurons' own spike histories to drive both the spiking behavior in each state and the transitioning behavior between states. We employ an appropriately modified expectation-maximization algorithm to estimate the model parameters. The expectation step is solved by the standard forward-backward algorithm for HMMs. The maximization step reduces to a set of separable concave optimization problems if the model is restricted slightly. We first test our algorithm on simulated data and are able to fully recover the parameters used to generate the data and accurately recapitulate the sequence of hidden states. We then apply our algorithm to a recently published data set in which the observed neuronal ensembles displayed multistate behavior and show that inclusion of spike history information significantly improves the fit of the model. Additionally, we show that a simple reformulation of the state space of the underlying Markov chain allows us to implement a hybrid half-multistate, half-histogram model that may be more appropriate for capturing the complexity of certain data sets than either a simple HMM or a simple peristimulus time histogram model alone.
Though neuroimaging, pathology and pathophysiology suggest a subcortical and deep cortical involvement in Frontotemporal Lobar Degeneration (FTLD), no studies have comprehensively assessed the associated gray matter (GM) volume changes. We measured caudate, putamen, thalamus, and amygdala GM volume using probabilistic a-priori regions of interest (ROIs) in 53 early FTLD patients (38 behavioral variant FTD [bvFTD], 9 Semantic Dementia [SD], 6 Progressive Non-Fluent Aphasia [PNFA]), and 25 age-matched healthy controls (HC). ANOVA showed significant (P&lt;0.001) main effect of diagnosis, and significant interactions for diagnosis and region, and diagnosis and hemisphere. Post-hoc comparisons with HC showed bilateral GM atrophy in the caudate, putamen and thalamus, in bvFTD; a left-confined GM reduction in the amygdala in SD; and bilateral GM atrophy in the caudate and thalamus, and left-sided GM reduction in the putamen and amygdala in PNFA. Correlation analyses suggested an association between GM volumes and language, psychomotor speed and behavioral disturbances. This study showed a widespread involvement of subcortical and deep cortical GM in early FTLD with patterns specific for clinical entity.
The rate at which the volume of gray matter declines with normal aging, and whether gender or generational differences affect this rate, remain unclear. Using a longitudinal design over 6 years in 381 healthy community-dwelling individuals, we examined the rate of age-related loss in global gray matter volume, and how gender, generational and cerebrovascular risk factors affected this rate. We collected brain magnetic resonance images of the subjects, and calculated gray matter and intracranial volumes at baseline and follow-up using a fully automated technique. Using these volumes we then calculated the gray matter ratio (GMR), which measures gray matter volume as a percentage of the total intracranial volume. There were significant main effects of age, gender, and body mass index, and an agegender interaction in the annual percentage change in the GMR (APC(GMR)). The APC(GMR) of younger women was lower than that in older women and men. Our results may help in understanding the mechanism(s) of normal brain aging, and in distinguishing neurodegenerative diseases from normal aging.
Corpora amylacea (CA) are both age and neurodegeneration-related spherical bodies, consisting of polymerized proteins, often thought to be involved in sequestration of hazardous products of cellular metabolism in brain. Although CA formation is associated with cellular stress, the process underlying their formation remains obscure. Transglutaminases (TGs) are stress associated enzymes that induce molecular cross-links, leading to polymerization of substrate proteins. TG expression and activity are elevated in Alzheimer's disease (AD) and Parkinson's disease (PD), and TG-catalyzed cross-links are present in their lesions. Considering the nature of CA, the aim of this study was to investigate the presence of TGs and TG cross-links in CA of healthy aging brain, AD and PD brain, using immunohistochemistry. We observed TG1 and TG cross-links in CA, together with typical cytoskeletal proteins. Furthermore, the presence of proteins associated with AD or PD pathogenesis was not altered in CA of disease brain compared to controls. We propose that TG1-catalyzed cross-linking and consequent polymerization of cytoskeletal and cytoskeleton-associated proteins may underlie CA formation.
Work over the past two decades lead to substantial changes in our understanding of dystonia, which was, until recently, considered an exclusively sporadic movement disorder. The discovery of several gene mutations responsible for many inherited forms of dystonia has prompted much effort in the generation of transgenic mouse models bearing mutations found in patients. The large majority of these rodent models do not exhibit overt phenotypic abnormalities, or neuronal loss in specific brain areas. Nevertheless, both subtle motor abnormalities and significant alterations of synaptic plasticity have been recorded in mice, suggestive of an altered basal ganglia circuitry. In addition, robust evidence from experimental and clinical work supports the assumption that dystonia may indeed be considered a disorder linked to the disruption of synaptic &quot;scaling&quot;, with a prevailing facilitation of synaptic potentiation, together with the loss of synaptic inhibitory processes. Notably, neurophysiological studies from patients carrying gene mutations as well as from non-manifesting carriers have shown the presence of synaptic plasticity abnormalities, indicating the presence of specific endophenotypic traits in carriers of the gene mutation. In this survey, we review findings from a broad range of data, obtained both from animal models and human research, and propose that the abnormalities of synaptic plasticity described in mice and humans may be considered an endophenotype to dystonia, and a valid and powerful tool to investigate the pathogenic mechanisms underlying this movement disorder. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled &quot;Advances in dystonia&quot;.
The present study investigated whether memory for extinction in an appetitive task (the sand maze) could be attenuated by administration of cycloheximide (protein synthesis inhibitor) or propranolol (-adrenergic receptor antagonist). Ninety-day-old male Long-Evans rats were trained to retrieve a sweet cereal reinforcer from an open container in the sand maze. One day following this non-spatial training, rats received three extinction trials in which they were placed in the maze with the reinforcer present, but unattainable. Thirty minutes prior to the first extinction trial, rats received an intraperitoneal injection of cycloheximide (1mg/kg), propranolol (25mg/kg), or vehicle (1mg/kg distilled water). Twenty-four hours later, rats were tested in the sand maze with the reinforcer again available. Results from the test trial showed that both cycloheximide and propranolol groups found the reinforcer more quickly than controls. Two weeks later, rats were trained on a spatial version of the sand maze in which they had to search for a buried reinforcer using extramaze cues. Cycloheximide and propranolol groups learned this task significantly faster than the control group, demonstrating the long-lasting effect of cycloheximide and propranolol on the blocking of memory for extinction.
The prefrontal cortex is essential for a wide variety of higher functions, including attention and memory. Cholinergic neurons are thought to be of prime importance in the modulation of these processes. Degeneration of forebrain cholinergic neurons has been linked to several neurological disorders. The present study was designed to identify genes and networks in rat prefrontal cortex that are associated with learning and cholinergic-loss-memory deficit. Affymetrix microarray technology was used to screen gene expression changes in rats submitted or not to 192 IgG-saporin immunolesion of cholinergic basal forebrain and trained in spatial/object novelty tasks. Results showed learning processes were associated with significant expression of genes, which were organized in several clusters of highly correlated genes and would be involved in biological processes such as intracellular signaling process, transcription regulation, and filament organization and axon guidance. Memory loss following cortical cholinergic deafferentation was associated with significant expression of genes belonging to only one clearly delineated cluster and would be involved in biological processes related to cytoskeleton organization and proliferation, and glial and vascular remodeling, i.e., in processes associated with brain repair after injury.
As of yet, pharmacological treatments of stroke are only met with mediocre results, which are either ineffective or confounded by adverse effects, thus calling for a better understanding of endogenous neuroprotective mechanism. Previously, we have demonstrated that the translocated activation of conventional protein kinase C (cPKC) is involved in the development of cerebral hypoxic preconditioning (HPC), one of the most profound neuroprotective strategies. This study was designed to substantiate the role of cPKC and its signaling molecules in HPC-induced neuroprotection against subsequent middle cerebral artery occlusion (MCAO)-induced permanent cerebral ischemic injuries. The effects of HPC and cPKC on cerebral ischemic injuries were studied by observing the changes in neurological deficits, infarct volume and neural cell apoptosis. cPKC membrane translocation (activation) and its interacting protein synapsin in the ischemic brain were examined by Western blot analysis. Proteomic approaches were employed to identify the cPKC-interacting proteins. We found that HPC could markedly attenuate MCAO-induced brain injuries and the decrease of cPKC membrane translocation, but cPKC inhibitor Go6983 could block HPC-induced neuroprotection. Among the 41 identified cPKC-interacting proteins, 17 up- and 6 down-regulated proteins were observed in cytosol or particulate fraction during HPC. In addition, the up-regulated synapsin could reciprocally co-precipitate with cPKC both in cytosol and particulate fractions, and Go6983 abolished HPC-induced inhibition on synapsin dephosphorylation in ischemic core and peri-infarct region (penumbra). This study is the first to report multiple cPKC-interacting proteins in HPC mouse brain and suggested that cPKC signaling molecules, especially the cPKC-synapsin pathway, might be responsible for HPC-induced neuroprotection against cerebral ischemic injuries of mice.
The striatum is the largest input nucleus to the basal ganglia and associated with reward-based behavior. We assessed whether acute ethanol (EtOH) exposure could modulate synaptic efficacy in the dorsolateral striatum of juvenile Wistar rats. Since acute EtOH administration can both increase and decrease the probability of release of different neurotransmitters from synaptic terminals, we used field potential recordings to evaluate the net effect of EtOH on striatal output. We showed that 50mM EtOH but not 20, 80 or 100mM, depresses population spike (PS) amplitude in the dorsolateral striatum. This depression of synaptic output is insensitive to the N-methyl-d-aspartic acid (NMDA) receptor inhibitor DL-2-amino-5-phosphonopentanoic acid (AP-5, 50M), but is blocked in slices treated with glycine receptor antagonists (strychnine, 1M; PMBA, 50M), nicotinic acetylcholine receptor antagonists (mecamylamine, 10M; methyllycaconitine citrate (MLA), 40nM), or GABA(A) receptor inhibitors (picrotoxin, 100M; bicuculline, 2M, 20M). A long-term facilitation of synaptic output, which is more pronounced in slices from adult Wistar rats, is detected following EtOH washout (50, 80, 100mM). This long-term enhancement of PS amplitude is regulated by cholinergic interneurons and completely blocked by mecamylamine, MLA or the non-selective muscarinic antagonist scopolamine (10M). Administration of 100mM EtOH significantly depresses PS amplitude in scopolamine-treated slices, suggesting that EtOH exerts dual actions on striatal output that are initiated instantly upon drug wash-on. In conclusion, EtOH modulates striatal microcircuitry and neurotransmission in a way that could be of importance for understanding the intoxicating properties as well as the acute reward sensation of EtOH.
The neurosteroid dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is formed locally in the CNS and has been implicated in several processes essential for CNS function, including control of neuronal survival. An important metabolic pathway for DHEA in the CNS involves the steroid hydroxylase CYP7B1. In previous studies, CYP7B1 was identified as a target for estrogen regulation in cells of kidney and liver. In the current study, we examined effects of estrogens on CYP7B1-mediated metabolism of DHEA in primary cultures of rat astrocytes and co-cultures of rat CNS cells. Astrocytes, which interact with neurons in several ways, are important for brain neurosteroidogenesis. We found that estradiol significantly suppressed CYP7B1-mediated DHEA hydroxylation in primary mixed CNS cultures from fetal and newborn rats. Also, CYP7B1-mediated DHEA hydroxylation and CYP7B1 mRNA were markedly suppressed by estrogen in primary cultures of rat astrocytes. Interestingly, diarylpropionitrile, a well-known agonist of estrogen receptor , also suppressed CYP7B1-mediated hydroxylation of DHEA. Several previous studies have reported neuroprotective effects of estrogens. The current data indicate that one of the mechanisms whereby estrogen can exert protective effects in the CNS may involve increase of the levels of DHEA by suppression of its metabolism.
In autoimmune disorders of the peripheral nervous system (PNS), including Guillain-Barr syndrome and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy, breakdown of the blood-nerve barrier (BNB) has been considered to be a key step in the disease process. Although glucocorticoids (GCs) have been shown to effectively restore the blood-brain barrier (BBB) in some inflammatory central nervous system diseases such as multiple sclerosis, their action against the BNB has not yet been examined. To elucidate the role of GCs on the BNB, we established a novel human immortalized endothelial cell lines derived from the BNB. The established cell line termed &quot;DH-BNBs&quot; expresses two important tight junction proteins, claudin-5 and occludin. Using DH-BNBs, we analyzed how GCs affect BNB function. We herein report that GCs up-regulate the expression of claudin-5 and increase the barrier properties of the BNB. This is the first report which indicates how GCs affect the blood-nerve barrier.
Nuclear factor erythroid 2-related factor 2 (Nrf2) coordinates the up-regulation of cytoprotective genes via the antioxidant response element (ARE). There is significant evidence that oxidative stress is a critical event in the pathogenesis of AD. Considering the protective role of Nrf2 against oxidative injury, we studied to determine whether in vivo toxicity of amyloid  (A) can be attenuated by tBHQ, an Nrf2 stabilizer, Using an A injection model. We demonstrated that pre-activation of endogenous Nrf2 by tBHQ attenuated A-induced caspase-3 expression. tBHQ enhanced GSH, decreased MDA level, and inhibited NF-B. This investigation provides the first documentation of tBHQ's neuroprotective effect through decrease of A accumulation in rat brain. Our results show the involvement of Hsp-70 in this protective effect. In summary tBHQ treatment for 1week prior to A injection protected against the oxidative damage, apoptosis and A accumulation in rats.
Amygdala responses to emotional faces can be influenced by concomitant gaze direction. As an explanation it has been suggested that the observer uses eye gaze as a cue to decipher the source of a potential threat in order to evaluate the significance of the situation. To test this assumption, we kept gaze direction ambiguous and replaced the information possibly provided by gaze direction with explicit, contextual information about intentions of angry and fearful faces. Using fMRI we show that this manipulation evokes a similar pattern of amygdala activation as prior gaze-related accounts: angry faces targeting at the observer elicited stronger amygdala responses than angry faces targeting at another person, whereas the opposite pattern was observed for fearful faces. We further combined our paradigm with high-resolution fMRI which enabled us to localize clusters of activation in amygdala subregions: purely facial-expression evoked signal changes were observed in the accessory basal nucleus, whereas our data suggest a critical role of the corticomedial amygdala in linking contextual information to emotional faces and in deciphering the significance of the faces for the observer.
The neural processing of biological motion (BM) is of profound experimental interest since it is often through the movement of another that we interpret their immediate intentions. Neuroimaging points to a specialized cortical network for processing biological motion. Here, high-density electrical mapping and source-analysis techniques were employed to interrogate the timing of information processing across this network. Participants viewed point-light-displays depicting standard body movements (e.g. jumping), while event-related potentials (ERPs) were recorded and compared to ERPs to scrambled motion control stimuli. In a pair of experiments, three major phases of BM-specific processing were identified: 1) The earliest phase of BM-sensitive modulation was characterized by a positive shift of the ERP between 100 and 200 ms after stimulus onset. This modulation was observed exclusively over the right hemisphere and source-analysis suggested a likely generator in close proximity to regions associated with general motion processing (KO/hMT). 2) The second phase of BM-sensitivity occurred from 200 to 350 ms, characterized by a robust negative-going ERP modulation over posterior middle temporal regions bilaterally. Source-analysis pointed to bilateral generators at or near the posterior superior temporal sulcus (STS). 3) A third phase of processing was evident only in our second experiment, where participants actively attended the BM aspect of the stimuli, and was manifest as a centro-parietal positive ERP deflection, likely related to later cognitive processes. These results point to very early sensory registration of biological motion, and highlight the interactive role of the posterior STS in analyzing the movements of other living organisms.
As it provides the only method for mapping white matter fibers in vivo, diffusion MRI tractography is gaining importance in clinical and neuroscience research. However, despite the increasing availability of different diffusion models and tractography algorithms, it remains unclear how to select the optimal fiber reconstruction method, given certain imaging parameters. Consequently, it is of utmost importance to have a quantitative comparison of these models and algorithms and a deeper understanding of the corresponding strengths and weaknesses. In this work, we use a common dataset with known ground truth and a reproducible methodology to quantitatively evaluate the performance of various diffusion models and tractography algorithms. To examine a wide range of methods, the dataset, but not the ground truth, was released to the public for evaluation in a contest, the &quot;Fiber Cup&quot;. 10 fiber reconstruction methods were evaluated. The results provide evidence that: 1. For high SNR datasets, diffusion models such as (fiber) orientation distribution functions correctly model the underlying fiber distribution and can be used in conjunction with streamline tractography, and 2. For medium or low SNR datasets, a prior on the spatial smoothness of either the diffusion model or the fibers is recommended for correct modelling of the fiber distribution and proper tractography results. The phantom dataset, the ground truth fibers, the evaluation methodology and the results obtained so far will remain publicly available on: http://www.lnao.fr/spip.php?rubrique79 to serve as a comparison basis for existing or new tractography methods. New results can be submitted to fibercup09@gmail.com and updates will be published on the webpage.
Information obtained from brain imaging is now summarized in the form of various neuroimaging scores to help physicians in making therapeutic decisions and determining prognosis. The Alberta Stroke Program Early CT Score (ASPECTS) was devised to quantify the extent of early ischemic changes in the middle cerebral artery territory on noncontrast computed tomography. With its systematic approach, the score is simple, reliable, and a strong predictor of functional outcome. This review summarizes ASPECTS and other neuroimaging scores developed for risk prognostication and risk stratification with treatment in patients with acute ischemic stroke.
With more than 700,000 strokes per year resulting in greater than 160,000 deaths per year, stroke remains the leading cause of disability and third leading cause of death in the United States. Despite an overall decline in stroke mortality over the past 40 years, the total number of stroke deaths continues to increase, suggesting an increase in stroke incidence. The last 20 years of neuroscience advances have moved stroke from a condition that is monitored clinically and imaged serially as it evolves to an entity that can be treated acutely, with remarkable alterations in its natural history.
Until recently, interferon beta and glatiramer acetate were the only licensed disease-modifying therapies for relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis. These agents have a modest effect on reducing relapse rates. The licensing of two more effective agents, mitoxantrone and natalizumab, provided alternatives. These agents are associated with potentially life-threatening or serious side effects. In addition, none of these licensed agents has been shown to be effective in primary progressive MS. There is a large unmet need, with several promising new therapies in the pipeline. This article reviews the proposed mechanisms of action of the anticipated treatments, their efficacy, and risks associated with their use.
The understanding of the mechanisms that lead to MS exacerbations continues to produce novel treatments for patients with relapsing forms of MS. However, even with the most potent agents available, the exacerbations remain a distinct possibility and a source of concern for patients and clinicians. Therefore, the treatment of acute MS exacerbations remains an indispensable element of MS care. Reviewed here are the available treatment options, their implementation, side effects, and evidence supporting their efficacy in promoting recovery from MS relapses.
Sinus histiocytosis with massive lymphadenopathy or Rosai-Dorfman disease is a rare, but well documented entity. We report a lady who presented with progressive quadriparesis, with cervical extradural lesion on magnetic resonance imaging. She underwent decompression of the lesion and histological diagnosis of the lesion was Rosai-Dorfman disease. On one-year follow-up, she had complete improvement of the deficits with no further progression of the lesion. The presentation of this disease as an isolated spinal extradural mass lesion is quite rare, with only six cases reported in literature.
Aphemia is an apraxia of speech characterized by complete articulatory failure in the presence of preserved writing, comprehension and oropharyngeal function and can be the presenting manifestation of acute stroke. The responsible lesion is commonly in the left inferior frontal gyrus or the left motor cortex near the face M1 area. Three patients who developed aphemia due to acute ischemic stroke are described here. All had apraxia of speech due to acute infarct in the left motor cortex near face M1 area. Understanding the underlying speech disorder is crucial in planning the appropriate rehabilitation strategy.
Early restoration of flow to perfuse salvageable brain tissue has been shown to significantly reduce the morbidity and mortality of ischemic stroke. Several mechanical devices have shown promising results in patients with large vessel occlusive stroke. Solitaire revascularization device (ev3, Inc., Irvine, California) is a recoverable self-expanding thrombectomy device that can also be used as a temporary endovascular bypass. We report a patient in whom solitaire aneurysm bridging stent was used as a temporary bypass procedure to recanalize carotid T occlusion patient with good functional outcome.
Oestrogen and progesterone have specific receptors in the central nervous system and are able to regulate neuronal development and plasticity, neuronal excitability, mitochondrial energy production, and neurotransmitter synthesis, release, and transport. On neuronal excitability, estradiol and progesterone seem to have an opposite effect, with estradiol being excitatory and progesterone and its derivative allopregnanolone being inhibitory. Estradiol augments N-methyl-D-aspartate-mediated glutamate receptor activity, while progesterone enhances gamma-aminobutyric acid-mediated chloride conductance. Sex steroid regulation of the balance of neuroexcitatory and neuroinhibitory activities may have a role in modulating clinical susceptibility to different neurological conditions such as migraine, catamenial epilepsy, premenstrual dysphoric disorder, and premenstrual syndrome.
Lack of dystrophin in brain structures have been involved with impaired cognitive functions. Acethylcolinesterase (AChE) is implicated in many cognitive functions and probably plays important roles in neurodegenerative disorders. In the present study, we investigated AChE activity in the prefrontal cortex, hippocampus, striatum and cortex of mdx mice. To this aim, brain tissues from male dystrophic mdx and normal control mice were used. We observed that mdx mice display a reduction in AChE activity of 40-60% in all brain structures evaluated. In conclusion, dystrophin deficiency may be affecting AChE activity and contributing negatively, in part, to memory storage and restoring.
McArdle disease is caused by deficiency of myophosphorylase, the muscle isoform of glycogen phosphorylase. This isoform is also expressed in astrocytes, where it seems to have a key role in neural energy metabolism. Whereas in other glycogen storage diseases cognitive impairment has been rarely reported, it has not been previously observed in McArdle disease. Here we report the case of an Italian 55-year-old woman with McArdle disease and cognitive impairment with bilateral dysfunction of prefrontal and frontal cortex (shown by neuropsychological assessment and fluorodeoxyglucose PET). Further studies are needed to assess the prevalence of central neurological manifestations in this disease.
Previously studied for its role in processing olfactory information in the antennal lobe, GABA also may shape development of the olfactory pathway, acting either through or on glial cells. Early in development, the dendrites of GABAergic neurons extend to the glial border that surrounds the nascent olfactory lobe neuropil. These neuropil glia express both GABAA and GABAB receptors, about half of the glia in acute cultures responded to GABA with small outward currents, and about a third responded with small transient increases in intracellular calcium. The neuronal classes that express GABA in vivo, the local interneurons and a subset of projection neurons, also do so in culture. Exposure to GABA in culture increased the size and complexity of local interneurons, but had no effect on glial morphology. The presence of glia alone did not affect neuronal morphology, but in the presence of both glia and GABA, the growth-enhancing effects of GABA on cultured antennal lobe neurons were eliminated. Contact between the glial cells and the neurons was not necessary. Operating in vivo, these antagonistic effects, one direct and one glia mediated, could help to sculpt the densely branched, tufted arbors that are characteristic of neurons innervating olfactory glomeruli.
The acute effects of simvastatin lactone (lipophilic) and simvastatin acid (hydrophilic) on transient focal ischemia were assessed using the isolated guinea pig brain maintained in vitro by arterial perfusion. This new model of cerebral ischemia allows the assessment of the very early phase of the ischemic process, with the functional preservation of the vascular and neuronal compartments and the blood-brain barrier (bbb). The middle cerebral artery was transiently tied for 30min followed by reperfusion for 60min. Statins (nanomolar doses) were administered by intravascular continuous infusion starting 60min before ischemia induction. Brain cortical activity and arterial vascular tone were continuously recorded. At the end of the experiment immunoreactivity for microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP-2), expression of survival kinases (ERK and Akt) and total anti-oxidant capacity were assayed. Brains treated with simvastatin lactone showed i) reduced amplitude and delayed onset of ischemic depressions, ii) preservation of MAP-2 immunoreactivity, iii) activation of ERK signaling in the ischemic hemisphere and iv) increase in whole-brain anti-oxidant capacity. Treatment with the bbb-impermeable simvastatin acid was ineffective on the above-mentioned parameters. Vascular resistance recordings and Akt signaling were unchanged by any statin treatment. Our findings suggest that intravascular-delivered simvastatin exerts an acute lipophilicity-dependent protective effect in the early phase of cerebral ischemia.
Chronic recurrent pain results in brain reorganization for cortical sensory and motor representation of muscles. This review supports the hypothesis that maladaptive plasticity in chronic low back pain patients could be associated with disorders of volitional activation of trunk/pelvis muscles and alterations of their anticipatory motor patterns for postural control. This is actually observed for the transversus abdominis muscle, an abdominal muscle that stabilizes the lumbosacral spine against external and internal postural perturbations. Indeed, voluntary activation of this muscle is more difficult in low back pain and a posterolateral translation of its cortical motor representation is observed in association with a delay of its anticipatory activation (usually observed in any focal limb movement). During physiotherapy, low back pain patients are trained to hollowing for contracting the transversus abdominis muscle, which normalizes both activation delays and cortical motor representation. This motor rehabilitation could be potentiated by peripheral repetitive magnetic stimulation directly over the nerves/muscles. This review introduces the magnetic stimulation technique and proposes to combine peripheral theta-burst stimulation to conventional therapy for increasing the functional gain. This may facilitate the activation of sensory afferents and modulate cortical plasticity to improve (or even re-activate) the sensorimotor control and possibly influence pain. Peripheral magnetic stimulation as an ancillary treatment adjuvant for promoting motor control in low back pain might also be relevant in any other neurological or musculoskeletal disorder with underlying maladaptive brain reorganization.
Measures of verbal fluency are widely used in the assessment of cognitive functioning of the elderly. However, limited research has evaluated patterns (across specific timed intervals) of performance on tasks of language fluency in different forms of dementia. The current study investigated semantic fluency in 488 elderly individuals (249 with Alzheimer's dementia, 97 Vascular dementia, 97 Mild Cognitive Impairment and 45 cognitively intact) across 15-second intervals in an animal naming task using retrospective chart review. Normal controls produced significantly more exemplars and AD patients produced fewer animal names than the other groups. After the first 15- second time interval, the demented groups produced significantly fewer exemplars than the non-demented. At the end of 30 seconds it was possible to differentiate normal aging from MCI who no longer differed from the VaD group. Overall, it appears that the greatest and most clinically meaningful differences between the diagnostic groups were detected in the first three 15-second intervals. The present findings support the use of time intervals and total scores on tasks of verbal fluency in clinical settings and for research purposes.
This paper presents a new corpus of 140 high quality colour images belonging to 14 subcategories and covering a range of naming difficulty. One hundred and six Spanish speakers named the items and provided data for several psycholinguistic variables: age of acquisition, familiarity, manipulability, name agreement, typicality and visual complexity. Furthermore, we also present lexical frequency data derived internet search hits. Apart from the large number of variables evaluated, these stimuli present an important advantage with respect to other comparable image corpora in so far as naming performance in healthy individuals is less prone to ceiling effect problems. Reliability and validity indexes showed that our items display similar psycholinguistic characteristics to those of other corpora. In sum, this set of ecologically valid stimuli provides a useful tool for scientists engaged in cognitive and neuroscience-based research.
Despite being extensively studied, many important questions regarding visual short-term memory (VSTM) are yet to be fully answered. The present review seeks to explore the extent to which competitive interactions present during perception of stimuli may also operate during stimulus encoding and/or maintenance in VSTM. Additionally, the paper provides an overview of the methods and approaches that have been used to study the properties of VSTM, and a review of research into the limits of VSTM capacity. We take as our starting point the biased competition model of attention (Desimone &amp; Duncan, 1995) and discuss the influence that such competition may have on the limited capacity of VSTM by a review of the literature and by recent experiments from Shapiro's lab. The present report outlines several experiments that provide results consistent with the idea that low-level competitive interactions may influence VSTM, with the aim of stimulating further research into this new area.
Memory performance can be enhanced by expectations regarding the appearance of ensuing stimuli. Here, we investigated the influence of stimulus-category expectation on memory performance in aging, and used fMRI to explore age-related alterations in associated neural mechanisms. Unlike younger adults, who demonstrated both working memory (WM) and long-term memory (LTM) performance benefits for face stimuli when this stimulus category was expected, older adults did not exhibit these memory benefits. Concordantly, older adults did not exhibit expectation-period activity modulation in visual association cortex (i.e., fusiform face area (FFA)), unlike younger adults. However, within the older population, individuals who demonstrated face-expectation memory benefits also exhibited expectation-period FFA activity modulation equivalent to younger adults. The older cohort also displayed diminished expectation-related functional connectivity between regions of the prefrontal cortex and the FFA, relative to younger adults, suggesting that network alterations underlie the absence of expectation-mediated cortical modulation and memory benefits. This deficit may have broader consequences for the effective utilization of predictive cues to guide attention and engender optimal cognitive performance in older individuals.
People often rely on information that is no longer in view, but maintained in visual short-term memory (VSTM). Traditionally, VSTM is thought to operate on either a short time-scale with high capacity - iconic memory - or a long time scale with small capacity - visual working memory. Recent research suggests that in addition, an intermediate stage of memory in between iconic memory and visual working memory exists. This intermediate stage has a large capacity and a lifetime of several seconds, but is easily overwritten by new stimulation. We therefore termed it fragile VSTM. In previous studies, fragile VSTM has been dissociated from iconic memory by the characteristics of the memory trace. In the present study, we dissociated fragile VSTM from visual working memory by showing a differentiation in their dependency on attention. A decrease in attention during presentation of the stimulus array greatly reduced the capacity of visual working memory, while this had only a small effect on the capacity of fragile VSTM. We conclude that fragile VSTM is a separate memory store from visual working memory. Thus, a tripartite division of VSTM appears to be in place, comprising iconic memory, fragile VSTM and visual working memory.
An ever increasing amount of research in the fields of developmental psychology and adult cognitive neuroscience explores attentional control as a driver of visual short-term and working memory capacity limits (&quot;VSTM&quot; and &quot;VWM&quot;, respectively). However, these literatures have thus far been disparate: they use different measures or different labels, and the constructs of interest often appear to be quite distinct. In the current review, we attempt to bridge these gaps across disciplines and explore the extent to which these two literatures might support one another. In order to do this, we explore five principal questions of interest to members of both communities: (1) To what extent are measures of VSTM, VWM and attentional control commensurate across the developmental and adult literatures? (2) To what extent do individual differences in attentional control account for why some children, just like some adults, show poorer VSTM and VWM capacity than others? (3) Can developmental improvements in VSTM and VWM capacity also be explained by differences in attentional control? (4) What novel insights can be gained by studying the developmental cognitive neuroscience of attention and VSTM and VWM? (5) Can visual short-term and working memory capacity be modulated by training and, if so, how can training effects inform the relationships between attention and VSTM? Throughout, we evaluate the central thesis that variability in attentional control, both between individuals and over development, is a driver of variability in VSTM and VWM capacity.
A series of experiments explored the mechanisms determining the encoding and storage of features and objects in visual working memory. We contrasted the effects of three types of visual suffix on cued recall of a display of colored shapes. The suffix was presented after the display and before the recall cue. The latter was either the color or shape of one of the objects and signaled recall of the object's other feature. In Experiments 1 and 2, we found a larger effect of 'plausible' suffixes comprising features (color and shape) drawn from the experimental set, relative to the effect of 'implausible' suffixes comprising features outside the experimental set. Experiment 3 extended this pattern by showing that 'semi-plausible' suffixes containing only one feature (either color or shape) from the experimental set had an equivalent effect to those with both features from the set. Reduction in accuracy was mainly due to an increase in recall of suffix features, rather than within-display confusions. The findings suggest a feature-based filtering process in visual working memory, with any stimuli that pass through this filter serving to directly overwrite existing object representations.
It is now established that attention influences working memory (WM) at multiple processing stages. This liaison between attention and WM poses several interesting empirical questions. Notably, does attention impact WM via its influences on early perceptual processing? If so, what are the critical factors at play in this attention-perception-WM interaction. I review recent data from our laboratory utilizing a variety of techniques (electroencephalography (EEG), functional MRI (fMRI) and transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS)), stimuli (features and complex objects), novel experimental paradigms, and research populations (younger and older adults), which converge to support the conclusion that top-down modulation of visual cortical activity at early perceptual processing stages (100-200 ms after stimulus onset) impacts subsequent WM performance. Factors that affect attentional control at this stage include cognitive load, task practice, perceptual training, and aging. These developments highlight the complex and dynamic relationships among perception, attention, and memory.
An influential conception of visual working memory is of a small number of discrete memory &quot;slots&quot;, each storing an integrated representation of a single visual object, including all its component features. When a scene contains more objects than there are slots, visual attention controls which objects gain access to memory. A key prediction of such a model is that the absolute error in recalling multiple features of the same object will be correlated, because features belonging to an attended object are all stored, bound together. Here, we tested participants' ability to reproduce from memory both the color and orientation of an object indicated by a location cue. We observed strong independence of errors between feature dimensions even for large memory arrays (6 items), inconsistent with an upper limit on the number of objects held in memory. Examining the pattern of responses in each dimension revealed a gaussian distribution of error centered on the target value that increased in width under higher memory loads. For large arrays, a subset of responses were not centered on the target but instead predominantly corresponded to mistakenly reproducing one of the other features held in memory. These misreporting responses again occurred independently in each feature dimension, consistent with 'misbinding' due to errors in maintaining the binding information that assigns features to objects. The results support a shared-resource model of working memory, in which increasing memory load incrementally degrades storage of visual information, reducing the fidelity with which both object features and feature bindings are maintained.
To guide our behavior in successful ways, we often need to rely on information that is no longer in view, but maintained in visual short-term memory (VSTM). While VSTM is usually broken down into iconic memory (brief and high-capacity store) and visual working memory (sustained, yet limited-capacity store), recent studies have suggested the existence of an additional and intermediate form of VSTM that depends on activity in extrastriate cortex. In previous work, we have shown that this fragile form of VSTM can be dissociated from iconic memory. In the present study, we provide evidence that fragile VSTM is different from visual working memory as magnetic stimulation of the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex (DLPFC) disrupts visual working memory, while leaving fragile VSTM intact. In addition, we observed that people with high DLPFC activity had superior working memory capacity compared to people with low DLPFC activity, and only people with high DLPFC activity really showed a reduction in working memory capacity in response to magnetic stimulation. Altogether, this study shows that VSTM consists of three stages that have clearly different characteristics and rely on different neural structures. On the methodological side, we show that it is possible to predict individual susceptibility to magnetic stimulation based on functional MRI activity.
The authors investigate the interplay between spatial attention and memory-based feature guidance of visual selection. Three types of guidance were tested: working memory, spatial cueing and passive memory. In all cases the memory-cue was not relevant to a subsequent search task, whilst the spatial cue always provided valid information. Behaviourally, search performance was influenced by spatial cueing and by feature-based cueing from the contents of working memory; both forms of guidance interacted, with feature guidance being more effective when the target's location was not pre-cued. Spatial cueing recruited the dorsal fronto-parietal network which was silent during the WM-only condition. Memory guidance of selection was reflected in activity in a frontal-temporal-occipital network. Interestingly, when spatial and memory guidance were pitted against each other, neural activity in this latter network was greatly attenuated. Connectivity analysis showed that the posterior parietal cortices inhibit the responses of occipital and temporal regions to the onset of memory-items in the search display. In the presence of a reliable spatial cue the posterior parietal cortex resumes control of attentional deployment. These results illustrate how different forms of attention guidance interact to optimise visual selection.
The previously separate literatures on visual attention and on visual working memory are converging, with growing interest in how visual attention may relate to visual short-term memory, as exemplified by this special issue. We report exploratory analysis of how individual behavioural differences in separable aspects of attention may relate to particular aspects of visual working memory. Previous work with the Attention Network Test (ANT; Fan, McCandliss, Sommer, Raz, &amp; Posner, 2002) proposed that it can measure three distinct aspects of attention: alerting, spatial orienting, plus executive control of response competition. We implemented the ANT in 50 healthy young adults, who also underwent a behavioural battery of visual working memory (WM) tests. These visual WM tests were all variations on recent paradigms, used here with the aim of measuring potential individual differences in visual WM capacity; WM precision; or WM distractor-filtering. Principal component analysis of the behavioural dataset revealed three main components. Interestingly, each component paired one aspect of ANT scores together with one aspect of WM scores, in terms of the strongest loadings. WM capacity loaded with ANT alerting; WM precision with ANT orienting; and WM filtering with ANT executive control. These results suggest that visual WM may involve separate component processes, and that different aspects of attention relate to different aspects of visual WM, in terms of behavioural individual differences. We discuss the observed pattern in relation to current issues and with respect to possible future work on the potential neural bases of individual differences in the distinct components.


Generalized Social Anxiety Disorder (SAD) is one of the most common anxiety conditions with impairment in social life. Cannabidiol (CBD), one major non-psychotomimetic compound of the cannabis sativa plant, has shown anxiolytic effects both in humans and in animals. This preliminary study aimed to compare the effects of a simulation public speaking test (SPST) on healthy control (HC) patients and treatment-nave SAD patients who received a single dose of CBD or placebo. A total of 24 never-treated patients with SAD were allocated to receive either CBD (600mg; n=12) or placebo (placebo; n=12) in a double-blind randomized design 1h and a half before the test. The same number of HC (n=12) performed the SPST without receiving any medication. Each volunteer participated in only one experimental session in a double-blind procedure. Subjective ratings on the Visual Analogue Mood Scale (VAMS) and Negative Self-Statement scale (SSPS-N) and physiological measures (blood pressure, heart rate, and skin conductance) were measured at six different time points during the SPST. The results were submitted to a repeated-measures analysis of variance. Pretreatment with CBD significantly reduced anxiety, cognitive impairment and discomfort in their speech performance, and significantly decreased alert in their anticipatory speech. The placebo group presented higher anxiety, cognitive impairment, discomfort, and alert levels when compared with the control group as assessed with the VAMS. The SSPS-N scores evidenced significant increases during the testing of placebo group that was almost abolished in the CBD group. No significant differences were observed between CBD and HC in SSPS-N scores or in the cognitive impairment, discomfort, and alert factors of VAMS. The increase in anxiety induced by the SPST on subjects with SAD was reduced with the use of CBD, resulting in a similar response as the HC.
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) is essential for top-down control over higher-order executive function. In this study we demonstrate that the medial prefrontal cortex (mPFC) and orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) differentially regulate VTA dopamine neuron activity, and furthermore, the pattern of activity in the PFC drastically alters the dopamine neuron response. Thus, although single-pulse activation of the mPFC either excites or inhibits equivalent numbers of dopamine neurons, activation of the OFC induces a primarily inhibitory response. Moreover, activation of the PFC with a pattern that mimics spontaneous burst firing of pyramidal neurons produces a strikingly different response. Specifically, burst-like activation of the mPFC induces a massive increase in dopamine neuron firing, whereas a similar pattern of OFC activation largely inhibits dopamine activity. Taken together, these data demonstrate that the mPFC and OFC differentially regulate dopamine neuron activity, and that the pattern of cortical activation is critical for determining dopamine system output.


The brain's serotonin (5-HT) system is key in the regulation of reward-related behaviours, from eating and drinking to sexual activity. The complexity of studying this system is due, in part, to the fact that 5-HT acts at many receptor subtypes throughout the brain. The recent development of drugs with greater selectivity for individual receptor subtypes has allowed for rapid advancements in our understanding of this system. Use of these drugs in combination with animal models entailing selective reward measures (i.e. intracranial self-stimulation, drug self-administration, conditioned place preference) have resulted in a greater understanding of the pharmacology of reward-related processing and behaviour (particularly regarding drugs of abuse). The putative roles of each 5-HT receptor subtype in the pharmacology of reward are outlined and discussed here. It is concluded that the actions of 5-HT in reward are receptor subtype-dependent (and thus should not be generalized) and that all studied subtypes appear to have a unique profile which is determined by content (e.g. receptor function, localization - both throughout the brain and within the synapse) and context (e.g. type of behavioural paradigm, type of drug). Given evidence of altered reward-related processing and serotonergic function in numerous neuropsychiatric disorders, such as depression, schizophrenia, and addiction, a clearer understanding of the role of 5-HT receptor subtypes in this context may lead to improved drug development and therapeutic approaches.
Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia affecting the elderly population today; however, there is currently no accurate description of the etiology of this devastating disorder. No single factor has been demonstrated as being causative; however, an alternative co-factors theory suggests that the interaction of multiple risk factors is responsible for AD. We have used this model, in combination with the original cholinergic hypothesis of AD to propose a &quot;new&quot; cholinergic hypothesis that we present in this review. This new version takes into account recent findings from the literature and our reports of removal of medial septum cholinergic projections to the hippocampus reduces both behavioural and anatomical plasticity, resulting in greater cognitive impairment in response to secondary insults (stress, injury, disease, etc.). We will first summarize the experimental results and discuss some potential mechanisms that could explain our results. We will then present our 'new' version of the cholinergic hypothesis and how it relates to the field of AD research today. Finally we will discuss some of the implications for treatment that arise from this model and present directions for future study.
We propose to bring together the hitherto rather separate research fields of autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and argue that by contrasting and combining findings of the endophenotypes of ASD and ADHD new insights can be gained into the etiology and pathophysiology of these two disorders. Given the highly heritable nature of both disorders, studies of the genes explaining the shared origins of the two neurodevelopmental disorders seem particularly called for. Instead of the clinical diagnosis, using neurocognitive measures as (endo)phenotypes that index genetic liability appears a powerful tool in gene finding. We, therefore, extensively reviewed the literature and not only included research wherein ASD and ADHD were compared within a single study, but extended our search also to the separate lines of cognitive neuroscience research. We discuss which cognitive and brain measures will be useful in future genetic studies targeting pleiotropic genes for ASD and ADHD. By specifying the most promising endophenotypic measures we chart the future course for endophenotypic research in ASD and ADHD. We also discuss the various models that may explain the frequent co-occurrence of ASD and ADHD.
Glucocorticoids (GC) are necessary for normal life but elevated levels of GC have been implicated in the development of several neurological diseases and psychiatric disorders. Nowadays, it is well known that high levels of GC in the central nervous system (CNS) generate an increase in the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS), derived mainly from the nitric oxide (NO) pathway. Accordingly, there is an increase of L-arginine (L-Arg.) availability. This report reviews the evidence that D-arginine (D-Arg.) induces normalization of L-Arg. resulting in protection against GC neurotoxic actions in the hippocampus. It is important to highlight that this D-amino acid does not interfere with the expected peripheral effects of GC such as suppression of the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis (HPA axis) and the immune response, commonly used in clinical practice.
A major challenge in systems neuroscience is to determine the underlying neural circuitry and associated neurotransmitters and receptors involved in psychiatric disorders, such as anxiety and depression. A focus of many of these studies has been specific brainstem nuclei that modulate levels of arousal via their ascending monoaminergic projections (e.g. the serotonergic dorsal raph, noradrenergic locus ceruleus and cholinergic laterodorsal tegmental nucleus). After years of relative neglect, the subject of recent studies in this context has been the GABAergic nucleus incertus, which is located in the midline periventricular central gray in the 'prepontine' hindbrain, with broad projections throughout the forebrain. Nucleus incertus neurons express receptors for the stress hormone, corticotropin-releasing factor (CRF), are activated by psychological stressors, and project to key nuclei involved in stress responses and behavioral activation. The nucleus incertus is also a node in neural circuits capable of modulating hippocampal theta rhythm, which is related to control of spatial navigation and memory. A significant population of nucleus incertus neurons express the recently discovered, highly conserved neuropeptide, relaxin-3; and the recent availability of structurally-related, chimeric peptides that selectively activate or inhibit the relaxin-3 receptor, RXFP3, is facilitating studies of relaxin-3/RXFP3 networks and associated GABA and CRF systems. It is predicted that such targeted research will help elucidate the functions of ascending nucleus incertus pathways, including their possible involvement in arousal (sleep/wakefulness), stress reponses, and learning and memory; and in the pathology of related psychiatric diseases such as insomnia, anxiety and depression, and cognitive deficits.
In 2009, we reported an online brain atlas of the common marmoset (Callithrix jacchus) at http://marmoset-brain.org:2008. Here we report new digital images of the primate spinal cord sections added to the website. We prepared histological sections of every segment of the spinal cord of the common marmoset, rhesus monkey and Japanese monkey with various staining techniques. The sections were scanned with Carl Zeiss MIRAX SCAN at light microscopic resolution. Obtained digital data were processed and converted into multi-resolutionary images with Adobe Photoshop and Zoomify Design. These images of the primate spinal cords are now available on the web via the Internet.
Many neuropsychological studies demonstrate impairment of working memory in patients with major depressive disorder (MDD). However, there are not enough functional neuroimaging studies of MDD patients seeking for the underlying brain activity relevant to working memory function. The objective of this study is to evaluate prefrontal hemodynamic response related to working memory function in patients with MDD. Twenty-four subjects with MDD and 26 age- and gender-matched healthy subjects were recruited for the present study. We measured hemoglobin concentration changes in the prefrontal and superior temporal cortical surface areas during the execution of working memory task (WM; 2-back, letter version) using 52-channel near-infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), which enables real-time monitoring of task-related changes in cerebral blood volumes in the cortical surface areas. MDD patients showed a smaller increase in lateral prefrontal and superior temporal cortex activation during the 2-back task and associated poorer task performance than healthy controls. The results coincided with previous findings in terms of working memory deficits and prefrontal cortex dysfunction in MDD patients, but contradicted with some previous fMRI studies that suggested increased cortical activity during the working memory task in patients with depression. The contradiction may, in part, be explained by a relatively low level of cognitive demand imposed on the subjects in the present study.
Dissociated hippocampal neuron culture has long been the model system of choice for many neuroscientists. The ability to culture dissociated hippocampal neurons from genetically modified mice provides an invaluable tool for studying many neuronal processes. In this study, we established a novel method to culture dissociated hippocampal neurons from embryonic and neonatal mice. Dissociated neurons were cultured in a microchamber between the glass coverslip and the plastic cell container without the use of glial feeder cells. Our method significantly simplifies the preparation while produces healthy and long-lived neuronal cultures that are difficult to achieve without the use of feeder cells.


Quinacrine is one of the few molecules tested to treat patients affected by prion diseases, although the clinical outcome is largely unsatisfactory. To identify novel derivatives with higher neuroprotective activity, we evaluated the effects of a small library of acridine derivatives. The 6-chloro-2-methoxyacridine derivatives bearing on position 9 a quinolizidin-1-ylamino (Q1, Q2) or a quinolizidin-1-ylalkylamino residue (Q3, Q4, Q6, Q7), the thio-bioisoster of Q3 (Q5), the 9-(N-lupinylthiopropyl)amino derivative (Q8) and simple acridines (Q9 and Q10) were considered. We compared the effects of quinacrine and these novel analogues in the inhibition of the cytotoxic activity and protease K (PK) resistance of the human prion protein fragment 90-231 (hPrP90-231). We demonstrate that quinacrine caused a significant reduction of hPrP90-231 toxicity due to its binding to the fragment and the prevention of its conversion in a toxic isoform. All acridine derivatives analyzed showed high affinity binding for hPrP90-231, but only Q3 and Q10, caused a significant reduction of hPrP90-231 cytotoxicity, with higher efficacy than quinacrine. We attempted to correlate the cytoprotective effects of the new compounds with some biochemical parameters (binding affinity to hPrP90-231, intrinsic fluorescence quenching, hydrophobic amino acid exposure), but a direct relationship occurred only with the reduction of PK resistance, likely due to the prevention of the acquisition of the -sheet-rich toxic conformation. These data represent interesting leads for further modifications of the basic side chain and the substituent pattern of the acridine nucleus to develop novel compounds with improved antiprion activity to be tested in in vivo experimental setting.
Paraquat (PQ) is an herbicide used extensively in agriculture. This agent is also suspected to be a risk factor for Parkinson's disease (PD) by harming nigro-striatal dopamine neurons. There is likely, genetic-based, individual variability in susceptibility to PQ neurotoxicity related PD. In this study, we measured the delivery of PQ to the brain after three weekly injections of PQ at 5 mg kg(-1), PQ-related neural toxicity after three weekly injections of PQ at 1 mg kg(-1)or 5 mg kg(-1), PQ-related iron accumulation and PQ-related gene expression in midbrain of DBA/2J (D2) and C57BL/6J (B6) inbred mouse strains after a single injection of PQ at 15 mg kg(-1) and 10 mg kg(-1), respectively. Results showed that compared to controls, PQ-treated B6 mice lost greater numbers of dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta than D2 mice; however, distribution of PQ to the midbrain was equal between the strains. PQ also significantly increased iron concentration in the midbrain of B6 but not D2 mice. Microarray analysis of the ventral midbrain showed greater PQ-induced changes in gene expression in B6 compared to D2 mice. This is the first study to report genetically-based differences in susceptibility to PQ neurotoxicity and to understanding individual differences in vulnerability to PQ neurotoxicity and its relation to PD in humans.
Functional MRI (fMRI) based on the blood oxygen level-dependent (BOLD) contrast is widely used in preclinical neuroscience. The small dimensions of rodent brain place high demands on spatial resolution, and hence on the sensitivity of the fMRI experiment. This work investigates the performance of a 400-MHz cryogenic quadrature transceive radiofrequency probe (CryoProbe) with respect to the enhancement of the BOLD sensitivity. For this purpose, BOLD fMRI experiments were performed in mice during electrical forepaw stimulation using the CryoProbe and a conventional room temperature surface coil of comparable dimensions. Image signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) and temporal SNR were evaluated as quality measures for individual images and for fMRI time series of images, resulting in gains (mean  standard deviation) with factors of 3.1  0.7 and 1.8  1.0 when comparing the CryoProbe and room temperature coil. The CryoProbe thermal shield temperature did not affect the noise characteristics, with temporal noise levels being 63  16% of the corresponding room temperature value. However, a significant effect on BOLD amplitudes was found, which was attributed to temperature-dependent baseline cerebral blood volumes. Defined local thermal conditions were found to be a critical parameter for achieving an optimal and reproducible fMRI signal. In summary, the CryoProbe represents an attractive alternative for the enhancement of image SNR, temporal SNR and BOLD sensitivity in mouse fMRI experiments.



Maternal obesity in pregnancy is associated with a number of adverse outcomes for mother and her offspring both perinatally and later in life. This includes recent evidence that suggests that obesity in pregnancy may be associated with central nervous system problems in the foetus and newborn. Here, we systematically review studies that have explored associations between maternal overweight and obesity in pregnancy and cognitive, behavioural and emotional problems in offspring. The 12 studies eligible for this review examined a wide range of outcomes across the lifespan and eight provided evidence of a link. These data suggest that the offspring of obese pregnancies may be at increased risk of cognitive problems and symptoms of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder in childhood, eating disorders in adolescence and psychotic disorders in adulthood. Given the limitations of existing data, these findings warrant further study, particularly in light of the current worldwide obesity epidemic.
Evidence suggests that a curvilinear relationship may exist between birth weight and later psychopathology. Increases in the prevalence of macrosomia and of two of its risk factors (maternal pre-pregnancy obesity and diabetes mellitus) and their amenability to intervention argue for a critical review of the association between macrosomia and mental illness. Of the nine studies in adults and six studies in youth that have examined associations between macrosomia and psychiatric disorders, seven have provided evidence suggestive of a link. Significant methodological variability and an inability to adjust for important confounders limit the findings of these studies. As a result, it remains unclear if individuals born macrosomic are at increased risk for psychopathology later in life. Future work should attempt to examine a broader range of psychiatric outcomes, use validated measures, include data on putative confounders and utilize genetically sensitive designs to assess associations between macrosomia, its precursors and later psychological and emotional functioning.


Despite the increasing interest in TRPA1 channel as a pain target, its role in cold sensation and body temperature regulation is not clear; the efficacy and particularly side effects resulting from channel blockade remain poorly understood. Here we use a potent, selective, and bioavailable antagonist to address these issues. A-967079 potently blocks human (IC(50): 51 nmol/L, electrophysiology, 67 nmol/L, Ca(2+) assay) and rat TRPA1 (IC(50): 101 nmol/L, electrophysiology, 289 nmol/L, Ca(2+) assay). It is &gt;1000-fold selective over other TRP channels, and is &gt;150-fold selective over 75 other ion channels, enzymes, and G-protein-coupled receptors. Oral dosing of A-967079 produces robust drug exposure in rodents, and exhibits analgesic efficacy in allyl isothiocyanate-induced nocifensive response and osteoarthritic pain in rats (ED(50): 23.2 mg/kg, p.o.). A-967079 attenuates cold allodynia produced by nerve injury but does not alter noxious cold sensation in naive animals, suggesting distinct roles of TRPA1 in physiological and pathological states. Unlike TRPV1 antagonists, A-967079 does not alter body temperature. It also does not produce locomotor or cardiovascular side effects. Collectively, these data provide novel insights into TRPA1 function and suggest that the selective TRPA1 blockade may present a viable strategy for alleviating pain without untoward side effects.
Accurate perception of another person's painful distress would appear to be accomplished through sensitivity to both automatic (unintentional, reflexive) and controlled (intentional, purposive) behavioural expression. We examined whether observers would construe diverse behavioural cues as falling within these domains, consistent with cognitive neuroscience findings describing activation of both automatic and controlled neuroregulatory processes. Using online survey methodology, 308 research participants rated behavioural cues as &quot;goal directed vs. non-goal directed,&quot; &quot;conscious vs. unconscious,&quot; &quot;uncontrolled vs. controlled,&quot; &quot;fast vs. slow,&quot; &quot;intentional (deliberate) vs. unintentional,&quot; &quot;stimulus driven (obligatory) vs. self driven,&quot; and &quot;requiring contemplation vs. not requiring contemplation.&quot; The behavioural cues were the 39 items provided by the PROMIS pain behaviour bank, constructed to be representative of the diverse possibilities for pain expression. Inter-item correlations among rating scales provided evidence of sufficient internal consistency justifying a single score on an automatic/controlled dimension (excluding the inconsistent fast vs. slow scale). An initial exploratory factor analysis on 151 participant data sets yielded factors consistent with &quot;controlled&quot; and &quot;automatic&quot; actions, as well as behaviours characterized as &quot;ambiguous.&quot; A confirmatory factor analysis using the remaining 151 data sets replicated EFA findings, supporting theoretical predictions that observers would distinguish immediate, reflexive, and spontaneous reactions (primarily facial expression and paralinguistic features of speech) from purposeful and controlled expression (verbal behaviour, instrumental behaviour requiring ongoing, integrated responses). There are implicit dispositions to organize cues signaling pain in others into the well-defined categories predicted by dual process theory.

SUMMARYApart from their contribution to the overall knowledge of perception and related processes, sensory illusions have been used in recent years to treat and better understand pain disorders such as phantom limb pain or complex regional pain syndrome. With the help of modern imaging techniques, we can examine connections between basic processes of integrative perception and the occurrence of chronic pain. This article gives an overview of recent developments in the area of body illusions and pain, and provides suggestions on how they might lead to novel and effective treatments for chronic pain.
Fabrizio Benedetti, MD is Professor of Physiology and Neuroscience at the University of Turin Medical School and at the National Institute of Neuroscience, Turin, Italy. He is a nominated member of The Academy of Europe and the European Dana Alliance for the Brain. He was consultant of the Placebo Project at the NIH and member of the six-strong Placebo Study Group at Harvard University (MA, USA), and held positions at the University of California (CA, USA) and the University of Texas (TX, USA). He identified some basic mechanisms of placebo responses across a variety of medical conditions, such as the involvement of endogenous opioids in placebo analgesia and of cholecystokinin in nocebo hyperalgesia, as well as the neuronal circuit that is affected by placebos in Parkinson's disease. He is author of the book Placebo Effects (Oxford University Press, Oxford, UK, 2008), which received the Highly Commended Book Award of the British Medical Association, and The Patient's Brain (Oxford University Press 2010).

Parkinson's disease is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder characterized by selective degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in substantia nigra pars compacta leading to marked reduction of dopamine levels in the cerebral cortex. The present study analysed the effect of serotonin, dopamine and norepinephrine as treatment on rotenone induced Hemi-Parkinson's disease in rats and its role in the regulation of dopamine receptor subtypes in the cerebral cortex of the experimental rats. Unilateral stereotaxic single dose infusions of rotenone were administered to the substantia nigra of adult male Wistar rats. Neurotransmitters--serotonin, dopamine and norepinephrine treatments--were given to rotenone induced Hemi-Parkinson's rats. Scatchard analysis of Dopamine D and D receptor showed a significant increase (p &lt; 0.001) in the cerebral cortex of the Parkinson's rats compared to control. These altered parameters were reversed to near control in the serotonin and norepinephrine treated Parkinson's disease rats and no change was observed in dopamine treated Parkinson's rats. Real-time PCR results confirmed the receptor data. Our results showed serotonin and norepinephrine functionally reversed the dopamine receptors significantly in rotenone induced Hemi-Parkinson's rat. This has clinical significance in the therapeutic management of Parkinson's disease.

Attention deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), a prevalent neurodevelopmental disorder, has been associated with various structural and functional CNS abnormalities but findings about neurobiological mechanisms linking genes to brain phenotypes are just beginning to emerge. Despite the high heritability of the disorder and its main symptom dimensions, common individual genetic variants are likely to account for a small proportion of the phenotype's variance. Recent findings have drawn attention to the involvement of rare genetic variants in the pathophysiology of ADHD, some being shared with other neurodevelopmental disorders. Traditionally, neurobiological research on ADHD has focused on catecholaminergic pathways, the main target of pharmacological treatments. However, more distal and basic neuronal processes in relation with cell architecture and function might also play a role, possibly accounting for the coexistence of both diffuse and specific alterations of brain structure and activation patterns. This article aims to provide an overview of recent findings in the rapidly evolving field of ADHD neurobiology with a focus on novel strategies regarding pathophysiological analyses.
This cross-sectional, multicenter cohort study compares the level of HRQOL of pediatric LT recipients to children with other chronic health conditions. LT sample included 873 children who survived at least 12 months following LT. Six chronic disease samples were compiled from numerous studies, including over 800 patients with JRA, type 1 diabetes, cancer in remission, cardiac disease, end-stage renal disease, and inflammatory bowel disease. Generic HRQOL was measured from both the parental and patient perspective using the PedsQL 4.0 Generic Core Scales. Pediatric LT patients reported better physical health than children with JRA. According to parents, pediatric LT recipients had better HRQOL than children on renal dialysis on all domains except school functioning. Across all domains but emotional functioning, pediatric LT recipients reported significantly lower HRQOL than children with type 1 diabetes. Overall, pediatric LT patients reported HRQOL comparable to that of children who had undergone renal transplantation and patients with cancer in remission. Pediatric LT patients manifested impaired HRQOL similar to that of children with chronic diseases and these data suggest that they face ongoing challenges that warrant monitoring and indicate a need for interventions to improve their HRQOL.

The ancient renin-angiotensin system (RAS) was discovered more than a hundred years ago by identifying the rate-limiting enzyme of the system and its relevance to blood pressure regulation. Forty years ago, Detlev Ganten et al. postulated the existence of a tissue RAS. In these forty years, he kept developing the knowledge of these systems either directly or by training or attracting the interest of many researchers. Through the present review, we try to highlight recent advancements that originated from the postulation of local brain RAS. Although a large amount of knowledge accumulated, this system continues to intrigue and stimulate the interest and imagination of many researchers.
The history of the discovery of the transient receptor potential (TRP) cation channel superfamily began in 1969 with Cosens and Manning's isolation of the Drosophila transient receptor potential mutant, in which the photoreceptor response decays during continuous illumination. Early studies from Minke found that the elementary light response was unaffected in trp mutants, and he attributed the defect to an intermediate stage of phototransduction. Montell and Rubin cloned the trp gene in 1989: they recognised it as a transmembrane protein, but also concluded that it did not encode the light-sensitive channels. In 1991, Minke and Selinger proposed that TRP represented a Ca2+ transporter required for refilling intracellular InsP3-sensitive Ca2+ stores, in turn required for activation of the light-sensitive channels. Also in 1991, after developing a photoreceptor patch clamp preparation, I showed that the light-sensitive channels themselves were highly permeable to Ca2+, questioning the need for such a dedicated Ca2+ transporter. In 1992, in collaboration with Minke, I resolved this paradox by showing there were two classes of light-sensitive channels, one highly Ca2+ permeable and eliminated in trp mutants. This represented the first and compelling evidence that TRP represented a light-sensitive channel and was supported by the cloning of the second light-sensitive channel, TRPL, by Kelly's lab. Three years later, in 1995, the labs of Montell and Birnbaumer independently cloned TRPC1, the first of 29 vertebrate TRP isoforms distributed amongst seven subfamilies.
Hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a worldwide public health problem. Vaccination is the most efficient way to prevent hepatitis B. Despite the success of the currently available vaccine, there is a clear need for the development of new generation of HBV vaccines. Needle-free immunization is an attractive approach for mass immunization campaigns, since avoiding the use of needles reduces the risk of needle-borne diseases and prevents needle-stick injuries and pain, thus augmenting patient compliance and eliminating the need for trained medical personnel. Moreover, this kind of immunization was shown to induce good systemic as well as mucosal immunological responses, which is important for the creation of both a prophylactic and therapeutic vaccine. In order to produce a better, safer, more efficient and more suitable vaccine, adjuvants have been used. In this article, several adjuvants tested over the years for their potential to help create a needle-free vaccine against HBV are reviewed.

Recent work has suggested that environmental enrichment during development can enhance aspects of learning and memory, however its effects on executive function and cognitive flexibility have not been well studied. The goal of this research was to evaluate whether environmental enrichment (EE) that included wheel running would improve cognitive performance in young male Long Evans rats that received subchronic administration of either phencyclidine (PCP) or saline. We used a sensitive extradimensional/intradimensional (ED/ID) test of cognitive flexibility similar to that used in humans and nonhuman primates for assessing executive function. PCP-treated rats demonstrated a selective impairment on ED shift (EDS) performance without significant impairment on other discrimination problems when compared to saline treated control animals. A separate group of animals that received PCP + EE demonstrated significantly improved performance on EDS and reversal learning problems, whereas the saline + EE group demonstrated a non-selective improvement in overall performance when compared to non-enriched saline controls. The saline + EE group demonstrated greater activity levels as measured by wheel running when compared to the PCP + EE group, but no significant associations were found between wheel running and cognitive performance. Together, these data suggest that EE that features wheel running may have promoted a general cognitive enhancement while also selectively acting upon neurobiological mechanisms that subserve executive function and cognitive flexibility in impaired animals. Development of novel treatment methodologies that target mechanisms underlying the ameliorative effects of EE in this model of cognitive impairment may be a useful tool in the development of new therapeutic strategies for disorders that feature cognitive dysfunction as a key symptom.
While selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) are widely used to treat anxiety and depression, they also produce profound disruptions of sexual function including delayed orgasm/ejaculation. The nucleus paragigantocellularis (nPGi), a primary source of inhibition of ejaculation in male rats, contains receptors for serotonin (5-HT). The ventrolateral periaqueductal gray (vlPAG) provides serotonin to this region, thus providing an anatomical and neurochemical basis for serotonergic regulation of the nPGi. We hypothesize that 5-HT acting at the nPGi could underlie the SSRI-induced inhibition of ejaculation in rodents. To this end, we produced 5-HT lesions of the source of 5-HT to the nPGi (the vlPAG) and examined sexual behavior. Removing the source of 5-HT to the nPGi facilitated genital reflexes, but not other aspects of sexual behavior, consistent with our hypothesis. Namely, 5-HT lesions produced a significant increase in the mean number of ejaculations and a significant decrease in ejaculation latency as compared to sham lesioned animals, while latency to mating and the post-ejaculatory interval did not differ. These data suggest that the serotonergic vlPAG-nPGi pathway is an important regulatory mechanism for the inhibition of ejaculation in rats and supports the hypothesis that this circuit contributes to SSRI-induced inhibition of ejaculation.
The systems approach to biology has a long history. Its recent rapid resurgence at the turn of the century reflects the problems encountered in interpreting the sequencing of the genome and the failure of that immense achievement to provide rapid and direct solutions to major multi-factorial diseases. This paper argues that systems biology is necessarily multilevel and that there is no privileged level of causality in biological systems. It is an approach rather than a separate discipline. Functionality arises from biological networks that interact with the genome, the environment and the phenotype. This view of biology is very different from the gene-centred views of neo-Darwinism and molecular biology. In neuroscience, the systems approach leads naturally to 2 important conclusions: first, that the idea of 'programs' in the brain is confusing, and second, that the self is better interpreted as a process than as an object.
This article summarizes key facts on the epidemiology, diagnosis and clinical treatment of bipolar disorder. Bipolar disorder is a common mental disorder with a high disease burden, but still does not get the attention it deserves in research and clinical training. The nature of the disorder is complex, but it is apparent that biological factors are decisive. Thus, understanding the biological systems and cycles affected will become crucial for developing more targeted interventions. Currently, standard treatments seem to have a low specificity for Bipolar Disorder, and only few experimental interventions target directly potential underlying disturbances as HPA axis or circadian clock dysregulation. Systemic analysing and modelling of bipolar disorder is a novel approach which might open up new ways in developing more selective therapies.
Understanding mental disorders and their neurobiological basis encompasses the conceptual management of &quot;complexity&quot; and &quot;dynamics&quot;. For example, affective disorders exhibit several fluctuating state variables on psychological and biological levels and data collected of these systems levels suggest quasi-chaotic periodicity leading to use concepts and tools of the mathematics of nonlinear dynamic systems. Regarding this, we demonstrate that the concept of &quot;Dynamic Diseases&quot; could be a fruitful way for theory and empirical research in neuropsychiatry. In a first step, as an example, we focus on the analysis of dynamic cortisol regulation that is important for understanding depressive disorders. In this case, our message is that extremely complex phenomena of a disease may be explained as resulting from perplexingly simple nonlinear interactions of a very small number of variables. Additionally, we propose that and how widely used complex circuit diagrams representing the macroanatomic structures and connectivities of the brain involved in major depression or other mental disorders may be &quot;animated&quot; by quantification, even by using expert-based estimations (dummy variables). This method of modeling allows to develop exploratory computer-based numerical models that encompass the option to explore the system by computer simulations (in-silico experiments). Also inter- and intracellular molecular networks involved in affective disorders could be modeled by this procedure. We want to stimulate future research in this theoretical context.

The arginine vasopressin receptor antagonists, also known as the vaptans, are a new class of agents that address some of the unmet medical needs of patients with hyponatremia. Traditional therapies, including diuretics, fluid restriction, and saline infusions, have variable effects, potential toxicities, and concerns with patient adherence. Furthermore, these therapies are not specific to the underlying pathophysiology causing the hyponatremia. The recently approved arginine vasopressin receptor antagonists, however, target the underlying abnormal release of arginine vasopressin that is very likely at the core of the pathophysiology. Management of hyponatremia requires balancing the benefits of therapeutic intervention to restore normal serum sodium concentrations against the potential risks. Additional clinical experience is needed to develop reliable criteria for determining which patients should be treated with these agents. However, the data available indicate that this new class of drugs can favorably affect serum sodium concentration and clinical outcomes in patients with hypervolemic and euvolemic hyponatremia.
We examine multistability of several coexisting bursting patterns in a central pattern generator network composed of three Hodgkin-Huxley type cells coupled reciprocally by inhibitory synapses. We establish that the control of switching between bursting polyrhythms and their bifurcations are determined by the temporal characteristics, such as the duty cycle, of networked interneurons and the coupling strength asymmetry. A computationally effective approach to the reduction of dynamics of the nine-dimensional network to two-dimensional Poincar return mappings for phase lags between the interneurons is presented.
Phase models are among the simplest neuron models reproducing spiking behavior, excitability, and bifurcations toward periodic firing. However, coupling among neurons has been considered only using generic arguments valid close to the bifurcation point, and the differentiation between electric and synaptic coupling remains an open question. In this work we aim to address this question and derive a mathematical formulation for the various forms of coupling. We construct a mathematical model based on a planar simplification of the Morris-Lecar model. Based on geometric arguments we then derive a phase description of a network of the above oscillators with biologically realistic electric coupling and subsequently with chemical coupling under fast synapse approximation. We demonstrate analytically that electric and synaptic coupling are differently expressed on the level of the network's phase description with qualitatively different dynamics. Our mathematical analysis shows that a breaking of the translational symmetry in the phase flows is responsible for the different bifurcations paths of electric and synaptic coupling. Our numerical investigations confirm these findings and show excellent correspondence between the dynamics of the full network and the network's phase description.
Sequences of events in noise-driven excitable systems with slow variables often show serial correlations among their intervals of events. Here, we employ a master equation for generalized non-renewal processes to calculate the interval and count statistics of superimposed processes governed by a slow adaptation variable. For an ensemble of neurons with spike-frequency adaptation, this results in the regularization of the population activity and an enhanced postsynaptic signal decoding. We confirm our theoretical results in a population of cortical neurons recorded in vivo.
MicroRNAs (miRNAs) are a novel class of small noncoding RNAs that negatively regulate gene expression at the posttranscriptional level by binding to the 3'-untranslated region of target mRNAs leading to their translational inhibition or sometimes degradation. MiRNAs are predicted to control the activity of at least 20-30% of human protein-coding genes. Recent studies have demonstrated that miRNAs are highly expressed in the central nervous system (CNS) including the brain and spinal cord. Although we are currently in the initial stages of understanding how this novel class of gene regulators is involved in neurological biological functions, a growing body of exciting evidence suggests that miRNAs are important regulators of diverse biological processes such as cell differentiation, growth, proliferation, and apoptosis. Moreover, miRNAs are key modulators of both CNS development and plasticity. Some miRNAs have been implicated in several neurological disorders such as traumatic CNS injuries and neurodegenerative diseases. Recently, several studies suggested the possibility of miRNA involvement in neurodegeneration. Identifying the roles of miRNAs and their target genes and signaling pathways in neurological disorders will be critical for future research. miRNAs may represent a new layer of regulators for neurobiology and a novel class of therapeutic targets for neurological diseases.
It is well established that neuroinflammation contributes to brain aging, and that cortical cells are particularly vulnerable. Lipopolysaccharide stimulates the release of the pro-inflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta from glial cells which consequently induces an impairment in neuronal cell function. The food supplement, Aquamin, is a natural, multi-mineral derived from the red algae Lithothamnion corallioides, rich in calcium, magnesium and 72 other trace minerals. The aim of this study was to evaluate the anti-inflammatory potential of Aquamin in lipopolysaccharide-stimulated, glial-enriched primary cultures of rat cortex. It is reported that Aquamin prevented lipopolysaccharide-induced secretion of tumor necrosis factor-alpha and interleukin-1beta from cortical glia. These data suggest that nutritional supplements such as Aquamin may play an important role in impeding the detrimental effects of excessive inflammation in the brain.
Neural oscillations are ubiquitous measurements of cognitive processes and dynamic routing and gating of information. The fundamental and so far unresolved problem for neuroscience remains to understand how oscillatory activity in the brain codes information for human cognition. In a biologically relevant cognitive task, we instructed six human observers to categorize facial expressions of emotion while we measured the observers' EEG. We combined state-of-the-art stimulus control with statistical information theory analysis to quantify how the three parameters of oscillations (i.e., power, phase, and frequency) code the visual information relevant for behavior in a cognitive task. We make three points: First, we demonstrate that phase codes considerably more information (2.4 times) relating to the cognitive task than power. Second, we show that the conjunction of power and phase coding reflects detailed visual features relevant for behavioral response--that is, features of facial expressions predicted by behavior. Third, we demonstrate, in analogy to communication technology, that oscillatory frequencies in the brain multiplex the coding of visual features, increasing coding capacity. Together, our findings about the fundamental coding properties of neural oscillations will redirect the research agenda in neuroscience by establishing the differential role of frequency, phase, and amplitude in coding behaviorally relevant information in the brain.
Imaging studies have revealed a putative neural account of emotional bias in decision making. However, it has been difficult in previous studies to identify the causal role of the different sub-regions involved in decision making. The Ultimatum Game (UG) is a game to study the punishment of norm-violating behavior. In a previous influential paper on UG it was suggested that frontal insular cortex has a pivotal role in the rejection response. This view has not been reconciled with a vast literature that attributes a crucial role in emotional decision making to a subcortical structure (i.e., amygdala). In this study we propose an anatomy-informed model that may join these views. We also present a design that detects the functional anatomical response to unfair proposals in a subcortical network that mediates rapid reactive responses. We used a functional MRI paradigm to study the early components of decision making and challenged our paradigm with the introduction of a pharmacological intervention to perturb the elicited behavioral and neural response. Benzodiazepine treatment decreased the rejection rate (from 37.6% to 19.0%) concomitantly with a diminished amygdala response to unfair proposals, and this in spite of an unchanged feeling of unfairness and unchanged insular response. In the control group, rejection was directly linked to an increase in amygdala activity. These results allow a functional anatomical detection of the early neural components of rejection associated with the initial reactive emotional response. Thus, the act of immediate rejection seems to be mediated by the limbic system and is not solely driven by cortical processes, as previously suggested. Our results also prompt an ethical discussion as we demonstrated that a commonly used drug influences core functions in the human brain that underlie individual autonomy and economic decision making.
Midbrain dopaminergic neurons are endowed with endogenous slow pacemaking properties. In recent years, many different groups have studied the basis for this phenomenon, often with conflicting conclusions. In particular, the role of a slowly-inactivating L-type calcium channel in the depolarizing phase between spikes is controversial, and the analysis of slow oscillatory potential (SOP) recordings during the blockade of sodium channels has led to conflicting conclusions. Based on a minimal model of a dopaminergic neuron, our analysis suggests that the same experimental protocol may lead to drastically different observations in almost identical neurons. For example, complete L-type calcium channel blockade eliminates spontaneous firing or has almost no effect in two neurons differing by less than 1% in their maximal sodium conductance. The same prediction can be reproduced in a state of the art detailed model of a dopaminergic neuron. Some of these predictions are confirmed experimentally using single-cell recordings in brain slices. Our minimal model exhibits SOPs when sodium channels are blocked, these SOPs being uncorrelated with the spiking activity, as has been shown experimentally. We also show that block of a specific conductance (in this case, the SK conductance) can have a different effect on these two oscillatory behaviors (pacemaking and SOPs), despite the fact that they have the same initiating mechanism. These results highlight the fact that computational approaches, besides their well known confirmatory and predictive interests in neurophysiology, may also be useful to resolve apparent discrepancies between experimental results.
Networks are becoming a ubiquitous metaphor for the understanding of complex biological systems, spanning the range between molecular signalling pathways, neural networks in the brain, and interacting species in a food web. In many models, we face an intricate interplay between the topology of the network and the dynamics of the system, which is generally very hard to disentangle. A dynamical feature that has been subject of intense research in various fields are correlations between the noisy activity of nodes in a network. We consider a class of systems, where discrete signals are sent along the links of the network. Such systems are of particular relevance in neuroscience, because they provide models for networks of neurons that use action potentials for communication. We study correlations in dynamic networks with arbitrary topology, assuming linear pulse coupling. With our novel approach, we are able to understand in detail how specific structural motifs affect pairwise correlations. Based on a power series decomposition of the covariance matrix, we describe the conditions under which very indirect interactions will have a pronounced effect on correlations and population dynamics. In random networks, we find that indirect interactions may lead to a broad distribution of activation levels with low average but highly variable correlations. This phenomenon is even more pronounced in networks with distance dependent connectivity. In contrast, networks with highly connected hubs or patchy connections often exhibit strong average correlations. Our results are particularly relevant in view of new experimental techniques that enable the parallel recording of spiking activity from a large number of neurons, an appropriate interpretation of which is hampered by the currently limited understanding of structure-dynamics relations in complex networks.
A common theoretical view is that attractor-like properties of neuronal dynamics underlie cognitive processing. However, although often proposed theoretically, direct experimental support for the convergence of neural activity to stable population patterns as a signature of attracting states has been sparse so far, especially in higher cortical areas. Combining state space reconstruction theorems and statistical learning techniques, we were able to resolve details of anterior cingulate cortex (ACC) multiple single-unit activity (MSUA) ensemble dynamics during a higher cognitive task which were not accessible previously. The approach worked by constructing high-dimensional state spaces from delays of the original single-unit firing rate variables and the interactions among them, which were then statistically analyzed using kernel methods. We observed cognitive-epoch-specific neural ensemble states in ACC which were stable across many trials (in the sense of being predictive) and depended on behavioral performance. More interestingly, attracting properties of these cognitively defined ensemble states became apparent in high-dimensional expansions of the MSUA spaces due to a proper unfolding of the neural activity flow, with properties common across different animals. These results therefore suggest that ACC networks may process different subcomponents of higher cognitive tasks by transiting among different attracting states.
An open problem in the field of computational neuroscience is how to link synaptic plasticity to system-level learning. A promising framework in this context is temporal-difference (TD) learning. Experimental evidence that supports the hypothesis that the mammalian brain performs temporal-difference learning includes the resemblance of the phasic activity of the midbrain dopaminergic neurons to the TD error and the discovery that cortico-striatal synaptic plasticity is modulated by dopamine. However, as the phasic dopaminergic signal does not reproduce all the properties of the theoretical TD error, it is unclear whether it is capable of driving behavior adaptation in complex tasks. Here, we present a spiking temporal-difference learning model based on the actor-critic architecture. The model dynamically generates a dopaminergic signal with realistic firing rates and exploits this signal to modulate the plasticity of synapses as a third factor. The predictions of our proposed plasticity dynamics are in good agreement with experimental results with respect to dopamine, pre- and post-synaptic activity. An analytical mapping from the parameters of our proposed plasticity dynamics to those of the classical discrete-time TD algorithm reveals that the biological constraints of the dopaminergic signal entail a modified TD algorithm with self-adapting learning parameters and an adapting offset. We show that the neuronal network is able to learn a task with sparse positive rewards as fast as the corresponding classical discrete-time TD algorithm. However, the performance of the neuronal network is impaired with respect to the traditional algorithm on a task with both positive and negative rewards and breaks down entirely on a task with purely negative rewards. Our model demonstrates that the asymmetry of a realistic dopaminergic signal enables TD learning when learning is driven by positive rewards but not when driven by negative rewards.
The putative link between gene expression of brain regions and their neural connectivity patterns is a fundamental question in neuroscience. Here this question is addressed in the first large scale study of a prototypical mammalian rodent brain, using a combination of rat brain regional connectivity data with gene expression of the mouse brain. Remarkably, even though this study uses data from two different rodent species (due to the data limitations), we still find that the connectivity of the majority of brain regions is highly predictable from their gene expression levels-the outgoing (incoming) connectivity is successfully predicted for 73% (56%) of brain regions, with an overall fairly marked accuracy level of 0.79 (0.83). Many genes are found to play a part in predicting both the incoming and outgoing connectivity (241 out of the 500 top selected genes, p-value&lt;1e-5). Reassuringly, the genes previously known from the literature to be involved in axon guidance do carry significant information about regional brain connectivity. Surveying the genes known to be associated with the pathogenesis of several brain disorders, we find that those associated with schizophrenia, autism and attention deficit disorder are the most highly enriched in the connectivity-related genes identified here. Finally, we find that the profile of functional annotation groups that are associated with regional connectivity in the rodent is significantly correlated with the annotation profile of genes previously found to determine neural connectivity in C. elegans (Pearson correlation of 0.24, p&lt;1e-6 for the outgoing connections and 0.27, p&lt;1e-5 for the incoming). Overall, the association between connectivity and gene expression in a specific extant rodent species' brain is likely to be even stronger than found here, given the limitations of current data.
Sporadic Creutzfeldt-Jacob disease (CJD) is a rare untreatable neurodegenerative disease which every neurologist will occasionally encounter during their career. However, it is likely to appear on their differential diagnosis list significantly more frequently. Numerous conditions can present with subacute encephalopathy which might be sporadic CJD and this article explores these diagnoses. It includes the commonest sporadic CJD mimics which are neurodegenerative, and highlights the relatively rare treatable mimics which must not be missed. It discusses relevant investigations, including serum antibodies, CSF, electroencephalography and MR brain imaging, and strategies when preliminary investigations fail to support sporadic CJD but no alternative diagnosis is readily apparent.

The feeling of being in control of one's own actions is a strong subjective experience. However, discoveries in psychology and neuroscience challenge the validity of this experience and suggest that free will is just an illusion. This raises a question: What would happen if people started to disbelieve in free will? Previous research has shown that low control beliefs affect performance and motivation. Recently, it has been shown that undermining free-will beliefs influences social behavior. In the study reported here, we investigated whether undermining beliefs in free will affects brain correlates of voluntary motor preparation. Our results showed that the readiness potential was reduced in individuals induced to disbelieve in free will. This effect was evident more than 1 s before participants consciously decided to move, a finding that suggests that the manipulation influenced intentional actions at preconscious stages. Our findings indicate that abstract belief systems might have a much more fundamental effect than previously thought.
Stress is known to differentially modulate memory function. Memory can be impaired or strengthened by stress, depending on e.g. the memory type and phase under study, the emotional value of the learned information and the sex of the subjects. Here, we addressed the latter and investigated the impact of psychosocial stress on long-term memory for neutral and emotional pictures and working memory in typical samples of male versus female students. In total, 77 subjects (54 women of which 39 used oral contraceptives) were exposed to either the Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) or a control condition, and then engaged in a long-term memory task (emotionally arousing and neutral pictures; surprise recall after one week) and a working memory (n-back) task. During the experiment salivary cortisol and alpha-amylase levels as well as subjective affect state were assessed. As expected, stress hormone concentrations as well as subjective negative affect states increased significantly in response to the stress task. Men reacted more to the stressor in terms of cortisol responses than women, probably due to oral contraceptive use of the latter. Results show that, in male as well as in female students, memory for emotional arousing information was better than for neutral information, in both the stress and control condition. Stress enhanced recognition memory for emotional versus neutral pictures only in male subjects. Moreover, stress enhanced working memory, particularly in males, during the first block of a 2-back task. The lack of stress effects on memory in women might be explained by oral contraceptive use, leading to blunted HPA-axis responses and secondary to reduced stress effects on memory. The results emphasize that stress affects both long-term and working memory differentially in male versus female students.
Stressed animals have been known to release aversive chemosignals toward which conspecifics show avoidance-like responses. The present studies assessed whether inflammatory cytokine responses provoked by footshock stress modulate odor signals released from male rats. Male rats were exposed to 30min of intermittent footshock (60 shocks, 1.0mA, 100ms each, variable ITI of 30s) or remained in their home cages as non-stressed controls. Real time RT-PCR analysis of brain tissues indicated that footshock increased the pro-inflammatory cytokine, IL-1 and hnCRH as well as c-fos mRNA expressions in the paraventricular nucleus, and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, and increased plasma corticosterone levels. Soiled bedding collected from rats exposed to 30-min, but not 5-min, of footshock elicited a differential response, as expressed by decreased sniffing and increased avoidance in male test subjects. Soiled bedding from rats given corticosterone injection (s.c. 1.25 or 3.75mg/ml) 3h before bedding collection evoked no avoidance response in odor-recipients. Furthermore, ICV infusion of the anti-inflammatory cytokine IL-10 (20 or 200ng) into the stimulus animals 30-min before a 30-min footshock session, had no effect on plasma corticosterone levels in the stimulus animals, but attenuated the release of aversive odor as indicated by dose-dependently diminished avoidance in odor-recipient rats. These results demonstrated that stressed rats release odorant cues that cause other rats to move away from the source of the signal. Such stress-induced chemosignals may be mediated by inflammatory cytokine responses in the brain.
Psychological stress is an ubiquitous challenge across human cultures affecting mental and physical health. Recent evidence indicates that performance tasks combining elements of socio-evaluative threat and uncontrollability elicit reliable stress responses. The Trier Social Stress Test (TSST) is the most frequently used psychological protocol in stress research; however, to date it has only been available in a single-subject version. In particular, there is an increasing need in several emerging research fields such as stress research or social neurosciences for a standardized research tool to expose relatively large groups of subjects to controlled simultaneous stress. In search of a laboratory stressor that allows simultaneous stress exposure in a group format, we exposed a total of 25 healthy male participants to the Trier Social Stress Test for Groups (TSST-G; public speaking and mental arithmetic tasks in front of a panel of two evaluators in groups of six participants) and a specific control condition. Results showed that the TSST-G induced significant increases in cortisol, heart rate, and psychological stress responses. The TSST-G provides a novel, effective, and economical protocol for experimental paradigms requiring simultaneous stress induction in multiple participants.
It is widely recognized that acute stress and associated glucocorticoid stress responses yield memory-enhancing effects when the memory consolidation phase is targeted, while impairing effects are generally found with regard to memory retrieval performance. While some evidence exists that the memory-enhancing effects of consolidation stress are modulated by time of day, no study to date has investigated whether stress-induced retrieval deficits are also prone to such time of day effects. To address this issue, participants (N=76) were exposed to a stressor or control condition before a retrieval test that probed for neutral and negative words learned 24h before. Results show that stress exposure resulted in impaired retrieval of both neutral and negative words, but that time of day did not moderate this effect. This memory-impairing effect was larger for negative than for neutral information, and was significantly associated with stress-induced cortisol responses. The current findings demonstrate the robustness of stress-induced retrieval deficits throughout the day, in particular for emotional memory material, and further underscore the importance of cortisol reactivity in impairing memory retrieval.





We investigated age-related attention and encoding deficits, and their possible interaction, by analyzing visual event-related potentials from young and older adults during a modified Sternberg word recognition task. Young adults performed more accurately, albeit not significantly so. P1 latency was shorter in young adults and correlated negatively with task accuracy (with age partialed out). These data support proposals that P1 indexes attentional suppression, which is less efficient in older adults. N1 was larger in older adults but did not correlate with accuracy. Young adults had higher P2 amplitudes and P2 latency correlated with accuracy (age partialed), supporting the view that semantic operations during encoding are affected by aging. These data indicate that attention (P1) and encoding (P2) decrements may contribute to memory or related cognitive decrements in aging, and P1 and P2 latency measures from appropriate paradigms may be salient ERP markers of these decrements.




Knowledge of the functional organisation of the cerebellum has progressed. The phylogenetic and anatomical divisions within the cerebellum, which have long been used to describe cerebellar functions, are now too simplistic. The understanding of cerebellar motor functions requires knowledge of a neuroanatomical division based on the afferents and the corticonuclear organisation of the cerebellum. Non-motor cerebellar functions are even more poorly systematised, but the rapid progress being made in neuroscience and neuroimaging techniques should enable them to be better understood.

Recent data from developmental cognitive neuroscience highlight the profound changes in the organization and function of cortical networks during the transition from adolescence to adulthood. While previous studies have focused on the development of gray and white matter, recent evidence suggests that brain maturation during adolescence extends to fundamental changes in the properties of cortical circuits that in turn promote the precise temporal coding of neural activity. In the current article, we will highlight modifications in the amplitude and synchrony of neural oscillations during adolescence that may be crucial for the emergence of cognitive deficits and psychotic symptoms in schizophrenia. Specifically, we will suggest that schizophrenia is associated with impaired parameters of synchronous oscillations that undergo changes during late brain maturation, suggesting an important role of adolescent brain development for the understanding, treatment, and prevention of the disorder.
Evidence from clinical patient populations indicates that affective dysregulation is strongly associated with reality distortion, suggesting that a process of misassignment of emotional salience may underlie this connection. To examine this in more detail without clinical confounds, affective regulation-reality distortion relationships, and their clinical relevance, were examined in a German prospective cohort community study. A cohort of 2524 adolescents and young adults aged 14-24 years at baseline was examined by experienced psychologists. Presence of psychotic experiences and (hypo)manic and depressive symptoms was assessed at 2 time points (3.5 and up to 10 years after baseline) using the Munich-Composite International Diagnostic Interview. Associations were tested between level of affective dysregulation on the one hand and incidence of psychotic experiences, persistence of these experiences, and psychotic Impairment on the other. Most psychotic experiences occurred in a context of affective dysregulation, and bidirectional dose-response was apparent with greater level of both affective dysregulation and psychotic experiences. Persistence of psychotic experiences was progressively more likely with greater level of (hypo)manic symptoms (odds ratio [OR] trend=1.51, P&lt;.001) and depressive symptoms (OR trend=1.15, P=.012). Similarly, psychotic experiences of clinical relevance were progressively more likely to occur with greater level of affective dysregulation (depressive symptoms: OR trend=1.28, P=.002; (hypo)manic symptoms: OR trend=1.37, P=.036). Correlated genetic liabilities underlying affective and nonaffective psychotic syndromes may be expressed as correlated dimensions in the general population. Also, affective dysregulation may contribute causally to the persistence and clinical relevance of reality distortion, possibly by facilitating a mechanism of aberrant salience attribution.
Reference failures, and their increase in affectively negative conditions (known as affective reactivity of speech), are more frequently observed in schizophrenia patients than in normal controls, but no information is available comparing schizophrenia with depression, ie, a mental disorder closely linked to the concept of affective reactivity. To address this gap in the literature, the present study compared 24 schizophrenia inpatients, 21 unipolar depression inpatients and 21 normal controls. Two 10-minute conversational speech samples (1 on negative and 1 on positive memories) were collected from each patient. The transcripts of the audiotaped interviews were analyzed blindly for frequencies of 6 types of referential failures, employing the Communication Disturbances Index, adapted for use with Italian. The schizophrenia patients made more frequent total reference failures and, specifically, more missing information references than the depression patients. The depression patients made more frequent reference failures than the normal controls, overall, and on most of the specific types of failures. Affective reactivity of speech was observed only for the schizophrenia sample and was greatest for missing information references. This study supports the viability of reference failure analysis as a measure of communication disturbance in a language other than English. The findings indicate that schizophrenia and depression both are associated with high levels of referential failures but that affective reactivity of speech is present only in schizophrenia and not in depression.
A prerequisite to longitudinal fMRI studies in schizophrenia is the knowledge on fMRI signal reliability in schizophrenia patients. We assessed the reproducibility of activations elicited by two fMRI sessions, which were 21 months apart, of a story listening paradigm in 10 schizophrenia patients and 10 healthy subjects. In both groups, we observed a high degree of spatial overlap of activation maps as well as a good reproducibility of signal variations assessed on a voxel-wise basis in temporal areas underlying early stages of language processing. Task performance, assessed through a comprehension questionnaire, had no impact on the activation reproducibility.
Postmortem and genetic studies have clearly demonstrated changes in GABA(B) receptors in neuropsychiatric disorders such as autism, bipolar disorder, major depression, and schizophrenia. Moreover, a number of recent studies have stressed the importance of cerebellar dysfunction in these same disorders. In the current study, we examined protein levels of the two GABA(B) receptor subunits GABBR1 and GABBR2 in lateral cerebella from a well-characterized cohort of subjects with schizophrenia (n=15), bipolar disorder (n=14), major depression (n=13) and healthy controls (n=12). We found significant reductions in protein for both GABBR1 and GABBR2 in lateral cerebella from subjects with schizophrenia, bipolar disorder and major depression when compared with controls. These results provide further evidence of GABAergic dysfunction in these three disorders as well as identify potential targets for therapeutic intervention.
Basic and clinical neuroscience research findings suggest that cortical spreading depression (CSD) and epileptic foci may facilitate each other; furthermore, the threshold required for the onset of CSD has been suggested to be lower than that required for an epileptic focus. These data may explain the prevalence of epilepsy in migraine populations (ranging from 1% to 17%) and the frequency of migraine in epileptic populations (ranging from 8.4% to 20%). There is currently a considerable amount of confusion regarding this topic in both headache and epilepsy classifications (ICHD-II and ILAE). The ICHD-II includes &quot;migraine-triggered seizure&quot; (coded as &quot;1.5.5&quot;) (so-called &quot;migralepsy&quot;) among the &quot;complications of migraine&quot;, and defines &quot;hemicrania epileptica&quot; (&quot;7.6.1&quot;) as an &quot;ictal headache&quot; (ipsilateral to the ictal EEG discharge) that occurs &quot;synchronously&quot; with a seizure (partial epileptic seizure) recognized by ILAE classification. However, neither &quot;migralepsy&quot; nor &quot;hemicrania epileptica&quot; are terms used in the current ILAE classification. On the basis of data reported in the literature and our recent findings, we suggest that the terms &quot;migraine-triggered seizure&quot; and &quot;migralepsy&quot; be deleted until unequivocal evidence of the existence of these conditions emerges. &quot;Ictal epileptic headache&quot; (IEH) should be used to classify those rare events in which headache represents the sole ictal epileptic manifestation. On the other hand, the term &quot;hemicrania epileptica&quot; should be maintained in the ICHD-II and introduced into the ILAE, and be used to classify all cases in which an &quot;ictal epileptic headache&quot; &quot;coexists&quot; and is associated synchronously or sequentially with other ictal sensory-motor events.
Gastrointestinal (GI) discomforts are among the most common side effects of antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) that might lead to discontinuation or irregular consumption of the drugs. This study was conducted to evaluate the frequency of GI side effects of different AEDs in intractable epileptic patients treated with single or multiple drugs. GI discomfort of 100 epileptic patients (aged 35-76 years) treated with one or multiple AEDs was assessed. Seventy six patients (76%) were treated with two or more AEDs, and 24 (24%) were on monotherapy. The most common prescribed drug for monotherapy was carbamazepine and the most frequent combination was phenytoin and carbamazepine. Patients were suffering from different GI side effects including heartburn (34.6%), nausea (33.7%), constipation (26%), vomiting (22.1%), diarrhea (21.2%) and dysphagia (19.2%). Nausea and vomiting were significantly higher in patients receiving monotherapy with carbamazepine and valproic acid, respectively. When phenytoin, gabapentine, or valproic acid was added to the other AEDs, the risk of the occurrence of diarrhea, dysphagia, or heartburn was significantly increased, respectively. Addition of gabapentine to the other AEDs in multiple drug therapy was accompanied with the highest frequency of GI complications. This study indicated that GI side effects, which can affect drug absorption and utilization, were common in intractable epileptic patients with long-term AEDs treatment. This may influence the efficacy of the therapy with AEDs and enhance the probability of further attacks.

We assessed the accuracy of a surgeon's localization of sella margins during endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenomas, as verified using a neuronavigational system, and we identify types of pathology in which neuronavigation is of most benefit. We performed a prospective cohort study of 32 consecutive patients undergoing image-guided endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery for pituitary adenomas. We assessed the margin of error in the surgeon's localization of the superior and inferior margins of the sella and the lateral margins as determined by the medial border of left and right carotid arteries, using a magnetic resonance-based neuronavigational system. The overall mean error of localization of sella margins by the surgeon was 4.53 mm. Localization of the inferior sella margin was more accurate (3.12 mm mean error) compared with localization of the left (4.83 mm) or right carotid arteries (4.63 mm). Giant adenomas (&gt;2.5 cm), more invasive adenomas (Hardy grade IV), and those with parasellar extension (Hardy grades D and E) were associated with larger errors in localization of the carotid arteries. There was no significant difference when stratifying for recurrent surgery, nostril of approach, and sella morphology. During endoscopic transsphenoidal surgery, the margin of error in the surgeon's estimation of the sella margins for adenomas less than 2.5 cm located predominantly within the sella is relatively small. The margin of error increases for giant adenomas, with greater invasiveness and parasellar spread, and the use of neuronavigation can be especially useful in such cases.
Parasomnia overlap disorder (POD) refers to a sleep disorder characterized by the association of REM sleep behavior disorder (RBD) with NREM sleep parasomnia in the same patient. Sexual behaviors during sleep (SBS) can include most wakeful sexual activities and are classified in the ICSD-2 as a variant of confusional arousals and sleepwalking, both NREM parasomnias. A case of SBS associated with sleepwalking and possible RBD has been previously described, but it was not confirmed by polysomnography (PSG). We report two patients with SBS associated with POD documented by PSG. In one patient (60-year-old female) SBS was video-polysomnographically demonstrated: a few minute episode of masturbation occurring during slow-wave sleep (SWS) and preceded by hypersynchronous delta pattern. During the episode, the EEG pattern showed the persistence of delta rhythms with increasing alpha activity. When awoken by technicians, the patient was not aware of her sexual behavior and did not report any dream. The other patient, a 41-year-old male with a history of sleepwalking and RBD, was legally charged with repeatedly sexually fondling a young girl during the night. The POD was documented by PSG. The parasomnia defense, including sleepsex, was accepted by the Court and the patient was acquitted. This is an unprecedented report of SBS in patients with PSG-confirmed POD and of SBS documented during video-PSG.



Wnt/-catenin signaling promotes neural differentiation by activation of the neuron-specific transcription factors, Neurogenin1 (Ngn1), NeuroD, and Brn3a, in the nervous system. As neurons in cranial sensory ganglia and dorsal root ganglia transiently express Ngn1, NeuroD, and Brn3a during embryonic development, we hypothesized that Wnt proteins could instructively promote a sensory neuronal fate from mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) directed to differentiate into neurons. Consistent with our hypothesis, Wnt1 induced expression of sensory neuron markers including Ngn1, NeuroD, and Brn3a, as well as glutamatergic markers in neurally induced MSCs in vitro and promoted engraftment of transplanted MSCs in the inner ear bearing selective loss of sensory neurons in vivo. Given the consensus function of T-cell leukemia 3 (Tlx3), as a glutamatergic selector gene, we postulated that the effects of canonical Wnt signaling on sensory neuron and glutamatergic marker gene expression in MSCs may be mediated by Tlx3. We first confirmed that Wnt1 indeed upregulates Tlx3 expression, which can be suppressed by canonical Wnt inhibitors. Next, our chromatin immunoprecipitation assays revealed that T-cell factor 3/4, Wnt-activated DNA binding proteins, interact with a regulatory region of Tlx3 in MSCs after neural induction. Furthermore, we demonstrated that forced expression of Tlx3 in MSCs induced sensory and glutamatergic neuron markers after neural induction. Together, these results identify Tlx3 as a novel target for canonical Wnt signaling that confers somatic stem cells with a sensory neuron phenotype upon neural induction.
Mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) are adult multipotent cells able to differentiate toward mature mesodermal lineages. In spite of more than a decade of investigation, little is known about the molecular mechanisms regulating the undifferentiated state and the identity of distinct functional subpopulations in these cells. Transcription factors that regulate the maintenance of the pluripotent state in embryonic stem cells, including NANOG, SOX2, and OCT4, have been proposed to play a similar role also in adult stem cells, although with conflicting results. We performed a critical evaluation of expression of these 3 transcription factors and found that NANOG, but not OCT-4 and SOX-2, is expressed in cultured human adult MSCs. Actually, NANOG was not expressed in freshly isolated MSCs, but was detected only after in vitro culture. NANOG was detected only in proliferating cells, but not in MSCs induced to differentiate. The percentage of cells expressing NANOG was maintained throughout early passages of MSCs, but then started to decrease in late passages in MSCs from adipose tissue and heart but not from bone marrow. However, the number of NANOG-expressing cells did not associate with the proliferative and differentiative capabilities of MSC populations, neither its expression appeared to identify cells having stem or progenitor cell properties. Accordingly, we propose that activation of NANOG expression in MSCs is associated with, although cannot directly regulate, the transition from in vivo quiescence to adaptation to in vitro growth conditions.
Stress often negatively impacts physical and mental health but it has been suggested that voluntary physical activity may benefit health by reducing some of the effects of stress. The present experiments tested whether voluntary exercise can reduce heart rate, core body temperature and locomotor activity responses to acute (novelty or loud noise) or repeated stress (loud noise). After 6 weeks of running-wheel access, rats exposed to a novel environment had reduced heart rate, core body temperature, and locomotor activity responses compared to rats housed under sedentary conditions. In contrast, none of these measures were different between exercised and sedentary rats following acute 30-min noise exposures, at either 85 or 98 dB. Following 10 weeks of running-wheel access, both groups displayed significant habituation of all these responses to 10 consecutive daily 30-min presentations of 98 dB noise stress. However, the extent of habituation of all three responses was significantly enhanced in exercised compared to sedentary animals on the last exposure to noise. These results suggest that in physically active animals, under some conditions, acute responses to stress exposure may be reduced, and response habituation to repeated stress may be enhanced, which ultimately may reduce the negative and cumulative impact of stress.

Competitive dopamine receptor antagonists increase the rate of cocaine self-administration. As the rate of self-administration at a particular unit dose is determined by the satiety threshold and the elimination half-life (t()) of cocaine, we investigated whether dopamine receptor antagonists altered these parameters in rats. The plasma cocaine concentration at the time of each self-administration was constant during a session demonstrating that this satiety threshold concentration represents an equiactive cocaine concentration. The plasma cocaine concentration at the time of self-administration was increased by SCH23390, consistent with pharmacological theory. In rats trained to reliably self-administer cocaine, SCH23390 had no effect on the plasma steady-state cocaine concentration produced by constant infusions of cocaine. Therefore, this antagonist had no effect on cocaine t() at a dose that accelerated cocaine self-administration. A constant cocaine infusion at a rate that maintained steady state concentrations above the satiety threshold stopped self-administration. SCH23390, or the D dopamine receptor antagonist (-)eticlopride, reinstated self-administration in the presence of the constant cocaine infusion. This is consistent with SCH23390 and eticlopride raising the satiety threshold above the steady state level produced by the constant cocaine infusion. It is concluded that the antagonist-induced acceleration of cocaine self-administration is the result of a pharmacokinetic/pharmacodynamic interaction whereby the rate of cocaine elimination is faster at the higher concentrations, as dictated by first-order kinetics, so that cocaine levels decline more rapidly to the elevated satiety threshold. This results in the decreased interinjection intervals.
Schizophrenia is a highly familial, neurodevelopmental disorder that is associated with several neuropsychiatric, psychological, and neuropathological features. Although pharmacological animal models of dopaminergic and glutamatergic dysfunction have helped advance our understanding of the disease biology, there is a clear need for translational models that capture the neuropathological and functional manifestations associated with the intermediate phenotype and the clinical illness. Neuroimaging of preclinical neurodevelopmental approaches such as methylazoxymethanol acetate (MAM) exposure may afford a powerful translational tool to establish endpoints with greater congruency across animals and humans. Using in vivo volumetric magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), manganese-enhanced MRI, and diffusion tensor imaging (DTI), we investigated morphological and cytoarchitectural changes of brain structures in MAM-exposed rats, a neurodevelopmental model of schizophrenia. Compared to saline-exposed controls, MAM-exposed rats showed significant enlargement of lateral and third ventricles as well as reduced hippocampal volumes, which is consistent with findings observed in schizophrenia. In addition, DTI revealed that diffusion fractional anisotropy retrieved from corpus callosum and cingulum were significantly decreased in MAM-exposed rats, suggesting that demyelination occurred in these white-matter fiber tracts. Imaging findings were confirmed by conducting histological analysis using hematoxylin and eosin and Luxol fast blue stainings. In summary, structural abnormalities resulting from a MAM environmental challenge parallel cerebral pathology observed in schizophrenia. The MAM model incorporating noninvasive imaging techniques may therefore serve as an improved translational research tool for assessing new treatments for schizophrenia.

Humans and animals prefer immediate over delayed rewards (delay discounting). This preference for smaller-but-sooner over larger-but-later rewards shows substantial interindividual variability in healthy subjects. Moreover, a strong bias towards immediate reinforcement characterizes many psychiatric conditions such as addiction and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder. We discuss the neural mechanisms underlying delay discounting and describe how interindividual variability (trait effects) in the neural instantiation of subprocesses of delay discounting (such as reward valuation, cognitive control and prospection) contributes to differences in behaviour. We next discuss different interventions that can partially remedy impulsive decision-making (state effects). Although the precise neural mechanisms underlying many of these modulating influences are only beginning to be unravelled, they point towards novel treatment approaches for disorders of impulse control.
Toll-like receptors (TLRs) are a family of innate immune system receptors that respond to pathogen-derived and tissue damage-related ligands. TLR signaling in immune cells, glia and neurons can play roles in the pathogenesis of stroke, Alzheimer's disease (AD) and multiple sclerosis (MS). Recent findings suggest that TLR signaling also influences multiple dynamic processes in the developing and adult central nervous system including neurogenesis, axonal growth and structural plasticity. In addition, TLRs are implicated in the regulation of behaviors including learning, memory and anxiety. This review describes recently discovered and unexpected roles for TLRs in neuroplasticity, and the implications of these findings for future basic and translational research studies.
GPR35 is a poorly characterized G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) that has been suggested as a potential therapeutic target for the treatment of diabetes, hypertension and asthma. Two endogenously produced ligands have been suggested as activators of GPR35, although the relevance of these remains unclear. Recently, a series of surrogate agonist ligands and the first antagonists of GPR35 have been identified. However, marked differences in the potency of agonists at species orthologues of GPR35 have been noted, and this presents substantial challenges in translating the pharmacology at the cloned human receptor to ex vivo and in vivo studies of the physiological function of this receptor in animal models. Currently identified agonists will probably not display high selectivity for GPR35. By contrast, comparisons of the potency of ligands at species orthologues of GPR35 have provided insight into the nature of the ligand binding pocket and could result in the identification of more potent and selective ligands.
Since human T-lymphotropic virus type 1 (HTLV-1)-associated diseases are associated with a high HTLV-1 load, reducing this load may treat or prevent disease. However, despite in vitro evidence that certain nucleoside/nucleotide analogue reverse transcriptase inhibitors (NRTIs) are active against HTLV-1, in vivo results have been disappointing. We therefore assayed the sensitivity of HTLV-1 primary isolates to a panel of RT inhibitors. HTLV-1 primary isolates were obtained, pre- and post- NRTI treatment, from patients with HTLV-1-associated myelopathy. Sensitivity to azidothymidine (AZT), lamivudine (3TC), tenofovir (TDF) and three phosphonated carbocyclic 2'-oxa-3'aza nucleosides (PCOANs) was assessed in a RT inhibitor assay. With the exception of 3TC, HTLV RT from primary isolates was less sensitive to all tested inhibitors than HTLV-1 RT from MT-2 cells. HTLV-1 RT from primary isolates and from chronically infected, transformed MT-2 cells was insensitive to 3TC. Sensitivity of primary isolates to RT inhibitors was not reduced following up to 12 months of patient treatment with AZT plus 3TC. The sensitivity of HTLV-1 primary isolates to NRTIs differs from that of cell lines and may vary among patients. Failure of NRTIs to reduce HTLV-1 viral load in vivo was not due to the development of phenotypic NRTI resistance. AZT and the three PCOANs assayed all consistently inhibited primary isolate HTLV-1 RT.
Receptive field organization of cone-driven bipolar cells was investigated by intracellular recording in the intact light-adapted retina of the tiger salamander (Ambystoma tigrinum). Centered spots and concentric annuli of optimum dimensions were used to selectively stimulate the receptive field center and surround with sinusoidal modulations of contrast at 3 Hz. At low contrasts, responses of both the center and surround of both ON and OFF bipolar cells were linear, showing high gain and thus contrast enhancement relative to cones. The contrast/response curves for the fundamental response, measured by a Fast Fourier Transform, reached half maximum amplitude quickly at 13% contrast followed by saturation at high contrasts. The variation of the normalized amplitude of the center and surround responses was remarkably similar, showing linear regression over the entire response range with very high correlations, r2 = 0.97 for both ON and OFF cells. The contrast/response curves of both center and surround for both ON and OFF cells were well fit (r2 = 0.98) by an equation for single-site binding. In about half the cells studied, the nonlinear waveforms of center and surround could be brought into coincidence by scaling and shifting the surround response in time. This implies that a nonlinearity, common to both center and surround, occurs after polarity inversion at the cone feedback synapse. Evidence from paired whole-cell recordings between single cones and OFF bipolar cells suggests that substantial nonlinearity is not due to transmission at the cone synapse but instead arises from intrinsic bipolar cell and network mechanisms. When sinusoidal contrast modulations were applied to the center and surround simultaneously, clear additivity was observed for small responses in both ON and OFF cells, whereas the interaction was strikingly nonadditive for large responses. The contribution of the surround was then greatly reduced, suggesting attenuation at the cone feedback synapse.
The contrast response function of early visual evoked potentials elicited by sinusoidal gratings is known to exhibit characteristic potentials closely associated with the processes of parvocellular and magnocellular pathways. Specifically, the N1 component has been linked with parvocellular processes, while the P1 component has been linked with magnocellular processes. However, little is known regarding the response properties of the N1 and P1 components during the processing and encoding of complex (i.e., broadband) stimuli such as natural scenes. Here, we examine how established physical characteristics of natural scene imagery modulate the N1 and P1 components in humans by providing a systematic investigation of component modulation as visual stimuli are gradually built up from simple sinusoidal gratings to highly complex natural scene imagery. The results suggest that the relative dominance in signal output of the N1 and P1 components is dependent on spatial frequency (SF) luminance contrast for simple stimuli up to natural scene imagery possessing few edges. However, such a dependency shifts to a dominant N1 signal for natural scenes possessing abundant edge content and operates independently of SF luminance contrast.



Synaptic plasticity of barrel cortex is one of the most widely studied topics in neuroscience in recent years. The primary somatosensory cortex of the rodent has a good topology character,which provides an ideal experimental model for plasticity study. This system displays very strong experience-dependent plasticity both during development and in adulthood. The changes of sensory cortex's neural circuit can induce experience-dependent plasticity. In the synaptic level,thalamocortical synapse is considered to be the main location of plasticity. In the circuit level,both synapses from layer 4 to layer 2/3 and those within layer 2/3 are also the necessary parts of achieving synaptic plasticity in primary somatosensory cortex. The GABAergic inhibitory circuit may be involved in this plasticity of S1, but the exact mechanism remains unknown.
The primary purpose of this study was to use functional principal component analysis (FPCA) to analyze Hoffman-reflex (H-reflex) recruitment curves. Smoothed and interpolated recruitment curves from 38 participants were used for analysis. Standard methods were used to calculate three discrete variables (i.e., H(max)/M(max) ratio, H(th), H(slp)). FPCA was then used to extract principal component functions (PCFs) from the processed recruitment curves. PCF scores were calculated to determine how much each PCF contributed to an individuals' recruitment curve. The analysis extracted three PCFs, and three sets of PCF scores. Correlation analyses and systematic variation in the PCF scores indicated that the scores for the first PCF were primarily correlated to H-reflex threshold (H(th)) and that the scores for the second and third PCFs were correlated to H-reflex magnitude (H(max)/M(max) ratio) and slope (H(slp)), respectively. In addition, results from the FPCA indicated that the first PCF explained 56.0% of the variance between all H-reflex recruitment curves, whereas the second and third PCFs explained 24.1% and 13.0%, respectively. The high correlations indicate FPCA-derived PCFs capture similar physiological information as the standard discrete variables and suggest that application of FPCA to H-reflex recruitment curves could be used in future studies to complement traditional analyses that investigate excitability of the motoneuron pool.
The free-exploratory paradigm (FEP) is currently the only proposed animal model of trait anxiety, making it highly valuable to behavioural neuroscience. However, FEP has not yet been automated, so its results depend on human scoring, which can be quite imprecise. The aim of this study was, therefore, to validate an automated version of FEP, using a commercially available video-tracking system (ANY-maze() - Stoelting Co., USA). To achieve this, two experiments were performed. The first one evaluated the reliability of the video-based automation of FEP, and the second, assessed whether the zeolites, used as a bedding material in the first experiment to facilitate video-tracking, influenced the animals' behaviour in FEP. In experiment I, 15 drug-naive, adult, male rats were tested in FEP, while their behaviour was simultaneously evaluated by ANY-maze() and two human observers. Subsequently, the intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) was calculated for the automated and manual results of the parameters &quot;percentage of time in the novel side&quot; (%TNS) and &quot;total units visited&quot; (TUV). The analysis resulted in high, significant values of ICC (%TNS: 0.9962 and TUV: 0.9453). In experiment II, 18 drug-naive, adult, male rats were allocated to two different groups: (1) tested in FEP with zeolites; and (2) tested in FEP with sawdust. The data obtained were analysed using the Student's t-test, which revealed no significant differences between the groups for the parameters %TNS and TUV. In conclusion, the data presented here show that automation of FEP, using a video-based tracking system, is not only possible, but also highly reliable.
The peptidome encompasses all the peptides present in a particular cell, tissue or organism at a particular point in time. Neuropeptidomics studies the peptidome of the nervous system and will become increasingly important in neuroscience research. Novel peptides can be discovered and, when applied to disease models, key players in pathophysiological mechanisms will be identified. That way, they can serve as drug targets or biomarkers. Presently, different extraction protocols are in use, but no consensus has been reached on what fixation and extraction protocol is best suited for brain tissue. Therefore, in this article we compare different methods for quenching of proteolytic activity (snap-freezing of whole mouse in liquid nitrogen immediately after cervical dislocation, freezing of the dissected brain in 2-methyl-butane and heat denaturation of the tissue by microwave treatment) in combination with different extraction methods. The protocol that combines submersion in liquid nitrogen with extraction in 0.25% acetic acid results in the highest number of unique identifications, a high conservation of posttranslational modifications, the best reproducibility between duplicate samples and the best comparison with former studies on mouse brain peptides. For these reasons, we recommend the use of this protocol in future neuropeptidomics studies.
The aims of this study were to investigate risk factors for suicide attempts and propose a model explaining the associations among life events and suicide status. We assessed 263 subjects admitted following a suicide attempt to the Division of Psychiatry of the Department of Neurosciences of the University of Parma and compared them with 263 non-attempter clinical control subjects. Attempters reported significantly more adverse life events both in the last 6 months, and between the ages of 0-15 years than non-attempters. A multinomial logistic regression analysis with stepwise forward entry indicated that the best model to explain suicide status was one which included life events in the last 6 months, life events during age 0-15 years, and their interaction. First-time attempter status (vs. non-attempters) was more likely to be linked to life events in the last 6 months, the interaction between life events in the last 6 months and life events during age 0-15 years, and low social support. Those attempters with one or more prior attempts (repeat attempters) were more likely than non-attempters to be linked to the interaction between life events in the last 6 months and life events during age 0-15 years, and to higher rates of psychopharmacological treatment before the index admission. Guided by these findings, monitoring the impact of early-life and recent events in vulnerable individuals should be part of risk assessment and treatment.
Little is known about possible differences in the attitudes toward schizophrenia between the general public and various healthcare professionals. After screening for the study enrollment, 197 subjects in the general population, 100 psychiatric staff (other than psychiatrists), 112 physicians (other than psychiatrists) and 36 psychiatrists were enrolled in a web-based survey using an Internet-based questionnaire format. To assess subjects' attitudes toward schizophrenia, we used a 13-item questionnaire created by Uok et al. (2006), to which five items were added. These 18 items were subjected to exploratory factor analysis, which yielded three factors classified as &quot;stigma,&quot; &quot;underestimation of patients' abilities,&quot; and &quot;skepticism regarding treatment.&quot; These factors were compared between the four groups using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA), controlling for potential confounders. The ANCOVA for the &quot;stigma&quot; factor showed that psychiatrists scored significantly lower than the other three groups. The ANCOVA for the &quot;underestimation of patients' abilities&quot; factor revealed that psychiatric staff scored significantly lower than the general population. The present results indicated that attitudes toward schizophrenia consist of at least three separable factors. Psychiatrists had the least negative attitudes toward schizophrenia, which was followed by the psychiatric staff, and attitudes of the general population and of physicians were equally stigmatizing.
We analyzed the presence of work, social life and family life disability in 108 outpatients with a Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders IV (DSM-IV) diagnosis of bipolar disorder and their association with previous course-of-illness variables and current psychopathology. Work disability was pragmatically defined as being on a disability pension or in the process of obtaining it; social life or family life disability was defined by a score  7 in the respective subscales of the Sheehan Disability Scale. At least one type of disability (for work, social life or family life) affected 52-54% of the patients; and two types, 37%. By logistic regression and multiple linear regression analyses we determined the variables independently associated with each type of disability: 1) Work disability was significantly associated with previous repeated manic episodes, three or more hospitalizations, with current depressive symptoms and inversely with the educational attainment. 2) Social life disability significantly increased with the number of hospitalizations and was associated with previous repeated depressive episodes and current depressive symptoms. In alternative models, nicotine dependence and lack of social support were significantly associated with work and social life disability respectively. And 3) family life disability significantly increased with number of hospitalizations, CAGE questionnaire score and age; and was associated with previous repeated manic episodes and current depressive symptoms. In conclusion, previous course-of-illness variables, particularly a high number of manic episodes, and current psychopathology - as indicated by the presence of nicotine dependence or depressive symptoms - may be indicators of disability; previous manic episodes appear to affect disability at work or at family life whereas previous depressive episodes seem to be related with social life disability.
Inhibitors of AMPA-type glutamate ion channels are useful as biochemical probes for structure-function studies and as drug candidates for a number of neurological disorders and diseases. Here, we describe the identification of an RNA inhibitor or aptamer by an in vitro evolution approach and a characterization of its mechanism of inhibition on the sites of interaction by equilibrium binding and on the receptor channel opening rate by a laser-pulse photolysis technique. Our results show that the aptamer is a noncompetitive inhibitor that selectively inhibits the GluA2Q(flip) AMPA receptor subunit without any effect on other AMPA receptor subunits or kainate or NMDA receptors. On the GluA2 subunit, this aptamer preferentially inhibits the flip variant. Furthermore, the aptamer preferentially inhibits the closed-channel state of GluA2Q(flip) with a K(I) = 1.5 M or by 15-fold over the open-channel state. The potency and selectivity of this aptamer rival those of small molecule inhibitors. Together, these properties make this aptamer a promising candidate for the development of water-soluble, highly potent, and GluA2 subunit-selective drugs.
Transient receptor potential (TRP) channels as cellular sensors are thought to function as tetramers. Yet, the molecular determinants governing channel multimerization remain largely elusive. Here we report the identification of a segment comprising 21 amino acids (residues 752-772 of mouse TRPV1) after the known TRP-like domain in the channel C terminus that functions as a tetrameric assembly domain (TAD). Purified recombinant C-terminal proteins of TRPV1-4, but not the N terminus, mediated the protein-protein interaction in an in vitro pulldown assay. Western blot analysis combined with electrophysiology and calcium imaging demonstrated that TAD exerted a robust dominant-negative effect on wild-type TRPV1. When fused with the membrane-tethered peptide Gap43, the TAD blocked the formation of stable homomultimers. Calcium imaging and current recordings showed that deletion of the TAD in a poreless TRPV1 mutant subunit suppressed its dominant-negative phenotype, confirming the involvement of the TAD in assembly of functional channels. Our findings suggest that the C-terminal TAD in TRPV1 channels functions as a domain that is conserved among TRPV1-4 and mediates a direct subunit-subunit interaction for tetrameric assembly.
The objective is to investigate the role of insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) in the regulation of core body temperature. Sequencing cDNA libraries from individual warm-sensitive neurons from the preoptic area (POA) of the hypothalamus, a region involved in the central control of thermoregulation, identified neurons that express both IGF-1 receptor (IGF-1R) and insulin receptor transcripts. The effects of administration of IGF-1 into the POA was measured by radiotelemetry monitoring of core temperature, brown adipose tissue (BAT) temperature, metabolic assessment, and imaging of BAT by positron emission tomography of 2-[(18)F]fluoro-2-deoxyglucose uptake combined with computed tomography. IGF-1 injection into the POA caused dose-dependent hyperthermia that could be blocked by pretreatment with the IGF-1R tyrosine kinase inhibitor, PQ401. The IGF-1-evoked hyperthermia involved activation of brown adipose tissue and was accompanied by a switch from glycolysis to fatty acid oxidation as a source of energy as shown by lowered respiratory exchange ratio. Transgenic mice that lack neuronal insulin receptor expression in the brain (NIRKO mice) were unable to mount the full hyperthermic response to IGF-1, suggesting that the IGF-1 mediated hyperthermia is partly dependent on expression of functional neuronal insulin receptors. These data indicate a novel thermoregulatory role for both IGF-1R and neuronal insulin receptors in IGF-1 activation of BAT and hyperthermia. These central effects of IGF-1 signaling may play a role in regulation of metabolic rate, aging, and the risk of developing type 2 diabetes.
Several studies have measured the elastic properties of a single human muscle-tendon unit in vivo. However the viscoelastic behavior of single human muscles has not been characterized. In this study, we adapted QLV theory to model the viscoelastic behavior of human gastrocnemius muscle-tendon units in vivo. We also determined the influence of viscoelasticity on passive length-tension properties of human gastrocnemius muscle-tendon units. Eight subjects participated in the experiment, which consisted of two parts. First, the stress relaxation response of human gastrocnemius muscle-tendon units was determined at a range of knee and ankle angles. Subsequently, passive ankle torque and ankle angle were collected during cyclic dorsiflexion and plantarflexion at a range of knee angles. Viscous parameters were determined by fitting the stress relaxation experiment data with a two-term exponential function, and elastic parameters were estimated by fitting the QLV model and viscous parameters to the cyclic experiment data. The model fitted the experimental data well at slow speeds (RMSE: 1.7  0.5N) and at fast speeds (RMSE: 1.9  0.2N). Muscle-tendon units demonstrated a large amount of stress relaxation. Nonetheless, viscoelastic passive length-tension curves estimated with the QLV model were similar to elastic passive length-tension curves obtained using a model that ignored viscosity. There was little difference in the elastic passive length-tension curves at different loading rates. We conclude that (a) the QLV model can be used to quantify viscoelastic behaviors of relaxed human gastrocnemius muscle-tendon units in vivo, and (b) over the range of velocities we examined, the velocity of loading has little effect on the passive length-tension properties of human gastrocnemius muscle-tendon units.
Lon and m-AAA are the principal, regulated proteases required for protein maturation and turnover in the mitochondrial matrix of diverse species. To understand their roles in fission yeast (Schizosaccharomyces pombe) mitochondria, we generated deletion strains lacking Lon and m-AAA, individually (lon1 and m-AAA) or together, lon1m-AAA (/). All three strains were viable but incapable of respiratory growth on a non-fermentable carbon source due to mitochondrial dysfunction. Confocal and electron microscopy revealed a decrease in membrane potential and ultrastructural changes in lon1, m-AAA and / mitochondria, consistent with a respiratory defect and aggregation of proteins in the mitochondrial matrix. To understand the global adaptations required for cell survival in the absence of Lon and m-AAA proteases, we compared genome-wide gene expression signatures of the deletion strains with the isogenic wild-type strain. Deletion of lon1 caused a distinctive transcriptional footprint of just 12 differentially expressed genes, 9 of which were up-regulated genes located on the proximal mitochondrial genome (mitochondrial DNA). In contrast, m-AAA deletion caused a much larger transcriptional response involving 268 almost exclusively nuclear genes. Genes ameliorating stress and iron assimilation were up-regulated, while diverse mitochondrial genes and other metabolic enzymes were down-regulated. The connection with iron dysregulation was further explored using biochemical, chemical and cellular assays. Although m-AAA and / contained more cellular iron than the wild-type strain, their transcriptomes strongly resembled a signature normally evoked by iron insufficiency or disrupted assembly of iron-sulfur clusters in mitochondria. Based on these findings, we posit that excess iron accumulation could contribute to the pathology of human neurodegenerative disorders arising from defects in m-AAA function.
Eph receptor tyrosine kinases are involved in many cellular processes. In the developing brain, they act as migratory and cell adhesive cues while in the adult brain they regulate dendritic spine plasticity. Here we show a new role for Eph receptor signalling in the cerebellar cortex. Cerebellar Purkinje cells are innervated by two different excitatory inputs. The climbing fibres contact the proximal dendritic domain of Purkinje cells, where synapse and spine density is low; the parallel fibres contact the distal dendritic domain, where synapse and spine density is high. Interestingly, Purkinje cells have the intrinsic ability to generate a high number of spines over their entire dendritic arborisations, which can be innervated by the parallel fibres. However, the climbing fibre input continuously exerts an activity-dependent repression on parallel fibre synapses, thus confining them to the distal Purkinje cell dendritic domain. Such repression persists after Eph receptor activation, but is overridden by Eph receptor inhibition with EphA4/Fc in neonatal cultured cerebellar slices as well as mature acute cerebellar slices, following in vivo infusion of the EphA4/Fc inhibitor and in EphB receptor-deficient mice. When electrical activity is blocked in vivo by tetrodotoxin leading to a high spine density in Purkinje cell proximal dendrites, stimulation of Eph receptor activation recapitulates the spine repressive effects of climbing fibres. These results suggest that Eph receptor signalling mediates the repression of spine proliferation induced by climbing fibre activity in Purkinje cell proximal dendrites. Such repression is necessary to maintain the correct architecture of the cerebellar cortex.
Preoptic/hypothalamic aromatase activity (AA) is sexually differentiated in birds and mammals but the mechanisms controlling this sex difference remain unclear. We determined here (1) brain sites where AA is sexually differentiated and (2) whether this sex difference results from organizing effects of estrogens during ontogeny or activating effects of testosterone in adulthood. In the first experiment we measured AA in brain regions micropunched in adult male and female Japanese quail utilizing the novel strategy of basing the microdissections on the distribution of aromatase-immunoreactive cells. The largest sex difference was found in the medial bed nucleus of the stria terminalis (mBST) followed by the medial preoptic nucleus (POM) and the tuberal hypothalamic region. A second experiment tested the effect of embryonic treatments known to sex-reverse male copulatory behavior (i.e., estradiol benzoate [EB] or the aromatase inhibitor, Vorozole) on brain AA in gonadectomized adult males and females chronically treated as adults with testosterone. Embryonic EB demasculinized male copulatory behavior, while vorozole blocked demasculinization of behavior in females as previously demonstrated in birds. Interestingly, these treatments did not affect a measure of appetitive sexual behavior. In parallel, embryonic vorozole increased, while EB decreased AA in pooled POM and mBST, but the same effect was observed in both sexes. Together, these data indicate that the early action of estrogens demasculinizes AA. However, this organizational action of estrogens on AA does not explain the behavioral sex difference in copulatory behavior since AA is similar in testosterone-treated males and females that were or were not exposed to embryonic treatments with estrogens.
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) and Parkinson's Disease (PD) are common causes of motor and cognitive deficits and are associated with the abnormal accumulation of alpha-synuclein (-syn). This study investigated whether passive immunization with a novel monoclonal -syn antibody (9E4) against the C-terminus (CT) of -syn was able to cross into the CNS and ameliorate the deficits associated with -syn accumulation. In this study we demonstrate that 9E4 was effective at reducing behavioral deficits in the water maze, moreover, immunization with 9E4 reduced the accumulation of calpain-cleaved -syn in axons and synapses and the associated neurodegenerative deficits. In vivo studies demonstrated that 9E4 traffics into the CNS, binds to cells that display -syn accumulation and promotes -syn clearance via the lysosomal pathway. These results suggest that passive immunization with monoclonal antibodies against the CT of -syn may be of therapeutic relevance in patients with PD and DLB.
Radial Glia (RG) cells constitute the major population of neural progenitors of the mouse developing brain. These cells are located in the ventricular zone (VZ) of the cerebral cortex and during neurogenesis they support the generation of cortical neurons. Later on, during brain maturation, RG cells give raise to glial cells and supply the adult mouse brain of Neural Stem Cells (NSC). Here we used a novel transgenic mouse line expressing the CreER(T2) under the control of AspM promoter to monitor the progeny of an early cohort of RG cells during neurogenesis and in the post natal brain. Long term fate mapping experiments demonstrated that AspM-expressing RG cells are multi-potent, as they can generate neurons, astrocytes and oligodendrocytes of the adult mouse brain. Furthermore, AspM descendants give also rise to proliferating progenitors in germinal niches of both developing and post natal brains. In the latter--i.e. the Sub Ventricular Zone--AspM descendants acquired several feature of neural stem cells, including the capability to generate neurospheres in vitro. We also performed the selective killing of these early progenitors by using a Nestin-GFP(flox)-TK allele. The forebrain specific loss of early AspM expressing cells caused the elimination of most of the proliferating cells of brain, a severe derangement of the ventricular zone architecture, and the impairment of the cortical lamination. We further demonstrated that AspM is expressed by proliferating cells of the adult mouse SVZ that can generate neuroblasts fated to become olfactory bulb neurons.
Can autistic people see the forest for the trees? Ongoing uncertainty about the integrity and role of global processing in autism gives special importance to the question of how autistic individuals group local stimulus attributes into meaningful spatial patterns. We investigated visual grouping in autism by measuring sensitivity to mirror symmetry, a highly-salient perceptual image attribute preceding object recognition. Autistic and non-autistic individuals were asked to detect mirror symmetry oriented along vertical, oblique, and horizontal axes. Both groups performed best when the axis was vertical, but across all randomly-presented axis orientations, autistics were significantly more sensitive to symmetry than non-autistics. We suggest that under some circumstances, autistic individuals can take advantage of parallel access to local and global information. In other words, autistics may sometimes see the forest and the trees, and may therefore extract from noisy environments genuine regularities which elude non-autistic observers.
For many years, a deficiency of monoamines including serotonin has been the prevailing hypothesis on depression, yet research has failed to confirm consistent relations between brain serotonin and depression. High degrees of overlapping comorbidities and common drug efficacies suggest that depression is one of a family of related conditions sometimes referred to as the &quot;affective spectrum disorders&quot;, and variably including migraine, irritable bowel syndrome, chronic fatigue syndrome, fibromyalgia and generalized anxiety disorder, among many others. Herein, we present data from many different experimental modalities that strongly suggest components of mitochondrial dysfunction and inflammation in the pathogenesis of depression and other affective spectrum disorders. The three concepts of monoamines, energy metabolism and inflammatory pathways are inter-related in many complex manners. For example, the major categories of drugs used to treat depression have been demonstrated to exert effects on mitochondria and inflammation, as well as on monoamines. Furthermore, commonly-used mitochondrial-targeted treatments exert effects on mitochondria and inflammation, and are increasingly being shown to demonstrate efficacy in the affective spectrum disorders. We propose that interactions among monoamines, mitochondrial dysfunction and inflammation can inspire explanatory, rather than mere descriptive, models of these disorders.
Grid cells recorded in the medial entorhinal cortex of freely moving rats exhibit firing at regular spatial locations and temporal modulation with theta rhythm oscillations (4 to 11 hertz). We analyzed grid cell spatial coding during reduction of network theta rhythm oscillations caused by medial septum (MS) inactivation with muscimol. During MS inactivation, grid cells lost their spatial periodicity, whereas head-direction cells maintained their selectivity. Conjunctive grid-by-head-direction cells lost grid cell spatial periodicity but retained head-direction specificity. All cells showed reduced rhythmicity in autocorrelations and cross-correlations. This supports the hypothesis that spatial coding by grid cells requires theta oscillations, and dissociates the mechanisms underlying the generation of entorhinal grid cell periodicity and head-direction selectivity.

Matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) are a group of proteinases that degrade components of the extracellular matrix (ECM). There is increasing evidence for a link between the activation of MMPs and Alzheimer's disease (AD) pathogenesis, in which both beneficial and detrimental actions of MMPs have been suggested. It has been demonstrated that MMPs could degrade amyloid  (A) and play important roles in the extracellular A catabolism and clearance. On the other hand, MMPs could contribute to AD pathogenesis by compromising the blood brain barrier and promoting neurodegeneration. In the present study, we observed that oligomeric A regulates MMP2 expression in a paradoxical manner. In rat primary astrocyte cultures, oligomeric A down-regulated MMP2 transcription and reduced its extracellular activity. However, in a widely used mouse model for AD, immunohistochemistry demonstrated an increase of MMP2 expression in astrocytes surrounding senile plaques in APP/PS1 transgenic mice brains. Using real-time PCR, we found that the MMP2 mRNA level was elevated in APP/PS1 transgenic mice brains. In addition, elevated mRNA levels of MMP stimulating cytokines such as IL-1 and TGF were found in the brains of APP/PS1 mice. Our study suggests a complex regulation of MMP2 expression by oligomeric A in astrocytes. While oligomeric A directly down-regulates MMP2 expression and activation in astrocytes, it induces production of proinflammatory cytokines which could serve as strong stimulators for MMP2. Therefore, the ultimate outcome of the oligomeric A on MMP2 activation in astrocytes might be the combination of its direct inhibitory action on astrocyte MMP2 expression and the secondary action of inducing inflammatory cytokines.
Cortical sensory maps contain discrete functional subregions that are separated by borders that restrict tangential activity flow. Interestingly, the functional organization of border regions remains labile in adults, changing in an activity-dependent manner. Here, we investigated if axon remodeling contributes to this reorganization. We located the border between the forepaw and lower jaw representation (forepaw/lower jaw border,(1) FP/LJ border) in SI of adult rats, and used a retrograde axonal tracer (cholera toxin subunit B(2), Ctb) to determine if horizontal axonal projections change after different durations of forelimb denervation or sham-denervation. In sham-denervated animals, neurons close to the border had axonal projections oriented away from the border (axonal bias). Forelimb denervation resulted in a sustained change in border location and a significant reduction in the axonal bias at the original border after 6 weeks of denervation, but not after 4 or 12 weeks. The change in axonal bias was due to an increase in axons that cross the border at 6 weeks, followed by an apparent loss of these axons by 12 weeks. This suggests that bidirectional axonal rearrangements are associated with relatively long durations of reorganization and could contribute transiently to the maintenance of cortical reorganization.

Adult hippocampal neurogenesis is a unique form of neural circuit plasticity that results in the generation of new neurons in the dentate gyrus throughout life. Neurons that arise in adults (adult-born neurons) show heightened synaptic plasticity during their maturation and can account for up to ten per cent of the entire granule cell population. Moreover, levels of adult hippocampal neurogenesis are increased by interventions that are associated with beneficial effects on cognition and mood, such as learning, environmental enrichment, exercise and chronic treatment with antidepressants. Together, these properties of adult neurogenesis indicate that this process could be harnessed to improve hippocampal functions. However, despite a substantial number of studies demonstrating that adult-born neurons are necessary for mediating specific cognitive functions, as well as some of the behavioural effects of antidepressants, it is unknown whether an increase in adult hippocampal neurogenesis is sufficient to improve cognition and mood. Here we show that inducible genetic expansion of the population of adult-born neurons through enhancing their survival improves performance in a specific cognitive task in which two similar contexts need to be distinguished. Mice with increased adult hippocampal neurogenesis show normal object recognition, spatial learning, contextual fear conditioning and extinction learning but are more efficient in differentiating between overlapping contextual representations, which is indicative of enhanced pattern separation. Furthermore, stimulation of adult hippocampal neurogenesis, when combined with an intervention such as voluntary exercise, produces a robust increase in exploratory behaviour. However, increasing adult hippocampal neurogenesis alone does not produce a behavioural response like that induced by anxiolytic agents or antidepressants. Together, our findings suggest that strategies that are designed to increase adult hippocampal neurogenesis specifically, by targeting the cell death of adult-born neurons or by other mechanisms, may have therapeutic potential for reversing impairments in pattern separation and dentate gyrus dysfunction such as those seen during normal ageing.
Self-consciousness has mostly been approached by philosophical enquiry and not by empirical neuroscientific study, leading to an overabundance of diverging theories and an absence of data-driven theories. Using robotic technology, we achieved specific bodily conflicts and induced predictable changes in a fundamental aspect of self-consciousness by altering where healthy subjects experienced themselves to be (self-location). Functional magnetic resonance imaging revealed that temporo-parietal junction (TPJ) activity reflected experimental changes in self-location that also depended on the first-person perspective due to visuo-tactile and visuo-vestibular conflicts. Moreover, in a large lesion analysis study of neurological patients with a well-defined state of abnormal self-location, brain damage was also localized at TPJ, providing causal evidence that TPJ encodes self-location. Our findings reveal that multisensory integration at the TPJ reflects one of the most fundamental subjective feelings of humans: the feeling of being an entity localized at a position in space and perceiving the world from this position and perspective.
Longitudinal axon fascicles within the Drosophila embryonic CNS provide connections between body segments and are required for coordinated neural signaling along the anterior-posterior axis. We show here that establishment of select CNS longitudinal tracts and formation of precise mechanosensory afferent innervation to the same CNS region are coordinately regulated by the secreted semaphorins Sema-2a and Sema-2b. Both Sema-2a and Sema-2b utilize the same neuronal receptor, plexin B (PlexB), but serve distinct guidance functions. Localized Sema-2b attraction promotes the initial assembly of a subset of CNS longitudinal projections and subsequent targeting of chordotonal sensory afferent axons to these same longitudinal connectives, whereas broader Sema-2a repulsion serves to prevent aberrant innervation. In the absence of Sema-2b or PlexB, chordotonal afferent connectivity within the CNS is severely disrupted, resulting in specific larval behavioral deficits. These results reveal that distinct semaphorin-mediated guidance functions converge at PlexB and are critical for functional neural circuit assembly.
How the site of axon emergence is specified during neural development is not understood. Previous studies disagree on the relative importance of intrinsic and extrinsic mechanisms. The axons of retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) emerge basally in vivo, yet because RGCs develop from polarized neuroepithelial cells within a polarized environment, disentangling intrinsic and extrinsic influences is a challenge. We use time-lapse imaging to demonstrate that Laminin acting directly on RGCs is necessary and sufficient to orient axon emergence in vivo. Laminin contact with the basal processes of newborn RGCs prevents the cells from entering a stochastic Stage 2 phase, directs the rapid accumulation of the early axonal marker Kif5c560-YFP, and leads to the formation of axonal growth cones. These results suggest that contact-mediated cues may be critical for the site of axon emergence and account for the differences in cellular behavior observed in vitro and in vivo.
Traditional studies of neuroanatomical connections require injection of tracer compounds into living brains, then histology of the postmortem tissue. Here, we describe and validate a compound that reveals neuronal connections invivo, using MRI. The classic anatomical tracer CTB (cholera-toxin subunit-B) was conjugated with a gadolinium-chelate to form GdDOTA-CTB. GdDOTA-CTB was injected into the primary somatosensory cortex (S1) or the olfactory pathway of rats. High-resolution MR images were collected at a range of time points at 11.7T and7T. The transported GdDOTA-CTB was visible for at least 1month post-injection, clearing within 2months. Control injections of non-conjugated GdDOTA into S1 were not transported and cleared within 1-2days. Control injections of Gd-Albumin were not transported either, clearing within 7days. These MR results were verified by classic immunohistochemical staining for CTB, in the same animals. TheGdDOTA-CTB neuronal transport was target specific, monosynaptic, stable for several weeks, and reproducible.
Corticosteroid-binding globulin (CBG) binds cortisol with high affinity and facilitates its transport in the blood. A recent discovery suggests that CBG may have a role beyond that of a simple transport carrier protein. CBG functions as a protein thermocouple that is exquisitely sensitive to temperature change, releasing cortisol in response to increasing temperatures within the human physiological range. It is also expressed in the human hypothalamus and cerebrospinal fluid, while in the rodent it is also found in other intracellular neuronal locations, suggesting a role in regulating access of glucocorticoids to their receptors in the CNS. Genetic variants of CBG have been detected in man and have been associated with fatigue-pain syndromes and hypotension, again suggesting a potential effect of CBG on the access of cortisol to brain glucocorticoid receptors. These new findings provide the basis for a novel concept of the mechanisms through which the body regulates access of glucocorticoids to the brain and other tissues of the body.
Clinical studies show an evident antidepressive effect of physical exercise and animal research corroborate such evidence. However, the neurobiological mechanisms underlying the antidepressive effect of exercise are not completely understood. Notwithstanding, it is known that exercise increases brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) expression in the hippocampus similarly to antidepressant drugs. BDNF is synthesized as a precursor molecule that undergoes a proteolytic cleavage to generate either a mature or a truncated isoform. Precursor and mature BDNF are assumed to elicit opposing biological effects in neuroplasticity. In the present study we investigated the effect of voluntary physical activity on precursor and mature brain-derived neurotrophic factor levels and on proBDNF cleavage related genes, p11 and tissue plasminogen activator (tPA), as well as the antidepressive and cognitive effects of voluntary physical activity. Mice had access to mobile or locked running wheels for 28 days and were submitted to forced-swim, tail suspension and water maze tests. Their hippocampi were dissected and analyzed by Western blot and real time RT-PCR. Voluntary physical activity, but not locked wheel exposure, induced a robust increase in hippocampal mature BDNF protein levels, as well as in p11 and tPA mRNA expression; and also promoted antidepressive effects and improved learning, when compared with sedentary mice. On the other hand, there were no significant differences between any groups in the expression of precursor or truncated isoforms of BDNF. Our data suggest that the antidepressive effect of the physical exercise may depend, at least in part, on changes in BDNF post-translational processing.
The main component of senile plaques in Alzheimer's disease (AD), aggregated amyloid beta peptide (A), is neurotoxic and implicated in AD pathology. Melatonin is a hormone secreted from the pineal gland, levels of which are decreased in aging, particularly in AD subjects. This hormone is known to possess neuroprotective properties against A toxicity in vivo, but the mechanism of protection remains controversial. In cultures of mixed neurones and astrocytes, we find that melatonin is protective against neuronal and astrocytic death induced by aggregated full length A 1-40 and the fragments A 25-40 and A 1-28. Melatonin had no effect on the process of fibrillation of A and did not alter A-induced calcium signalling in astrocytes, but did significantly reduce the rate of A-induced reactive oxygen species production and also protected astrocytes against the mitochondrial depolarisation. Thus, scavenging of reactive oxygen species by melatonin appears to be the primary effect of melatonin in protecting neurones and astrocytes against A toxicity.
Saffron, the dried stigmata of Crocus sativus L., is used in traditional medicine for a wide range of indications including cramps, asthma, and depression. To investigate the influence of hydro-ethanolic saffron extract (CSE) and trans-crocetin on synaptic transmission, postsynaptic potentials (PSPs) were elicited by focal electrical stimulation and recorded using intracellular placed microelectrodes in pyramidal cells from rat cingulate cortex. CSE (10-200 g/ml) inhibited evoked PSPs as well as the isolated NMDA and non-NMDA component of PSPs. Glutamate (500 M) added into the organ bath induced membrane depolarization. CSE decreased glutamate-induced membrane depolarization. Additionally, CSE at 100 g/ml decreased NMDA (20 M) and kainate (1 M)-induced depolarization, whereas AMPA (1 M)-induced depolarization was not affected. Trans-crocetin (1-50 M) showed inhibition of evoked PSPs and glutamate-induced membrane depolarization comparable to CSE. Trans-crocetin at 10 M decreased NMDA (20 M)-induced membrane depolarization, but did not inhibit the isolated non-NMDA component of PSPs. We conclude that trans-crocetin is involved in the antagonistic effect of CSE on NMDA but not on kainate receptors.
Although tinnitus is an auditory disorder, it is often associated with attentional and emotional problems. Functional neuroimaging studies in humans have revealed that the hippocampus, amygdala and anterior cingulate, areas of the brain involved in emotion, attention and spatial processing, are also involved in auditory memory and tinnitus perception. However, few studies of tinnitus-evoked emotional and cognitive changes have been reported using animal models of tinnitus. In the present study, we investigated whether acoustic trauma that could cause tinnitus would affect attention and impulsivity in rats. Eight male Wistar rats were exposed to unilateral acoustic trauma (110 dB, 16 kHz for 1 h under anaesthesia) and eight rats underwent the same anaesthesia without acoustic trauma. Tinnitus was tested in noise-exposed rats using a frequency-specific shift in a discrimination function with a conditioned lick suppression paradigm. At 4 months after the noise exposure, the rats were tested in a 5-choice serial reaction time task. The behavioural procedure involved training the rats to discriminate a brief visual stimulus presented randomly in one of the five spatial locations and responding by poking its nose through the illuminated hole and collecting a food pellet from the magazine. While all of the animals performed equally well in making correct responses, the animals exposed to acoustic trauma made significantly more premature responses. The results suggest that rats exposed to acoustic trauma and some of which have chronic tinnitus are impaired in impulsive control, but not performance accuracy.
Similar adaptations improve both proactive and reactive control of center-of-mass (COM) stability and limb support against gravity during different daily tasks (e.g., sit-to-stand and walking) as a consequence of perturbation training for resisting falls. Yet it is unclear whether--or to what extent--such similarities actually promote inter-task generalization. The purpose of this study was therefore to determine whether young adults could indeed transfer their adaptive control, acquired from sit-to-stand-slip, to improve their likelihood of a recovery from an unannounced novel slip in walking. Subjects underwent either repeated slips during sit-to-stand before experiencing an unannounced, novel slip during walking (training group, n=20), or they received no prior training before the same gait-slip (control group, n=23). The subjects demonstrated training-induced generalization of their improved proactive control of stability in post-training (unperturbed) gait pattern that was more stable against backward balance loss than was that of their own pre-training pattern as well the gait pattern of the subjects in the control group. Upon the unannounced novel gait-slip, the training group showed significantly lower incidence of both falls and balance loss than that shown by the control, resulting from the improvements in the reactive control of limb support and slip velocity, which directly influenced the control of their COM stability. Such transfer could occur when the subjects' central nervous system recalibrates the non-task-specific, generalized representation of stability limits during the initial training to guide both their feed-forward adjustments and their feedback responses. The findings of the inter-task generalization suggests that behavioral changes induced via the perturbation training paradigm have the potential to prevent falls across the spectrum of cyclic and non-cyclic activities.
There is a general consensus that prenatal stress alters offspring brain development, however, the details are often inconsistent. Hypothesizing that variation to the level of stress would produce different maternal experiences; this study was designed to examine offspring outcomes following a single prenatal stress paradigm at two different intensities. Pregnant Long Evans rats received mild, high, or no-stress from gestational days 12-16. Offspring underwent early behavioural testing and global methylation patterns were analysed from brain tissue of the frontal cortex and hippocampus. The two different prenatal stress intensities produced significantly different and often, opposite effects in the developing brain. Mild prenatal stress decreased brain weight in both males and females, whereas extreme stress increased female brain weight. Mild prenatal stress slowed development of sensorimotor abilities and decreased locomotion, whereas high prenatal stress also slowed development of sensorimotor learning but increased locomotion. Finally, mild prenatal stress increased global DNA methylation levels in the frontal cortex and hippocampus whereas high prenatal stress was associated with a dramatic decrease. The data from this study provide evidence to support a dose-dependent effect of prenatal stress on multiple aspects of brain development, potentially contributing to long-term outcomes.
A number of neurotoxin- and gene-based rodent models of acute neurodegeneration of nigrostriatal dopamine (DA) neurons are used to study Parkinson's disease (PD). The rapid degeneration achieved by many of these current models limits the capacity of the model to develop pathogenic mechanisms and display the various stages of motor degradation representative of the human Parkinsonian condition. Chronic rodent models have been the only ones to reproduce these characteristics, yet do not show correlated progress of DA loss with multiple stepwise behavioral deficits as seen in humans. In the present study, we have developed a progressive model of increasing DA loss and motor dysfunction via progressively increased administration of the neurotoxin, 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP), in the C57Bl/6J mouse. Mice were administered a daily (5 d/wk) dose of MPTP that increased weekly over the course of 4 weeks (4 mg/kg, 8 mg/kg, 16 mg/kg and 32 mg/kg). Each treatment group was tested for exploratory and motor behavioral changes after every week leading up to their final dose, as well as changes in tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity (TH-ir) of the substantia nigra pars compacta (SNpc) and caudate putamen (CPu). We detected a 24% decrease in the mean number of TH-ir SNpc neurons/section after 1 week, and a 62% decrease after 4 weeks as compared to the vehicle group. CPu TH-ir began at a 35% loss after 1 week and increased to a 74% loss after 4 weeks compared to the vehicle group. CPu DA content showed an initial decrease of 20% after 1 week, and a final decrease of 70% following week 4 versus the vehicle group. Free-standing rears (versus wall-assisted rears, in a cylinder), decreased from 35% to 8% of total rears as the dose of MPTP increased from 4 mg/kg to 32 mg/kg, respectively. However, motor impairment as measured by a Parallel Rod Activity Chamber test was not significant until week 4 at 32 mg/kg compared to the vehicle group. The present study is the first to show stepwise progression of behavioral deficits which correlate with gradual dopaminergic decline in the nigrostriatal pathway. This progressive lesioning regiment may be appropriate for future investigation of pathogenic mechanisms and various intervention therapies in PD.
Alcohol exposure in utero is a common cause of mental retardation, but the targets and mechanisms of action are poorly understood. Several lines of data point toward alterations in cortical connectivity, suggesting that axon guidance may be vulnerable to alcohol exposure. To test this, we asked whether ethanol directly affects cortical axonal growth cone responses to guidance cues. We find that even low concentrations of ethanol (12.5 mM; 57.2 mg/dl) commonly observed in social drinking prevent growth cone responses to three mechanistically independent guidance cues, Semaphorin3A, Lysophosphatidic Acid, and Netrin-1. However, this effect is highly dependent on substrate; axonal growth cones extending on an L1 cell adhesion molecule (L1CAM) substrate retain responsiveness to cues following exposure to ethanol, while those growing on poly-L-lysine or N-cadherin do not. The effects of ethanol on axon extension are, by contrast, quite modest. Quantitative assessments of the effects of ethanol on the surface distribution of L1CAM in growth cones suggest that L1CAM homophilic interactions may be particularly relevant for retaining growth cone responsiveness following ethanol exposure. Together, our findings indicate that ethanol can directly and generally alter growth cone responses to guidance cues, that a substrate of L1CAM effectively antagonizes this effect, and that cortical axonal growth cone vulnerability to ethanol may be predicted in part based on the environment through which they are extending.
Many chronic trigeminal pain conditions, such as migraine or temporo-mandibular disorders, are associated with inflammation within peripheral endings of trigeminal ganglion (TG) sensory neurons. A critical role in mechanisms of neuroinflammation is attributed to proinflammatory cytokines, such as interleukin-1 and tumor necrosis factor- (TNF) that also contribute to mechanisms of persistent neuropathic pain resulting from nerve injury. However, the mechanisms of cytokine-mediated synaptic plasticity and nociceptor sensitization are not completely understood. In the present study, we examined the effects of TNF on neuronal expression of brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF), whose role in synaptic plasticity and sensitization of nociceptive pathways is well documented. We show that 4- and 24-h treatment with TNF increases BDNF mRNA and protein, respectively, in neuron-enriched dissociated cultures of rat TG. TNF increases the phosphorylated form of the cyclic AMP-responsive element binding protein (CREB), a transcription factor involved in regulation of BDNF expression in neurons, and activates transcription of BDNF exon IV (former exon III) and, to a lesser extent, exon VI (former exon IV), but not exon I. TNF-mediated increase in BDNF expression is accompanied by increase in calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), which is consistent with previously published studies, and indicates that both peptides are similarly regulated in TG neurons by inflammatory mediators. The effect of TNF on BDNF expression is dependent on sodium influx through TTX-sensitive channels and on p38-mitogen-activated protein kinase. Moreover, electrical stimulation and forskolin, known to increase intracellular cAMP, potentiate the TNF-mediated upregulation of BDNF expression. This study provides new evidence for a direct action of proinflammatory cytokines on TG primary sensory neurons, and reveals a mechanism through which TNF stimulates de novo synthesis of BDNF in these neurons. Thus, TNF should be considered in mechanisms of BDNF-dependent neuronal plasticity.
Pctaire1, a Cdk-related protein kinase, is prominently expressed in terminally differentiated tissues, including the brain and the testis. We have previously shown that Pctaire1 regulates neurotransmitter release through phosphorylation of NSF, and its kinase activity is regulated by the Cdk5-dependent phosphorylation at Serine-95 (Ser95). Nonetheless, the functional roles of Pctaire1 in neurons during development remained poorly understood. In this study, we found that Pctaire1 is expressed along neurites and is concentrated at the growth cones of early differentiating hippocampal neurons. Upon maturation of these neurons, Pctiare1 is expressed as puncta and co-localized with synaptic marker in dendrites. Phosphorylation of Pctaire1 at Ser95 increases upon neuronal differentiation, concurrent with the elevation in Cdk5 activity. Knockdown of Pctaire1 abolishes dendrite development, and more importantly, expression of Ser95 phosphorylation-deficient mutant of Pctaire1 also reduces dendrite complexity, suggesting that Cdk5 regulates Pctaire1 functions in differentiating neurons. Together, our findings demonstrate that Cdk5-dependent phosphorylation of Pctaire1 at Ser95 plays an important role in dendrite development.
Ghrelin, a circulating orexigenic stomach-derived hormone, has recently been implicated in extra-homeostatic feeding, increasing food reward and food-motivated behavior. The precise target site(s) for ghrelin's effects on food reward have yet to be elucidated. The neurocircuitry underpinning food-motivated behavior involves, in particular, the dopamine cells of the ventral tegmental area (VTA) that project to the nucleus accumbens (NAcc). Ghrelin stimulation in both of these mesolimbic reward areas increases chow intake. Here we sought to determine if ghrelin acts directly within these mesolimbic reward areas to increase food reward/motivation in studies that combine feeding behavior, pharmacology, and neuroanatomy. We found that motivated behavior for a sucrose reward, assessed in an operant conditioning paradigm in rats, was increased when ghrelin was microinjected directly into the VTA but not into the NAcc. By contrast, ghrelin administration to both areas increased the free feeding of chow. Importantly, in a state of overnight food restriction, where endogenous levels of ghrelin are increased, ghrelin receptor (GHS-R1A) blockade in the VTA was sufficient to decrease the motivation to work for a sugar reward. Blockade of the GHS-R1A in VTA or NAcc was not sufficient to reduce fasting-induced chow hyperphagia. Taken together our data identify the VTA but not the NAcc as a direct, necessary, and sufficient target site for ghrelin's action on food motivation.
Ginkgo biloba extract, EGb 761, a popular and standardized natural extract, contains 24% ginkgo-flavonol glycosides and 6% terpene lactones. EGb 761 is used worldwide to treat many ailments, and although a number of studies have shown its neuroprotective properties, the mechanisms of action have not been elucidated fully. We hypothesize that EGb 761 and some of its bioactive components [Bilobalide (BB), Ginkgolide A (GA), Ginkgolide B (GB), and Terpene Free Material (TFM)] could provide neuroprotection in ischemic conditions through heme oxygenase 1 (HO1). Mice were subjected to permanent distal middle cerebral artery occlusion (pMCAO) and survived for 7 days. HO1 knockout (HO1/) mice showed significantly higher (P&lt;0.05) infarct volume and Neurologic Deficit Scores (NDS) as compared to their wildtype (WT) counterparts. In another cohort, WT mice subjected to pMCAO and treated at 4 h of pMCAO with 100 mg/kg EGb 761, 6 mg/kg BB, GA, GB, or 10 mg/kg TFM showed significantly lower (P&lt;0.05) infarct volumes (BB; 29.03.9%, GA; 31.34.0%, GB; 32.03.8%, TFM; 32.53.5%, and EGb 761; 27.44.5%) than those in the vehicle-treated mice (46.03.7%). Similarly, NDS were lower in BB; 7.11.8, GA; 7.42.1, GB; 7.91.8, TFM; 7.71.7, and EGb 761; 6.82.0 groups as compared with the vehicle-treated group (13.81.5). Interestingly, the protective effect of EGb 761 was essentially lost when HO1 knockout mice were treated with EGb 761. In another cohort, HO1, vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and endothelial nitric oxide synthase (eNOS) protein levels in the brain cortices appeared to be higher in EGb 761 and BB but not in GA, GB and TFM treated groups. Together, these results suggest that HO1 plays, at least in part, an important role in the neuroprotective mechanism of EGb 761 and in delayed ischemia. Targeting this pathway could lead to neuroprotective agents against ischemic stroke.
Interaction of genetic and environmental factors is likely involved in Parkinson's disease (PD). Mutations and multiplications of alpha-synuclein (-syn) cause familial PD, and chronic manganese (Mn) exposure can produce an encephalopathy with signs of parkinsonism. We exposed male transgenic C57BL/6J mice expressing human -syn or the A53T/A30P doubly mutated human -syn under the tyrosine hydroxylase promoter and non-transgenic littermates to MnCl-enriched (1%) or control food, starting at the age of 4 months. Locomotor activity was increased by Mn without significant effect of the transgenes. Mice were sacrificed at the age of 7 or 20 months. Striatal Mn was significantly increased about three-fold in those exposed to MnCl. The number of tyrosine hydroxylase positive substantia nigra compacta neurons was significantly reduced in 20 months old mice (-10%), but Mn or transgenes were ineffective (three-way ANOVA with the factors gene, Mn and age). In 7 months old mice, striatal homovanillic acid (HVA)/dopamine (DA) ratios and aspartate levels were significantly increased in control mice with human -syn as compared to non-transgenic controls (+17 and +11%, respectively); after Mn exposure both parameters were significantly reduced (-16 and -13%, respectively) in human -syn mice, but unchanged in non-transgenic animals and mice with mutated -syn (two-way ANOVA with factors gene and Mn). None of the parameters were changed in the 20 months old mice. Single HVA/DA ratios and single aspartate levels significantly correlated across all treatment groups suggesting a causal relationship between the rate of striatal DA metabolism and aspartate release. In conclusion, under our experimental conditions, Mn and human -syn, wild-type and doubly mutated, did not interact to induce PD-like neurodegenerative changes. However, Mn significantly and selectively interacted with human wild-type -syn on indices of striatal DA neurotransmission, the neurotransmitter most relevant to PD.
The male mouse medial amygdala is an important site for integration of main and accessory olfactory information. Exposure to biologically relevant chemical signals from the same species (conspecific) results in a general pattern of immediate early gene (IEG) expression in medial amygdala different from that elicited by chemical signals from other species (heterospecific), of no demonstrable biological relevance. The neuropeptide oxytocin (OT) in the medial amygdala has been shown to be necessary for social recognition. In the present set of experiments, male mice with i.c.v. cannulae were injected with either PBS (vehicle control) or oxytocin antagonist (OTA) (1 ng in 1 l PBS) and exposed to conspecific (female mouse urine) and heterospecific (steer urine and worn cat collar) chemical stimuli. Similarly to our previous report with intact male mice [Samuelsen and Meredith (2009a) Brain Res 1263:33-42], PBS-injected mice exhibited different immediate early gene (IEG) expression patterns in the medial amygdala according to the biological relevance of the chemical stimuli. However, OTA injection eliminates the increase in IEG expression in the medial amygdala to any of the tested conspecific or heterospecific stimuli. Importantly, OTA injection disrupts avoidance of an unfamiliar predator odor, worn cat collar. Here we suggest that the disruption of social recognition behavior in male mice with altered OT receptor activity results from an inability of the medial amygdala to process relevant conspecific (and heterospecific) chemosensory signals.
A cued Go-Nogo task was employed to explore the neural correlation among response preparation, cognitive control and intelligence in two groups of early adolescents with different intellectual levels using event-related potential (ERP) technique. Behavioral results indicated that the gifted children had better cognitive control performances with higher correct hit rate and lower commission error rate than the average children. Electrophysiological results further showed that the gifted children elicited efficient cue-P2 response for automatic cue detection and stronger cue-P3 activation for cue evaluation. Moreover, gifted children induced faster N2 and Nogo-P3 responses for conflict monitoring and inhibition processing and stronger P3 activation for attentional control. The current results supported the neural efficiency hypothesis of intelligence and further shed light on the close relationship among response preparation, cognitive control and human intelligence.
Glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) and its analogue exendin-4 inhibit food intake, reduce blood glucose levels and increase blood pressure and heart rate by acting on GLP-1 receptors in many brain regions. Within the CNS, GLP-1 is produced only by preproglucagon (PPG) neurons. We suggest that PPG neurons mediate the central effects of GLP-1 by modulating sympathetic and vagal outflow. We therefore analysed the projections of PPG neurons to brain sites involved in autonomic control. In transgenic mice expressing yellow fluorescent protein (YFP) under the control of the PPG promoter, we assessed YFP-immunoreactive innervation using an anti-GFP antiserum and avidin-biotin-peroxidase. PPG neurons were intensely YFP-immunoreactive and axons could be easily discriminated from dendrites. YFP-immunoreactive cell bodies occurred primarily within the caudal nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) with additional somata ventral to the hypoglossal nucleus, in raph obscurus and in the intermediate reticular nucleus. The caudal NTS contained a dense network of dendrites, some of which extended into the area postrema. Immunoreactive axons were widespread throughout NTS, dorsal vagal nucleus and reticular nucleus with few in the hypoglossal nucleus and pyramids. The dorsomedial and paraventricular hypothalamic nuclei, ventrolateral periaqueductal grey and thalamic paraventricular nucleus exhibited heavy innervation. The area postrema, rostral ventrolateral medulla, pontine central grey, locus coeruleus/Barrington's nucleus, arcuate nucleus and the vascular organ of the lamina terminalis were moderately innervated. Only a few axons occurred in the amygdala and subfornical organ. Our results demonstrate that PPG neurons innervate primarily brain regions involved in autonomic control. Thus, central PPG neurons are ideally situated to modulate sympathetic and parasympathetic outflow through input at a variety of central sites. Our data also highlight that immunohistochemistry improves detection of neurons expressing YFP. Hence, animals in which specific populations of neurons have been genetically-modified to express fluorescent proteins are likely to prove ideal for anatomical studies.
Edema, the accumulation of excess fluid, is a major pathological change in the brain that contributes significantly to pathology and mortality after moderate to severe brain injury. Edema is regulated by aquaporin (AQP) channels which transport water across cellular membranes. Six AQPs are found in the brain (1, 3, 4, 5, 8, and 9), and previous studies have found that AQP4 is regulated after traumatic brain injury (TBI). To further understand how AQPs contribute to brain edema, we investigated whether expression of AQP1, 3, and 9 are also regulated after TBI. Adult male Sprague Dawley rats received moderate parasagittal fluid-percussion brain injury (FPI) or sham surgery. After induction of FPI, the injured, ipsilateral parietal cortex and hippocampus were dissected and analyzed by Western blotting. We observed a small decrease in AQP3 and 4 levels at 7 days after FPI in the ipsilateral, parietal cortex. Both AQP1 and 9 significantly increased within 30 min post-injury and remained elevated for up to 6 h in the ipsilateral, parietal cortex. Aqp1 and 9 mRNA levels were also significantly increased at 30 min post-FPI. Administration of an AQP1 and 4 antagonist, AqB013, non-significantly increased brain water content in sham, non-injured animals, and did not prevent edema formation 24 h after trauma in either the parietal cortex or hippocampus. These results indicate that Aqp1 and 9 mRNA and protein levels increase after moderate parasagittal FPI and that an inhibitor of AQP1 and 4 does not decrease edema after moderate parasagittal FPI.
Neural progenitor cells (NPCs) are a source of new neurons and glia in the adult brain. Most NPCs reside in the forebrain subventricular zone (SVZ) and in the subgranular zone of the dentate gyrus, where they contribute to plasticity in the adult brain. To use their potential for repair, it is essential to identify the molecules that regulate their growth, migration and differentiation. Potassium (K+) channels are promising molecule candidates for NPC regulation as they are important components of signal transduction and their diversity is ideal to cover the complex functions required for cell proliferation and differentiation. There is increasing evidence that K+ channels influence cell growth and neurogenesis, however, very little is known regarding K+ channel distribution in NPCs. We therefore explored the expression of a variety of voltage-gated (Kv), inwardly rectifying (Kir) and two-pore (K2P) K+ channels in the SVZ of adult mice and in neurosphere cultures of NPCs during growth and differentiation. Immunocytochemical analysis revealed a differential expression pattern of K+ channels in nestin+ SVZ precursor cells, early SVZ doublecortin+ neurons and (sub)ependymal cells. These findings were confirmed in neurosphere cultures at the protein and mRNA levels. The expression of some K+ channel proteins, such as Kir4.1, Kir6.1, TREK1 or TASK1, suggests a role of K+ channels in the complex regulation of NPC proliferation, maturation and differentiation.
Acetylcholine (Ach) affects a variety of cell types in the cochlear nucleus (CN) and is likely to play a role in numerous functions. Previous work in rats suggested that the acetylcholine arises from cells in the superior olivary complex, including cells that have axonal branches that innervate both the CN and the cochlea (i.e. olivocochlear cells) as well as cells that innervate only the CN. We combined retrograde tracing with immunohistochemistry for choline acetyltransferase to identify the source of ACh in the CN of guinea pigs. The results confirm a projection from cholinergic cells in the superior olivary complex to the CN. In addition, we identified a substantial number of cholinergic cells in the pedunculopontine tegmental nucleus (PPT) and the laterodorsal tegmental nucleus (LDT) that project to the CN. On average, the PPT and LDT together contained about 26% of the cholinergic cells that project to CN, whereas the superior olivary complex contained about 74%. A small number of additional cholinergic cells were located in other areas, including the parabrachial nuclei.The results highlight a substantial cholinergic projection from the pontomesencephalic tegmentum (PPT and LDT) in addition to a larger projection from the superior olivary complex. These different sources of cholinergic projections to the CN are likely to serve different functions. Projections from the superior olivary complex are likely to serve a feedback role, and may be closely tied to olivocochlear functions. Projections from the pontomesencephalic tegmentum may play a role in such things as arousal and sensory gating. Projections from each of these areas, and perhaps even the smaller sources of cholinergic inputs, may be important in conditions such as tinnitus as well as in normal acoustic processing.
The therapeutic potential of BL-1023, a chemical combination of L-3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (L-DOPA) and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), was investigated in 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) intoxicated mice. Such animals exhibit nigrostriatal degeneration, characteristic of human Parkinson's disease. Drug was administered during and after the development of MPTP-induced nigrostriatal lesions followed by measures of motor function and behavior, surviving nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons and termini, and striatal dopamine levels. When administered after lesion development, BL-1023 improved motor function of MPTP-mice as measured by rotarod, total floor and vertical plane movements, and stereotypic movements in open field activity tests compared to MPTP-mice without treatment. This also paralleled modest nigral dopaminergic neuronal protection. Such significant improvements in motor function, behaviors, and dopaminergic neuronal numbers were not seen when BL-1023 was administered during MPTP-induced lesion development. The data demonstrate select abilities of BL-1023 to increase dopaminergic neuronal survival and improve motor function in MPTP-mice.
The heterogeneity of astrocytes is of growing interest, because this information is now considered to be crucial for understanding the diverse roles of astrocytes, for example, support and nutrition for neurons, and modulation of synaptic plasticity. In this study, we stereologically estimated the regional and laminar differences in antigen profiles and spatial distributions of astrocytes in the young adult (2-month-old) and middle-aged (10-month-old) mouse hippocampus. Here we used two established astrocyte markers, that is, glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and S100, to identify the astrocyte population. In addition, we examined the patterns of expression of sex determining region Y-box 2 (Sox2) in the hippocampus. The majority of astrocytes expressed Sox2, and few regional and laminar differences were observed in the expression ratios of Sox2 in astrocytes. GFAP-negative astrocytes were specifically seen in the strata pyramidale and lucidum of the ventral CA3 region. S100-negative astrocytes were mainly found in the hilus of the dorsal and ventral dentate gyrus. Antigen profiles of astrocytes defined by Sox2, GFAP, and S100 were rather constant until middle age. We then estimated the heterogeneity in spatial distributions of astrocytes. The numbers of astrocytes in the stratum lacunosum-molecular of the dorsal part of Ammon's horn were significantly larger in the middle-aged mice than in young adult mice. On the contrary, the astrocyte numbers in the stratum oriens of Ammon's horn showed significant age-dependent decline. Despite such changes, the total number of astrocytes in the whole area of the hippocampus showed no differences between young adult and middle-aged mice. The present data may work as an essential anatomical reference to understand the heterogeneity of astrocytes in the hippocampus.
Auditory function depends on gap junctional intercellular communication (GJIC) between fibrocytes within the cochlear spiral ligament, and basal cells and intermediate cells within stria vascularis. This communication within the lateral wall is hypothesized to support recirculation of K+ from perilymph to the intra-strial space, and thus is essential for the high [K+] measured within endolymph, and the generation of the endocochlear potential. In rats, the [K+] within endolymph reaches adult levels by postnatal day 7 (P7), several days before hearing onset, suggesting that GJIC matures before auditory responses are detectable. In this study we have mapped the postnatal development of GJIC within the cochlear lateral wall, to determine the stage at which direct communication first exists between the spiral ligament and stria vascularis. Connexin 30 immunofluorescence revealed a progressive increase of gap junction plaque numbers from P0 onwards, initially in the condensing mesenchyme behind strial marginal cells, and spreading throughout the lateral wall by P7-P8. Whole-cell patch clamp experiments revealed compartmentalized intercellular dye-coupling in the lateral wall between P2 and P5. There was extensive dye-coupling throughout the fibrocyte syncytium by P7. Also, by P7 dye introduced to fibrocytes could also be detected within strial basal cells and intermediate cells. These data suggest that lateral wall function matures several days in advance of hearing onset, and provide anatomical evidence of the existence of a putative K+ recirculation pathway within the cochlear lateral wall.
Prepulse inhibition (PPI) of startle is an experimentally tractable measure of sensorimotor gating that can be readily evaluated in mice, rats, monkeys, and humans. PPI is the inhibitory effect of a low-intensity stimulus, the prepulse, on the startle response to a subsequent high-intensity stimulus. PPI has garnered great interest as a marker of clinically relevant information processing abnormalities, because it is impaired in such neuropsychiatric conditions as schizophrenia, Tourette syndrome, and obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD). Pathology of the basal ganglia has been described in all three of these disorders, and it is therefore of great interest to determine the role of the basal ganglia in PPI. Previous work in rats described a PPI deficit after excitotoxic ventral striatal lesions and a more subtle attenuation after caudodorsal lesion, but no effect of other large lateral dorsal lesions. However, previous studies have not specifically investigated the role of the dorsomedial striatum in PPI. We investigated this issue using excitotoxic lesions in mice. We describe a marked reduction in PPI, at a variety of prepulse intensities, after bilateral lesions of dorsomedial striatum. There was no effect of lesion on baseline startle or habituation. In contrast, comparably sized lesions of the central dorsal striatum had no effect on PPI. These results reveal a role for the dorsomedial striatum in prepulse inhibition, which may have relevance for the abnormalities observed in this region in such disorders as Tourette syndrome and OCD.
Peripheral and central glial activation plays an important role in development of pain hypersensitivity induced by inflammation and nerve injury. However, the involvement of glial cells in cancer pain is not well understood. The present study evaluated the peripheral and central glial activation and the effect of an inhibitor of glial activation, propentofylline, on pain-related behaviors in a rat facial cancer model of the growth of Walker 256B cells in the unilateral vibrissal pad until days 3-4 post-inoculation. As compared with sham animals, the facial grooming period was prolonged, the withdrawal latency to radiant heat stimulation was shortened, and the withdrawal threshold by von Frey hair stimulation was decreased at the inoculated region, indicating the development of spontaneous pain, thermal hyperalgesia and mechanical allodynia. In immunostainings for Iba1 and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP), although there were no morphological changes of GFAP-immunopositive satellite glial cells in the trigeminal ganglion, Iba1-immunopositive microglia and GFAP-immunopositive astrocytes in the medullary dorsal horn showed large somata with cell proliferation. After the daily i.p. administration of propentofylline beginning pre-inoculation, the central glial activation was attenuated, the prolonged facial grooming was partially suppressed, and the induced allodynia and hyperalgesia from day 2 were prevented, without a change in tumor size. These results suggest that glial activation in the CNS, but not in the peripheral nervous system, mediates the enhancement of spontaneous pain and the development of allodynia and hyperalgesia at an early stage in the facial cancer model.
Although schizophrenia has been considered primarily a disease of dopaminergic neurotransmission, the role of dopamine in auditory sensory gating deficits in this disorder and their amelioration by smoking/nicotine is unclear. Hypothesizing that individual differences in striatal dopamine levels may moderate auditory gating and its modulation by nicotine, this preliminary study used the mid-latency (P50) auditory event-related potential (ERP) to examine the single dose (6 mg) effects of nicotine (vs. placebo) gum on sensory gating in 24 healthy nonsmokers varying in the genetic expression of the dopamine transporter (DAT). Consistent with an inverted-U relationship between dopamine level and the drug effects, individuals carrying the 9R (lower gene expression) allele, which is related to greater striatal dopamine levels, tended to evidence increased baseline gating compared to 10R (higher gene expression) allele carriers and showed a reduction in gating with acute nicotine. The present results may help to understand the link between excessive smoking and sensory gating deficits in schizophrenia and to explain the potential functional implications of genetic disposition on nicotinic treatment in schizophrenia.
Studies have shown that seizures in young animals lead to later cognitive deficits. There is evidence that long-term potentiation (LTP) and long-term depression (LTD) might contribute to the neural basis for learning and memory mechanism and might be modulated by ATP and/or its dephosphorylated product adenosine produced by a cascade of cell-surface transmembrane enzymes, such as E-NTPDases (ecto-nucleoside triphosphate diphosphohydrolases) and ecto-5'-nucleotidase. Thus, we have investigated if hippocampal ecto-nucleotidase activities are altered at different time periods after one episode of seizure induced by kainic acid (KA) in 7 days old rats. We also have evaluated if 90 day-old rats previously submitted to seizure induced by KA at 7 days of age presented cognitive impairment in Y-maze behavior task. Our results have shown memory impairment of adult rats (Postnatal day 90) previously submitted to one single seizure episode in neonatal period (Postnatal day 7), which is accompanied by an increased ATP hydrolysis in hippocampal synaptosomes. The metabolism of ATP evaluated by HPLC confirmed that ATP hydrolysis was faster in adult rats treated with KA in neonatal period than in controls. Surprisingly, the mRNA and protein levels as seen by PCR and Western blot, respectively, were not altered by the KA administration in early age. Since we have found an augmented hydrolysis of ATP and this nucleotide seems to be important to LTP induction, we could assume that impairment of memory and learning observed in adult rats which have experienced a convulsive episode in postnatal period may be a consequence of the increased ATP hydrolysis. These findings correlate the purinergic signaling to the cognitive deficits induced by neonatal seizures and contribute to a better understanding about the mechanisms of seizure-induced memory dysfunction.
The neuronal mechanism underlying the phantom auditory perception of tinnitus remains elusive at present. For over 25 years, temporary tinnitus following acute salicylate intoxication in rats has been used as a model to understand how a phantom sound can be generated. Behavioral studies have indicated that the pitch of salicylate-induced tinnitus in the rat is approximately 16 kHz. In order to better understand the origin of the tinnitus pitch measurements were made at the levels of auditory input and output; both cochlear and cortical physiological recordings were performed in ketamine/xylazine anesthetized rats. Both compound action potentials and distortion product otoacoustic emission measurements revealed a salicylate-induced band-pass-like cochlear deficit in which the reduction of cochlear input was least at 16 kHz and significantly greater at high and low frequencies. In a separate group of rats, frequency receptive fields of primary auditory cortex neurons were tracked using multichannel microelectrodes before and after systemic salicylate treatment. Tracking frequency receptive fields following salicylate revealed a population of neurons that shifted their frequency of maximum sensitivity (i.e. characteristic frequency) towards the tinnitus frequency region of the tonotopic axis (16 kHz). The data presented here supports the hypothesis that salicylate-induced tinnitus results from an expanded cortical representation of the tinnitus pitch determined by an altered profile of input from the cochlea. Moreover, the pliability of cortical frequency receptive fields during salicylate-induced tinnitus is likely due to salicylate's direct action on intracortical inhibitory networks. Such a disproportionate representation of middle frequencies in the auditory cortex following salicylate may result in a finer analysis of signals within this region which may pathologically enhance the functional importance of spurious neuronal activity concentrated at tinnitus frequencies.
Neural oscillations with a frequency of around 10 Hz are thought to be a ubiquitous phenomenon in sensory cortices, and it has been hypothesized that the level of 10 Hz activity is related to local cortical excitability. During spatial attention, the visual alpha rhythm has been found to be modulated according to the direction of attention. Specifically, the alpha rhythm desynchronizes over visual cortex contralateral to the direction of attention and synchronizes over visual cortex ipsilateral to the direction of attention, and these modulations have been associated with facilitation and inhibition of sensory processing. In the somatosensory domain, the reactivity of a similar rhythm, known as the mu rhythm, during attention tasks is a current topic of inquiry and somatotopic modulation of the mu rhythm by directed attention have been reported. In this paper, we investigate how lateralized spatial attention modulates the ongoing somatosensory mu rhythm, and how such modulation impacts sensory information processing. 128 channel EEG was recorded while subjects performed a somatosensory spatial attention task. In addition to analyses on scalp recorded data, a spatial filtering method was utilized to investigate spatial attention effects in the source space. The direction of spatial attention was found to have a significant somatotopic effect on the ongoing mu rhythm occurring in primary somatosensory cortex. Concurrently, the visual alpha rhythm was significantly elevated above the baseline level during somatosensory attention, demonstrating a cross-modal effect. Lastly, an analysis was performed to investigate the correlation between the level of prestimulus mu activity and subsequent stimulus evoked activity in primary somatosensory cortex.
In this paper, we aim to study the cognitive integration of asynchronous natural or non-natural auditory and visual information in videos of real-world events. Videos with asynchronous semantically consistent or inconsistent natural sound or speech were used as stimuli in order to compare the difference and similarity between multisensory integrations of videos with asynchronous natural sound and speech. The event-related potential (ERP) results showed that N1 and P250 components were elicited irrespective of whether natural sounds were consistent or inconsistent with critical actions in videos. Videos with inconsistent natural sound could elicit N400-P600 effects compared to videos with consistent natural sound, which was similar to the results from unisensory visual studies. Videos with semantically consistent or inconsistent speech could both elicit N1 components. Meanwhile, videos with inconsistent speech would elicit N400-LPN effects in comparison with videos with consistent speech, which showed that this semantic processing was probably related to recognition memory. Moreover, the N400 effect elicited by videos with semantically inconsistent speech was larger and later than that elicited by videos with semantically inconsistent natural sound. Overall, multisensory integration of videos with natural sound or speech could be roughly divided into two stages. For the videos with natural sound, the first stage might reflect the connection between the received information and the stored information in memory; and the second one might stand for the evaluation process of inconsistent semantic information. For the videos with speech, the first stage was similar to the first stage of videos with natural sound; while the second one might be related to recognition memory process.
The deposition of amyloid  protein (A) is a consistent pathological hallmark of Alzheimer's disease (AD) brains. Therefore, inhibition of A aggregation in the brain is an attractive therapeutic and preventive strategy in the development of disease-modifying drugs for AD. An in vitro study demonstrated that yokukansan (YKS), a traditional Japanese medicine, inhibited A aggregation in a concentration-dependent manner. An in vivo study demonstrated that YKS and Uncaria hook (UH), a constituent of YKS, prevented the accumulation of cerebral A. YKS also improved the memory disturbance and abnormal social interaction such as increased aggressive behavior and decreased social behavior in amyloid precursor protein transgenic mice. These results suggest that YKS is likely to be a potent and novel therapeutic agent to prevent and/or treat AD, and that this may be attributed to UH.
Similar to the nap-protocols applied in humans, the repeated short-sleep deprivation protocol in rats stabilizes slow-wave activity (SWA, 0.5-4 Hz) in the non-rapid eye movement (NREM) sleep electroencephalogram (EEG), thus reflecting a constant sleep pressure or sleep homeostatic level, whereas higher frequencies (7-25 Hz) in these conditions preserve their daily rhythm, therefore demonstrating a strong input from an endogenous circadian clock. How different EEG frequencies in rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and waking respond to these constant conditions, how they interrelate to each other within the different vigilance states, and which component of sleep regulation (homeostatic or circadian) is involved, remain unknown. To answer these questions, we applied power spectral analysis and correlation analysis to 1 Hz bin EEG frequency data for different vigilance states in freely moving rats in constant darkness, under baseline conditions and during the repeated short-sleep deprivation protocol. Our analysis suggests that (1) 0.5-5 Hz frequencies in NREM sleep and higher frequencies in REM sleep (above 19 Hz) and waking (above 10 Hz) are sleep-dependent, and thus seem to be under control of the sleep homeostat, while (2) faster frequencies in the NREM sleep EEG (7-25 Hz) and 3-7 Hz activity in the REM sleep EEG are under strong influence of the endogenous circadian clock. Theta activity in waking (5-7 Hz) seems to reflect both circadian and behavior dependent influences. NREM sleep EEG frequencies between 9 and 14 Hz showed both homeostatic and circadian components in their behavior. Thus, frequencies in the EEG of the different vigilance states seem to represent circadian and homeostatic components of sleep regulatory mechanisms, where REM sleep and waking frequency ranges behave similarly to each other and differently from NREM sleep frequencies.
The orexigenic and pro-obesity hormone ghrelin targets key hypothalamic and mesolimbic circuits involved in energy balance, appetite and reward. Given that such circuits are closely integrated with those regulating mood and cognition, we sought to determine whether chronic (&gt;2 weeks) CNS exposure to ghrelin alters anxiety- and depression-like behaviour in rats as well as some physiological correlates. Rats bearing chronically implanted i.c.v. catheters were treated with ghrelin (10 g/d) or vehicle for 4 weeks. Tests used to assess anxiety- and depression-like behaviour were undertaken during weeks 3-4 of the infusion. These revealed an increase in anxiety- and depression-like behaviour in the ghrelin-treated rats relative to controls. At the end of the 4-week infusion, brains were removed and the amygdala dissected for subsequent qPCR analysis that revealed changes in expression of a number of genes representing key systems implicated in these behavioural changes. Finally, given the key role of the dorsal raphe serotonin system in emotional reactivity, we examined the electrophysiological response of dorsal raphe neurons after a ghrelin challenge, and found mainly inhibitory responses in this region. We demonstrate that the central ghrelin signalling system is involved in emotional reactivity in rats, eliciting pro-anxiety and pro-depression effects and have begun to explore novel target systems for ghrelin that may be of importance for these effects.
Neuron death due to deprivation of target-derived neurotrophic factors depends on protein synthesis regulated by transcription factor activity. We investigated the content and phosphorylation of activating transcription factor 2 (ATF-2) in axon-damaged retinal ganglion cells of neonatal rats. In the retina of neonatal rats, the ATF-2 protein is predominantly located in the nucleus of the ganglion cells. A gradual loss of the immunoreactivity for ATF-2 occurred after explantation. ATF-2 is phosphorylated early after explantation, with a peak within 3 hours, preceding the peak of cell death that occurs at 18 hours. Both the phosphorylation of ATF-2 and ganglion cell death were blocked by treatment with an inhibitor of c-Jun N-terminal kinase (JNK), whereas an inhibitor of p38 reduced only slightly the rate of ganglion cell death with no effect upon phosphorylation of ATF-2. Inhibitors of phosphatidyl inositol 3 kinase (PI-3K), protein kinase C (PKC) or extracellular regulated kinase (ERK) had no effect. Finally, the inhibitor of JNK blocked the upregulation of both c-Jun and Hrk in the GCL after retinal explantation. The data show that phosphorylation of ATF-2 by JNK is associated with retinal ganglion cell death after axon damage.
In this study, we examined whether functional subunits of the ATP-dependent K+ channel (KATP) are expressed in trigeminal ganglia (TG), which contains sensory neurons that innervate oral and facial structures. We also investigated whether direct activation of the KATP effectively attenuates mechanical hypersensitivity in the context of an acute orofacial muscle pain condition. The KATP expression in TG and behavioral studies were conducted in age matched male and female Sprague-Dawley rats. RT-PCR experiments showed that the mRNAs for the inwardly rectifying pore-forming subunits, Kir6.1 and Kir6.2, as well as the regulatory sulfonylurea subunits, SUR1 and SUR2, were reliably detected in TG. Subsequent western blot analysis confirmed that proteins for all four subunits are expressed in TG, and showed that Kir6.2 is expressed at a significantly higher level in male TG compared to that of female rats. This observation was confirmed by the immunohistochemical demonstration of higher percentages of Kir6 positive masseter afferents in female rats. Masseteric injection of capsaicin evokes a time dependent increase in masseter sensitivity to noxious mechanical stimulation. A specific KATP agonist, pinacidil, dose-dependently attenuated the capsaicin-induced mechanical hypersensitivity in male rats. The dose of pinacidil (20 g) that completely blocked the capsaicin responses in male rats was ineffective in female rats regardless of their estrus phases. Only at the highest dose (300 g) we used, pinacidil was partially effective in female rats. Similarly, another KATP agonist, diazoxide which targets different KATP subunits also showed sex specific responses in attenuating capsaicin-induced masseter hypersensitivity. These data suggested that sex differences in functional KATP expression in TG may underlie sex specific responses to KATP agonists. The present study provided novel information on sex differences in KATP expression in TG and its contribution under an orofacial muscle pain condition.
Rett syndrome (RTT), a disorder caused almost exclusively by mutations in the X-linked gene, MECP2, has a phenotype thought to be primarily of neurological origin. Disruption of Mecp2 in mice results in a prominent RTT-like phenotype. One of the consequences of MeCP2 absence in the brain is altered functional and structural plasticity. We aimed to characterize synaptic effects related to plasticity in the hippocampus further and establish whether plasticity defects are amenable to pharmacological reversal. Using male mice in which Mecp2 expression was prevented by a stop cassette, we assessed synaptic plasticity in area CA1 at different phenotypic stages, scoring the mice weekly for overt RTT-like signs. Strongly symptomatic Mecp2(stop/y) mice displayed reduced long-term potentiation (LTP, 40.21.6% of wild-type), post-tetanic potentiation (PTP, 4518.8% of wild-type) and paired-pulse facilitation (PPF, 780.1% of wild type) (all P&lt;0.05), the impairment increasing with symptom severity score. These plasticity impairments were absent in presymptomatic mice. Repeated high frequency stimulation revealed pronounced LTP saturation in symptomatic Mecp2(stop/y) mice, suggesting an LTP 'ceiling' effect. Bath application of the weak NMDA receptor blocker memantine (1 M) resulted in partial restoration of a short-term plasticity component. These data support that idea that progressive functional synaptic impairment is a key feature in the RTT brain and demonstrate the potential for the pharmacological restoration of plasticity function.
Oxazolidinones are a novel class of antibacterial agents with demonstrated activity against Gram-positive bacteria including methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and enterococci. Prolonged clinical use of linezolid, the prototypical oxazolidinone, results in peripheral, central and optic neuropathies. The cellular mechanism by which it may alter neuronal function to produce these effects is not known. This study examined the in vitro effects of clinically relevant concentrations of linezolid and four selected potent antibacterial oxazolidinones on neuronal responses to determine if they are neuroactive and their possible neurotoxic mechanism(s). Using in vitro slice preparations of the rat nucleus accumbens (NAc) and hippocampus, we examined the effects of linezolid and the potent antibacterial triazolyl oxazolidinones, PH027, PH036, PH084 and PH108 on synaptic transmission and neuronal excitability recorded in voltage or current clamp mode. PH027 and PH084 generally depressed all excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic currents. Linezolid, at the highest concentration tested, depressed NMDA receptor-mediated currents while PH036 and PH108 had no significant effect on any of these responses. The synaptic depression by PH084 was without effect on the resting membrane conductance at resting or relatively hyperpolarized voltage and could be blocked by GABA(B), dopamine D1-like and -adrenergic receptor antagonists but not by an adenosine A1 receptor antagonist. Finally, PH084 decreased action potential firing frequency of NAc and hippocampal cells elicited at depolarized potentials. Our data indicate that, while oxazolidinones containing both the morpholine and triazole functional groups, as in PH027 and PH084, have neuroactivity, those containing morpholine and acetamide (linezolid) or piperazine and triazolyl (PH036 and PH108) functional groups have minimal acute neuroactivity and therefore may be safer antibacterial agents.
General anaesthetics are proposed to cause unconsciousness by modulating neuronal excitability in the mammalian brain through mechanisms that include enhancement of inhibitory GABA(A) receptor currents and suppression of excitatory glutamate receptor responses. Both intravenous and volatile agents may produce neurotoxic effects during early postnatal rodent brain development through similar mechanisms. In the following study, we investigated anaesthetic cytotoxicity in primary cortical neurones and glia from postnatal day 2-8 mice. Cultures at 4-20 days in vitro were exposed to combinations of ketamine (100 M to 3 mM), nitrous oxide (75%, v/v) and/or isoflurane (1.5-5%, v/v) for 6-12 h. Neuronal survival and cell death were measured via microtubule associated protein 2 immunoassay and lactate dehydrogenase release assays, respectively. Clinically relevant anaesthetic concentrations of ketamine, nitrous oxide and isoflurane had no significant neurotoxic effects individually or when given as anaesthetic cocktails, even with up to 12 h exposure. This lack of neurotoxicity was observed regardless of whether cultures were prepared from postnatal day 0-2 or day 8 mice, and was also unaffected by number of days in vitro (DIV 4-20). Significant neurotoxic effects were only observed at supraclinical concentrations (e.g. 1-3 mM ketamine). Our study suggests that neurotoxicity previously reported in vivo is not due to direct cytotoxicity of anaesthetic agents, but results from other impacts of the anaesthetised state during early brain development.
To date, the reliability of induction of a depressive-like state using chronic stress models is confronted by many methodological limitations. We believe that the modifications to the stress paradigm in mice proposed herein allow some of these limitations to be overcome. Here, we discuss a variant of the standard stress paradigm, which results in anhedonia. This anhedonic state was defined by a decrease in sucrose preference that was not exhibited by all animals. As such, we propose the use of non-anhedonic, stressed mice as an internal control in experimental mouse models of depression. The application of an internal control for the effects of stress, along with optimized behavioural testing, can enable the analysis of biological correlates of stress-induced anhedonia versus the consequences of stress alone in a chronic-stress depression model. This is illustrated, for instance, by distinct physiological and molecular profiles in anhedonic and non-anhedonic groups subjected to stress. These results argue for the use of a subgroup of individuals who are negative for the induction of a depressive phenotype during experimental paradigms of depression as an internal control, for more refined modeling of this disorder in animals.
Molecular mechanisms involved in the replenishment of the fast neurotransmitters glutamate and GABA are poorly understood. Glutamine sustains their generation. However, glutamine formation from the recycled transmitters is confined to glial processes and requires facilitators for its translocation across the glial and neuronal membranes. Indeed, glial processes are enriched with the system N transporter SN1 (Slc38a3), which, by bidirectional transport, maintains steady extracellular glutamine levels and thereby furnishes neurons with the primary precursor for fast neurotransmitters. We now demonstrate that SN1 is phosphorylated by protein kinase C (PKC) and PKC. Electrophysiological characterization shows that phosphorylation reduces V(max) dramatically, whereas no significant effects are seen on the K(m). Phosphorylation occurs specifically at a single serine residue (S52) in the N-terminal rat (Rattus norvegicus) SN1 and results in sequestration of the protein into intracellular reservoirs. Prolonged activation of PKC results in partial degradation of SN1. These results provide the first demonstration of phosphorylation of SN1 and regulation of its activity at the plasma membrane. Interestingly, membrane trafficking of SN1 resembles that of the glutamate transporter GLT and the glutamate-aspartate transporter GLAST: it involves the same PKC isoforms and occurs in the same glial processes. This suggests that the glutamate/GABA-glutamine cycle may be modified at two key points by similar signaling events and unmasks a prominent role for PKC-dependent phosphorylation. Our data suggest that extracellular glutamine levels may be fine-tuned by dynamic regulation of glial SN1 activity, which may impact on transmitter generation, contribute to defining quantal size, and have profound effects on synaptic plasticity.
Striatal cholinergic interneurons show tonic spiking activity in the intact and sliced brain, which stems from intrinsic mechanisms. Because of it, they are also known as &quot;tonically active neurons&quot; (TANs). Another hallmark of TAN electrophysiology is a pause response to appetitive and aversive events and to environmental cues that have predicted these events during learning. Notably, the pause response is lost after the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in animal models of Parkinson's disease. Moreover, Parkinson's disease patients are in a hypercholinergic state and find some clinical benefit in anticholinergic drugs. Current theories propose that excitatory thalamic inputs conveying information about salient sensory stimuli trigger an intrinsic hyperpolarizing response in the striatal cholinergic interneurons. Moreover, it has been postulated that the loss of the pause response in Parkinson's disease is related to a diminution of I(sAHP), a slow outward current that mediates an afterhyperpolarization following a train of action potentials. Here we report that I(sAHP) induces a marked spike-frequency adaptation in adult rat striatal cholinergic interneurons, inducing an abrupt end of firing during sustained excitation. Chronic loss of dopaminergic neurons markedly reduces I(sAHP) and spike-frequency adaptation in cholinergic interneurons, allowing them to fire continuously and at higher rates during sustained excitation. These findings provide a plausible explanation for the hypercholinergic state in Parkinson's disease. Moreover, a reduction of I(sAHP) may alter synchronization of cholinergic interneurons with afferent inputs, thus contributing to the loss of the pause response in Parkinson's disease.
Visual stimuli presented just before or during an eye movement are more difficult to detect than those same visual stimuli presented during fixation. This laboratory phenomenon--behavioral saccadic suppression--is thought to underlie the everyday experience of not perceiving the motion created by our own eye movements-saccadic omission. At the neural level, many cortical and subcortical areas respond differently to perisaccadic visual stimuli than to stimuli presented during fixation. Those neural response changes, however, are complex and the link to the behavioral phenomena of reduced detectability remains tentative. We used a well established model of human visual detection performance to provide a quantitative description of behavioral saccadic suppression and thereby allow a more focused search for its neural mechanisms. We used an equivalent noise method to distinguish between three mechanisms that could underlie saccadic suppression. The first hypothesized mechanism reduces the gain of the visual system, the second increases internal noise levels in a stimulus-dependent manner, and the third increases stimulus uncertainty. All three mechanisms predict that perisaccadic stimuli should be more difficult to detect, but each mechanism predicts a unique pattern of detectability as a function of the amount of external noise. Our experimental finding was that saccades increased detection thresholds at low external noise, but had little influence on thresholds at high levels of external noise. A formal analysis of these data in the equivalent noise analysis framework showed that the most parsimonious mechanism underlying saccadic suppression is a stimulus-independent reduction in response gain.
Orexin-A and orexin-B are hypothalamic neuropeptides that play critical roles in the maintenance of wakefulness. Intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration of orexin-A has been shown to promote wakefulness and suppress both rapid eye movement (REM) sleep and non-REM (NREM) sleep through the orexin receptor-1 (OX(1)R) and orexin receptor-2 (OX(2)R). Here, we elucidated the differential roles of orexin receptors in the regulation of sleep and wakefulness by comparing the effects of ICV orexin-A administration in wild-type, OX(1)R(-/-), and OX(2)R(-/-) mice. The effects of orexin-A on wakefulness and NREM sleep were significantly attenuated in both knock-out mice as compared with wild-type mice, with substantially larger attenuation in OX(2)R(-/-) mice than in OX(1)R(-/-) mice. These results suggest that although the OX(2)R-mediated pathway has a pivotal role in the promotion of wakefulness, OX(1)R also plays additional roles in promoting arousal. In contrast, suppression of REM sleep by orexin-A administration was slightly and similarly attenuated in both OX(1)R(-/-) and OX(2)R(-/-) mice, suggesting a comparable contribution of the two receptors to REM sleep suppression. Histological studies demonstrated differential distributions of each receptor subtype in distinct neuronal populations with specific neurotransmitter identities in brainstem cholinergic/monoaminergic neurons. In the laterodorsal tegmental and pedunculopontine tegmental nuclei especially, cholinergic neurons exclusively expressed OX(1)R mRNA, but OX(2)R mRNA was expressed mainly in GABAergic putative interneurons. Thus, each orexin receptor subtype plays differential roles in gating NREM and REM sleep through distinct neuronal pathways.
How the brain maintains long-term memories is one of the major outstanding questions in modern neuroscience. Evidence from mammalian studies indicates that activity of a protein kinase C (PKC) isoform, protein kinase M (PKM), plays a critical role in the maintenance of long-term memory. But the range of memories whose persistence depends on PKM, and the mechanisms that underlie the effect of PKM on long-term memory, remain obscure. Recently, a PKM isoform, known as PKM Apl III, was cloned from the nervous system of Aplysia. Here, we tested whether PKM Apl III plays a critical role in long-term memory maintenance in Aplysia. Intrahemocoel injections of the pseudosubstrate inhibitory peptide ZIP ( inhibitory peptide) or the PKC inhibitor chelerythrine erased the memory for long-term sensitization (LTS) of the siphon-withdrawal reflex (SWR) as late as 7 d after training. In addition, both PKM inhibitors disrupted the maintenance of long-term ( 24 h) facilitation (LTF) of the sensorimotor synapse, a form of synaptic plasticity previously shown to mediate LTS of the SWR. Together with previous results (Bougie et al., 2009), our results support the idea that long-term memory in Aplysia is maintained via a positive-feedback loop involving PKM Apl III-dependent protein phosphorylation. The present data extend the known role of PKM in memory maintenance to a simple and well studied type of long-term learning. Furthermore, the demonstration that PKM activity underlies the persistence of LTF of the Aplysia sensorimotor synapse, a form of synaptic plasticity amenable to rigorous cellular and molecular analyses, should facilitate efforts to understand how PKM activity maintains memory.
Cortical responses can vary greatly between repeated presentations of an identical stimulus. Here we report that both trial-to-trial variability and faithfulness of auditory cortical stimulus representations depend critically on brain state. A frozen amplitude-modulated white noise stimulus was repeatedly presented while recording neuronal populations and local field potentials (LFPs) in auditory cortex of urethane-anesthetized rats. An information-theoretic measure was used to predict neuronal spiking activity from either the stimulus envelope or simultaneously recorded LFP. Evoked LFPs and spiking more faithfully followed high-frequency temporal modulations when the cortex was in a desynchronized state. In the synchronized state, neural activity was poorly predictable from the stimulus envelope, but the spiking of individual neurons could still be predicted from the ongoing LFP. Our results suggest that although auditory cortical activity remains coordinated as a population in the synchronized state, the ability of continuous auditory stimuli to control this activity is greatly diminished.
The orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) is implicated in a variety of adaptive decision-making processes. Human studies suggest that there is a functional dissociation between medial and lateral OFC (mOFC and lOFC, respectively) subregions when performing certain choice procedures. However, little work has examined the functional consequences of manipulations of OFC subregions on decision making in rodents. In the present experiments, impulsive choice was assessed by evaluating intolerance to delayed, but economically optimal, reward options using a delay-discounting paradigm. Following initial delay-discounting training, rats received bilateral neurotoxic or sham lesions targeting whole OFC (wOFC) or restricted to either mOFC or lOFC subregions. A transient flattening of delay-discounting curves was observed in wOFC-lesioned animals relative to shams--differences that disappeared with further training. Stable, dissociable effects were found when lesions were restricted to OFC subregions; mOFC-lesioned rats showed increased, whereas lOFC-lesioned rats showed decreased, preference for the larger-delayed reward relative to sham-controls--a pattern that remained significant during retraining after all delays were removed. When locations of levers leading to small-immediate versus large-delayed rewards were reversed, wOFC- and lOFC-lesioned rats showed retarded, whereas mOFC-lesioned rats showed accelerated, trajectories for reversal of lever preference. These results provide the first direct evidence for dissociable functional roles of the mOFC and lOFC for impulsive choice in rodents. The findings are consistent with recent human functional imaging studies and suggest that functions of mOFC and lOFC subregions may be evolutionarily conserved and contribute differentially to decision-making processes.
Positive social interactions are essential for emotional well-being and proper behavioral development of young individuals. Here, we studied the neural underpinnings of social reward by investigating the involvement of opioid neurotransmission in the nucleus accumbens (NAc) in social play behavior, a highly rewarding social interaction in adolescent rats. Intra-NAc infusion of morphine (0.05-0.1 g) increased pinning and pouncing, characteristic elements of social play behavior in rats, and blockade of NAc opioid receptors with naloxone (0.5 g) prevented the play-enhancing effects of systemic morphine (1 mg/kg, s.c.) administration. Thus, stimulation of opioid receptors in the NAc was necessary and sufficient for morphine to increase social play. Intra-NAc treatment with the selective -opioid receptor agonist [D-Ala(2),N-MePhe(4),Gly(5)-ol]enkephalin (DAMGO) (0.1-10 ng) and the -opioid receptor antagonist Cys-Tyr-D-Trp-Arg-Thr-Pen-Thr-NH(2) (CTAP) (0.3-3 g) increased and decreased social play, respectively. The -opioid receptor agonist DPDPE ([D-Pen(2),D-Pen(5)]-enkephalin) (0.3-3 g) had no effects, whereas the -opioid receptor agonist U69593 (N-methyl-2-phenyl-N-[(5R,7S,8S)-7-(pyrrolidin-1-yl)-1-oxaspiro[4.5]dec-8-yl]acetamide) (0.01-1 g) decreased social play. Intra-NAc treatment with -endorphin (0.01-1 g) increased social play, but met-enkephalin (0.1-5 g) and the enkephalinase inhibitor thiorphan (0.1-1 g) were ineffective. DAMGO (0.1-10 ng) increased social play after infusion into both the shell and core subregions of the NAc. Last, intra-NAc infusion of CTAP (3 g) prevented the development of social play-induced conditioned place preference. These findings identify NAc -opioid receptor stimulation as an important neural mechanism for the attribution of positive value to social interactions in adolescent rats. Altered NAc -opioid receptor function may underlie social impairments in psychiatric disorders such as autism, schizophrenia, or personality disorders.
The human alpha (8-12 Hz) rhythm is one of the most prominent, robust, and widely studied attributes of ongoing cortical activity. Contrary to the prevalent notion that it simply &quot;waxes and wanes,&quot; spontaneous alpha activity bursts erratically between two distinct modes of activity. We now establish a mechanism for this multistable phenomenon in resting-state cortical recordings by characterizing the complex dynamics of a biophysical model of macroscopic corticothalamic activity. This is achieved by studying the predicted activity of cortical and thalamic neuronal populations in this model as a function of its dynamic stability and the role of nonspecific synaptic noise. We hence find that fluctuating noisy inputs into thalamic neurons elicit spontaneous bursts between low- and high-amplitude alpha oscillations when the system is near a particular type of dynamical instability, namely a subcritical Hopf bifurcation. When the postsynaptic potentials associated with these noisy inputs are modulated by cortical feedback, the SD of power within each of these modes scale in proportion to their mean, showing remarkable concordance with empirical data. Our state-dependent corticothalamic model hence exhibits multistability and scale-invariant fluctuations-key features of resting-state cortical activity and indeed, of human perception, cognition, and behavior-thus providing a unified account of these apparently divergent phenomena.
Mechanical allodynia, the perception of innocuous tactile stimulation as painful, is a severe symptom of chronic pain often produced by damage to peripheral nerves. Allodynia affects millions of people and remains highly resistant to classic analgesics and therapies. Neural mechanisms for the development and maintenance of allodynia have been investigated in the spinal cord, brainstem, thalamus, and forebrain, but manipulations of these regions rarely produce lasting effects. We found that long-term alleviation of allodynic manifestations is produced by discreetly lesioning a newly discovered somatosensory representation in caudal granular insular cortex (CGIC) in the rat, either before or after a chronic constriction injury of the sciatic nerve. However, CGIC lesions alone have no effect on normal mechanical stimulus thresholds. In addition, using electrophysiological techniques, we reveal a corticospinal loop that could be the anatomical source of the influence of CGIC on allodynia.
Reinforcement learning theory has generated substantial interest in neurobiology, particularly because of the resemblance between phasic dopamine and reward prediction errors. Actor-critic theories have been adapted to account for the functions of the striatum, with parts of the dorsal striatum equated to the actor. Here, we specifically test whether the human dorsal striatum--as predicted by an actor-critic instantiation--is used on a trial-to-trial basis at the time of choice to choose in accordance with reinforcement learning theory, as opposed to a competing strategy: the gambler's fallacy. Using a partial-brain functional magnetic resonance imaging scanning protocol focused on the striatum and other ventral brain areas, we found that the dorsal striatum is more active when choosing consistent with reinforcement learning compared with the competing strategy. Moreover, an overlapping area of dorsal striatum along with the ventral striatum was found to be correlated with reward prediction errors at the time of outcome, as predicted by the actor-critic framework. These findings suggest that the same region of dorsal striatum involved in learning stimulus-response associations may contribute to the control of behavior during choice, thereby using those learned associations. Intriguingly, neither reinforcement learning nor the gambler's fallacy conformed to the optimal choice strategy on the specific decision-making task we used. Thus, the dorsal striatum may contribute to the control of behavior according to reinforcement learning even when the prescriptions of such an algorithm are suboptimal in terms of maximizing future rewards.
Chondroitin sulfate proteoglycans (CSPGs) are upregulated after CNS lesions, where they inhibit axon regeneration. In order for axon growth and regeneration to occur, surface integrin receptors must interact with surrounding extracellular matrix molecules. We have explored the hypothesis that CSPGs inhibit regeneration by inactivating integrins and that forcing integrins into an active state might overcome this inhibition. Using cultured rat sensory neurons, we show that the CSPG aggrecan inhibits laminin-mediated axon growth by impairing integrin signaling via decreasing phosphorylated FAK (pFAK) and pSrc levels, without affecting surface integrin levels. Forcing integrin activation and signaling by manganese or an activating antibody TS2/16 reversed the inhibitory effect of aggrecan on mixed aggrecan/laminin surfaces, and enhanced axon growth from cultured rat sensory neurons (manganese) and human embryonic stem cell-derived motoneurons (TS2/16). The inhibitory effect of Nogo-A can also be reversed by integrin activation. These results suggest that inhibition by CSPGs can act via inactivation of integrins, and that activation of integrins is a potential method for improving axon regeneration after injury.

The Cerebral Autosomal Dominant Arteriopathy with Subcortical Infarcts and Leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL) affects mainly small cerebral arteries and leads to disability and dementia. The relationship between clinical expression of the disease and progression of the microvessel pathology is, however, uncertain as we lack tools for imaging brain vessels in vivo. Ophthalmoscopy is regarded as a window into the cerebral microcirculation. In this study we carried out an ophthalmoscopic examination in subjects with CADASIL. Specifically, we performed fractal analysis of digital retinal photographs. Data are expressed as mean fractal dimension (mean-D), a parameter that reflects complexity of the retinal vessel branching. Ten subjects with genetically confirmed diagnosis of CADASIL and 10 sex and age-matched control subjects were enrolled. Fractal analysis of retinal digital images was performed by means of a computer-based program, and the data expressed as mean-D. Brain MRI lesion volume in FLAIR and T1-weighted images was assessed using MIPAV software. Paired t-test was used to disclose differences in mean-D between CADASIL and control groups. Spearman rank analysis was performed to evaluate potential associations between mean-D values and both disease duration and disease severity, the latter expressed as brain MRI lesion volumes, in the subjects with CADASIL. The results showed that mean-D value of patients (1.420.05; meanSD) was lower than control (1.500.04; p=0.002). Mean-D did not correlate with disease duration nor with MRI lesion volumes of the subjects with CADASIL. The findings suggest that fractal analysis is a sensitive tool to assess changes of retinal vessel branching, likely reflecting early brain microvessel alterations, in CADASIL patients.
Several areas of the brain are known to participate in temporal processing. Neurons in the prefrontal cortex (PFC) are thought to contribute to perception of time intervals. However, it remains unclear whether the PFC itself can generate time intervals independently of external stimuli. Here we describe a group of PFC neurons in area 9 that became active when monkeys recognized a particular elapsed time within the range of 1-7 seconds. Another group of area 9 neurons became active only when subjects reproduced a specific interval without external cues. Both types of neurons were individually tuned to recognize or reproduce particular intervals. Moreover, the injection of muscimol, a GABA agonist, into this area bilaterally resulted in an increase in the error rate during time interval reproduction. These results suggest that area 9 may process multi-second intervals not only in perceptual recognition, but also in internal generation of time intervals.
Methamphetamine (METH), an addictive psycho-stimulant drug exerts euphoric effects on users and abusers. It is also known to cause cognitive impairment and neurotoxicity. Here, we hypothesized that METH exposure impairs the glucose uptake and metabolism in human neurons and astrocytes. Deprivation of glucose is expected to cause neurotoxicity and neuronal degeneration due to depletion of energy. We found that METH exposure inhibited the glucose uptake by neurons and astrocytes, in which neurons were more sensitive to METH than astrocytes in primary culture. Adaptability of these cells to fatty acid oxidation as an alternative source of energy during glucose limitation appeared to regulate this differential sensitivity. Decrease in neuronal glucose uptake by METH was associated with reduction of glucose transporter protein-3 (GLUT3). Surprisingly, METH exposure showed biphasic effects on astrocytic glucose uptake, in which 20 M increased the uptake while 200 M inhibited glucose uptake. Dual effects of METH on glucose uptake were paralleled to changes in the expression of astrocytic glucose transporter protein-1 (GLUT1). The adaptive nature of astrocyte to mitochondrial -oxidation of fatty acid appeared to contribute the survival of astrocytes during METH-induced glucose deprivation. This differential adaptive nature of neurons and astrocytes also governed the differential sensitivity to the toxicity of METH in these brain cells. The effect of acetyl-L-carnitine for enhanced production of ATP from fatty oxidation in glucose-free culture condition validated the adaptive nature of neurons and astrocytes. These findings suggest that deprivation of glucose-derived energy may contribute to neurotoxicity of METH abusers.
SDF1 reduces the responsiveness of axonal growth cones to repellent guidance cues in a pertussis-toxin-sensitive, cAMP-dependent manner. Here, we show that SDF1's antirepellent effect can be blocked in embryonic chick dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) by expression of peptides or proteins inhibiting either G(i), G(q), or G. SDF1 antirepellent activity is also blocked by pharmacological inhibition of PLC, a common effector protein for G(q). We also show that SDF1 antirepellent activity can be mimicked by overexpression of constitutively active G(i), G(q), or G(s). These results suggest a model in which multiple G protein components cooperate to produce the cAMP levels required for SDF1 antirepellent activity.
The combination of functional brain imaging with measurement of peripheral autonomic responses in humans can provide insight into the embodiment of mental processes and the integration of cognition and emotion with changes in somatic physiology. Initial studies in healthy people and patents validate inferences from more detailed animal experiments regarding the organization of central autonomic control. In particular these have illustrated the coupling of behaviour with sympathetic arousal. Over the last two decades, the growth of emotional neuroscience alongside advances in functional brain imaging has fuelled investigations of relationships between perception, feeling states, somatic and autonomic bodily reactions. These studies have driven a more mechanistic understanding of brain systems through which bodily state is regulated and modified to support adaptive behaviour. In parallel, they have enabled the application of human neuroimaging to autonomic neuroscience. Specific methodological challenges are posed by combining physiological recordings with neuroimaging techniques, particularly functional magnetic resonance brain imaging, which are nevertheless addressable. Using such methods, the neural correlates of dynamic autonomic control has been systematically examined in studies of healthy individuals and patients with specific autonomic dysfunction (including autonomic failure, autonomic (neurally) mediated syncope and the postural tachycardia syndrome). These studies reveal antagonistic interaction of systems underpinning autonomic cardiovascular control (involving mid and subgenual cingulate cortices) and partial organ-specificity of other axes of autonomic response. Current and anticipated technical advances, including the integration of autonomically-focused microneurography and neural stimulation with advanced neuroimaging, will continue to provide detailed insight into dynamics of autonomic control. Translating these insights into clinical benefits remains a priority.
Recurrent signals in the brain are often associated with slower sensory and cognitive processes. Such patterns of activity may also form the basis of rapid perception.

Substantial differences exist in the cognitive styles of liberals and conservatives on psychological measures. Variability in political attitudes reflects genetic influences and their interaction with environmental factors. Recent work has shown a correlation between liberalism and conflict-related activity measured by event-related potentials originating in the anterior cingulate cortex. Here we show that this functional correlate of political attitudes has a counterpart in brain structure. In a large sample of young adults, we related self-reported political attitudes to gray matter volume using structural MRI. We found that greater liberalism was associated with increased gray matter volume in the anterior cingulate cortex, whereas greater conservatism was associated with increased volume of the right amygdala. These results were replicated in an independent sample of additional participants. Our findings extend previous observations that political attitudes reflect differences in self-regulatory conflict monitoring and recognition of emotional faces by showing that such attitudes are reflected in human brain structure. Although our data do not determine whether these regions play a causal role in the formation of political attitudes, they converge with previous work to suggest a possible link between brain structure and psychological mechanisms that mediate political attitudes.
Learning, attentional, and perseverative deficits are characteristic of cognitive aging. In this study, genetically diverse CD-1 mice underwent longitudinal training in a task asserted to tax working memory capacity and its dependence on selective attention. Beginning at 3 mo of age, animals were trained for 12 d to perform in a dual radial-arm maze task that required the mice to remember and operate on two sets of overlapping guidance (spatial) cues. As previously reported, this training resulted in an immediate (at 4 mo of age) improvement in the animals' aggregate performance across a battery of five learning tasks. Subsequently, these animals received an additional 3 d of working memory training at 3-wk intervals for 15 mo (totaling 66 training sessions), and at 18 mo of age were assessed on a selective attention task, a second set of learning tasks, and variations of those tasks that required the animals to modify the previously learned response. Both attentional and learning abilities (on passive avoidance, active avoidance, and reinforced alternation tasks) were impaired in aged animals that had not received working memory training. Likewise, these aged animals exhibited consistent deficits when required to modify a previously instantiated learned response (in reinforced alternation, active avoidance, and spatial water maze). In contrast, these attentional, learning, and perseverative deficits were attenuated in aged animals that had undergone lifelong working memory exercise. These results suggest that general impairments of learning, attention, and cognitive flexibility may be mitigated by a cognitive exercise regimen that requires chronic attentional engagement.




Numerical information can be conveyed by either symbolic or nonsymbolic representation. Some symbolic numerals can also be identified as nonsymbolic quantities defined by the number of lines (e.g., I, II, III in Roman and -, =,  in Japanese Kanji and Chinese). Here we report that such multi-representation of magnitude can facilitate the processing of these numerals under certain circumstances. In a magnitude comparison task judging 1 to 9 (except 5) Chinese and Arabic numerals presented at the foveal (at the center) or parafoveal (3 left or right of the center) location, multi-representational small-value Chinese numerals showed a processing advantage over single-representational Arabic numerals and large-value Chinese numerals only in the parafoveal condition, demonstrated by lower error rates and faster reaction times. Further event-related potential (ERP) analysis showed that such a processing advantage was not reflected by traditional ERP components identified in previous studies of number processing, such as N1 or P2p. Instead, the difference was found much later in a N400 component between 300-550 msec over parietal regions, suggesting that those behavioral differences may not be due to early processing of visual identification, but later processing of subitizing or accessing mental number line when lacking attentional resources. These results suggest that there could be three stages of number processing represented separately by the N1, P2p and N400 ERP components. In addition, numerical information can be represented simultaneously by both symbolic and nonsymbolic systems, which will facilitate number processing in certain situations.
Multitasking negatively influences the retention of information over brief periods of time. This impact of interference on working memory is exacerbated with normal aging. We used functional MRI to investigate the neural basis by which an interruption is more disruptive to working memory performance in older individuals. Younger and older adults engaged in delayed recognition tasks both with and without interruption by a secondary task. Behavioral analysis revealed that working memory performance was more impaired by interruptions in older compared with younger adults. Functional connectivity analyses showed that when interrupted, older adults disengaged from a memory maintenance network and reallocated attentional resources toward the interrupting stimulus in a manner consistent with younger adults. However, unlike younger individuals, older adults failed to both disengage from the interruption and reestablish functional connections associated with the disrupted memory network. These results suggest that multitasking leads to more significant working memory disruption in older adults because of an interruption recovery failure, manifest as a deficient ability to dynamically switch between functional brain networks.
Piracetam, a derivative of -aminobutyric acid, exerts memory-enhancing and mild anxiolytic effects in human and rodent studies. To examine the drug's behavioral profile further, we assessed its effects on behavioral and endocrine (cortisol) responses of adult zebrafish (Danio rerio)--a novel model species rapidly gaining popularity in neurobehavioral research. Overall, acute piracetam did not affect zebrafish novel tank and light-dark box behavior at mild doses (25-400mg/L), but produced nonspecific behavioral inhibition at 700mg/L. No effects on cortisol levels or inter-/intra-session habituation in the novel tank test were observed for acute or chronic mild non-sedative dose of 200mg/L. In contrast, fish exposed to chronic piracetam at this dose performed significantly better in the cued learning plus-maze test. This observation parallels clinical and rodent literature on the behavioral profile of piracetam, supporting the utility of zebrafish paradigms for testing nootropic agents.
In various physiological contexts, Nr4a genes are transcribed in response to external stimuli as part of an immediate early response that initiates a cascade of gene expression ultimately leading to distinct physiological outcomes in each of these contexts. The signaling pathway that initiates Nr4a gene expression in most of these contexts consists of elevated intracellular cAMP activating PKA, which in turn leads to phosphorylation of CREB and new gene synthesis. This cAMP-PKA-CREB pathway is a central molecular pathway in the formation of a long-term memory. Indeed, learning induces Nr4a family gene expression, and long-term memory formation requires at least two waves of transcription after learning, suggesting that NR4A nuclear receptors may contribute to the second of these waves of gene expression. In this article, we review insights gained in other physiological contexts regarding Nr4a function and regulation, and highlight how these lessons can be applied to the study of memory formation.
Respiratory behavior expresses diverse forms of plasticity by altering breathing patterns. Failure of respiratory neuroplasticity often leads to malfunctions. Long-term facilitation (LTF), the most frequently studied model induced by episodic hypoxia to produce long-lasting enhancement of phrenic motor output, is thought to be serotonin 2A (5-HT(2A)) receptor-dependent. Previous studies have described 5-HT-induced prompt apnea in intact animals. However, the role of exogenous 5-HT in mediating respiratory neuroplasticity is less attended in vivo study. We hypothesized that an in vivo 5-HT challenge contributes to respiratory neuroplasticity. Here, we found that systemic bolus administration of 5-HT exerted an initial transient inhibition followed by marked facilitation, forming a biphasic pattern of phrenic nerve activity in artificially ventilated, midcervically vagotomized, and anesthetized adult rats. The facilitatory phase corresponded to the enhanced phrenic nerve activity that lasted for at least one hour after drug exposure, characterized as phrenic LTF (pLTF). The 5-HT-induced biphasic pattern and pLTF were 5-HT(2A) receptor-dependent and coupled to protein kinase C (PKC) activation. The initial inhibition of phrenic nerve activity was found to be nodose ganglion-associated, whereas the subsequent facilitation was carotid body-associated, establishing a peripheral inhibitory-facilitatory afferent balance. Immunoreactive expressions of 5-HT/5-HT(2A) receptors and phospho-PKC isoforms/PKC substrate provide morphological evidence of existence of a 5-HT/5-HT(2A) receptor/PKC mechanism in the nodose ganglion and the carotid body. We speculate that 5-HT challenge in vivo may contribute to respiratory neuroplasticity, to yield pLTF or augmented pLTF in animals with reduced or absent peripheral inhibitory inputs.
In addition to a fast activating and immediately inactivating inward sodium current, many types of excitable cells possess a noninactivating or slowly inactivating component: the persistent sodium current (I(NaP)). The I(NaP) is found in normal primary sensory neurons where it is mediated by tetrodotoxin-sensitive sodium channels. The dorsal root ganglion (DRG) is the gateway for ectopic impulses that originate in pathological pain signals from the periphery. However, the role of I(NaP) in DRG neurons remains unclear, particularly in neuropathic pain states. Using in vivo recordings from single medium- and large-diameter fibers isolated from the compressed DRG in Sprague-Dawley rats, we show that local application of riluzole, which blocks the I(NaP), also inhibits the spontaneous activity of A-type DRG neurons in a dose-dependent manner. Significantly, riluzole also abolished subthreshold membrane potential oscillations (SMPOs), although DRG neurons still responded to intracellular current injection with a single full-sized spike. In addition, the I(NaP) was enhanced in medium- and large-sized neurons of the compressed DRG, while bath-applied riluzole significantly inhibited the I(NaP) without affecting the transient sodium current (I(NaT)). Taken together, these results demonstrate for the first time that the I(NaP) blocker riluzole selectively inhibits I(NaP) and thereby blocks SMPOs and the ectopic spontaneous activity of injured A-type DRG neurons. This suggests that the I(NaP) of DRG neurons is a potential target for treating neuropathic pain at the peripheral level.


Our goal was to extend our understanding of the neural changes behind motor recovery with treadmill exercise in the 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP)-lesioned mouse. We determined the extent of dopamine (DA) terminal changes using Western immunoblotting [striatal dopamine transporter (DAT) and tyrosine hydroxylase (TH)] and alterations in the mean number of DA cells/section by immunohistochemistry and Nissl staining [TH-labeled cells and thionin-stained cells in the substantia nigra pars compacta (SN-PC)]. We measured recovery of gait performance and amount of spontaneous physical activity using the parallel rod activity chamber (PRAC). We hypothesized that the decrease in TH-labeled neurons in the SN-PC due to MPTP will be partially reversed by treadmill exercise, leading to recovery of motor behavior as measured by the PRAC. Following MPTP or vehicle administration, mice ran on the treadmill for 1h/day at 18cm/s, 5days/week. Results showed that treadmill exercise improves gait performance and increases physical activity while promoting increased protein expression of striatal DAT and TH. Exercise was effective for all mice; however, effects of early treadmill-based intervention appear to have an additional and unique benefit in mice who received MPTP. We are the first to show that, even following a nearly 50% decrease in the mean number of TH-labeled neurons/section in the SN-PC following MPTP, treadmill exercise leads to an increase of neurons in the SN-PC and improved motor behavior.
Evidence suggests that the C-terminal truncation of -synuclein is equally important as aggregation of -synuclein in Parkinson disease (PD). Our previous results showed that an endopeptidase, matrix metalloproteinase-3 (MMP3), was induced and activated in dopaminergic (DA) cells upon stress conditions. Here, we report that MMP3 cleaved -synuclein in vitro and in vivo and that -synuclein and MMP3 were co-localized in Lewy bodies (LB) in the postmortem brains of PD patients. Incubation of -synuclein with the catalytic domain of MMP3 (cMMP3) resulted in generation of several peptides, and the peptide profiles of WT -synuclein (WTsyn) and A53T mutant (A53Tsyn) were different. Combined analysis using mass spectrometry and N-terminal determination revealed that MMP3 generated C-terminally truncated peptides of amino acids 1-78, 1-91, and 1-93 and that A53Tsyn produced significantly higher quantities of these peptides. Similar sizes of peptides were detected in N27 DA cells under oxidative stress and RNA interference to knock down MMP3-attenuated peptide generation. Co-overexpression of cMMP3 with either WTsyn or A53Tsyn led to a reduction in Triton X-100-insoluble aggregates and an increase in protofibril-like small aggregates. In addition, overexpression of the 1-93-amino acid peptide in the substantia nigra led to DA neuronal loss without LB-like aggregate formation. The results strongly indicate that MMP3 digestion of -synuclein in DA neurons plays a pivotal role in the progression of PD through modulation of -synuclein in aggregation, LB formation, and neurotoxicity.
Tau is a multiply phosphorylated protein that is essential for the development and maintenance of the nervous system. Errors in Tau action are associated with Alzheimer disease and related dementias. A huge literature has led to the widely held notion that aberrant Tau hyperphosphorylation is central to these disorders. Unfortunately, our mechanistic understanding of the functional effects of combinatorial Tau phosphorylation remains minimal. Here, we generated four singly pseudophosphorylated Tau proteins (at Thr(231), Ser(262), Ser(396), and Ser(404)) and four doubly pseudophosphorylated Tau proteins using the same sites. Each Tau preparation was assayed for its abilities to promote microtubule assembly and to regulate microtubule dynamic instability in vitro. All four singly pseudophosphorylated Tau proteins exhibited loss-of-function effects. In marked contrast to the expectation that doubly pseudophosphorylated Tau would be less functional than either of its corresponding singly pseudophosphorylated forms, all of the doubly pseudophosphorylated Tau proteins possessed enhanced microtubule assembly activity and were more potent at regulating dynamic instability than their compromised singly pseudophosphorylated counterparts. Thus, the effects of multiple pseudophosphorylations were not simply the sum of the effects of the constituent single pseudophosphorylations; rather, they were generally opposite to the effects of singly pseudophosphorylated Tau. Further, despite being pseudophosphorylated at different sites, the four singly pseduophosphorylated Tau proteins often functioned similarly, as did the four doubly pseudophosphorylated proteins. These data lead us to reassess the conventional view of combinatorial phosphorylation in normal and pathological Tau action. They may also be relevant to the issue of combinatorial phosphorylation as a general regulatory mechanism.
Human functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI) informs the understanding of the neural basis of mental function and is a key domain of ethical enquiry. It raises questions about the practice and implications of research, and reflexively informs ethics through the empirical investigation of moral judgments. It is at the centre of debate surrounding the importance of neuroscience findings for concepts such as personhood and free will, and the extent of their practical consequences. Here, we map the landscape of fMRI and neuroethics, using citation analysis to uncover salient topics. We find that this landscape is sparsely populated: despite previous calls for debate, there are few articles that discuss both fMRI and ethical, legal, or social implications (ELSI), and even fewer direct citations between the two literatures. Recognizing that practical barriers exist to integrating ELSI discussion into the research literature, we argue nonetheless that the ethical challenges of fMRI, and controversy over its conceptual and practical implications, make this essential.
In order to efficiently interact with our environment we need to constantly to update the spatial representation of visual targets for movement. This is required not only when we move our eyes but also when we want to reach toward a location different from the actual physical target (for example symmetrical). These two types of remapping are very different in nature, one being automatic, and the other intentional. However, they both have been shown to involve the posterior parietal cortex (PPC). To further investigate the role of this brain region in automatic and intentional remapping processes and the level of inter-hemispheric transfer of visuo-motor information in these two conditions of reaching, we tested two patients with unilateral optic ataxia (OA) in two different tasks: reaching to a memorised visual target after an intervening eye movement (trans-saccadic remapping) and an anti-reaching task. We showed that lesions of the PPC had different implications for these two tasks. In the trans-saccadic remapping task, movements toward the contralesional field were disrupted, even when the visual target was presented in the ipsilesional field. In contrast, in the anti-reaching task, the patients were mostly impaired in conditions where the target was presented in the contralesional field, even if the movement was executed toward the ipsilesional field. We postulate that the transfer of the visuo-motor information between hemispheres occurs before the parietal cortex in trans-saccadic remapping (transfer of visual information), and at the parietal level or after in anti-reaching (transfer of visuo-motor information).
The frontal pursuit area (FPA) contains neurons that are directionally selective for pursuit eye-movements. We found that FPA neurons discriminate target from distracter too late to account for pursuit directional selection. Rather, the timing of neuronal discrimination is linked to pursuit onset, suggesting a role in motor execution. We also found buildup of activity of FPA neurons prior to pursuit onset that correlated with eye acceleration. These results show that the FPA is unlikely to be involved in selection of initial pursuit direction, but could be involved in motor preparation by increasing pursuit gain prior to pursuit onset.

The role of individual neurons and their function in neuronal circuits is fundamental to understanding the neuronal mechanisms of sensory and motor functions. Most investigations of sensorimotor mechanisms rely on either examination of neurons while an animal is static or record extracellular neuronal activity during a movement. While these studies have provided the fundamental background for sensorimotor function, they either do not evaluate functional information which occurs during a movement or are limited in their ability to fully characterize the anatomy, physiology and neurochemical phenotype of the neuron. A technique is shown here which allows extensive characterization of individual neurons during an in vivo movement. This technique can be used not only to study primary afferent neurons but also to characterize motoneurons and sensorimotor interneurons. Initially the response of a single neuron is recorded using electrophysiological methods during various movements of the mandible followed by determination of the receptive field for the neuron. A neuronal tracer is then intracellularly injected into the neuron and the brain is processed so that the neuron can be visualized with light, electron or confocal microscopy (Fig. 1). The detailed morphology of the characterized neuron is then reconstructed so that neuronal morphology can be correlated with the physiological response of the neuron (Figs. 2,3). In this communication important key details and tips for successful implementation of this technique are provided. Valuable additional information can be determined for the neuron under study by combining this method with other techniques. Retrograde neuronal labeling can be used to determine neurons with which the labeled neuron synapses; thus allowing detailed determination of neuronal circuitry. Immunocytochemistry can be combined with this method to examine neurotransmitters within the labeled neuron and to determine the chemical phenotypes of neurons with which the labeled neuron synapses. The labeled neuron can also be processed for electron microscopy to determine the ultrastructural features and microcircuitry of the labeled neuron. Overall this technique is a powerful method to thoroughly characterize neurons during in vivo movement thus allowing substantial insight into the role of the neuron in sensorimotor function.
Coordinated migration of neurons in the developing and adult brain is essential for its proper function. The secreted glycoprotein Reelin (also known as RELN) guides migration of neurons by binding to two lipoprotein receptors, the very-low-density lipoprotein receptor (VLDLR) and apolipoprotein E receptor 2 (ApoER2, also known as LRP8). Loss of Reelin function in humans results in the severe developmental disorder lissencephaly and it has also been associated with other neurological disorders such as epilepsy, schizophrenia and Alzheimer's disease. The molecular mechanisms by which Reelin activates its receptors and controls cellular functions are largely unknown. Here we show that the neuronal guidance cues ephrin B proteins are essential for Reelin signalling during the development of laminated structures in the brain. We show that ephrin Bs genetically interact with Reelin. Notably, compound mouse mutants (Reln(+/-); Efnb3(-/-) or Reln(+/-); Efnb2(-/-)) and triple ephrin B1, B2, B3 knockouts show neuronal migration defects that recapitulate the ones observed in the neocortex, hippocampus and cerebellum of the reeler mouse. Mechanistically, we show that Reelin binds to the extracellular domain of ephrin Bs, which associate at the membrane with VLDLR and ApoER2 in neurons. Clustering of ephrin Bs leads to the recruitment and phosphorylation of Dab1 which is necessary for Reelin signalling. Conversely, loss of function of ephrin Bs severely impairs Reelin-induced Dab1 phosphorylation. Importantly, activation of ephrin Bs can rescue the reeler neuronal migration defects in the absence of Reelin protein. Together, our results identify ephrin Bs as essential components of the Reelin receptor/signalling pathway to control neuronal migration during the development of the nervous system.
Electrical activity has been shown to regulate development in a variety of species and in various structures, including the retina, spinal cord and cortex. Within the mammalian cortex specifically, the development of dendrites and commissural axons in pyramidal cells is activity-dependent. However, little is known about the developmental role of activity in the other major cortical population of neurons, the GABA-producing interneurons. These neurons are morphologically and functionally heterogeneous and efforts over the past decade have focused on determining the mechanisms that contribute to this diversity. It was recently discovered that 30% of all cortical interneurons arise from a relatively novel source within the ventral telencephalon, the caudal ganglionic eminence (CGE). Owing to their late birth date, these interneurons populate the cortex only after the majority of other interneurons and pyramidal cells are already in place and have started to functionally integrate. Here we demonstrate in mice that for CGE-derived reelin (Re)-positive and calretinin (Cr)-positive (but not vasoactive intestinal peptide (VIP)-positive) interneurons, activity is essential before postnatal day 3 for correct migration, and that after postnatal day 3, glutamate-mediated activity controls the development of their axons and dendrites. Furthermore, we show that the engulfment and cell motility 1 gene (Elmo1), a target of the transcription factor distal-less homeobox 1 (Dlx1), is selectively expressed in Re(+) and Cr(+) interneurons and is both necessary and sufficient for activity-dependent interneuron migration. Our findings reveal a selective requirement for activity in shaping the cortical integration of specific neuronal subtypes.


Microscopes using non-linear excitation of chromophores with pulsed near-IR light can generate highly localized foci of molecules in the electronic singlet state that are concentrated in volumes of less than one femtoliter. The three-dimensional confinement of excitation arises from the simultaneous absorption of two IR photons of approximately half the energy required for linear excitation. Two-photon microscopy is especially useful for two types of interrogation of neural processes. First, uncaging of signaling molecules such as glutamate, as stimulation is so refined it can be used to mimic normal unitary synaptic levels. In addition, uncaging allows complete control of the timing and position of stimulation, so the two-photon light beam provides the chemical neuroscientist with an &quot;optical conductor's baton&quot; which can command synaptic activity at will. A second powerful feature of two-photon microscopy is that when used for fluorescence imaging it enables the visualization of cellular structure and function in living animals at depths far beyond that possible with normal confocal microscopes. In this review I provide a survey of the many important applications of two-photon microscopy in these two fields of neuroscience, and suggest some areas for future technical development.
Qnexa (VI-0521) is an investigational fixed-dose combination drug of phentermine and topiramate currently in Phase III clinical trials for the treatment of obesity. Vivus, Inc. has demonstrated efficacy of their product and are currently addressing FDA safety concerns with the possibility of a New Drug Application (NDA) resubmission.
Newly formed glutamatergic synapses often lack postsynaptic AMPA-type glutamate receptors (AMPARs). Aside from 'unsilencing' the postsynaptic site, however, the significance of postsynaptic AMPAR insertion during synapse maturation remains unclear. To investigate the role of AMPAR in synapse maturation, we used RNA interference (RNAi) to knockdown AMPARs in cultured hippocampal neurons. Surprisingly, loss of postsynaptic AMPARs increased the occurrence of presynaptically inactive synapses without changing the release probability of the remaining active synapses. Additionally, heterologous synapses formed between axons and AMPAR-expressing HEK cells develop significantly fewer inactive presynaptic terminals. The extracellular domain of the AMPAR subunit GluA2 was sufficient to reproduce this effect at heterologous synapses. Indeed, the retrograde signalling by AMPARs is independent of their channel function as RNAi-resistant AMPARs restore synaptic transmission in neurons lacking AMPARs despite chronic receptor antagonist treatment. Our findings suggest that postsynaptic AMPARs perform an organizational function at synapses that exceeds their standard role as ionotropic receptors by conveying a retrograde trans-synaptic signal that increases the transmission efficacy at a synapse.
Tobacco use is a major health problem, and nicotine is the main addictive component. Nicotine binds to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChR) to produce its initial effects. The nAChRs subtypes are composed of five subunits that can form in numerous combinations with varied functional and pharmacological characteristics. Diverse psychopharmacological effects contribute to the overall process of nicotine addiction, but two general neural systems are emerging as critical for the initiation and maintenance of tobacco use. Mesocorticolimbic circuitry that includes the dopaminergic pathway originating in the ventral tegmental area and projecting to the nucleus accumbens is recognized as vital for reinforcing behaviors during the initiation of nicotine addiction. In this neural system 2, 4, and 6 are the most important nAChR subunits underlying the rewarding aspects of nicotine and nicotine self-administration. On the other hand, the epithalamic habenular complex and the interpeduncular nucleus, which are connected via the fasciculus retroflexus, are critical contributors regulating nicotine dosing and withdrawal symptoms. In this case, the 5 and 4 nAChR subunits have critical roles in combination with other subunits. In both of these neural systems, particular nAChR subtypes have roles that contribute to the overall nicotine addiction process.
Transcription factors (TFs) play critical roles in the development of the nervous system, but the transcriptional regulatory mechanisms of these genes are poorly understood. Here we analyzed 5-kb of the 5' flanking genomic DNA sequences of 41 TF genes involved in neuronal development. The results showed that the TF genes tend to have higher GC contents in the proximal region and most of the TF genes have at least one proximal GC-rich (GC content &gt; 60%) promoter with a CpG island. The promoter distribution analysis showed that the GC-poor promoters were sporadically distributed within the 5-kb flanking genomic sequence (FGS); however, more than half (37 of 70) of the GC-rich promoters were located in the proximal region between nucleotides -1 and -500. Luciferase assays showed that partial GC-rich promoters increased gene expression in SH-SY5Y cells and that CpG methylation repressed the promoter activity. This study suggests a potential general mechanism for regulation of TF expression.
Recently, a new model for glutamate uptake by glutamate transporters was proposed based on crystal structures of the bacterial glutamate transporter homolog Glt(Ph). It was proposed that hairpin two (HP2) functions as the extracellular gate and that Na(+) and glutamate binding closes HP2, thereby allowing for the translocation of the glutamate binding pocket across the membrane. However, the conformation of HP2 in the apo state and the Na(+) bound state is unknown. We here use double site-directed spin-labeling electron paramagnetic resonance spectroscopy on the bacterial transporter Glt(Ph) from Pyrococcus horikoshi to examine conformational changes in HP2. Surprisingly, the cotransported substrates Na(+) and aspartate induce opposite movements of HP2. We find that in the apo state, HP2 is in a similar conformation as in the aspartate-bound closed state. Na(+) binding to the apo state opens HP2, whereas the subsequent binding of aspartate closes HP2. Our findings show that Na(+) binding opens and stabilizes the extracellular gate, thereby allowing for amino acid substrate binding. In contrast, in the absence of Na(+) and aspartate, HP2 closes, suggesting a potential mechanism for the translocation of the empty binding pocket necessary to complete the transport cycle. The finding that physiological Na(+) concentrations stabilize the open HP2 state would ensure that the outward-facing conformation of the transporter is maintained in physiological solutions and that glutamate transporters are ready to quickly bind glutamate released from glutamatergic synapses.
Tissue inhibitor of metalloproteinase-1 (TIMP-1) is an extracellular protein and endogenous regulator of matrix metalloproteinases (MMPs) secreted by astrocytes in response to CNS myelin injury. We have previously reported that adult TIMP-1 knock-out (KO) mice exhibit poor myelin repair following demyelinating injury. This observation led us to hypothesize a role for TIMP-1 in oligodendrogenesis and CNS myelination. Herein, we demonstrate that compact myelin formation is significantly delayed in TIMP-1 KO mice, a situation that coincided with dramatically reduced numbers of white matter astrocytes in the developing CNS. Analysis of differentiation in CNS progenitor cells (neurosphere) cultures from TIMP-1 KO mice revealed a specific deficit of NG2(+) oligodendrocyte progenitor cells. Application of recombinant murine TIMP-1 (rmTIMP-1) to TIMP-1 KO neurosphere cultures evoked a dose-dependent increase in NG2(+) cell numbers, while treatment with GM6001, a potent broad-spectrum MMP inhibitor did not. Similarly, administration of rmTIMP-1 to A2B5(+) immunopanned oligodendrocyte progenitors significantly increased the number of differentiated O1(+) oligodendrocytes, while antisera to TIMP-1 reduced oligodendrocyte numbers. We also determined that A2B5(+) oligodendrocyte progenitors grown in conditioned media derived from TIMP-1 KO primary glial cultures resulted in reduced differentiation of mature O1(+) oligodendrocytes. Finally, we report that addition of rmTIMP-1 to primary glial cultures resulted in a dose-dependent proliferative response of astrocytes. Together, these findings describe a previously uncharacterized role for TIMP-1 in the regulation of oligodendrocytes and astrocytes during development and provide a novel function for TIMP-1 on myelination in the developing CNS.
Because of its anatomical organization, the rodent whisker-to-barrel system is an ideal model to study experience-dependent plasticity. Manipulation of sensory input causes changes in the properties of the barrels at the physiological, structural, and functional levels. However, much less is known about the molecular events underlying these changes. To explore such molecular events, we have used a genomewide approach to identify key genes and molecular pathways involved in experience-induced plasticity in the barrel cortex of adult rats. Given the natural tendency of rats to explore novel objects, exposure to an enriched environment (EE) was used to stimulate the activity of the whisker-to-barrel cortex in vivo. Microarray analysis at two different time points after EE revealed differential expression of genes encoding transcription factors, including nuclear receptors, as well as of genes involved in the regulation of synaptic plasticity, cell differentiation, metabolism, and, surprisingly, blood vessel morphogenesis. These expression differences reflect changes in somatosensory information processing because unilateral whisker clipping showed EE-induced differential expression patterns in the spared versus deprived barrel cortex. Finally, in situ hybridization revealed cortical layer patterns specific for each selected gene. Together, the present study offers the first genomewide exploration of the key genes regulated by somatosensory stimulation in the barrel cortex and thus provides a solid experimental framework for future in-depth analysis of the mechanisms underlying experience-dependent plasticity.
The periodic presentation of a sensory stimulus induces, at certain frequencies of stimulation, a sustained electroencephalographic response known as steady-state evoked potential (SS-EP). In the somatosensory, visual, and auditory modalities, SS-EPs are considered to constitute an electrophysiological correlate of cortical sensory networks resonating at the frequency of stimulation. In the present study, we describe and characterize, for the first time, SS-EPs elicited by the selective activation of skin nociceptors in humans. The stimulation consisted of 2.3-s-long trains of 16 identical infrared laser pulses (frequency, 7 Hz), applied to the dorsum of the left and right hand and foot. Two different stimulation energies were used. The low energy activated only C-nociceptors, whereas the high energy activated both A- and C-nociceptors. Innocuous electrical stimulation of large-diameter A-fibers involved in the perception of touch and vibration was used as control. The high-energy nociceptive stimulus elicited a consistent SS-EP, related to the activation of A-nociceptors. Regardless of stimulus location, the scalp topography of this response was maximal at the vertex. This was noticeably different from the scalp topography of the SS-EPs elicited by innocuous vibrotactile stimulation, which displayed a clear maximum over the parietal region contralateral to the stimulated side. Therefore, we hypothesize that the SS-EPs elicited by the rapid periodic thermal activation of nociceptors may reflect the activation of a network that is preferentially involved in processing nociceptive input and may thus provide some important insight into the cortical processes generating painful percepts.
Nutrient excess in obesity and diabetes is emerging as a common putative cause for multiple deleterious effects across diverse cell types, responsible for a variety of metabolic dysfunctions. The hypothalamus is acknowledged as an important regulator of whole-body energy homeostasis, through both detection of nutrient availability and coordination of effectors that determine nutrient intake and utilization, thus preventing cellular and whole-body nutrient excess. However, the mechanisms underlying hypothalamic nutrient detection and its impact on peripheral nutrient utilization remain poorly understood. Recent data suggest a role for thioredoxin-interacting protein (TXNIP) as a molecular nutrient sensor important in the regulation of energy metabolism, but the role of hypothalamic TXNIP in the regulation of energy balance has not been evaluated. Here we show in mice that TXNIP is expressed in nutrient-sensing neurons of the mediobasal hypothalamus, responds to hormonal and nutrient signals, and regulates adipose tissue metabolism, fuel partitioning, and glucose homeostasis. Hypothalamic expression of TXNIP is induced by acute nutrient excess and in mouse models of obesity and diabetes, and downregulation of mediobasal hypothalamic TXNIP expression prevents diet-induced obesity and insulin resistance. Thus, mediobasal hypothalamic TXNIP plays a critical role in nutrient sensing and the regulation of fuel utilization.
Adapting successfully to new situations relies on integrating memory of similar circumstances with the outcomes of past actions. Here, we tested how reward history and recent memory influenced coding by orbital prefrontal cortex (OFC) neurons. Rats were trained to find food in plus maze tasks that required both the OFC and the hippocampus, and unit activity was recorded during stable performance, reversal learning, and strategy switching. OFC firing distinguished different rewarded paths, journeys from a start arm to a goal arm. Activity of individual cells and the population correlated with performance as rats learned newly rewarded outcomes. Activity was similar during reversal, an OFC-dependent task, and strategy switching, an OFC-independent task, suggesting that OFC associates information about paths and outcomes both when it is required for performance and when it is not. Path-selective OFC cells fired differently during overlapping journeys that led to different goals or from different starts, resembling journey-dependent coding by hippocampal neurons. Local field potentials (LFPs) recorded simultaneously in the OFC and the hippocampus oscillated coherently in the theta band (5-12 Hz) during stable performance. LFP coherence diminished when rats adapted to altered reward contingencies and followed different paths. Thus, OFC neurons appear to participate in a distributed network including the hippocampus that associates spatial paths, recent memory, and integrated reward history.
Stroke is the leading cause of disability in much of the world, with few treatment options available. Following unilateral stroke in rats, inosine, a naturally occurring purine nucleoside, stimulates the growth of projections from the undamaged hemisphere into denervated areas of the spinal cord and improves skilled use of the impaired forelimb. Inosine augments neurons' intrinsic growth potential by activating Mst3b, a component of the signal transduction pathway through which trophic factors regulate axon outgrowth. The present study investigated whether inosine would complement the effects of treatments that promote plasticity through other mechanisms. Following unilateral stroke in the rat forelimb motor area, inosine combined with NEP1-40, a Nogo receptor antagonist, doubled the number of axon branches extending from neurons in the intact hemisphere into the denervated side of the spinal cord compared with either treatment alone, and restored rats' level of skilled reaching using the impaired forepaw to preoperative levels. Similar functional improvements were seen when inosine was combined with environmental enrichment (EE). The latter effect was associated with changes in gene expression in layer 5 pyramidal neurons of the undamaged cortex well beyond those seen with inosine or EE alone. Inosine is now in clinical trials for other indications, making it an attractive candidate for the treatment of stroke patients.
Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-associated increase in monocyte adhesion and trafficking is exacerbated by cocaine abuse. The underlying mechanisms involve cocaine-mediated upregulation of adhesion molecules with subsequent disruption of the blood-brain barrier (BBB). Recently, a novel activated leukocyte cell adhesion molecule (ALCAM) has been implicated in leukocyte transmigration across the endothelium. We now show that upregulation of ALCAM in the brain endothelium seen in HIV(+)/cocaine drug abusers paralleled increased CD68 immunostaining compared with HIV(+)/no cocaine or uninfected controls, suggesting the important role of ALCAM in promoting leukocyte infiltration across the BBB. Furthermore, ALCAM expression was increased in cocaine-treated mice with concomitant increase in monocyte adhesion and transmigration in vivo, which was ameliorated by pretreating with the neutralizing antibody to ALCAM, lending additional support to the role of ALCAM. This new concept was further confirmed by in vitro experiments. Cocaine-mediated induction of ALCAM in human brain microvascular endothelial cells through the translocation of  receptor to the plasma membrane, followed by phosphorylation of PDGF- (platelet-derived growth factor-) receptor. Downstream activation of mitogen-activated protein kinases, Akt, and NF-B (nuclear factor-B) pathways resulted in induced expression of ALCAM. Functional implication of upregulated ALCAM was confirmed using cell adhesion and transmigration assays. Neutralizing antibody to ALCAM ameliorated this effect. Together, these findings implicate cocaine-mediated induction of ALCAM as a mediator of increased monocyte adhesion/transmigration into the CNS.

The neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) is known to play a role in developmental and structural processes but also in synaptic plasticity and memory of the adult animal. Recently, FGL, a NCAM mimetic peptide that binds to the Fibroblast Growth Factor Receptor 1 (FGFR-1), has been shown to have a beneficial impact on normal memory functioning, as well as to rescue some pathological cognitive impairments. Whether its facilitating impact may be mediated through promoting neuronal plasticity is not known. The present study was therefore designed to test whether FGL modulates the induction and maintenance of synaptic plasticity in the dentate gyrus (DG) in vivo. For this, we first assessed the effect of the FGL peptide on synaptic functions at perforant path-dentate gyrus synapses in the anesthetized rat. FGL, or its control inactive peptide, was injected locally 60 min before applying high-frequency stimulation (HFS) to the medial perforant path. The results suggest that although FGL did not alter basal synaptic transmission, it facilitated both the induction and maintenance of LTP. Interestingly, FGL also modified the heterosynaptic plasticity observed at the neighboring lateral perforant path synapses. The second series of experiments, using FGL intracerebroventricular infusion in the awake animal, confirmed its facilitating effect on LTP for up to 24 h. Our data also suggest that FGL could alter neurogenesis associated with LTP. In sum, these results show for the first time that enhancing NCAM functions by mimicking its heterophilic interaction with FGFR facilitates hippocampal synaptic plasticity in the awake, freely moving animal.


We mapped cells immunoreactive for the phosphorylated form (p44/p42) of the mitogen-activated protein kinase (pMAPK--also known as ERK1/2) in the brain of male mice after exposure to female olfactory cues or after the display of male copulatory behaviors. Exposure to soiled bedding from estrous females or the display of coital behaviors rapidly (within 10 min) induced MAPK phosphorylation in most of the brain regions known to be involved in the processing of olfactory cues (main and accessory olfactory bulbs, amygdala, and medial preoptic area) and in the control of copulatory behavior (amygdala and medial preoptic area). MAPK phosphorylation thus seems to be a useful marker to study short-term neural activation associated with the expression of specific behaviors.
Previous studies have demonstrated that melatonin is effective in lowering intraocular pressure and that it may also protect ganglion cells. We have recently reported that, in mice lacking the melatonin receptors type 1, 25-30% ganglion cells die out by 18months of age, suggesting that these receptors might be important for ganglion cells survival. In this study we show that the loss of ganglion cells is specific for melatonin receptors type 1 knock-out since mice lacking the melatonin receptors type 2 did not show any significant change in the number ganglion cells during aging. Furthermore, we report that melatonin receptors type 1 knock-out mice have higher intraocular pressure during the nocturnal hours than control or melatonin receptors type 2 knock-out mice at 3 and 12months of age. Finally, our data indicate that administration of exogenous melatonin in wild-type, but not in melatonin receptors type 1 knock-out, can significantly reduce intraocular pressure. Our studies indicate that the decreased viability of ganglion cells observed in melatonin receptors type 1 knock-out mice may be a consequence of the increases in the nocturnal intraocular pressure thus suggesting that intraocular pressure levels at night and melatonin signaling should be considered as risk factor in the pathogenesis of glaucoma.
Several studies have suggested an important role for brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) in the pathophysiology and therapeutics of bipolar disorder (BPD). The mechanisms underlying the therapeutic effects of lithium in BPD seem to involve a direct regulation of neurotrophic cascades. However, no clinical study evaluated the specific effects of lithium on BDNF levels in subjects with BPD. This study aims to investigate the effects of lithium monotherapy on BDNF levels in acute mania. Ten subjects with bipolar I disorder in a manic episode were evaluated at baseline and after 28 days of lithium therapy. Changes in plasma BDNF levels and Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS) scores were analyzed. A significant increase in plasma BDNF levels was observed after 28 days of therapy with lithium monotherapy (510.9127.1pg/mL) compared to pre-treatment (406.369.5pg/mL) (p=0.03). Although it was not found a significant association between BDNF levels and clinical improvement (YMRS), 87% of responders presented an increase in BDNF levels after treatment with lithium. These preliminary data showed lithium's direct effects on BDNF levels in bipolar mania, suggesting that short-term lithium treatment may activate neurotrophic cascades. Further studies with larger samples and longer period may confirm whether this biological effect is involved in the therapeutic efficacy of lithium in BPD.
Homeostasis of circulating cortisol is maintained by the 11-HSD2 enzyme which inactivates cortisol into cortisone. It is abundantly expressed in the placenta where it protects the fetus from high levels of maternal glucocorticoids (GCs). Maternal administration of Carbenoxolone (Cbx), a powerful 11-HSD2 inhibitor, leads to an increase in fetal cortisol. Previous data showed that intrauterine environment plays a crucial role in determining hippocampal structure and function. Exposure of pregnant rats to high levels of GC leads to low birth weight in offspring and an increased risk of age related memory and cognitive deficits later in life. Glutamate receptors are localized in the postsynaptic density (PSD), where many signaling proteins, cytoskeleton proteins, and ion channels are found. Any change in the number of these molecules can influence the morphology and function of the dendritic spine. We proposed that repeated Cbx injections during late pregnancy may alter the scaffolding proteins of the NMDA receptor in the pup's brain. We investigated the effects of repeated maternal Cbx injections on the scaffolding proteins of NMDA receptor in the hippocampus of rat pups. We showed that injecting pregnant rats with Cbx injections (30mg/kg) during GD 14-21 leads to a significant decrease in SPAR (Spine Associated Rap Guanylate kinase activating protein) (p&lt;0.001) and PSD-95 (p&lt;0.05) but a significant increase in Snk (Serum inducible kinase) (p&lt;0.001) in the pup's hippocampus at P40. In general, Snk is induced by neuronal activity and plays an important role in phosphorylating SPAR. The phosphorylated SPAR is then recognized and degraded by ubiquitin proteasome system (UPS), causing the depletion of SPAR and PSD-95 from the spines. The results suggest that fetal exposure to excessive GC levels may activate the Snk/SPAR pathway and lead to the depletion of SPAR and PSD-95. Since GCs drugs are commonly used in various obstetric and pediatric conditions, it is important to consider the risks and benefits of prenatal GCs exposure in order to prevent neurodevelopmental delay in the offspring.
Vagus nerve stimulation has been used for the treatment of neuropsychiatric disorders, such as epilepsy. However, little is known whether it is also effective for the treatment of heroin dependence, in particular for relapse to heroin seeking. In the present study, we investigated the effects of vagus nerve stimulation on reinstatement (relapse) of heroin-seeking behavior induced by heroin priming or heroin-associated cues. The rats were trained for heroin self-administration for 14days and followed by extinction training in which heroin was replaced by saline and heroin-associated cues were turned off. In addition, animals were also received daily electric stimulation of vagus nerve (30Hz, pulse width of 0.5ms, 0.5mA (low-intensity) or 1mA (high-intensity); 30s on, 5min off; 10 continuous cycle per day) or false stimulation during extinction training. We found that such vagus nerve stimulation significantly inhibited heroin priming (0.25mg/kg, s.c.) - or heroin-associated conditioned cue-induced reinstatement of drug-seeking behavior, when compared to false stimulation control. Further, such a behavioral inhibition was correlated to a reduction in the expression of FosB and an increase in the expression of phosphorylation of cAMP response element binding protein (p-CREB) in nucleus accumbens. The data suggest that vagus nerve stimulation may inhibit heroin- or heroin cue-induced relapse, possibly by regulation of the expression of Fos and CREB in nucleus accumbens.
Mutations in genes encoding glycosyltransferases (and presumed glycosyltransferases) that affect glycosylation and extracellular matrix binding activity of -dystroglycan (-DG) cause congenital muscular dystrophies (CMDs) with central nervous system manifestations. Among the identified genes, LARGE is of particular interest because its overexpression rescues glycosylation defects of -DG in mutations of not only LARGE but also other CMD-causing genes and restores laminin binding activity of -DG. It is not known whether LARGE protein glycosylates other proteins in addition to -DG. In this study, we overexpressed LARGE in DG-deficient cells and analyzed glycosylated proteins by Western blot analysis. Surprisingly, overexpression of LARGE in -DG-deficient cells led to glycosylation dependent IIH6C4 and VIA4-1 immunoreactivity, despite the prevailing view that these antibodies only recognize glycosylated -DG. Furthermore, the hyperglycosylated proteins in LARGE-overexpressing cells demonstrated the functional capacity to bind the extracellular matrix molecule laminin and promote laminin assembly at the cell surface, an effect that was blocked by IIH6C4 antibodies. These results indicate that overexpression of LARGE catalyzes the glycosylation of at least one other glycoprotein in addition to -DG, and that this glycosylation(s) promotes laminin binding activity.
Biomarkers of clinical relevance are very important in the workup of patients presenting with neurological autoimmune diseases. Nervous biopsy remains often the &quot;gold standard procedure&quot; but is limited in practice due to the risk of complication and insufficient yield. These biomarkers, most often auto-antibodies, can be the direct cause of the neurological syndrome or be detected as an epiphenomenon of the pathogenic process. The detection of these biomarkers, when performed in well defined clinical conditions, may help the clinician to establish a definite diagnosis which may in turn facilitate the therapeutic decision. The purpose of this article is to review the biomarkers that are available in daily practice to investigate immune-mediated neurological conditions.
Neurogenesis is integrated with neuronal migration to ensure proper development of the cerebral cortex. Reporting in Neuron, Pacary etal. (2011) demonstrate that proneural factors activate atypical Rho GTPases Rnd2 and Rnd3 in newborn cortical neurons, leading to compartmentalized modulation of RhoA signaling and differential control of neuronal migration stages.


Our current understanding of the neural basis of semantic memory is informed primarily by studies of concrete objects. However, conceptual knowledge encompasses many other, albeit less concrete, domains. This article reviews evidence from neuroimaging and patient studies that speaks to the neural basis of action concepts and the words that refer to them. These data highlight 2 important principles governing the neural instantiation of semantic knowledge. First, the organization of conceptual representations in the brain parallels perception and action. Action concepts are at least partially represented within modality-specific areas responsible for the perception and execution of dynamic actions. Second, unimodal sensory and motor cortices act as &quot;points of entry&quot; for more abstract action knowledge. Increasingly abstract conceptual knowledge derived from these modalities is represented in brain areas located anterior and centripetal to modality-specific regions. Extending research on the neural basis of semantics to include dynamic and relational aspects of the world gives us a more complete appreciation of the range of cognitive and communication impairments that may be experienced by patients with neurologic disease.

The factors that determine symptom penetrance in inherited disease are poorly understood. Increasingly, magnetic resonance diffusion tensor imaging (DTI) and PET are used to separate alterations in brain structure and function that are linked to disease symptomatology from those linked to gene carrier status. One example is DYT1 dystonia, a dominantly inherited movement disorder characterized by sustained muscle contractions, postures, and/or involuntary movements. This form of dystonia is caused by a 3-bp deletion (i.e., E) in the TOR1A gene that encodes torsinA. Carriers of the DYT1 dystonia mutation, even if clinically nonpenetrant, exhibit abnormalities in cerebellothalamocortical (CbTC) motor pathways. However, observations in human gene carriers may be confounded by variability in genetic background and age. To address this problem, we implemented a unique multimodal imaging strategy in a congenic line of DYT1 mutant mice that contain the E mutation in the endogenous mouse torsinA allele (i.e., DYT1 knock-in). Heterozygous knock-in mice and littermate controls underwent microPET followed by ex vivo high-field DTI and tractographic analysis. Mutant mice, which do not display abnormal movements, exhibited significant CbTC tract changes as well as abnormalities in brainstem regions linking cerebellar and basal ganglia motor circuits highly similar to those identified in human nonmanifesting gene carriers. Moreover, metabolic activity in the sensorimotor cortex of these animals was closely correlated with individual measures of CbTC pathway integrity. These findings further link a selective brain circuit abnormality to gene carrier status and demonstrate that DYT1 mutant torsinA has similar effects in mice and humans.
Alcohol's deleterious effects on memory are well known. Acute alcohol-induced memory loss is thought to occur via inhibition of NMDA receptor (NMDAR)-dependent long-term potentiation in the hippocampus. We reported previously that ethanol inhibition of NMDAR function and long-term potentiation is correlated with a reduction in the phosphorylation of Tyr(1472) on the NR2B subunit and ethanol's inhibition of the NMDAR field excitatory postsynaptic potential was attenuated by a broad spectrum tyrosine phosphatase inhibitor. These data suggested that ethanol's inhibitory effect may involve protein tyrosine phosphatases. Here we demonstrate that the loss of striatal-enriched protein tyrosine phosphatase (STEP) renders NMDAR function, phosphorylation, and long-term potentiation, as well as fear conditioning, less sensitive to ethanol inhibition. Moreover, the ethanol inhibition was &quot;rescued&quot; when the active STEP protein was reintroduced into the cells. Taken together, our data suggest that STEP contributes to ethanol inhibition of NMDAR function via dephosphorylation of tyrosine sites on NR2B receptors and lend support to the hypothesis that STEP may be required for ethanol's amnesic effects.
Behavioral exposure therapy of anxiety disorders is believed to rely on fear extinction. Because preclinical studies have shown that glucocorticoids can promote extinction processes, we aimed at investigating whether the administration of these hormones might be useful in enhancing exposure therapy. In a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study, 40 patients with specific phobia for heights were treated with three sessions of exposure therapy using virtual reality exposure to heights. Cortisol (20 mg) or placebo was administered orally 1 h before each of the treatment sessions. Subjects returned for a posttreatment assessment 3-5 d after the last treatment session and for a follow-up assessment after 1 mo. Adding cortisol to exposure therapy resulted in a significantly greater reduction in fear of heights as measured with the acrophobia questionnaire (AQ) both at posttreatment and at follow-up, compared with placebo. Furthermore, subjects receiving cortisol showed a significantly greater reduction in acute anxiety during virtual exposure to a phobic situation at posttreatment and a significantly smaller exposure-induced increase in skin conductance level at follow-up. The present findings indicate that the administration of cortisol can enhance extinction-based psychotherapy.
Leptin exerts a powerful permissive influence on neurogenic thermogenesis. During starvation and an absence of leptin, animals cannot produce thermogenic reactions to cold stress. However, thermogenesis is rescued by restoring leptin. We have previously observed a highly cooperative interaction between leptin and thyrotropin-releasing hormone [TRH] to activate hindbrain-generated thermogenic responses (Hermann et al., 2006). In vivo physiological studies (Rogers et al., 2009) suggested that the thermogenic impact of TRH in the hindbrain is amplified by the action of leptin through a leptin receptor-mediated production of phosphoinositol-trisphosphate [PIP3]. In turn, PIP3 can activate a tyrosine kinase whose target is the Src-SH2 regulatory site on the phospholipase C [PLC] complex. The TRH receptor signals through the PLC complex. Our immunohistochemical studies (Barnes et al., 2010) suggest that this transduction interaction between leptin and TRH occurs within neurons of the solitary nucleus [NST], though this interaction had not been verified. The present in vitro live cell calcium imaging study shows that while medial NST neurons are rarely activated by leptin alone, leptin pre-treatment significantly augments NST neurons' responsiveness to TRH. This leptin-mediated priming of NST neurons was uncoupled by pre-treatment with the phosphoinositide 3-kinase [PI3K] inhibitor [wortmannin], the phospholipase C inhibitor [U73122] and the Src-SH2 antagonist [PP2]. TTX did not eliminate the synergistic response of the agonists, thus the sensitization cannot be attributed to pre-synaptic mechanisms. It seems likely that NST neurons are involved in the leptin-mediated increase in BAT temperature by sensitizing the TRH-PLC-IP3-calcium release mechanism.
The use of organotypic hippocampal slice culture (OHSC) has become a powerful tool for studying cell damage in different neuropathological states, since it reproduces the basic morphological and functional properties of hippocampal neuronal network. However, the conventional OHSCs are established from postnatal animals rather than adult. Here we reevaluated the features of cell death in adult OHSC in detail and found potential utility for the study of neuroprotection. Organotypic culture of hippocampal slices from adult mice under conventional conditions led to a time-dependent and reproducible cell death. Around 6days in vitro (DIV), slices lost 50% of the cells, based on LDH release assessment. The cell death was greater than 90% after DIV 15. The cell loss was linearly correlated (r=0.944, P&lt;0.01) with the time in culture. The electrophysiological responses to the stimulus in the cultured adult slices were accordingly reduced. The cell degeneration during adult OHSC might be utilized as a tool for studying neuroprotective effects in drug development. To illustrate this potential use, adult OHSCs were challenged with brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF). We found that the continuous supplementation of 300ng/ml BDNF promoted cell survival of adult OHSC. Using immunohistochemistry and Western blot analyses of neuronal markers, we also demonstrated the pro-survival effects of BDNF on neurons in the adult OHSC system. It is suggested that OHSCs from adult mice might provide an alternative model system for neuronal degeneration, suitable for studying physiological factors and pharmacological compounds contributing to neuronal survival.
Wnt/-catenin signaling pathway plays an important role in the genesis and development of Alzheimer's disease. The study aims to investigate the effect of Curcumin on the expression of GSK-3, -catenin and CyclinD1 in vitro, which are tightly correlated with Wnt/-catenin signaling pathway, and also to explore the mechanisms, which will provide a novel therapeutic intervention for treatment of Alzheimer's disease. Plasmid APPswe and BACE1-mychis were transiently co-transfected into SHSY5Y cells by Liposfectamin2000. The cells were treated with Curcumin at 0, 1.25, 5.0, 20.0 mol/L for 24 h, or with Curcumin at 5.0 mol/L for 0, and 12, 24 and 48 h for time course assay. Cell lysates were collected for RT-PCR, Western blot assay and immunofluorescent staining were carried out for detecting the effect of Curcumin on the expression of GSK-3, -catenin and CyclinD1. RT-PCR and Western blot results showed that the expression of GSK-3 mRNA and protein significantly decreased in the transfected cells treated with Curcumin, and that the changes were in a dose and time-dependent manner (P&lt;0.05); however, the protein expression of GSK-3-Ser9 was increased (P&lt;0.05). Meanwhile, the expressions of -catenin and transcriptional factors CyclinD1 mRNA and protein increased and the changes were also in a dose and time-dependent manner (P&lt;0.05). Immunofluorescent staining results not only confirmed the above changes, but also showed that -catenin had translocated into the nucleus gradually with the increased dosage of Curcumin. Therefore, GSK-3 is a potential target for treatment of AD. Curcumin could activate the Wnt/-catenin signaling pathway through inhibiting the expression of GSK-3 and inducing the expression of -catenin and CyclinD1, which will provide a new theory for treatment of neurodegenerative diseases by Curcumin.
A history of limited, intermittent intake of palatable food (sucrose drink) attenuates hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis stress responses and induces markers of neuronal plasticity in stress- and reward-regulatory brain regions. Synaptic plasticity could provide a mechanism for long-term changes in neuronal function, implying that sucrose stress-dampening may endure over long periods of time. The present study tests the persistence of HPA axis dampening and plasticity after cessation of palatable drinking. Adult, male Long-Evans rats (n=10-13) with free access to water and chow were given additional twice-daily access to 4ml sucrose (30%) or water for 14days. Rats were subsequently tested for HPA responsiveness to an acute (20min) restraint stress at 1, 6 and 21days after the cessation of sucrose. Brains were collected for immunohistochemical analysis of FosB/deltaFosB, a marker of long-term neuronal plasticity, in the basolateral amygdala (BLA) and nucleus accumbens (NuAc). Prior sucrose consumption significantly decreased the plasma corticosterone response to restraint at 1day after the last palatable drink presentation, and also increased FosB/deltaFosB-positive cells in the BLA and in the NuAc core. This HPA-dampening persisted through 21days after the termination of the palatable drink, as did the increased FosB/deltaFosB immunoreactivity in both the BLA and the NuAc core. These data suggest that chronic palatable food intake causes lasting changes in stress/reward-modulatory circuitry and that the suppressed hormonal response to stress that can persist well beyond periods of palatable drink exposure.
Individuals often cope with stress by consuming calorically-dense, highly-palatable 'comfort' foods. The present work explores the stress-relieving properties of palatable foods in a rat model of limited sucrose intake. In this model, adult male rats with free access to chow and water are given additional access to a small amount of sucrose drink (or water as a control). A history of such limited sucrose intake reduces the collective (HPA axis, sympathetic, and behavioral-anxiety) stress response. Moreover, the stress-dampening by sucrose appears to be mediated primarily by its rewarding properties, since beneficial effects are reproduced by the noncaloric sweetener saccharin but not oral intragastric gavage of sucrose. The present work uses an alternate strategy to address the hypothesis that the rewarding properties of sucrose mediate its stress-dampening. This work varies the duration, frequency, and/or volume of sucrose and assesses the ability to attenuate HPA axis stress responses. The data indicate that HPA-dampening is optimal with a greater duration and/or frequency of sucrose, whereas increasing the volume of sucrose consumed is without effect. This finding suggests that the primary factor mediating stress-dampening is the number/rate of reward (i.e., sucrose) exposures, rather than the total sucrose calories consumed. Collectively, these data support the hypothesis that stress relief by limited palatable food intake is mediated primarily by its hedonic/rewarding properties. Moreover, the results support the contention that naturally rewarding behaviors are a physiological means to produce stress relief.
Circulating and tissue levels of the proinflammatory cytokine tumor necrosis factor  (TNF) are elevated in obesity. TNF interferes with insulin signaling in many tissues and also plays a causal role in the anorexia that accompanies severe challenges to the immune system. The interactions between TNF and insulin in the control of eating are less well known. The present study evaluated the role of TNF in the central nervous system control of food intake by insulin in adult male Long Evans rats. We first determined the ability of several doses of TNF injected into the 3rd cerebral ventricle (i3vt) to reduce food intake in male rats. Subsequently, we assessed the ability of a subthreshold dose of TNF to modulate the effect of i3vt insulin on food intake in male rats fed a low-fat chow or a high-fat (HF) diet. TNF administered i3vt dose-dependently reduced food intake in rats fed a standard low-fat chow diet. Moreover, a low, sub-threshold dose of TNF diminished the reduction in food intake by insulin in rats maintained on a chow diet, but enhanced insulin action in rats maintained on a HF diet. These data suggest that the interaction of TNF with central insulin varies with nutritional and/or dietary conditions.
In dehydrated rats, an early postingestive signal associated with the concentration of ingested fluid provides a signal that can inhibit neurohypophyseal vasopressin secretion. That inhibitory signal is not generated by the act of swallowing, as it is in dogs and many other animals, but by visceral osmoreceptors that presumably send a vagal signal to the nucleus of the solitary tract and the area postrema in the brain stem. In further contrast to dogs, the act of water ingestion does not provide an early signal inhibiting thirst in rats, but gastric emptying is so rapid that thirst can be satiated relatively quickly. When saline is consumed instead of water, thirst is inhibited by a different signal that results from the volume consumed and apparently is associated with gastrointestinal distension. These and other results emphasize the need to include gastric emptying of ingested fluid in considerations of water and Na(+) balance in rats.
Virus-like particles (VLPs) are excellent tools for vaccines against pathogens and tumors. They can accommodate foreign polypeptides whose incorporation efficiency and immunogenicity however decrease strongly with the increase of their size. We recently described the CD8(+) T cell immune response against a small foreign antigen (i.e., the 98 amino acid long human papilloma virus E7 protein) incorporated in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1 based VLPs as product of fusion with an HIV-1 Nef mutant (Nef(mut)). Here, we extended our previous investigations by testing the antigenic/immunogenic properties of Nef(mut)-based VLPs incorporating much larger heterologous products, i.e., human hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS3 and influenza virus NP proteins, which are composed of 630 and 498 amino acids, respectively. We observed a remarkable cross-presentation of HCV NS3 in dendritic cells challenged with Nef(mut)-NS3 VLPs, as detected using a NS3 specific CD8(+) T cell clone as well as PBMCs from HCV infected patients. On the other hand, when injected in mice, Nef(mut)-NP VLPs elicited strong anti-NP CD8(+) T cell and CTL immune responses. In addition, we revealed the ability of Nef(mut) incorporated in VLPs to activate and mature primary human immature dendritic cells (iDCs). This phenomenon correlated with the activation of Src tyrosine kinase-related intracellular signaling, and can be transmitted from VLP-challenged to bystander iDCs. Overall, these results prove that Nef(mut)-based VLPs represent a rather flexible platform for the design of innovative CD8(+) T cell vaccines.

As is generally true with other age-related diseases, Alzheimer's disease (AD) involves oxidative damage to cellular components in the affected tissue, in this case the brain. The causes and consequences of oxidative stress in neurons in AD are not fully understood, but considerable evidence points to important roles for accumulation of amyloid -peptide upstream of oxidative stress and perturbed cellular Ca(2+) homeostasis and energy metabolism downstream of oxidative stress. The identification of mutations in the -amyloid precursor protein and presenilin-1 as causes of some cases of early onset inherited AD, and the development of cell culture and animal models based on these mutations has greatly enhanced our understanding of the AD process, and has greatly expanded opportunities for preclinical testing of potential therapeutic interventions. In this regard, and of particular interest to us, is the elucidation of adaptive cellular stress response pathways (ACSRP) that can counteract multiple steps in the AD neurodegenerative cascades, thereby limiting oxidative damage and preserving cognitive function. ACSRP can be activated by factors ranging from exercise and dietary energy restriction, to drugs and phytochemicals. In this article we provide an overview of oxidative stress and AD, with a focus on ACSRP and their potential for preventing and treating AD.
Significant amounts of oxygen free radicals (oxidants) are generated during cerebral ischemia/reperfusion, and oxidative stress plays an important role in brain damage after stroke. In addition to oxidizing macromolecules, leading to cell injury, oxidants are also involved in cell death/survival signal pathways and cause mitochondrial dysfunction. Experimental data from laboratory animals that either overexpress (transgenic) or are deficient in (knock-out) antioxidant proteins, mainly superoxide dismutase, have provided strong evidence of the role of oxidative stress in ischemic brain damage. In addition to mitochondria, recent reports demonstrate that NADPH oxidase (NOX), an important pro-oxidant enzyme, is also involved in the generation of oxidants in the brain after stroke. Inhibition of NOX is neuroprotective against cerebral ischemia. We propose that superoxide dismutase and NOX activity in the brain is a major determinant for ischemic damage/repair and that these major anti- and pro-oxidant enzymes are potential endogenous molecular targets for stroke therapy.
Excessive nitrosative and oxidative stress is thought to trigger cellular signaling pathways leading to neurodegenerative conditions. Such redox dysregulation can result from many cellular events, including hyperactivation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate-type glutamate receptor, mitochondrial dysfunction, and cellular aging. Recently, we and our colleagues have shown that excessive generation of free radicals and related molecules, in particular nitric oxide species (NO), can trigger pathological production of misfolded proteins, abnormal mitochondrial dynamics (comprised of mitochondrial fission and fusion events), and apoptotic pathways in neuronal cells. Emerging evidence suggests that excessive NO production can contribute to these pathological processes, specifically by S-nitrosylation of specific target proteins. Here, we highlight examples of S-nitrosylated proteins that regulate misfolded protein accumulation and mitochondrial dynamics. For instance, in models of Parkinson's disease, these S-nitrosylation targets include parkin, a ubiquitin E3 ligase and neuroprotective molecule, and protein-disulfide isomerase, a chaperone enzyme for nascent protein folding. S-Nitrosylation of protein-disulfide isomerase may also be associated with mutant Cu/Zn superoxide dismutase toxicity in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. Additionally, in models of Alzheimer's disease, excessive NO generation leads to the formation of S-nitrosylated dynamin-related protein 1 (forming SNO-Drp1), which contributes to abnormal mitochondrial fragmentation and resultant synaptic damage.
The hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis is involved in stress, depression and anxiety. Controversy exists on HPA axis activation during panic attacks (PAs). We examined whether the HPA axis is involved in the escape or panic-like response in an animal model of PAs induced by electrical stimulation of the dorsolateral periaqueductal gray (dlPAG) in rats. Additionally, rats were also treated with chronic administration of buspirone (BUSP) and escitalopram (ESCIT), respectively; and they were stimulated in the open-field arena for panic-like reaction. Levels of stress hormone corticosterone were measured following 30 min after escape or panic condition. Our results demonstrated that the levels of plasma corticosterone were significantly increased after the induction of escape or panic-like response in comparison with the sham animals. The levels of corticosterone were significantly decreased in the dlPAG stimulated groups after rats were treated chronically with the ESCIT but not the BUSP as compared to the saline treated animals. Importantly, the increase of corticosterone level after escape or panic-like response was paralleled by an increase of neuronal activation of c-Fos in both the parvocellular and magnocellular paraventricular nucleus of the hypothalamus. Moreover, the c-Fos data also showed a decrease in the number of positive cells particularly for the ESCIT as well as the BUSP in comparison with the saline stimulated animals. In conclusion, the present study clearly demonstrated that PA or escape response activates the HPA axis and it remains difficult to anticipate the mechanism underlying HPA axis during PAs and its relationship with 5-HT drugs.
Accumulating evidence has suggested that prolonged use of cocaine may lead to progressive neuroadaptations proceeding from ventral to more dorsal areas of the corpus striatum. We have previously found that reversible inactivation of the dorsolateral caudate/putamen (dlCPu) significantly attenuated cocaine-seeking in rats following chronic cocaine self-administration and withdrawal. Since the cumulative amount of cocaine intake and the time course of withdrawal emergent patterns have been previously shown to alter subsequent cocaine-seeking, the current study investigated the role of the dlCPu in cocaine-seeking after differing access periods of cocaine self-administration and abstinence time points. Rats were catheterized and implanted with infusion cannulae in the dlCPu, trained on cocaine self-administration (0.2 mg/50 l/infusion), and then allowed to self-administer cocaine for 1 or 6 h daily sessions. After the final session, animals underwent three separate tests of cocaine-seeking in the self-administration context at days 1, 14, and 60 of abstinence immediately following bilateral infusion of baclofen-muscimol or vehicle into the dlCPu. While inactivation of the dlCPu by baclofen-muscimol resulted in reduced cocaine-seeking in both groups, the degree of inhibited responding varied with access history and withdrawal time point. While these data support a role for dorsal striatal regions in cocaine-seeking, greater previous cocaine intake did not lead to a greater dependence on intact dlCPu function for cocaine-seeking after abstinence.
The non-RTK (receptor tyrosine kinase) ACK1 [activated Cdc42 (cell division cycle 42)-associated kinase 1] binds a number of RTKs and is associated with their endocytosis and turnover. Its mode of activation is not well established, but models have suggested that this is an autoinhibited kinase. Point mutations in its SH3 (Src homology 3)- or EGF (epidermal growth factor)-binding domains have been reported to activate ACK1, but we find neither of the corresponding W424K or F820A mutations do so. Indeed, deletion of the various ACK1 domains C-terminal to the catalytic domain are not associated with increased activity. A previous report identified only one major tyrosine phosphorylated protein of 60 kDa co-purified with ACK1. In a screen for new SH3 partners for ACK1 we found multiple Src family kinases; of these c-Src itself binds best. The SH2 and SH3 domains of Src interact with ACK1 Tyr518 and residues 623-652 respectively. Src targets the ACK1 activation loop Tyr284, a poor autophosphorylation site. We propose that ACK1 fails to undergo significant autophosphorylation on Tyr284 in vivo because it is basophilic (whereas Src is acidophilic). Subsequent ACK1 activation downstream of receptors such as EGFR (EGF receptor) (and Src) promotes turnover of ACK1 in vivo, which is blocked by Src inhibitors, and is compromised in the Src-deficient SYF cell line. The results of the present study can explain why ACK1 is responsive to so many external stimuli including RTKs and integrin ligation, since Src kinases are commonly recruited by multiple receptor systems.


In a variety of neurodegenerative disease, despite the frequent correlation of neuronal cell cycle and cell death in the same neuronal populations, the mechanistic pathway linking the two remains undefined. One possible link is the atypical cyclin dependent kinase, Cdk5. Cdk5 exerts a double protective function in neurons, first by suppressing the cell cycle in the nucleus and second by suppressing cell death in the cytoplasm. Cdk5 transport between nucleus and cytoplasm serves to regulate the balance between these two events. Cdk5 nuclear localization relies on its interaction with p27, and its cell cycle suppression activity is achieved by direct binding to E2F1, disrupting the DP1-E2F1 dimer and its DNA binding ability. To bind to E2F1, Cdk5 does not need to be catalytically active but it does require a physical association with both p27 and its cyclin-like activator, p35. Because of this requirement, the proper levels and locations of p27 and p35 are characteristics that endow a neuron a unique form of cell cycle regulation that uses Cdk5 in a non-catalytic role. The findings offer cautionary notes to any strategy aimed at blocking Cdk5 activity as a means of combating neurodegenerative disease. To the extent that these approaches either directly or indirectly influence Cdk5 levels or location, they may produce unexpected and possibly unwanted consequences.


This commentary discusses advances in the conceptual understanding of racism and selected research findings in the social neurosciences. The traditional stress and coping model holds that racism constitutes a source of aversive experiences that, when perceived by the individual, eventually lead to poor health outcomes. Current evidence points to additional psychophysiological pathways linking facets of racist environments with physiological reactions that contribute to disease. The alternative pathways emphasize prenatal experiences, subcortical emotional neural circuits, conscious and preconscious emotion regulation, perseverative cognitions, and negative affective states stemming from racist cognitive schemata. Recognition of these pathways challenges change agents to use an array of cognitive and self-controlling interventions in mitigating racism's impact. Additionally, it charges policy makers to develop strategies that eliminate deep-seated structural aspects of racism in society.
Huntington's disease (HD) is a fatal neurodegenerative disease characterized pathologically by aggregates composed of N-terminal fragments of the mutant form of the protein huntingtin (htt). The role of these N-terminal fragments in disease pathogenesis has been questioned based in part on studies in transgenic mice. In one important example, mice that express an N-terminal fragment of mutant htt terminating at the C-terminus of exon 2 (termed the Shortstop mouse) were reported to develop robust inclusion pathology without developing phenotypic abnormalities seen in the R6/2 or N171-82Q models of HD, which are also based on expression of mutant N-terminal htt fragments. To further explore the capacity of mutant exon-2 htt fragments to produce neurologic abnormalities (N-terminal 118 amino acids; N118), we generated transgenic mice expressing cDNA that encodes htt N118-82Q with the mouse prion promoter vector. In mice generated in this manner, we demonstrate robust inclusion pathology accompanied by early death and failure to gain weight. These phenotypes are the most robust abnormalities identified in the R6/2 and N171-82Q models. We conclude that the lack of an overt phenotype in the initial Shortstop mice cannot be completely explained by the properties of mutant htt N118 fragments.
Diabetes affects many organs including the stomach. Altered number and function of interstitial cells of Cajal (ICC), the gastrointestinal pacemaker cells, underlie a number of gastrointestinal motility disorders, including diabetic gastroparesis. In the muscle layers, ICC selectively express Ano1, thought to underlie classical Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) currents. Mice homozygous for Ano1 knock-out exhibit abnormal ICC function and motility. Several transcripts for Ano1 are generated by alternative splicing of four exons. Here, we report expression levels of transcripts encoded by alternative splicing of Ano1 gene in gastric muscles of patients with diabetic gastroparesis and nondiabetic control tissues. Expression of mRNA from two alternatively transcribed exons are significantly different between patients and controls. Furthermore, patients with diabetic gastroparesis express mRNA for a previously unknown variant of Ano1. The 5' end of this novel variant lacks exons 1 and 2 and part of exon 3. Expression of this variant in HEK cells produces a decreased density of Ca(2+)-activated Cl(-) currents that exhibit slower kinetics compared with the full-length Ano1. These results identify important changes in expression and splicing of Ano1 in patients with diabetic gastroparesis that alter the electrophysiological properties of the channel. Changes in Ano1 expression in ICC may directly contribute to diabetic gastroparesis.
Single-channel conductance in Cys-loop channels is controlled by the nature of the amino acids in the narrowest parts of the ion conduction pathway, namely the second transmembrane domain (M2) and the intracellular helix. In cationic channels, such as Torpedo ACh nicotinic receptors, conductance is increased by negatively charged residues exposed to the extracellular vestibule. We now show that positively charged residues at the same loop 5 position boost also the conductance of anionic Cys-loop channels, such as glycine (1 and 1) and GABA(A) (122) receptors. Charge reversal mutations here produce a greater decrease on outward conductance, but their effect strongly depends on which subunit carries the mutation. In the glycine 1 receptor, replacing Lys with Glu in 1 reduces single-channel conductance by 41%, but has no effect in the  subunit. By expressing concatameric receptors with constrained stoichiometry, we show that this asymmetry is not explained by the subunit copy number. A similar pattern is observed in the 122 GABA(A) receptor, where only mutations in 1 or 2 decreased conductance (to different extents). In both glycine and GABA receptors, the effect of mutations in different subunits does not sum linearly: mutations that had no detectable effect in isolation did enhance the effect of mutations carried by other subunits. As in the nicotinic receptor, charged residues in the extracellular vestibule of anionic Cys-loop channels influence elementary conductance. The size of this effect strongly depends on the direction of the ion flow and, unexpectedly, on the nature of the subunit that carries the residue.
D-aspartate (D-Asp) is found in specific neurons, transported to neuronal terminals and released in a stimulation-dependent manner. Because D-Asp formation is not well understood, determining its function has proved challenging. Significant levels of D-Asp are present in the cerebral ganglion of the F- and C-clusters of the invertebrate Aplysia californica, and D-Asp appears to be involved in cell-cell communication in this system. Here, we describe a novel protein, DAR1, from A. californica that can convert aspartate and serine to their other chiral form in a pyridoxal 5'-phosphate (PLP)-dependent manner. DAR1 has a predicted length of 325 amino acids and is 55% identical to the bivalve aspartate racemase, EC 5.1.1.13, and 41% identical to the mammalian serine racemase, EC 5.1.1.18. However, it is only 14% identical to the recently reported mammalian aspartate racemase, DR, which is closely related to glutamate-oxaloacetate transaminase, EC 2.6.1.1. Using whole-mount immunohistochemistry staining of the A. californica central nervous system, we localized DAR1-like immunoreactivity to the medial region of the cerebral ganglion where the F- and C-clusters are situated. The biochemical and functional similarities between DAR1 and other animal serine and aspartate racemases make it valuable for examining PLP-dependent racemases, promising to increase our knowledge of enzyme regulation and ultimately, D-serine and D-Asp signaling pathways.
AMPA receptors mediate fast excitatory transmission in the brain. Neuronal AMPA receptors comprise GluA pore-forming principal subunits and can associate with multiple modulatory components, including transmembrane AMPA receptor regulatory proteins (TARPs) and CNIHs (cornichons). AMPA receptor potentiators and non-competitive antagonists represent potential targets for a variety of neuropsychiatric disorders. Previous studies showed that the AMPA receptor antagonist GYKI-53655 displaces binding of a potentiator from brain receptors but not from recombinant GluA subunits. Here, we asked whether AMPA receptor modulatory subunits might resolve this discrepancy. We find that the cerebellar TARP, stargazin (-2), enhances the binding affinity of the AMPA receptor potentiator [(3)H]-LY450295 and confers sensitivity to displacement by non-competitive antagonists. In cerebellar membranes from stargazer mice, [(3)H]-LY450295 binding is reduced and relatively resistant to displacement by non-competitive antagonists. Coexpression of AMPA receptors with CNIH-2, which is expressed in the hippocampus and at low levels in the cerebellar Purkinje neurons, confers partial sensitivity of [(3)H]-LY450295 potentiator binding to displacement by non-competitive antagonists. Autoradiography of [(3)H]-LY450295 binding to stargazer and -8-deficient mouse brain sections, demonstrates that TARPs regulate the pharmacology of allosteric AMPA potentiators and antagonists in the cerebellum and hippocampus, respectively. These studies demonstrate that accessory proteins define AMPA receptor pharmacology by functionally linking allosteric AMPA receptor potentiator and antagonist sites.
Ion permeation through voltage-gated sodium channels is modulated by various drugs and toxins. The atomistic mechanisms of action of many toxins are poorly understood. A steroidal alkaloid batrachotoxin (BTX) causes persistent channel activation by inhibiting inactivation and shifting the voltage dependence of activation to more negative potentials. Traditionally, BTX is considered to bind at the channel-lipid interface and allosterically modulate the ion permeation. However, amino acid residues critical for BTX action are found in the inner helices of all four repeats, suggesting that BTX binds in the pore. In the octapeptide segment IFGSFFTL in IIIS6 of a cockroach sodium channel BgNa(V), besides Ser_3i15 and Leu_3i19, which correspond to known BTX-sensing residues of mammalian sodium channels, we found that Gly_3i14 and Phe_3i16 are critical for BTX action. Using these data along with published data as distance constraints, we docked BTX in the Kv1.2-based homology model of the open BgNa(V) channel. We arrived at a model in which BTX adopts a horseshoe conformation with the horseshoe plane normal to the pore axis. The BTX ammonium group is engaged in cation- interactions with Phe_3i16 and BTX moieties interact with known BTX-sensing residues in all four repeats. Oxygen atoms at the horseshoe inner surface constitute a transient binding site for permeating cations, whereas the bulky BTX molecule would resist the pore closure, thus causing persistent channel activation. Our study reinforces the concept that steroidal sodium channel agonists bind in the inner pore of sodium channels and elaborates the atomistic mechanism of BTX action.

Granule cell (GC) neurogenesis in the dentate gyrus (DG) does not always proceed normally. After severe seizures (e.g., status epilepticus [SE]) and some other conditions, newborn GCs appear in the hilus. Hilar ectopic GCs (EGCs) can potentially provide insight into the effects of abnormal location and seizures on GC development. Additionally, hilar EGCs that develop after SE may contribute to epileptogenesis and cognitive impairments that follow SE. Thus, it is critical to understand how EGCs differ from normal GCs. Relatively little morphometric information is available on EGCs, especially those restricted to the hilus. This study quantitatively analyzed the structural morphology of hilar EGCs from adult male rats several months after pilocarpine-induced SE, when they are considered to have chronic epilepsy. Hilar EGCs were physiologically identified in slices, intracellularly labeled, processed for light microscopic reconstruction, and compared to GC layer GCs, from both the same post-SE tissue and the NeuroMorpho database (normal GCs). Consistently, hilar EGC and GC layer GCs had similar dendritic lengths and field sizes, and identifiable apical dendrites. However, hilar EGC dendrites were topologically more complex, with more branch points and tortuous dendritic paths. Three-dimensional analysis revealed that, remarkably, hilar EGC dendrites often extended along the longitudinal DG axis, suggesting increased capacity for septotemporal integration. Axonal reconstruction demonstrated that hilar EGCs contributed to mossy fiber sprouting. This combination of preserved and aberrant morphological features, potentially supporting convergent afferent input to EGCs and broad, divergent efferent output, could help explain why the hilar EGC population could impair DG function.
Relatively little is known about the subcellular localization of low threshold Ca+ channels (T-channels) in the brain. Using immunocytochemical labeling and preembedding immunoperoxidase and silver-enhanced immunogold electron microscopy, we localized T-channel subunit Ca(v) 3.3 in rodent cerebral cortex and thalamus. Double immunofluorescent staining demonstrated that Ca(v) 3.3-labeled neurons in cerebral cortex are a subgroup of GABAergic interneurons that coexpress calbindin and in half of the cases parvalbumin. In the thalamus, virtually all reticular nucleus (RTN) neurons were immunopositive for Ca(v) 3.3, while neurons in dorsal thalamic nuclei were nonimmunoreactive. At the electron microscopic (EM) level, in cortical layers IV-V and RTN neurons, Ca(v) 3.3 immunoreactivity was mainly associated with membranes of dendrites but with some localization in cytoplasm. None was found in axon terminals. In cortex, 73% of immunogold particles were present in close proximity to synaptic contacts (&lt;0.5 m from the postsynaptic density), while 27% were distributed along membranes at extrasynaptic sites (&gt;0.5 m from the postsynaptic density). In RTN, 57% particles were evenly distributed along perisynaptic membranes and the remaining 43% of particles were diffusely localized at extrasynaptic membranes. The density of particles along the dendritic membranes of cortical neurons was 40% higher than in RTN neurons. These results suggest that Ca(v) 3.3 plays a role in regulating GABAergic neurons whose actions underlie thalamocortical rhythmicity.
The lateral habenula (LHb) provides an important source of negative reinforcement signals to midbrain dopamine (DA) cells in the substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area (VTA). This profound and consistent inhibitory influence involves a disynaptic connection from glutamate neurons in the LHb to some population of -aminobutyric acid (GABA) cells that, in turn, innervates DA neurons. Previous studies demonstrated that the GABA cells intrinsic to the VTA receive insufficient synaptic input from the LHb to serve as the primary source of this intermediate connection. In this investigation, we sought ultrastructural evidence supporting the hypothesis that a newly identified region of the brainstem, the rostromedial mesopontine tegmental nucleus (RMTg), is a more likely candidate for inhibiting midbrain DA cells in response to LHb activation. Electron microscopic examination of rat brain sections containing dual immunoreactivity for an anterograde tracing agent and a phenotypic marker revealed that: 1) more than 55% of the synapses formed by LHb axons in the RMTg were onto GABA-labeled dendrites; 2) more than 80% of the synapses formed by RMTg axons in the VTA contacted dendrites immunoreactive for the DA synthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase; and 3) nearly all RMTg axons formed symmetric synapses and contained postembedding immunoreactivity for GABA. These findings indicate that the newly identified RMTg region is an intermediate structure in a disynaptic pathway that connects the LHb to VTA DA neurons. The results have important implications for understanding mental disorders characterized by a dysregulation of reward circuitry involving LHb and DA cell populations.
Between 25-40% of neurons in laminae I-III are GABAergic, and some of these express neuropeptide Y (NPY). We previously reported that NPY-immunoreactive axons form numerous synapses on lamina III projection neurons that possess the neurokinin 1 receptor (NK1r). The aims of this study were to determine the proportion of neurons and GABAergic boutons in this region that contain NPY, and to look for evidence that they selectively innervate different neuronal populations. We found that 4-6% of neurons in laminae I-III were NPY-immunoreactive and based on the proportions of neurons that are GABAergic, we estimate that NPY is expressed by 18% of inhibitory interneurons in laminae I-II and 9% of those in lamina III. GABAergic boutons were identified by the presence of the vesicular GABA transporter (VGAT) and NPY was found in 13-15% of VGAT-immunoreactive boutons in laminae I-II, and 5% of those in lamina III. For both the lamina III NK1r-immunoreactive projection neurons and protein kinase C (PKC)-immunoreactive interneurons in lamina II, we found that around one-third of the VGAT boutons that contacted them were NPY-immunoreactive. However, based on differences in the sizes of these boutons and the strength of their NPY-immunoreactivity, we conclude that these originate from different populations of interneurons. Only 6% of VGAT boutons presynaptic to large lamina I projection neurons that lacked NK1rs contained NPY. These results show that NPY-containing neurons make up a considerable proportion of the inhibitory interneurons in laminae I-III, and that their axons preferentially target certain classes of dorsal horn neuron.
The neuropeptide Fs (NPFs) are an invertebrate subgroup of the FMRFamide-like peptides, and are proposed by some to be the homologs of vertebrate neuropeptide Y. Although there is some information about the identity, tissue distribution and function of NPFs in insects, essentially nothing is known about them in crustaceans. We have identified and characterized NPF-encoding transcripts from the penaeid shrimp Litopenaeus vannamei and Melicertus marginatus. Two transcripts were identified from each species. For each shrimp species, the two transcripts differed from one another by the presence or absence of an insert in the portion of the open reading frame that encodes the NPF peptide. The two NPF isoforms are identical in L. vannamei and M. marginatus, with their predicted structures being KPDPSQLANMAEALKYLQELDKYYSQVSRPRFamide and KPDPSQLANMAEALKYLQELDKYYSQVSRPSPRSAPGPASQIQALENTLKFLQLQELGKLYSLRARPRFamide. RT-PCR tissue profiling showed both transcripts are broadly distributed within the nervous system of each species. The transcript encoding the shorter NPF was detected in some, but not all, midgut samples. The transcript encoding the longer NPF was absent in the midgut of both species, and neither transcript was detected in their skeletal muscle. Juvenile L. vannamei fed on a diet supplemented with the shorter NPF exhibited a marked increase in food intake relative to control individuals that did not receive the supplement; the NPF-fed shrimp also showed a significant increase in growth relative to the control group. Our data suggest that NPF is present in both the nervous system and midgut of penaeid shrimp, functioning, at least in part, as a powerful orexigenic agent.
Primary astrocyte cell cultures have become a valuable tool for studies of signaling pathways that regulate astrocyte physiology, reactivity, and function; however, differences in culture preparation affect data reproducibility. The aim of this work was to define optimal conditions for obtaining primary astrocytes from adult rat spinal cord with an expression profile most similar to adult human spinal cord astrocytes. Hence, we examined whether different Sprague-Dawley substrains and culture conditions affect astrocyte culture quality. Medium supplemented with fetal bovine serum from three sources (Sigma, Gibco, Hyclone) or a medium with defined composition (AM medium) was used to culture astrocytes isolated from spinal cords of adult Harlan and Charles River Spraque-Dawley rats. Purity was significantly different between cultures established in media with different sera. No microglia were detected in AM or Hyclone cultures. Gene expression was also affected, with AM cultures expressing the highest level of glutamine synthetase, connexin-43, and glutamate transporter-1. Interestingly, cell response to starvation was substrain dependent. Charles River-derived cultures responded the least, while astrocytes derived from Harlan rats showed a greater decrease in Gfap and glutamine synthetase, suggesting a more quiescent phenotype. Human and Harlan astrocytes cultured in AM media responded similarly to starvation. Taken together, this study shows that rat substrain and growth medium composition affect purity, expression profile and response to starvation of primary astrocytes suggesting that cultures of Harlan rats in AM media have optimal astrocyte characteristics, purity, and similarity to human astrocytes.
Mammalian neurogenic sites are good models for physiological neural cell renewal in the perspective of brain repair. Yet, investigating their stem cell niches is not easy since they are small areas deeply hidden in the brain hemispheres. Organotypic slices could be a useful tool since they substantially retain the three-dimensional tissue organization. The postnatal forebrain subventricular zone (SVZ), as a dynamic structure endowed with proliferation and migration, might undergo striking cellular changes in culture. Literature concerning this ex vivo approach applied to SVZ neurogenic activity and response to damage is scarce and heterogeneous, not considering the fine cellular composition of the slice and not taking into account the modifications occurring as a consequence of the culture conditions. Our aim was to describe in detail what happens in the SVZ when establishing an ex vivo model. We addressed the changes occurring in five day-old, postnatal mice forebrain organotypic slices cultured for several days in vitro, by using confocal and ultrastructural analyses. We found that during the first two days in vitro the slices undergo progressive structural disaggregation accompanied by remarkable increase in cell proliferation and death with respect to basal levels. In addition, these facts occur in parallel with strong activation of astrocytic cells and microglia. Our results highlight technical limits in the use of forebrain organotypic slices for studying the activity of SVZ neurogenic niche, indicating that they can be reliable for a very short time (1-2 days) and could be misleading when addressing lesion-induced responses.
One of the major challenges of connectomics is obtaining a physical map of the neurons that comprise a circuit and the sites within the whole mouse brain. However, there is no report that addresses the preparation of whole mouse brain tissue for microsectioning. In this paper, such tissue is prepared by a modified Golgi-Cox method in which the staining time is prolonged to half a year, the darkening solution is changed to 1% LiOH, and the brain is embedded in resin. Projections of several coronal sections are reconstructed by serial 1-m sectioning and simultaneous imaging of the specimen. This approach ensures that the stained neurons are present throughout the whole mouse brain from superficial to deep layers and that the neuronal soma and traces of the processes can be distinguished in local magnification.
In most central neurons, action potentials (APs), generated in the initial axon segment, propagate back into dendrites and trigger considerable Ca(2+) entry via activation of voltage-sensitive calcium channels (VSCCs). Despite the similarity in its underlying mechanisms, however, AP-evoked dendritic Ca(2+) signalling often demonstrates a cell type-specific profile that is determined by the neuron dendritic properties. Using two-photon Ca(2+) imaging in combination with patch-clamp whole-cell recordings,we found that in distinct types of hippocampal inhibitory interneurons Ca(2+) transients evoked by backpropagating APs not only were shaped by the interneuron-specific properties of dendritic Ca(2+) handling but also involved specific Ca(2+) mechanisms that were regulated dynamically by distinct activity patterns. In dendrites of regularly spiking basket cells, AP-evoked Ca(2+) rises were of large amplitude and fast kinetics; however, they decreased with membrane hyperpolarization or following high-frequency firing episodes. In contrast, AP-evoked Ca(2+) elevations in dendrites of Schaffer collateral-associated cells exhibited significantly smaller amplitude and slower kinetics, but increased with membrane hyperpolarization. These cell type-specific properties of AP-evoked dendritic Ca(2+) signalling were determined by distinct endogenous buffer capacities of the interneurons examined and by specific types of VSCCs recruited by APs during different patterns of activity. Furthermore, AP-evoked Ca(2+) transients summated efficiently during theta-like bursting and were associated with the induction of long-term potentiation at inhibitory synapses onto both types of interneurons. Therefore, the cell type-specific profile of AP-evoked dendritic Ca(2+) signalling is shaped in an activity-dependent manner, such that the same pattern of hippocampal activity can be differentially translated into dendritic Ca(2+) signals in different cell types. However, Cell type-specific differences in Ca(2+) signals can be 'smoothed out' by changes in neuronal activity, providing a means for common, cell-type-independent forms of synaptic plasticity.
The muscle wasting and impaired muscle function in critically ill intensive care unit (ICU) patients delay recovery from the primary disease, and have debilitating consequences that can persist for years after hospital discharge. It is likely that, in addition to pernicious effects of the primary disease, the basic life support procedures of long-term ICU treatment contribute directly to the progressive impairment of muscle function. This study aims at improving our understanding of the mechanisms underlying muscle wasting in ICU patients by using a unique experimental rat ICU model where animals are mechanically ventilated, sedated and pharmacologically paralysed for duration varying between 6 h and 14 days. Results show that the ICU intervention induces a phenotype resembling the severe muscle wasting and paralysis associated with the acute quadriplegic myopathy (AQM) observed in ICU patients, i.e. a preferential loss of myosin, transcriptional down-regulation of myosin synthesis, muscle atrophy and a dramatic decrease in muscle fibre force generation capacity. Detailed analyses of protein degradation pathways show that the ubiquitin proteasome pathway is highly involved in this process. A sequential change in localisation of muscle-specific RING finger proteins 1/2 (MuRF1/2) observed during the experimental period is suggested to play an instrumental role in both transcriptional regulation and protein degradation. We propose that, for those critically ill patients who develop AQM, complete mechanical silencing, due to pharmacological paralysis or sedation, is a critical factor underlying the preferential loss of the molecular motor protein myosin that leads to impaired muscle function or persisting paralysis.
5-bromo-2-deoxyuridine (BrdU) is often used in studies of adult neurogenesis and olfactory learning, but it can also have toxic effects on highly proliferative tissue. We found that pairing Kool-Aid flavors with acute systemic injections of BrdU induced strong conditioned flavor aversions. Intermittent injections during Kool-Aid-glucose conditioning interfered with learning of a conditioned flavor-nutrient preference. Acute injection of BrdU also elevated plasma corticosterone levels and induced c-Fos in the visceral neuraxis. Thus, acute or intermittent systemic injections of BrdU (50-200 mg/kg) have aversive effects that may interfere with learning.
Normal ageing is associated with characteristic changes in brain microstructure. Although in vivo neuroimaging captures spatial and temporal patterns of age-related changes of anatomy at the macroscopic scale, our knowledge of the underlying (patho)physiological processes at cellular and molecular levels is still limited. The aim of this study is to explore brain tissue properties in normal ageing using quantitative magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) alongside conventional morphological assessment. Using a whole-brain approach in a cohort of 26 adults, aged 18-85years, we performed voxel-based morphometric (VBM) analysis and voxel-based quantification (VBQ) of diffusion tensor, magnetization transfer (MT), R1, and R2* relaxation parameters. We found age-related reductions in cortical and subcortical grey matter volume paralleled by changes in fractional anisotropy (FA), mean diffusivity (MD), MT and R2*. The latter were regionally specific depending on their differential sensitivity to microscopic tissue properties. VBQ of white matter revealed distinct anatomical patterns of age-related change in microstructure. Widespread and profound reduction in MT contrasted with local FA decreases paralleled by MD increases. R1 reductions and R2* increases were observed to a smaller extent in overlapping occipito-parietal white matter regions. We interpret our findings, based on current biophysical models, as a fingerprint of age-dependent brain atrophy and underlying microstructural changes in myelin, iron deposits and water. The VBQ approach we present allows for systematic unbiased exploration of the interaction between imaging parameters and extends current methods for detection of neurodegenerative processes in the brain. The demonstrated parameter-specific distribution patterns offer insights into age-related brain structure changes in vivo and provide essential baseline data for studying disease against a background of healthy ageing.
Phase-synchronization is a manifestation of interaction between neuronal groups measurable from LFP, EEG or MEG signals, however, volume conduction can cause the coherence and the phase locking value to spuriously increase. It has been shown that the imaginary component of the coherency (ImC) cannot be spuriously increased by volume-conduction of independent sources. Recently, it was proposed that the phase lag index (PLI), which estimates to what extent the phase leads and lags between signals from two sensors are nonequiprobable, improves on the ImC. Compared to ImC, PLI has the advantage of being less influenced by phase delays. However, sensitivity to volume-conduction and noise, and capacity to detect changes in phase-synchronization, is hindered by the discontinuity of the PLI, as small perturbations turn phase lags into leads and vice versa. To solve this problem, we introduce a related index, namely the weighted phase lag index (WPLI). Differently from PLI, in WPLI the contribution of the observed phase leads and lags is weighted by the magnitude of the imaginary component of the cross-spectrum. We demonstrate two advantages of the WPLI over the PLI, in terms of reduced sensitivity to additional, uncorrelated noise sources and increased statistical power to detect changes in phase-synchronization. Another factor that can affect phase-synchronization indices is sample-size bias. We show that, when directly estimated, both PLI and the magnitude of the ImC have typically positively biased estimators. To solve this problem, we develop an unbiased estimator of the squared PLI, and a debiased estimator of the squared WPLI.
Functional cerebral asymmetries (FCAs) are an important modulator of cognitive functions. Here, we investigated the temporal and spectral dynamics as well as the cortical networks underlying the lateralized modulation of executive functions related to response inhibition. To this end, we recorded event-related potentials (ERPs) during tachistoscopic presentation of verbal 'Go' and 'Nogo' stimuli in the left (LVF) and the right visual field (RVF). Participants committed fewer false alarms to verbal Nogo stimuli presented in the RVF than to stimuli presented in the LVF. This asymmetry was paralleled by neurophysiological data. The Nogo-N2 and related delta frequency band power were stronger when response inhibition was driven by stimuli presented in the LVF, implying a stronger response conflict. This effect was mediated by stronger activations in bilateral medial-prefrontal and especially left parietal networks. This shows that asymmetries in behavioural performance do not necessarily reflect differences in the overall capability of one hemisphere to solve a task. Even though information is initially confined to one hemisphere after tachistoscopic presentation, this does not primarily cause behavioural asymmetries. Instead, hemispheric dominances in information processing can induce differences in demands on cognitive processes operating via bilateral networks that ultimately drive behavioural asymmetries.
While much research has elucidated the neurobiology of fear learning, the neural systems supporting the generalization of learned fear are unknown. Using functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI), we show that regions involved in the acquisition of fear support the generalization of fear to stimuli that are similar to a learned threat, but vary in fear intensity value. Behaviorally, subjects retrospectively misidentified a learned threat as a more intense stimulus and expressed greater skin conductance responses (SCR) to generalized stimuli of high intensity. Brain activity related to intensity-based fear generalization was observed in the striatum, insula, thalamus/periacqueductal gray, and subgenual cingulate cortex. The psychophysiological expression of generalized fear correlated with amygdala activity, and connectivity between the amygdala and extrastriate visual cortex was correlated with individual differences in trait anxiety. These findings reveal the brain regions and functional networks involved in flexibly responding to stimuli that resemble a learned threat. These regions may comprise an intensity-based fear generalization circuit that underlies retrospective biases in threat value estimation and overgeneralization of fear in anxiety disorders.
Two specific areas within the posterior lateral temporal cortex (PLTC), the posterior superior temporal sulcus (pSTS) and the posterior middle temporal gyrus (pMTG), have been proposed to store different types of conceptual properties of motion: the pSTS encodes knowledge of articulated, biological motion, and the pMTG encodes knowledge about unarticulated, mechanical motion. We examined this hypothesis by comparing activation patterns evoked by verbs denoting biological motion (e.g., walk), mechanical motion (e.g., rotate), and low-motion events (e.g., ferment). Classical noun categories with different motion types (animals, tools, and buildings) were also tested and compared with previous findings of the categorical effects in PLTC. Replicating previous findings of different types of nouns, we observed stronger activation for animals than tools in the pSTS and stronger activation for tools compared to other types of nouns in the pMTG. However, such motion-type specific activation patterns only partly extended to verbs. Whereas the pSTS showed preferences for biological-motion verbs, no region within the pMTG was sensitive to verbs denoting mechanical motion. We speculate that the pMTG preference for tools is driven by properties other than mechanical motion, such as strong mappings between the visual form and motor-related representations.
In recent years there has been growing interest in multivariate analyses of neuroimaging data, which can be used to detect distributed patterns of activity that encode an experimental factor of interest. In this setting, it has become common practice to study the correlations between patterns to make inferences about the way a brain region represents stimuli or tasks (known as representational similarity analysis). Although it would be of great interest to compare these correlations from different regions, direct comparisons are currently not possible. This is because sample correlations are strongly influenced by voxel-selection, fMRI noise, and nonspecific activation patterns, all of which can differ widely between regions. Here, we present a multivariate modeling framework in which the measured patterns are decomposed into their constituent parts. The model is based on a standard linear mixed model, in which pattern components are considered to be randomly distributed over voxels. The model allows one to estimate the true correlations of the underlying neuronal pattern components, thereby enabling comparisons between different regions or individuals. The pattern estimates also allow us to make inferences about the spatial structure of different response components. Thus, the new model provides a theoretical and analytical framework to study the structure of distributed neural representations.
The study of the correlations that may exist between neurophysiological signals is at the heart of modern techniques for data analysis in neuroscience. Wavelet coherence is a popular method to construct a time-frequency map that can be used to analyze the time-frequency correlations between two time series. Coherence is a normalized measure of dependence, for which it is possible to construct confidence intervals, and that is commonly considered as being more interpretable than the wavelet cross-spectrum (WCS). In this paper, we provide empirical and theoretical arguments to show that a significant level of wavelet coherence does not necessarily correspond to a significant level of dependence between random signals, especially when the number of trials is small. In such cases, we demonstrate that the WCS is a much better measure of statistical dependence, and a new statistical test to detect significant values of the cross-spectrum is proposed. This test clearly outperforms the limitations of coherence analysis while still allowing a consistent estimation of the time-frequency correlations between two non-stationary stochastic processes. Simulated data are used to investigate the advantages of this new approach over coherence analysis. The method is also applied to experimental data sets to analyze the time-frequency correlations that may exist between electroencephalogram (EEG) and surface electromyogram (EMG).
The BOLD signal not only reflects changes in local neural activity, but also exhibits variability from physiological processes like cardiac rhythms and breathing. We investigated how both of these physiological sources are reflected in the pulse oximetry (PO) signal, a direct measure of blood oxygenation, and how this information can be used to account for different types of noise in the BOLD response. Measures of heart rate, respiration and PO were simultaneously recorded while neurologically healthy participants performed an eye-movement task in a 3T MRI. PO exhibited power in frequencies that matched those found in the independently recorded cardiac and respiration signals. Using the phasic and aphasic properties of these signals as nuisance regressors, we found that the different frequency components of the PO signal could be used to identify different types of physiological artifacts in the BOLD response. A comparison of different physiological noise models found that a simple, down-sampled version of the PO signal improves the estimation of task-relevant statistics nearly as well as more established noise models that may run the risk of over-parameterization. These findings suggest that the PO signal captures multiple sources of physiological noise in the BOLD response and provides a simple and efficient way of modeling these noise sources in subsequent analysis.
Here we address two recent commentaries on our finding of an anticipatory trial-related signal that could not be predicted by concurrent electrode recordings. In addition, we offer a broad discussion regarding what our findings do and do not say about local neural activity underlying imaging signals.
Chronic social defeat stress in mice significantly decreases subsequent social interactions and induces other depression-like behaviors. Here we measured and manipulated levels of acetylated histone H3 (acH3), a chromatin mark of transcriptional activation, in the hippocampus and amygdala after ten continuous days of social defeat stress in male C57/Bl6J mice. This form of social stress causes a transient increase, followed by a persistent decrease, in the levels of acH3 in hippocampus. By comparison, increased acH3 in amygdala was more robust but also highly transient. The persistent decrease in acH3 in hippocampus may be pathological, since it is reversed by chronic fluoxetine administration. Consistent with this hypothesis, infusion of a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor MS-275 (100 M) into hippocampus reverses a defeat-induced deficit in sucrose preference, although it does not restore social interaction behavior. Next, different forms of social enrichment were examined with or without hippocampal infusion of MS-275. After social stress, simple pair-housing with another male C57, or female C57, mouse does not reverse social avoidance. However, when HDAC inhibitors are infused into hippocampus during social housing with another male, social avoidance is attenuated. Interestingly, social avoidance is reversed when MS-275 is infused directly into amygdala. Together, these findings further support the antidepressant potential of HDAC inhibitors, and indicate that temporally overlapping environmental and molecular events are required to optimally reverse specific stress-induced behavioral symptoms.
Many studies have found that language comprehension involves sensory-motor system. However, the relationship between word form and embodied semantic representation still lacks evidence. The current fMRI study used Chinese tool-use action verbs, hand action verbs and a Mandarin lexical tone task to explore the issue. In the tone task, all verbs showed strong effects in hand motor areas. However, the contrasts between the hand action verbs and the tool-use action verbs yielded differences mainly in tone processing areas, and the hand action verbs had stronger effects. The ROI analyses indicated consistent result pattern with the contrast analyses. In short, these results revealed that word processing involves basic sensory-motor information automatically, whereas the fine grained information which distinguishes among different semantics can be hindered by the processing of word form.
Amplification underlies the operation of many biological and engineering systems. Simple electrical, optical, and mechanical amplifiers are reciprocal: the backward coupling of the output to the input equals the forward coupling of the input to the output. Unidirectional amplifiers that occur often in electrical and optical systems are special nonreciprocal devices in which the output does not couple back to the input even though the forward coupling persists. Here we propose a scheme for unidirectional mechanical amplification that we utilize to construct an active microphone. We show that amplification improves the microphone's threshold for detecting weak signals and that unidirectionality prevents distortion.
To investigate the neural representations of faces in primates, particularly in relation to their personal familiarity or unfamiliarity, neuronal activities were chronically recorded from the ventral portion of the anterior inferior temporal cortex (AITv) of macaque monkeys during the performance of a facial identification task using either personally familiar or unfamiliar faces as stimuli. By calculating the correlation coefficients between neuronal responses to the faces for all possible pairs of faces given in the task and then using the coefficients as neuronal population-based similarity measures between the faces in pairs, we analyzed the similarity/dissimilarity relationship between the faces, which were potentially represented by the activities of a population of the face-responsive neurons recorded in the area AITv. The results showed that, for personally familiar faces, different identities were represented by different patterns of activities of the population of AITv neurons irrespective of the view (e.g., front, 90 left, etc.), while different views were not represented independently of their facial identities, which was consistent with our previous report. In the case of personally unfamiliar faces, the faces possessing different identities but presented in the same frontal view were represented as similar, which contrasts with the results for personally familiar faces. These results, taken together, outline the neuronal representations of personally familiar and unfamiliar faces in the AITv neuronal population.
The revision of EU legislation will ban the use of wild-caught animals in scientific procedures. This change is partially predicated on the assumption that captive-rearing produces animals with reduced fearfulness. Previously, we have shown that hand-reared starlings (Sturnus vulgaris) indeed exhibit reduced fear of humans compared to wild-caught conspecifics. Here, we asked whether this reduction in fear in hand-reared birds is limited to fear of humans or extends more generally to fear of novel environments and novel objects. Comparing 6-8 month old birds hand-reared in the lab with age-matched birds caught from the wild as fledged juveniles a minimum of 1 month previously, we examined the birds' initial reactions in a novel environment (a small cage) and found that wild-caught starlings were faster to initiate movement compared to the hand-reared birds. We interpret this difference as evidence for greater escape motivation in the wild-caught birds. In contrast, we found no differences between hand-reared and wild-caught birds when tested in novel object tests assumed to measure neophobia and exploratory behaviour. Moreover, we found no correlations between individual bird's responses in the different tests, supporting the idea that these measure different traits (e.g. fear and exploration). In summary, our data show that developmental origin affects one measure of response to novelty in young starlings, indicative of a difference in either fear or coping style in a stressful situation. Our data contribute to a growing literature demonstrating effects of early-life experience on later behaviour in a range of species. However, since we did not find consistent evidence for reduced fearfulness in hand-reared birds, we remain agnostic about the welfare benefits of hand-rearing as a method for sourcing wild birds for behavioural and physiological research.
How do animals initiate voluntary behavior? A key phenomenon in neuroscience is the readiness or preparatory neural activity in specific regions of the animal brain. The neurons and synaptic mechanisms mediating this activity are unknown. We found that the readiness discharge is shaped by sequential synaptic excitation and inhibition in the brain of crayfish (Procambarus clarkii). The readiness discharge neurons extended axon collaterals that appeared to activate recurring local interneurons. Therefore, we propose that the readiness discharge is formed by sequential synaptic events within the brain without feedback signals from downstream ganglia. The circuit involved is suited for signal processing for self-generated voluntary initiation of behavior.

Geoffrey Burnstock completed a BSc at King's College London and a PhD at University College London. He held postdoctoral fellowships with Wilhelm Feldberg (National Institute for Medical Research), Edith Blbring (University of Oxford) and C. Ladd Prosser (University of Illinois). He was appointed to a Senior Lectureship in Melbourne University in 1959 and became Professor and Chairman of Zoology in 1964. In 1975 he became Head of Department of Anatomy and Developmental Biology at UCL and Convenor of the Center of Neuroscience. He has been Director of the Autonomic Neuroscience Institute at the Royal Free Hospital School of Medicine since 1997. He was elected to the Australian Academy of Sciences in 1971, the Royal Society in 1986, the Academy of Medical Sciences in 1998 and an Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons and the Royal College of Physicians in 1999 and 2000. He was awarded the Royal Society Gold Medal in 2000. He is editor-in-chief of the journals Autonomic Neuroscience and Purinergic Signalling and on the editorial boards of many other journals. Geoffrey Burnstock's major research interest has been autonomic neurotransmission and he is best known for his seminal discovery of purinergic transmission and receptors, their signaling pathways and functional relevance. He has supervised over 100 PhD and MD students and published over 1400 original papers, re-views and books. He was first in the Institute of Scientific Information list of most cited scientists in Pharmacology and Toxicology from 1994-2004 [59.083 citations (March 2011) and an h-index of 109].
The microvasculature assumes an inflammatory and procoagulant state in a variety of different diseases, including sickle cell disease (SCD), which may contribute to the high incidence of ischemic stroke in these patients. This study provides evidence for accelerated thrombus formation in arterioles and venules in the cerebral vasculature of mice that express hemoglobin-S ((s) mice). Enhanced microvascular thrombosis in (s) mice was blunted by immunologic or genetic interventions that target tissue factor, endothelial protein C receptor, activated protein C, or thrombin. Platelets from (s) mice also exhibited enhanced aggregation velocity after stimulation with thrombin but not ADP. Neutropenia also protected against the enhanced thrombosis response in (s) mice. These results indicate that the cerebral microvasculature is rendered vulnerable to thrombus formation in (s) mice via a neutrophil-dependent mechanism that is associated with an increased formation of and enhanced platelet sensitivity to thrombin.



Sensory information is transmitted to the brain where it must be processed to translate stimulus features into appropriate behavioural output. In the olfactory system, distributed neural activity in the nose is converted into a segregated map in the olfactory bulb. Here we investigate how this ordered representation is transformed in higher olfactory centres in mice. We have developed a tracing strategy to define the neural circuits that convey information from individual glomeruli in the olfactory bulb to the piriform cortex and the cortical amygdala. The spatial order in the bulb is discarded in the piriform cortex; axons from individual glomeruli project diffusely to the piriform without apparent spatial preference. In the cortical amygdala, we observe broad patches of projections that are spatially stereotyped for individual glomeruli. These projections to the amygdala are overlapping and afford the opportunity for spatially localized integration of information from multiple glomeruli. The identification of a distributive pattern of projections to the piriform and stereotyped projections to the amygdala provides an anatomical context for the generation of learned and innate behaviours.
Sensory information may be represented in the brain by stereotyped mapping of axonal inputs or by patterning that varies between individuals. In olfaction, a stereotyped map is evident in the first sensory processing centre, the olfactory bulb (OB), where different odours elicit activity in unique combinatorial patterns of spatially invariant glomeruli. Activation of each glomerulus is relayed to higher cortical processing centres by a set of 20-50 'homotypic' mitral and tufted (MT) neurons. In the cortex, target neurons integrate information from multiple glomeruli to detect distinct features of chemically diverse odours. How this is accomplished remains unclear, perhaps because the cortical mapping of glomerular information by individual MT neurons has not been described. Here we use new viral tracing and three-dimensional brain reconstruction methods to compare the cortical projections of defined sets of MT neurons. We show that the gross-scale organization of the OB is preserved in the patterns of axonal projections to one processing centre yet reordered in another, suggesting that distinct coding strategies may operate in different targets. However, at the level of individual neurons neither glomerular order nor stereotypy is preserved in either region. Rather, homotypic MT neurons from the same glomerulus innervate broad regions that differ between individuals. Strikingly, even in the same animal, MT neurons exhibit extensive diversity in wiring; axons of homotypic MT pairs diverge from each other, emit primary branches at distinct locations and 70-90% of branches of homotypic and heterotypic pairs are non-overlapping. This pronounced reorganization of sensory maps in the cortex offers an anatomic substrate for expanded combinatorial integration of information from spatially distinct glomeruli and predicts an unanticipated role for diversification of otherwise similar output neurons.
For each environment a rodent has explored, its hippocampus contains a map consisting of a unique subset of neurons, called place cells, that have spatially tuned spiking there, with the remaining neurons being essentially silent. Using whole-cell recording in freely moving rats exploring a novel maze, we observed differences in intrinsic cellular properties and input-based subthreshold membrane potential levels underlying this division into place and silent cells. Compared to silent cells, place cells had lower spike thresholds and peaked versus flat subthreshold membrane potentials as a function of animal location. Both differences were evident from the beginning of exploration. Additionally, future place cells exhibited higher burst propensity before exploration. Thus, internal settings appear to predetermine which cells will represent the next novel environment encountered. Furthermore, place cells fired spatially tuned bursts with large, putatively calcium-mediated depolarizations that could trigger plasticity and stabilize the new map for long-term storage. Our results provide new insight into hippocampal memory formation.
Long-term depression at parallel fiber-Purkinje cell synapses (PF-PC LTD) has been proposed to be required for cerebellar motor learning. To date, tests of this hypothesis have sought to interfere with receptors (mGluR1) and enzymes (PKC, PKG, or CamKII) necessary for induction of PF-PC LTD and thereby determine if cerebellar motor learning is impaired. Here, we tested three mutant mice that target the expression of PF-PC LTD by blocking internalization of AMPA receptors. Using three different cerebellar coordination tasks (adaptation of the vestibulo-ocular reflex, eyeblink conditioning, and locomotion learning on the Erasmus Ladder), we show that there is no motor learning impairment in these mutant mice that lack PF-PC LTD. These findings demonstrate that PF-PC LTD is not essential for cerebellar motor learning.
Studies using functional cellular imaging of living flies have identified six memory traces that form in the olfactory nervous system after conditioning with odors. These traces occur in distinct nodes of the olfactory nervous system, form and disappear across different windows of time, and are detected in the imaged neurons as increased calcium influx or synaptic release in response to the conditioned odor. Three traces form at or near acquisition and coexist with short-term behavioral memory. One trace forms with a delay after learning and coexists with intermediate-term behavioral memory. Two traces form many hours after acquisition and coexist with long-term behavioral memory. The transient memory traces may support behavior across the time windows of their existence. The experimental approaches for dissecting memory formation in the fly, ranging from the molecular to the systems, make it an ideal system for elucidating the logic by which the nervous system organizes and stores different temporal forms of memory.
How are the responses to distinct chemical features integrated to form an olfactory perceptual object? In this issue of Neuron, Davison and Ehlers show that individual piriform cortex neurons receive convergent input from up to 10% of main olfactory bulb glomeruli and are activated by specific spatial patterns of coactive glomeruli.
Increasing evidence indicates that inflammatory responses could play a critical role in the pathogenesis of motor neuron injury in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). Recent findings have underlined the role of Toll-like receptors (TLRs) and the receptor for advanced glycation endproducts (RAGE) in the regulation of both innate and adaptive immunity in different pathologies associated with neuroinflammation. In the present study we investigated the expression and cellular distribution of TLR2, TLR4, RAGE and their endogenous ligand high mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) in the spinal cord of control (n=6) and sporadic ALS (n=12) patients. The immunohistochemical analysis of TLR2, TLR4 and RAGE showed increased expression in reactive glial cells in both gray (ventral horn) and white matter of ALS spinal cord. TLR2 was predominantly detected in cells of the microglia/macrophage lineage, whereas the TLR4 and RAGE was strongly expressed in astrocytes. Real-time quantitative PCR analysis confirmed the increased expression of both TLR2 and TLR4 and HMGB1 mRNA level in ALS patients. In ALS spinal cord, HMGB1 signal is increased in the cytoplasm of reactive glia, indicating a possible release of this molecule from glial cells. Our findings show increased expression of TLR2, TLR4, RAGE and HMGB1 in reactive glia in human ALS spinal cord, suggesting activation of the TLR/RAGE signaling pathways. The activation of these pathways may contribute to the progression of inflammation, resulting in motor neuron injury. In this context, future studies, using animal models, will be important to achieve a better understanding of these signaling pathways in ALS in view of the development of new therapeutic strategies.
