Codergocrine mesylate (dihydroergotoxine; DHET), which is an ergot derivative, has been reported to counteract some age-induced impairments in brain function, but the mechanism of these effects is not known. We examined the effect of chronic DHET administration on the somatostatinergic system in the brains of aged rats. Intraperitoneal injections of DHET (1 mg/kg per day) or of vehicle were given to aged rats for 14 days, and resulted in a significant increase in somatostatin (SOM) receptor binding in all six brain regions examined except the hindbrain. DHET had no effect on SOM receptor binding in the brains of young-adult rats. However, the SOM concentration in aged rats was nearly identical to that in young-adult rats and the SOM concentration in different brain areas did not change after chronic administration of DHET. Thus, the present results suggest that chronic administration of DHET can ameliorate at least one of the age-induced impairments of brain somatostatinergic function.
The extent to which the slow phase velocity (SPV) of nystagmus elicited by a vertical optokinetic stimulation with constant velocity could be modulated by sinusoidal angular motion in the vertical plane was investigated under normal gravity condition and during the microgravity period of parabolic flight. In normal gravity, when the angular head motion and the optokinetic stimulation were in the same direction, the peak SPV was slower than the velocity of the optokinetic display. When the head motion and the optokinetic stimulation were in opposite directions, the peak SPV was equal to the velocity of the optokinetic display. In microgravity, the peak SPV was approximately equal to the velocity of the optokinetic display when head rotation and optokinetic stimulation were in the same direction, and was faster than the velocity of the optokinetic display when head rotation and optokinetic stimulation were in opposite directions. In addition, the interaction of vestibular and optokinetic nystagmus was found to be non-linear in microgravity, especially when the optokinetic stimulation was directed downward. These results suggest an interaction between the vestibular and the optokinetic systems modulated as a function of the gravitational state, and support the observation that visual input is more effective in reducing sensory conflict experienced in microgravity.
Recordings of horizontal and vertical eye movement were obtained with subjects exposed to vertical, horizontal, and oblique optokinetic stimulation during parabolic flight. When the optokinetic stimulation was vertical, the upward slow phase eye velocity increased during transition from high force level to free-fall, and decreased during transition from free-fall to high force level. During optokinetic stimulation in the horizontal and oblique plane, the gravitoinertial forces of parabolic flight induced changes in the velocity of the vertical component of the eye movements, and, therefore, changes in the plane of the eye movements. Some subjects also perceived modifications in the apparent orientation of the visual motion. These findings are in agreement with previous observations on the presence of a vertical nystagmus induced by changes in plane vertical acceleration. They also suggest a close interaction of reflexive eye movements induced by graviceptor inputs and visual inputs for visual stabilization during variations of gravitoinertial force level.

It is well established that excessive sympathetic activity, resulting in the development of cardiopulmonary complications, commonly occurs in patients who have suffered aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage. Cardiac dysfunction and neurogenic pulmonary edema are life threatening conditions that have serious implications with regard to patient outcome. The purpose of this article is to familiarize the neuroscience practitioner with the effects of subarachnoid haemorrhage on the heart and lungs and to provide an update in terms of current medical and nursing management trends. It is vital that these patients receive aggressive therapy including definitive surgical treatment of the aneurysm, vigilant monitoring for cardiopulmonary complications and prompt medical and nursing intervention should they occur. A brief review of the anatomy and physiology of the sympathetic division of the autonomic nervous system will be presented. In addition, the theories that have been proposed to explain the underlying pathogenesis will be introduced. Medical and nursing management strategies will also be addressed.

EEG coherence was computed from 8 left and 8 right intrahemispheric electrode pairs from 253 children ranging in mean age from 6 months to 7 years. The first derivative of mean coherence was computed in order to study growth spurts or rapid changes in mean coherence over the early childhood period. Growth spurts in EEG coherence were approximately 6 months to 1 year in duration and involved a cyclical process composed of a sequential lengthening of intracortical connections in the left hemisphere and a sequential contraction of intracortical connections in the right hemisphere. Each growth spurt cycle had a period of approximately 2 to 4 years and involved both a rostral-caudal expansion and contraction as well as a lateral-to-medial rotation. Data support the view that the functions of the left and right hemisphere are established early in human development through complementary developmental sequences and that these sequences appear to recapitulate differences in adult hemispheric function.
An experimental method and its associated mathematical model are described to quantitate in vivo incorporation rates into and turnovers of fatty acids (FAs) within stable brain metabolic compartments, particularly phospholipids. A radiolabeled FA is injected i.v. in a rat, and arterial plasma unacylated FA radioactivities and unlabeled concentrations are sampled until the animal is killed after 15 min, when the brain is analyzed biochemically or with quantitative autoradiography. Unbound unacylated label in blood easily crosses the blood-brain barrier; rapidly equilibrates in the unacylated FA, acyl-CoA and phosphatidate-diacylglycerol brain pools; then is incorporated into phospholipids and other stable metabolic compartments. Uptake and incorporation of labeled FAs are independent of cerebral blood flow at constant brain blood volume. Different labeled FAs enter specific sn positions of different brain phospholipids, suggesting that a combination of probes can be used to investigate metabolism of these phospholipids. Thus, [9,10-3-H]palmitate preferentially labels the sn1 position of phosphatidylcholine; [1-14C]arachidonate the sn2 positions of phosphatidylinositol and phosphatidylcholine; and [1-14C]docosahexaenoate the sn2 positions of phosphatidylethanolamine and phosphatidylcholine. The FA model provides an operational equation for rates of incorporation of FAs into brain phospholipids, taking into account intracerebral recycling and de novo synthesis of the FA, as well as entry into brain of FA from acylated blood sources. The equation is essentially independent of specific details of the proposed model, and can be used to calculate turnovers and half-lives of FAs within different phospholipid classes. For the model to be most applicable, experiments should satisfy conditions for pulse-labeling of the phospholipids, with brain sampling times short enough to minimize exchange of label between stable metabolic compartments. A 15-20 min sampling time satisfies these criteria. The FA method has been used to elucidate the dynamics of brain phospholipids metabolism in relation to brain development, brain tumor, chronically reduced auditory input, transient ischemic insult, axotomy with and without nerve regeneration, and cholinergic stimulation in animals with or without a chronic unilateral lesion of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis.
In the tau mutant hamster, the period of the circadian rhythm is shortened from about 24 h to about 22 h in heterozygotes and to about 20 h in homozygotes. Understanding the biochemical basis of the period changes in the tau mutant may elucidate the regulation of the vertebrate pacemaker. Using two-dimensional gel electrophoresis, we have found two sets of proteins that differ between the different genotypes. P33tau (about 33 kDa; pI 6.5) was found in all gels from wild type and heterozygous animals, but was absent in gels from all except one of the homozygous mutant animals. P32tau (about 32 kDa; pI 4.8) was a chain of spots, which showed a striking difference in pattern between gels from wild type animals and from mutant animals. P33tau was greatly enriched in soluble cellular fractions, whereas P32tau was found only in insoluble fractions. These differences between P33tau and P32tau were apparent in gels from both SCN and cortical tissue, suggesting that both proteins are distributed throughout the brain. These proteins should be useful as new tools to explore the biochemistry of circadian pacemakers.
Co-localization of the alpha 1 and beta 2 subunit mRNAs of the GABAA receptor was examined on serial sections of the rat magnocellular preoptic nucleus using in situ hybridization histochemistry. More than half of the labeled neurons in this nucleus contained both transcripts, while 31.9% and 17.4% of them contained only alpha 1 or beta 2 subunit mRNA, respectively. These results indicate that there may be three GABAA receptor subtypes in this nucleus, with co-localization of the alpha 1 and beta 2 subunits occurring in the most common subtype.
The distribution of GABAA receptor gamma 1 subunit was examined in the rat central nervous system using in situ hybridization histochemistry. The gamma 1 subunit was expressed in relatively limited areas compared to other subunits investigated previously. The brain regions strongly expressing this subunit were the septum, globus pallidus, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, hypothalamic periventricular nucleus, supraoptic nucleus, medial and central nuclei of the amygdaloid complex, medial part of the medial geniculate body, substantia nigra pars reticulata, interpeduncular nucleus, lateral parabrachial nucleus, Purkinje cell layer of the cerebellum, and inferior olivary nucleus. This relatively limited expression implies a possible role of gamma 1 subunit in relation to some specific neuronal circuit.
A primary goal of investigations into the organization of human cerebral cortex is to determine the functional specificity of architectonic regions. This includes the correlation of neurobehavioral deficits with neuropathological data for clinical diagnosis and treatment, and the identification of active brain regions using functional neural imaging techniques, such as positron emission tomography, electroencephalographic and magnetoencephalographic (EEG and MEG) source localization algorithms, and direct cortical stimulation. Currently, the architectonic classification of a cortical region identified by these methods is inferred from the comparison of its cerebral topographic position to cytoarchitectonic brain atlases. However, substantial intersubject variability in the position of cytoarchitectonic regions with respect to cerebral topographic landmarks may lead to errors in this procedure. An alternative method is presented here, which uses magnetic resonance (MR) imaging to identify myeloarchitectonic regions of isocortex directly by estimating the relative concentration of myelin within cortical laminae. This high-resolution MR protocol is used to identify striate cortex (Brodmann's area 17) and extrastriate cortex in vivo. Correspondence of MR signal intensity with myeloarchitectonic data from a postmortem brain confirms this identification. As MR imaging technology improves, this noninvasive method has the potential to identify and discriminate among at least 50 cortical regions in the living human brain.
Most attempts at production of hydrocephalus in experimental animals by obstructing the venous sinuses have failed. In adult humans, venous sinus occlusion usually results in the clinical syndrome of pseudotumor cerebri with small or normal sized ventricles. However, in children less than 18 month old with venous sinus hypertension, ventriculomegaly has been reported. We examined the change in ventricular size in craniectomized animals (simulating children with open sutures) with occlusion of the superior sagittal sinus. New Zealand rabbits weighing 1500-1800 g were anesthetized with an intramuscular injection of 2 ml 7:3 ketamine (100 mg/ml): Rompun (xylazine) (20 mg/ml) solution. The scalp was shaved, prepped with Betadine, and infiltrated with 1% lidocaine, and a midline scalp incision made. The periosteum was reflected laterally and a craniectomy performed with microscopic magnification. The dura was exposed overlying both cerebral hemispheres and the superior sagittal sinus from its origin to the torcular. In five control animals, the scalp was then closed. In ten experimental animals, small incisions were made in the dura just lateral to the superior sagittal sinus with a no. 11 scalpel and then with microscopic magnification the sinus was coagulated with bipolar cautery and transected; the scalp was then closed. All animals were allowed 5-7 days to recover, then ultrasound was used to assess ventricular size. We observed a small but statistically significant increase in ventricular size in the experimental group compared to the control group. This model provides evidence that venous sinus occlusion in animals with expandable crania can produce ventriculomegaly.

We have exploited our ability to visualize and follow individual cells in situ, in the living embryo, to study the development of trunk neural crest in the embryonic zebrafish. In most respects, the development of zebrafish trunk neural crest is similar to the development of trunk neural crest in other species: zebrafish trunk neural crest cells segregate from the dorsal neural keel in a rostrocaudal sequence, migrate ventrally along two pathways, and give rise to neurons of the peripheral nervous system, Schwann cells, and pigment cells. However, some aspects of the development of zebrafish trunk neural crest differ from those of other vertebrates: zebrafish trunk neural crest cells are significantly larger and fewer in number than those in avian embryos and the locations of their migratory pathways are slightly different. This initial description of neural crest development in the zebrafish embryo provides the foundation for future experimental studies.
The paper is devoted to a brief review of the research and public activities of Professor Serge V. Anichkov; the prominent Soviet pharmacologist. He was Hero of Socialist Labour, V. I. Lenin and State Prize winners and Academician of the USSR Academy of Medical Sciences. It also summaries the main biographic data on the scientist and his theoretical and practical achievements in various areas of pharmacology. Great emphasis is laid on S. V. Anichkov's scientific school and his work in the Department of Pharmacology (he was head of the Department from 1948 to 1981), Institute for Experimental Medicine, USSR Academy of Medical Sciences.
Chronic hypercortisolemia attenuates yohimbine (YOH)-induced increments in plasma levels of the sympathetic neurotransmitter norepinephrine (NE). The present study used in vivo microdialysis to study the effects of hypercortisolemia on YOH-induced release of NE in the brain. Cortisol (25 mg/kg.day) or saline was infused sc into rats for 7 days via an osmotic minipump. Microdialysate and plasma concentrations of NE and its metabolites dihydroxyphenylglycol and methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol were measured before and after YOH (1 mg/kg, iv) administration in conscious animals, with microdialysate and plasma collections beginning 20-24 h after probe implantation. Chronic cortisol treatment resulted in attenuated NE, dihydroxyphenylglycol, and methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol responses in both microdialysate and plasma. The results indicate that YOH increases central neural as well as peripheral release, reuptake, turnover, and metabolism of NE and that hypercortisolemia suppresses these responses.
The existence of cytoplasmic estrogen receptors (ERs) has been reported in the guinea pig brain using immunocytochemical techniques. While cytoplasmic ERs have been reported recently in other species, such as opossum, musk shrew, and ferrets, an exclusively cell nuclear pattern of ER immunoreactivity has been reported in the rat brain. Because all studies that have reported the existence of cytoplasmic ERs in the brain have used the H 222 monoclonal antibody, the possibility exists that this observation is idiosyncratic to this antibody. In the present experiment three antibodies directed against diverse epitopes on the ER protein were used to immunocytochemically stain ERs in rat brain. With each antibody, ER immunoreactivity was observed in the hypothalamus, preoptic area, amygdala, and midbrain periaqueductal gray. In all cases we observed the highest density of reaction product in cell nuclei, but extensive cytoplasmic immunostaining was observed in most areas as well. In addition to demonstrating the existence of neural ER immunoreactivity in perikaryal cytoplasm and cytoplasmic processes in the brain, this study suggests that the neural cytoplasmic ER immunoreactivity is not just a small fragment of the receptor protein; rather, it is likely to be the entire receptor.
The identity of the sigma receptor as a form of cytochrome P-450 was investigated in rats treated with 3-methylcholanthrene or phenobarbital. The density of [3H]N,N'-di(o-tolyl)guanidine (DTG) binding to sigma 2 receptors in hepatic subcellular fractions increased following both treatments, while [3H](+)-pentazocine binding to sigma 1 receptors was unchanged. Furthermore, proadifen and piperonyl butoxide inhibited [3H](+)-pentazocine and [3H]DTG binding with low potency. The low affinity of cytochrome P-450 inhibitors for sigma receptors, the similar degree of enhancement of [3H]DTG binding by agents with disparate cytochrome P-450 induction profiles and the lack of change in [3H](+)-pentazocine binding are inconsistent with the identity of the sigma receptor as a cytochrome P-450.

We have developed a simian virus 40 (SV40) T-antigen immortalized human cell line, 1MR90-D305.2H4 (IDH4), in which the expression of T-antigen is controlled by the mouse mammary tumor virus (MMTV) promoter and thus regulated by steroids such as dexamethasone. Studies on the regulation of proliferation by T-antigen led to the formulation of a two-stage model for human cell immortalization, in which a mortality stage 1 mechanism (M1) was the target of T-antigen action, and an independent mortality stage 2 mechanism (M2) produced crisis and prevented T-antigen from directly immortalizing cells. Rarely, a cell expressing T-antigen escaped crisis (e.g., M2) and was capable of indefinite proliferation. This model predicted that the deinduction of T-antigen in IDH4 cells would lead to the reexpression of the M1 mechanism, and thus a reexpression of the senescent phenotype. Our study confirms the prediction that, in the absence of steroids, IDH4 cells express a variety of morphological and biochemical markers characteristic of normal senescent human fibroblasts.
The purpose of this study was to examine the degree, persistence, and nature of forelimb behavioral deficits following cervical spinal cord contusion injury in the rat. Forelimb reaching and pellet retrieval, forehead adhesive sticker removal, and vibrissae-induced forelimb placing were examined for 16 weeks following a weight-drop injury (10.0 g-2.5 cm) at the C4-C5 spinal level. Nine of 13 rats studied were unable to perform the pellet retrieval task due to pronounced forelimb extension hypometria. However, these animals did carry out the forehead sticker removal and vibrissae-induced placing tasks. Therefore, the loss of reaching ability related to pellet retrieval was not due to generalized paralysis. This interpretation was further supported by evaluation of the rostrocaudal extent of relative motoneuron loss from 1-mm divisions through the lesion zone. The extent of motoneuron pathology ranged from 2 to 6 mm but was largely confined to the C4-C5 spinal segments. Morphometric assessments of axonal sparing revealed that pellet retrieval performance during the last month of observation was significantly correlated with fiber sparing in the dorsal columns and ventral white matter, whereas no significant correlation could be demonstrated with regard to dorsolateral white matter. While there were no conspicuous differences in qualitative assessments of damage to interneuron pools (i.e., laminae V to VII) between the nonreaching and retrieval-recovered rats, the possibility of combined white and gray matter pathology contributing to this deficit still exists. These initial findings thus demonstrate that the weight-drop contusion injury model can be adopted to studies of cervical spinal cord trauma in the rat. Such lesions yield permanent deficits in forelimb function lending to future studies of possible therapeutic interventions. Furthermore, performance deficits observed at 1 week postinjury in the placing and forehead sticker removal tasks can be predictive of any potential for long-range spontaneous recovery in pellet retrieval ability.
To determine whether hypertension, the predominant risk factor for stroke and vascular dementia, is associated with brain atrophy, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans were performed to quantify brain volumes and cerebrospinal fluid spaces. Eighteen otherwise healthy, cognitively normal older hypertensive men (mean +/- SD age, 69 +/- 8 years, duration of hypertension 10-35 years) and 17 age-matched healthy, normotensive male control subjects were studied in a cross-sectional design. Axial proton-density image slices were analyzed using region-of-interest and segmentation analyses. The hypertensive subjects had significantly larger mean volumes of the right and left lateral ventricles (p less than 0.05, both absolute volume and volume normalized to intracranial volume) and a significantly smaller normalized mean left hemisphere brain volume (p less than 0.05) with a trend toward significance for a smaller normalized mean right hemisphere volume (p less than 0.09). Four hypertensive subjects and one healthy control subject were found to have severe periventricular hyperintensities on T2-weighted MRI images. When data for these subjects were removed from the analyses, the normalized lateral ventricle volumes remained significantly larger in the hypertensive group. Lateral ventricle enlargement was not related to age or use of diuretics in the hypertensive group nor to duration of hypertension between 10 and 24 years. Our findings suggest that long-standing hypertension results in structural changes in the brain. Longitudinal studies will determine whether MRI-associated changes are progressive and if such changes identify hypertensive subjects at increased risk for clinically apparent brain dysfunction.
Regional cerebral blood flow was measured by the xenon inhalation technique using a DSPECT system, during neutral and emotional auditory stimulations. Subjects were 10 high and 10 low trait anxiety, right-handed females. State anxiety was retrospectively assessed. Results indicated a lower rCBF in the high trait or state anxiety subjects who presented also a global rCBF asymmetry in the right &gt; left direction. Additionally, the emotional content of the stimuli interacted significantly with the side of the brain in the thalamic area.


To investigate the intracellular role of the clathrin heavy chain in living cells, we have used &quot;antisense&quot; RNA to engineer mutant Dictyostelium discoideum cells that are severely deficient in clathrin heavy chain expression. Immunoblots stained with an anti-clathrin heavy chain antiserum revealed that mutant cells contained undetectable amounts of clathrin heavy chain protein. Similarly, Northern blots showed an absence of clathrin heavy chain mRNA. Clathrin heavy chain-deficient Dictyostelium cells were viable, but exhibited growth rates twofold slower than parental cells. Whereas many morphological features of the mutant cells were normal, mutant cells lacked coated pits and coated vesicles. Clathrin-deficient cells were also missing large translucent vacuoles that serve as endosomes and contractile vacuoles. In the absence of clathrin heavy chain, mutant cells displayed three distinct functional defects: (a) impairment in endocytosis of fluid phase markers, but competence in another endocytic pathway, the phagocytosis of solid particles; (b) defects in osmoregulation; and (c) inability to complete the starvation-induced development cycle.
We examined the effects of electrical and chemical stimulation of the Cl area of the rostral ventrolateral medulla (RVL) on regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) and regional cerebral glucose utilization (rCGU) in anesthetized (chloralose), paralyzed (curare) and ventilated rats. rCBF and rCGU were measured using 14C-iodoantipyrine (IAP) and 14C-deoxyglucose (2-DG), respectively, as indicators, with bilateral regional dissection of 11 brain regions. Electrical stimulation of the RVL elicited increases in arterial pressure (AP), heart rate (HR) and plasma concentration of epinephrine (EPI) and norepinephrine (NE). In addition, stimulation of the RVL, but not the adjacent medial longitudinal fasciculus, with AP maintained, increased rCBF (p less than 0.05, n = 6), but not rCGU, bilaterally and symmetrically (134-169% of control) throughout the brain. Bilateral adrenalectomy abolished the increase in plasma EPI elicited by stimulation of the RVL but did not affect resting rCBF (n = 5) or the elevation in rCBF elicited by RVL stimulation (n = 5). Increases in rCBF elicited by RVL stimulation were also unaffected by acute transection of the superior cervical ganglion (p greater than 0.05). Kainic acid (KA) microinjected into the RVL unilaterally (n = 6) at a dose producing sustained elevation in AP (5 nmol in 100 nl), elicited changes in rCBF similar to those elicited by electrical stimulation. We conclude that neurons within the RVL, possibly those of the adrenergic Cl group, can initiate a global cerebrovasodilation, but not an increase in rCGU, largely through neural pathways intrinsic to the brain. The responses may represent activation of networks in RVL mediating circulatory adjustments to hypoxia.
We investigated whether inhibition of nitric oxide (NO) biosynthesis with N-omega-nitro-L-arginine (NNA), a competitive inhibitor of NO synthase (NOS), would modify the volume of the focal ischemic infarction produced by occlusion of the middle cerebral artery (MCA) in spontaneously hypertensive rats. NNA was infused for 1 h (2.4 mg/kg/h) immediately following occlusion of the MCA. NNA increased lesion volume 24 h later by 32% over controls (150.8 +/- 16.6 to 199.2 +/- 17.4 mm3; p less than 0.001, n = 6). This effect was antagonized by co-infusion of L- but not D-arginine. The antihypertensive rilmenidine (0.75 mg/kg) reduced the lesion by 27% (p less than 0.05, n = 4). Changes in lesion size were confined to the penumbra. NNA increased arterial pressure (AP) (118 +/- 8.9 to 149 +/- 16.0 mm Hg; p less than 0.01, n = 3) but did not change regional CBF. However, elevation of AP did not change the lesion volume or distribution. We conclude that inhibition of the constitutive form of NOS in vivo increases the volume of focal ischemic infarction as a consequence of reduced NO biosynthesis. The absence of NO availability may extend lesion formation by inhibition of reactive hyperemia, platelet disaggregation, and/or release of neuroprotective neuromodulators in the penumbra, which may counteract and override any of its neurotoxic actions.
Monoclonal antibodies specific to either alpha or beta subunit of Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II (CaM kinase II) of the rat brain were produced and the distribution of each subunit in the rat cerebellum was examined immunohistochemically. Each antibody detected solely the corresponding subunit in immunoblot analysis of crude homogenates of the rat forebrain and cerebellum, and purified CaM kinase II from the rat forebrain. Immunoreactivity for alpha subunit was present selectively in Purkinje cells: perikarya, dendrites with their spines, axons and their terminal-like structures in the cerebellar cortex, cerebellar nuclei and lateral vestibular nucleus. Many of these alpha subunit-immunoreactive axons from the cerebellum were traced only through the inferior cerebellar peduncle. beta Subunit was detected in perikarya and dendrites of a limited number of Purkinje cells, many granule cells and neurons in the cerebellar nuclei. Thus, different distributions of alpha and beta subunits of CaM kinase II in the cerebellum were demonstrated.
Administration of the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine causes a dose-dependent increase in plasma oxytocin concentrations and dose-specific behavioral changes in rodents. To investigate whether dopamine receptor agonists will elicit similar neuroendocrine and behavioral effects in primates, we administered graded doses of apomorphine and the respective dopamine D1 and D2 receptor agonists, CY 208-243 and LY 163502, to monkeys and monitored plasma concentrations of oxytocin and behavior. Five female rhesus, two male rhesus, and two male cynomolgus monkeys had chronic indwelling venous catheters implanted and were maintained on standard jacket/tether/swivel systems to allow remote blood sample collection. During experiments, blood samples were collected 10 and 5 min before drug injection and at 2- to 120-min intervals after each injection. Apomorphine (50-400 micrograms/kg) and LY 163502 (10-100 micrograms/kg) elicited dose-dependent stimulations of oxytocin secretion. CY 208-243 (100-400 micrograms/kg) did not significantly affect oxytocin secretion. Low doses of apomorphine (50-100 micrograms/kg) and LY 163502 (10-25 micrograms/kg) elicited yawning, and high doses of apomorphine (200-400 micrograms/kg) and LY 163502 (50-100 micrograms/kg) elicited stereotypic behaviors. No behavioral effects of CY 208-243 (100-400 micrograms/kg) were observed. The magnitude of the oxytocin secretory responses varied among animals, but was similar in male and female monkeys. In summary, apomorphine and LY 163502 both elicited dose-related stimulation of oxytocin secretion coupled with dose-specific behavioral changes in male and female monkeys, while no effects of CY 208-243 on these parameters were observed. We conclude that dopamine receptor agonists, and in particular D2 agonists, may be useful tools for studies exploring the physiological and behavioral actions of oxytocin in primates.
Using developments from the science of electropalatography, an intra-oral access device is being developed which increases the range and sensitivity of control available to the severely physically disabled individual. The system provides the user with a consistent positional relationship between the tongue and sensor in contrast to extra-oral mounted tongue switches. The system allows the tongue to function within the oral cavity where it has maximum speed, agility and mobility and gives the user a chance to increase accuracy through practice. A major benefit of this system is its versatility. By covering the surface area of the plate with a large number of sensors, the groups of sensors that are programmed to act as switches can take any size, shape, position and number to match the user's needs and abilities. As with any developing system, a number of problems have been encountered in practical use.
Two clonal immortalized neurons designated CL8c4.7 and CL8a5.2 were established by somatic cell fusion between a hypoxanthine phosphoribosyltransferase-(HPRT-) deficient neuroblastoma N18TG2 and newborn mouse cerebellar/brain stem neurons. In the serum-containing medium without extra differentiating agents, both clones exhibited a morphology of differentiated neurons. They contained high levels of glutamate but no gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). The CL8a5.2 clone synthesized choline acetyltransferase and serotonin. In immunocytochemical studies, both clones expressed 200 kD neurofilament protein, neuron-specific enolase, microtubule-associated protein 2 (MAP2), tau protein, neuronal cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM), HNK-1, Thy-1.2, saxitoxin-binding sodium channel protein, and glutamate. Synaptophysin immunoreactivity was identified in the neuritic terminals of CL8c4.7 cells. Most of these antigens were barely detectable on N18TG2 cells. Electrophysiologically, both clones generated action potentials in response to electrical stimuli. The hybrid clones that express characteristics of differentiated neurons derived from the cerebellar and brain stem regions might be invaluable for the study of the molecular basis of neuronal differentiation and degeneration in these regions.
Neurons of the nucleus of the posterior commissure (nuc PC), an identifiable cluster of neurons in the embryonic zebrafish brain, project growth cones ventrally along the posterior commissure to the anterior tegmentum where the PC intersects two longitudinal tracts, the tract of the postoptic commissure (TPOC) and the medial longitudinal fasciculus (MLF). Once at the intersection, nuc PC growth cones turn posteriorly onto the TPOC in the dorsal tegmentum and follow it to the hindbrain. Previously we showed that in the absence of the TPOC, nuc PC growth cones often extended along aberrant pathways suggesting that fasciculation, that is, contact with TPOC axons is an important factor in guiding growth cones along their normal pathway. However, a significant number of nuc PC growth cones also followed their normal pathway suggesting that cues associated with the dorsolateral tegmentum, independent of the TPOC, can also guide nuc PC growth cones. We have now confirmed using electron microscopy that nuc PC growth cones fasciculate with axons in the TPOC. In the absence of the TPOC, the nuc PC growth cones that extend along their normal pathway do so in contact with dorsolateral neuroepithelial cells. This suggests that cues associated with these cells can also guide the nuc PC growth cones. Furthermore, in the absence of the TPOC axons, these growth cones now inappropriately turn onto axons that normally intersect the TPOC near the border of the midbrain and hindbrain, that is, at a second intersection of tracts. This suggests that fasciculation with TPOC axons may also guide nuc PC growth cones in this second region of the brain.
Previous studies from this and other laboratories demonstrated that many embryonic sensory ganglion cells in the rat transiently express the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a trait not expressed by most mature sensory neurons. We, therefore, sought to determine whether transient expression was uniquely associated with catecholaminergic traits, or, alternatively, whether embryonic ganglion cells transiently expressed peptidergic properties as well. Of the four peptides examined (somatostatin [somatotropin release inhibiting factor] (SRIF), galanin (Gal), calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP), and substance P (SP)), only SRIF was found to be transiently expressed during early stages of sensory gangliogenesis. Surprisingly, SRIF immunoreactivity was observed in virtually all cranial and spinal sensory ganglion cells on embryonic day (E) 12.5. In addition to perikaryal labeling, intense SRIF immunoreactivity was also observed in the central and peripheral processes of E12.5 sensory neurons, suggesting the peptide may be released from nerve endings. The time course of SRIF appearance in cranial ganglion cells paralleled that previously described for TH, and double-labeling studies revealed extensive co-localization of these two phenotypes. By E16.5, however, the number of neurons expressing SRIF had diminished markedly, indicating that SRIF is only transiently expressed by most sensory neurons during early stages of ganglion development. An unexpected finding was that transient expression of SRIF is also a prominent feature of sympathetic ganglion cells; however, the temporal pattern of staining in the sympathetic and sensory ganglia differed substantially. Whereas virtually no SRIF staining was observed in E12.5 sympathetics, the vast majority of cells in the E16.5 superior cervical ganglion (SCG) were labeled. This contrasted sharply with the adult SCG, in which only low levels of SRIF expression were found. These findings demonstrate that SRIF peptide is transiently expressed at high levels in peripheral sensory and sympathetic neurons during embryogenesis. The time course and widespread distribution of SRIF expression indicates that the peptide may play a role in early stages of ganglion cell growth and development. Moreover, these data, in conjunction with previous studies demonstrating SRIF immunoreactivity in developing central neurons, suggest that transient expression of this peptide is a common property of diverse neuronal cell types.
Crustacean neuromuscular systems provide many advantages for the study of synaptic transmission and plasticity. The present study examines aspects of synaptic transmission in the phasic, fast closer excitor (FCE) motoneuron of regenerated crayfish claws. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) fatigued rapidly and showed poor long-term facilitation (LTF) in the smallest of regenerating claws. EPSPs in larger regenerating claws fatigued less and showed pronounced facilitation. These observations were not the same as those previously made during primary development of this motoneuron (Lnenicka and Atwood, 1985a, J. Neuroscience 5:459-467). Hence, regeneration is not the recapitulation of primary development. In situ stimulation of the FCE is known to lead to long-lasting adaptation of synaptic performance. This adaptation is age dependent; it is expressed in young but not old animals. In the regenerated FCE of old animals, we observed a novel form of long-lasting adaptation to imposed activity: EPSPs showed large initial EPSPs and did not exhibit resistance to fatigue during maintained stimulation. This indicates that aged motoneurons can express adaptive changes to increased activity following axonal regeneration, but that the adaptive changes are the opposite to what is observed in nonregenerated motoneurons.
The distribution of inhibitor-1, a cyclic AMP-regulated inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1, was analyzed in various brain regions and peripheral tissues of various species by immunolabeling of sodium dodecyl sulfate-poly-acrylamide gel transfers using specific antibodies. The distribution of inhibitor-1 was directly compared to that of DARPP-32, a structurally related cyclic AMP-regulated inhibitor of protein phosphatase-1. In rat CNS, a single immunoreactive protein of M(r) 30,000, identified as inhibitor-1, was widely distributed. In contrast, DARPP-32 was highly concentrated in the basal ganglia. Inhibitor-1 was detected in brain tissue from frog (M(r) 27,000), turtle (M(r) 29,000/33,000), canary (M(r) 26,000), pigeon (M(r) 28,000), mouse (M(r) 30,500), rabbit (M(r) 26,500), cow (M(r) 27,000), and monkey (M(r) 27,500), but not from goldfish. Inhibitor-1 was detected at various levels in most peripheral tissues of the species studied; however, it was not detectable in certain tissues of particular species (e.g., rat and cow liver). DARPP-32 was detected in brain tissue of all the species tested except frog and goldfish, but was not detectable in most peripheral tissues. Both inhibitor-1 and DARPP-32 were concentrated in the cytosol and synaptosomal cytosol of rat striatum. The developmental expressions of inhibitor-1 and DARPP-32 in rat striatum differed: the level of inhibitor-1 peaked in the first postnatal week and then declined by the third postnatal week, whereas the level of DARPP-32 increased to a peak level by the third postnatal week and remained elevated thereafter.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The neurotrophic activity of astrocytes and fibroblasts and its regulation by various cytokines were investigated. Astrocyte conditioned medium (ACM) enhanced the survival of neurons and the proliferation of astrocytes in embryonic cortical cultures grown in serum-free defined medium. However, these results were not affected by acidic fibroblast growth factor, interleukin-1 beta (IL-1 beta), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF alpha), and transforming growth factor-beta 1. In contrast, ACM induced choline acetyltransferase expression in septal cholinergic neurons via nerve growth factor (NGF)-dependent and -independent mechanisms. However, neither acidic nor basic fibroblast growth factor is involved in this biological activity in ACM. The cytokines listed above mainly stimulate NGF-mediated cholinergic neurotrophic activity in ACM. A combination of IL-1 beta and TNF alpha significantly enhanced choline acetyltransferase activity in septal neurons co-cultured with astrocytes, and this effect was found to be mediated by NGF produced by activated astrocytes. Effects of astrocytes on GABAergic neurons were also examined. ACM was found to increase glutamate decarboxylase activity in neuronal cultures from septum in the presence of Ara-C. However, the cytokines did not enhance this activity in ACM. Moreover, a combination of IL-1 beta and TNF alpha had no effect on glutamate decarboxylase activity in septal neurons co-cultured with astrocytes. In a final set of experiments, cholinergic neurotrophic activity in skin-derived fibroblast conditioned medium (FCM) was examined. FCM was found to possess biological activity similar to that of ACM on septal neurons grown in serum-free defined medium with Ara-C. The cytokines also enhanced NGF-mediated cholinergic neurotrophic activity in FCM. Astrocytes and fibroblasts were found to possess NGF-type and non-NGF-type cholinergic neurotrophic activity, and various cytokines were found to regulate the NGF-type cholinergic neurotrophic activity in both types of cells. NGF produced by astrocytes and fibroblasts that are activated by cytokines is likely to be important for development and regeneration of NGF-sensitive neurons in the central and peripheral nervous systems.
Previous work in our laboratory demonstrated that ischemic-hypoxic brain injury in postnatal day 7 rats causes a substantial increase in phosphoinositide (PPI) turnover stimulated by the glutamate analogue quisqualic acid (QUIS) in the hippocampus and striatum. To examine this phenomenon in more detail, we performed similar experiments after producing injury by unilateral intracerebral injections of the glutamate analogue N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA). The 7-day-old rodent brain is hypersensitive to NMDA neurotoxicity and NMDA injection causes histopathology that closely resembles that produced by ischemia-hypoxia. NMDA, 17 nmol in 0.5 microliter, was injected into the right posterior striatum of 7-day-old rat pups and they were killed 3 days later. Hippocampal or striatal tissue slices were prepared from ipsilateral and contralateral hemispheres from vehicle-injected control and from noninjected control rat pups. Slices were then incubated with myo-[3H]inositol plus glutamate agonists or antagonists in the presence of lithium ions and [3H]inositol monophosphate ([3H]IP1) accumulation was measured. The glutamate agonists, QUIS, L-glutamic acid, and (RS)-alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid, stimulated greater [3H]IP1 release in tissue ipsilateral to the NMDA injection compared with that in the contralateral side and in control pups. The glutamate antagonists, D,L-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid, 3-[(+)-2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl]-propyl-1-phosphoric acid, kynurenic acid, and 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione did not inhibit QUIS-stimulated [3H]IP1 release. The enhanced PPI turnover in the lesioned tissue was specific to glutamate receptors because carbachol (CARB) failed to elicit preferential enhanced stimulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
While distinct precursors committed to a neuronal or glial cell fate are generated from neural crest cells early in peripheral gangliogenesis, little is known about the subsequent generation and maturation of young satellite glia from restricted glial precursor cells. To examine the division and migration of glial precursor cells and their satellite cell progeny, morphological, immunocytochemical and culture techniques were applied to the developing rat superior cervical ganglion. At embryonic day (E)18.5, numerous clusters of nonneuronal cells appeared transiently in the ganglion. Individual cells with a similar morphology were present in E16.5 ganglia, and are likely to represent the precursor cells which generate these clusters. The clustered cells were distinguishable from neighbouring neurons as well as from endothelial cells and fibroblasts. Morphologically similar cells were present in nerve bundles at E18.5 and surrounding principal neurons and nerve bundles in the adult ganglion. Double-label studies of the E18.5 ganglion with tyrosine hydroxylase to identify noradrenergic neurons and propidium iodide counterstaining to visualize all cell nuclei revealed that the cells in clusters stained with propidium iodide but lacked tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. To determine if cell clusters arose from division, bromodeoxy-uridine, a thymidine analogue, was administered to pregnant mothers between E16.5-E18.5, and ganglionic cells examined at E18.5 both in vivo and in vitro. Numerous non-neuronal cells divided during this period in situ and composed portions of clusters. When dissociated, superior cervical ganglion satellite glia reacted with an NGF-receptor antibody (MAb 217c) and possessed a flattened shape, in contrast to bipolar Schwann cells. Over half of the 217c-immunoreactive glia at E18.5 had incorporated bromodeoxyuridine during E16.5-18.5 in vivo. At birth, non-neuronal cells were no longer grouped in clusters, but were associated with neuronal cell bodies and processes. These findings suggest that, between E16.5-E18.5, glial precursors divide rapidly to form clusters, and that, after the peak of neurogenesis, daughter cells migrate within the ganglion to associate with nerve cell bodies and processes where proliferation continues at a slower rate. Distinct cellular and molecular interactions are likely to trigger the initial rapid division of glial precursors, initiate their migration and association with neuron cell bodies, and control their subsequent slower division.
Middle cerebral artery (MCA) blood flow velocity was measured daily by transcranial Doppler ultrasonography in 121 patients with severe (50), moderate (16) and minor (55) head injury during their hospital stay, and the results compared with findings in control subjects. Admission MCA velocity was significantly lower after severe 35.8 (31.9-39.7) cm/s, mean (95% confidence limits), moderate 45.5 (40.0-51.0) cm/s and minor 51.7 (47.9-55.5) cm/s head injury when compared with normal controls 60.1 (56.9-63.3) cm/s. Initial mean velocity in severe head injury was significantly lower than in moderate and minor injury. At discharge, MCA velocity in severe injury remained below normal 46.2 (43.2-49.0) cm/s, whereas, in moderate and minor injury flow velocity had returned to normal. Correlation (r = 0.46, p less than 0.01) was found between MCA velocity and Glasgow Coma Score (GCS) on admission but not on discharge. Persistently low flow velocity was found in all 10 patients who died within 72 hours (early deaths). An admission MCA velocity of less than 28 cm/s correctly predicted 80% of the early deaths. Patients who made a good recovery or had only moderate disability at six months showed a significant increase in velocity from admission 36.2 (31.5-41.2) cm/s to discharge 47.8 (43.7-51.9) cm/s in contrast to those who were severely disabled, in whom velocity generally remained low.
1. Optical recordings of membrane-potential changes were used to characterize the origin and properties of the electrical signals from the dendritic level in slices of the salamander olfactory bulb. 2. The optical events were correlated with field-potential waves recorded simultaneously. Both responses exhibited patterns similar to those found in other species. 3. Orthodromic stimulation evoked a compound action potential in the olfactory nerve fibers, followed by two additional principal waves (N1 and N2). These field-potential waves reflected excitatory postsynaptic potentials at the primary mitral/tufted and granule cell dendrites, respectively. 4. Extrinsic optical signals from horizontal slices stained with the pyrazo-oxonal dye RH-155 showed a characteristic sequence of depolarizing and hyperpolarizing events. All of the signals exhibited a wavelength dependence expected for this dye and were abolished in the presence of high K+ in the bath. 5. According to their time courses, depolarizing responses under normal recording conditions were divided into two components, fast and slow. Orthodromic stimuli evoked a fast presynaptic response that represents synchronous compound action potentials from olfactory nerve fibers. At subglomerular levels, additional fast responses could often be recorded at the peri/subglomerular level and in the mitral/tufted somata region. These postsynaptic responses partially coincided with the rising phase of a different depolarizing signal, a slow component characterized by its prolonged time course. 6. With orthodromic stimulation, this slow signal attained its largest amplitude in the zone between the glomeruli and the superficial part of the external plexiform layer (EPL). Antidromic stimuli evoked a signal with some similarities to the one evoked orthodromically, but originating in deeper EPL regions. 7. Slow components were characterized by their Ca dependence. Low Ca2+ medium, or calcium channel blockers, suppressed this optical component, whether evoked orthodromically, antidromically, or by direct stimulation. In addition, Ba2+ (2.5-3.6 mM) in the bath did not abolish these responses, suggesting that they do not reflect a glial depolarization in response to elevated extracellular K+ concentration ([K+]o). 8. Locally applied stimuli next to the glomerular layer elicited these signals in 5-10 microM tetrodotoxin (TTX) or in low extracellular Na+ concentration ([Na+]o) medium, but antidromic or orthodromic stimuli failed to evoke the response under these conditions. The sizes of the responses to local stimuli remained constant, but an increase in their duration was observed in either TTX or low [Na+]o. 9. gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) and baclofen reduced the size of the slow components in a dose-dependent manner.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Cone photoreceptors in several vertebrate species generate Ca-dependent regenerative depolarizations (e.g., Ca spikes lasting up to 2 s) in response to current injection or surround illumination and may remain in a state of prolonged depolarization (e.g., a permanent plateau near 0 mV) after these stimuli. This paper, while confirming the role of Ca channels in the regenerative depolarization, demonstrates that Ca-activated Cl channels either enhance or hinder prolonged depolarization, depending on the value of the chloride equilibrium potential (ECl). 2. Current- and voltage-clamp recordings obtained with the whole-cell patch-clamp technique were compared in 158 isolated tiger salamander cones to determine the contribution of specific ion channel types to the two forms of depolarizing response. Cones dialyzed with CsCl or KCl intracellular solution (such that ECl = 0 mV) that had sustained negative slope regions in their current-voltage (I-V) relations recorded under voltage clamp, were, under current clamp, bistable with respect to their resting potential. Injection of approximately 20-pA steps of depolarizing current resulted in transitions from the negative stable membrane potential (near -50 mV) to a long lasting plateau around 0 mV. Injection of 200-300 pA of hyperpolarizing current could then force a return to the negative stable resting potential, although once repolarization occurred, current injection had to be reduced or terminated to prevent damaging hyperpolarization of the cell. 3. The inward currents accounting for the negative slope region of the I-V relation were carried in Ca and Ca-activated Cl channels. Specific block of Ca-activated Cl current (ICl(Ca)) by 100 microM niflumic acid (NFA) eliminated the prolonged depolarization, even though the negative slope conductance region in the I-V persisted and the cone could still produce the briefer Ca-dependent regenerative depolarizations. Application of 100 microM Cd2+ blocked both forms of depolarization. 4. Substitution of Ba2+, which among other actions did not activate ICl(Ca), usually supported regenerative depolarizations of shortened duration, demonstrating the role of Ca channels in the initial phase of these responses. 5. A difference was observed in the regenerative depolarization when ECl was shifted away from 0 mV, where it had been in the experiments described above. With ECl set to -40 or -60 mV by reduction of [Cl-] in the pipette, steady-state membrane bistability was eliminated and prolonged depolarization did not occur. Under these conditions, application of the Cl channel blocker NFA showed that ICl(Ca) contributes to membrane hyperpolarization.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of at least seven closely related molecules (isozymes) that vary in terms of their requirements for activation and their distribution among cells of the brain. A striking example of this differential distribution is seen in the cerebellum, where Purkinje cells express PKC-I, an isozyme that is strongly activated by both phorbol ester (PE), and low doses of cis-unsaturated fatty acid (c-UFA), while granule cells predominantly express PKC-II, an isozyme that is strongly activated by PE but not c-UFA. Both Purkinje and granule cells have large, easily recorded voltage-gated K currents. These currents are attenuated by PKC activators in several other varieties of neuron. We hypothesized that the effects of these two PKC activators would be predicted by the distribution of the relevant PKC isozyme, and that the delayed outward rectifier current, IK, would be attenuated by both PE and c-UFA in Purkinje cells, but only by PE in granule cells. This hypothesis was confirmed in perforated-patch recordings. The attenuation produced by both activators could be blocked by application of a specific PKC inhibitor, RO-31-8220, and could not be mimicked by inert forms of PE or c-UFA. To our knowledge, this study represents the first report of an electrophysiological correlate of PKC isozyme distribution.
A previous study showed that roughness perception may depend on either temporal or spatial variations in firing rate among cutaneous mechanoreceptive afferents. The present study was designed to distinguish between these hypotheses. Plastic surfaces embossed with patterns of dots designed to produce predictable alterations in temporal and spatial firing rate variation were used as stimuli in psychophysical and neurophysiological experiments. Subjective roughness magnitudes obtained from psychophysical experiments fitted the predictions of the spatial but not the temporal hypothesis. In the neurophysiological experiments, the stimuli were scanned across the receptive fields of cutaneous mechanoreceptive afferents. Firing rate variation in the neural responses was measured using a range of temporal and spatial filters. Temporal variation was not correlated with roughness magnitude. Spatial variation, on a scale of 1-2 mm (one to two receptor spacings), was closely correlated with roughness.
The 2 aryl-3-indoleacetamides (FGIN-1) are a new class of compounds that potently (nM) and selectively bind to glial mitochondrial diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) receptors (MDR), previously called peripheral benzodiazepine receptors, and increase mitochondrial steroidogenesis. The high-affinity binding of FGIN-1 to MDR derivatives depends on the following chemical characteristics: 1) the dialkylation of the amide; 2) the chain length of this alkyl substitution; and 3) the halogenation of aryl groups appended to the indole nucleus. FGIN-1 derivatives do not bind to gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABAA), GABAB, glycine, glutamate, dopamine, serotonin, opiate, cholecystokinin, beta adrenergic, cannabinoid or sigma receptors. FGIN-1-27 [N, N-di-n-hexyl 2-(4-fluorophenyl)indole-3-acetamide] enters the brain, and for this reason, this FGIN-1 compound is potent and efficacious behaviorally. Like the neurosteroid 3 alpha-5 alpha tetrahydrodeoxycorticosterone (THDOC), FGIN-1-27 delays the onset of isoniazid-induced convulsions, but fails to delay the onset of bicuculline-induced convulsions. However, differently from THDOC, the FGIN-1-27 anticonvulsant action is blocked by the isoquinoline carboxamide PK 11195. In the elevated plus maze test, FGIN-1-27 inhibits neophobia manner that is antagonized by PK 11195 but not by flumazenil. Because FGIN-1-27 binds to MDR and does not bind to the GABAA receptors, it is inferred that FGIN-1-27 may act on GABAA receptors indirectly, presumably via a stimulation of neurosteroid synthesis and release from glial cells.
1. The effects of anoxia on membrane properties of 119 dorsal vagal motoneurones (DVMs) were investigated in an in vitro slice preparation of the rat medulla. 2. Membrane potential was unaffected by anoxia in 11% of DVMs. An hyperpolarization accompanied by a decrease in input resistance occurred in 44% of DVMs; the remaining 45% depolarized with either an increase (60%) or decrease in input resistance (40%). TTX at a concentration of 0.3-1 microM did not significantly affect these responses. 3. Anoxic artificial cerebrospinal fluid (ACSF) containing 20 mM-TEA reversed the response of DVMs that hyperpolarized in standard ACSF to reveal a depolarization of 7.4 +/- 2.1 mV, and increased the anoxic depolarization from 5.0 +/- 0.7 to 8.7 +/- 1.4 mV. 4. Anoxic depolarization was converted to an hyperpolarization of 7.3 +/- 2.1 mV in ACSF containing 5 mM-4-aminopyridine (4-AP) and 1 microM-TTX. A residual depolarization of 4.5 +/- 3.5 mV was then observed in ACSF containing 5 mM-4-AP, 1 microM-TTX and 20 mM-TEA. Anoxic hyperpolarization was increased from 7.8 +/- 1.8 to 10.0 +/- 3.9 mV in 5 mM-4-AP and 1 microM-TTX and converted to a depolarization of 5.3 +/- 4.5 mV in 5 mM-4-AP, 1 microM-TTX and 20 mM-TEA. 5. In anoxic ACSF containing TEA, the action potential width was increased from 0.92 +/- 0.04 to 8.1 +/- 1.1 ms in hyperpolarizing DVMs, and from 0.85 +/- 0.01 to 2.4 +/- 1.0 ms in depolarizing DVMs. The increase in width was prevented by 2-3 mM-Mn2+. 6. The long after-hyperpolarization (AHP) of DVMs, which is contributed to by both an apamin-sensitive IK(Ca) and an apamin, charybdotoxin and TEA insensitive IK(Ca) was decreased in duration from 2.59 +/- 0.14 to 1.94 +/- 0.12 s during anoxia. 7. It is concluded that anoxia enhances the delayed rectifier current (IK(DR)) and an inward current, probably ICa, but suppresses the A currents (IA). In DVMs that hyperpolarize during anoxia, the increase in IK(DR) outweighs the increase in ICa and the decrease in IA. In depolarizing DVMs the decrease in IA and increase in ICa outweight the increase in IK(DR). The change in input resistance is determined by the relative sizes of current enhancement or suppression.
1. The characteristics of the activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) response by glycine were studied using whole-cell and outside-out patch clamp recording techniques. 2. Glycine concentration-response (C-R) curves were measured in the presence of 10 microM-NMDA and fitted with the Hill equation modified to account for the response to NMDA observed in the absence of added glycine. The mean value of the apparent dissociation constant (KD) was 150 nM, and the mean value of the Hill coefficient (nH) was 1.1. When the KD was corrected for the concentration of contaminating glycine in nominally glycine-free solutions, estimated assuming that there is no response in the absence of glycine, the value was 130 nM. 3. The question of how many glycine binding sites there are on each NMDA receptor-channel complex was addressed by examining the curvature at the foot of the glycine C-R curve. An equation that allowed estimation of both the concentration of contaminating glycine and of the value of nH was fitted to glycine C-R data up to 50 nM. The mean value of nH was found to be 1.0, consistent with the idea that there is one glycine binding site. 4. The kinetics of the interaction of glycine with the NMDA receptor were measured by fitting single exponential curves to the current relaxation following a jump in glycine concentration in the presence of 10 microM-NMDA. The plot of the inverse of the relaxation time constant as a function of glycine concentration after the concentration jump was linear. The association rate constant was estimated from these data as 1.2 x 10(7) M-1 s-1 and the dissociation rate as 1.0 s-1. 5. Experiments were devised to allow the evaluation of the KD and dissociation rates of glycine in the absence of NMDA. They led to a value for KD of 80 nM, slightly but significantly lower than the value of 150 nM estimated in the presence of 10 microM-NMDA. The glycine dissociation rate in the absence of NMDA was found to be 0.7 s-1, not significantly different from that measured in the presence of 10 microM-NMDA. 6. The results are consistent with a model of the NMDA receptor with a single glycine binding site. The characteristics of glycine binding are similar in the absence and the presence of 10 microM-NMDA, although NMDA binding may cause a small increase in the glycine KD.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
1. Magnocellular neurosecretory cells (MNCs) were isolated from the supraoptic nucleus of adult Long-Evans rats using an enzymatic procedure. Immunocytochemical staining with antibodies against vasopressin and oxytocin revealed that MNCs can be identified by size. The membrane properties of these cells were examined at 32-34 degrees C using intracellular recording methods. 2. Isolated MNCs displayed a mean (+/- S.E.M.; n = 109) resting membrane potential of -64.1 +/- 1.0 mV, an input resistance of 571 +/- 34 M omega, and a time constant of 8.7 +/- 0.4 ms. Measurements of specific resistivity and input capacitance revealed that the soma of these cells accounts for a mere 20% of their total somato-dendritic membrane in situ. 3. Voltage-current relations measured near -60 mV were linear negative to spike threshold. From more hyperpolarized membrane potentials, voltage responses to depolarizing current steps displayed transient outward rectification and delayed impulse discharge. 4. Action potentials (76.6 +/- 0.9 mV) triggered from an apparent threshold of -59.3 +/- 0.1 mV broadened progressively at the onset of spontaneous or current-evoked spike trains. Steady-state spike duration increased as a logarithmic function of firing frequency with a maximum near 25 Hz. These effects were abolished in Ca(2+)-free solutions. 5. In all cells, evoked spike trains were followed by a prolonged Ca(2+)-sensitive after-hyperpolarization. In contrast, only a small proportion (16%) of MNCs displayed spontaneous bursting activity or depolarizing after-potentials following brief current-evoked bursts. 6. Isolated MNCs responded to amino acids (glutamate and GABA) and to the neuropeptide cholecystokinin, indicating that receptors for these neurotransmitters are expressed postsynaptically by MNCs and are retained following dissociation. 7. Increasing the osmolality of the superfusing solution by 5-30 mosmol kg-1 caused a membrane depolarization associated with a decrease of input resistance and accelerated spontaneous spike discharge in each of thirty-six MNCs tested. Current-clamp analysis suggested that these responses resulted from the activation of a cationic conductance. Excitatory effects of hyperosmolality were not observed in non-magnocellular neurones (n = 6).
1. The role of serotonin (5-HT) and excitatory amino-acids (EAAs) in the activation of the neural networks (i.e. the central pattern generators) that organize locomotion in mammals was investigated in an isolated brainstem-spinal cord preparation from the newborn rat. 2. The neuroactive substances were bath applied and the activity of fictive locomotion was recorded in the ventral roots. 3. Serotonin initiated an alternating pattern of right and left action potential bursts. The period of this rhythm was dose dependent, i.e. it decreased from around 10 s at 2 x 10(-5) M to 5 s at 10(-4) M. The effects of serotonin were blocked by a 5-HT1 antagonist (propranolol) and by 5-HT2 antagonists (ketanserin, cyproheptadine, mianserin). 5-HT3 antagonists were ineffective. The effects of methoxytryptamine, a non-selective 5-HT agonist, mimicked the 5-HT effects. 4. The endogenous EAAs, glutamate and aspartate, also triggered an alternating rhythmic pattern. Their effects were blocked by 2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (AP-5; a N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor blocker) and 6,7-dinitro-quinoxaline-2,3-dione (a non-NMDA receptor blocker). 5. Several EAA agonists (N-methyl-D,L-aspartate (NMA) and kainate) initiated rhythmic activity. The period of the induced rhythm (from 3 to 1 s) was similar with both of these substances but in a range of concentrations which was ten times lower in the case of kainate (10(-6) to 5 x 10(-6) M) than in that of NMA (10(-5) to 4 x 10(-5) M). alpha-Amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionate and quisqualate occasionally triggered some episodes of fictive locomotion with a threshold at 6 x 10(-7) and 10(-5) M, respectively.
Rapid activation of transcription factor genes is thought to play a key role in stimulus-induced neuronal plasticity. To help understand the genomic response that may underlie long-term effects of cocaine and amphetamine, we have investigated the effect of these agents on Zif268, a transcription regulatory factor that is expressed at high levels in brain neurons. Like c-fos, zif268 is markedly activated in striatum by cocaine and amphetamine. This response appears to involve the dopamine system, since it is abolished by SCH23390, a selective D1 dopamine receptor antagonist, or by 6-hydroxydopamine lesions. To assess the role of other monoamine systems in regulating the expression of these transcription factors, we have examined the effects of selective monoamine uptake blockers as well as agents that lesion the norepinephrine and serotonin systems. These studies indicate that, in addition to the dopamine system, the norepinephrine and serotonin systems also play prominent roles in the activation of zif268 and c-fos by cocaine and amphetamine.
Ranked as the leading school of medicine in Croatia, University of Zagreb School of Medicine has succeeded to maintain the continuity of the high quality teaching process despite of the heritage of the socialist educational system and the harsh times of war. With the introduction of the six-year curriculum, where the &quot;problem-solving&quot; method is given prominence to, the school has fulfilled its requirements to meet the European standards of medical education. Teaching of the basic medical sciences is faced predominantly with the problems of obsolete equipment, whereas the quality of the education of the clinical subjects has not yet reached the desirable standards in all segments. Scientists from the University of School Zagreb of Medicine contribute to the overall scientific output of the Republic of Croatia with 10 to 20%, in addition to appearance of significant number of papers published in the international periodicals. According to the latest faculty roster, the number of full professors with teaching appointments is much too excessive. The University of Zagreb School of Medicine sees its main goal in the improvement of the quality of the teaching process. This goal is to be accomplished through introduction of the new courses (molecular biology, neuroscience, emergency medicine, ecology, medical economy etc.), improvement of the teaching methods, as well as through high standards of teaching the elective courses. Overall number of exams is also to be reduced in due time, whereas the future curriculum should provide a comprehensive medical teaching, with students actively participating in the teaching process through the first-hand experience with patients.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Members of different vertebrate species share a number of developmental mechanisms and control genes, suggesting that they have similar genetic programs of development. We compared the expression patterns of the Pax-2 protein in Mus musculus and Brachydanio rerio to gain a better understanding of the evolution of developmental control genes. We found that the tissue specificity and the time course of Pax-2 expression relative to specific developmental processes are remarkably similar during the early development of the two organisms. The brain, the optic stalk, the auditory vesicle, the pronephros, and single cells in the spinal cord and the hindbrain express Pax-2 in both species. The Pax-2 expression domain in the prospective brain of E8 mouse embryos has not been described previously. Expression appears first during early neurulation at the junction between the midbrain and hindbrain. However, there are some differences in Pax-2 expression between the two species. Most notable, expression at the midbrain/hindbrain boundary is no longer detectable after E11 in the mouse. Using monoclonal antibodies, we could exclude that primary neurons express Pax-2 in the zebrafish spinal cord. Our results confirm that Pax genes are highly conserved both in sequences and in expression patterns, indicating that they may have a function during early development that has been conserved during vertebrate evolution.
In the treatment of spasticity, the therapeutic cerebrospinal fluid levels of (+/-)-baclofen, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)B receptor agonist, are below 1 microM. However, the mechanism of the therapeutic action of (+/-)-baclofen remains unknown, because, for the most part, the action of (+/-)-baclofen on GABAB receptors requires micromolar concentrations. Using fura-2 fluorescence microscopy, intracellular ionized calcium was measured in cerebellar granule neurons. Stimulation of a high affinity GABAB receptor potentiated by 2-3-fold the rise in intracellular calcium observed after depolarization of the cell with a Krebs Ringer's buffered solution containing 40 mM K+. Both GABA (100 nM) and (+/-)-baclofen (10-100 nM) stimulated this high affinity receptor. The potentiation of the depolarization-induced rise in intracellular calcium by (+/-)-baclofen (100 nM) was completely blocked by the GABAB receptor antagonist CGP 35348 (200 microM). Also, the intracellular calcium response induced by the activation of high affinity GABAB receptors was prevented by dantrolene (10 microM). The cerebellar granule neurons contained calcium-induced calcium release (CICR) stores. Caffeine (3 mM) and ryanodine (100 microM) potentiated the depolarization-induced rise in intracellular calcium, and this response to both drugs was blocked by dantrolene (10 microM). Because dantrolene does not prevent the rise in intracellular calcium after cell depolarization (this calcium originated from the influx of extracellular calcium), (+/-)-baclofen acting via the high affinity GABAB receptor indirectly activates the CICR stores, allowing the influx of extracellular calcium to trigger the release of calcium from these dantrolene-sensitive CICR stores. Thus, this high affinity GABAB receptor might become activated during persistent depolarization caused by pathological states and could be a mechanism to be studied for the therapeutic action of (+/-)-baclofen in spasticity.
We have observed and characterized in detail two cases of mitochondrial DNA fragments which have inserted into the nucleus of HeLa cells. In one case three non-sequential but contiguous regions of mitochondrial DNA with 92% homology to human cytoplasmic mitochondrial DNA inserted into the nuclear genome. In the second case the mitochondrial DNA sequence encoding cytochrome c oxidase subunit III was contiguous with and 5' of exons 2 and 3 of the c-myc oncogene and the chimeric gene was transcribed. Models are presented that describe mechanisms for the transfer of mitochondrial DNA into the nucleus involving fragmentation of mitochondrial DNA through aging and/or oxidative damage, anomalous processing or escape of mitochondrial DNA and RNA fragments from autophagic vacuoles, and insertion of mitochondrial DNA sequences, in some instances after reverse transcription of mitochondrial RNA, into the nuclear genome.
The mitochondrial respiratory chain and oxidative phosphorylation system are responsible for the production of ATP by aerobic metabolism. Defects of the respiratory chain are increasingly recognised as important causes of human disease, and neurodegenerative disorders in particular. This article will seek to review the clinical and biochemical effects of respiratory chain defects, and summarise what is known about the molecular mechanisms that underlie them. Increasing age is also associated with a decline in mitochondrial function. The biochemical correlates of this dysfunction and the possible molecular defects that may cause it will also be reviewed.
The proteolytic processing and secretion of APP are regulated by protein phosphorylation, especially via protein kinase C and protein phosphatases 1 and/or 2A. Our studies of these regulatory mechanisms have led us to perform extensive experimentation on the metabolism of APP carboxyl-terminal fragments, using as our system either untransfected, undifferentiated rat pheochromocytoma (PC12) cells or APP-baculovirus infected Sf9 cells. We have not assayed APP fragments for biological activity in either system. However, we have made potentially relevant observations regarding APP carboxyl-terminal fragment trafficking. In this note, we review our published and unpublished data in relation to published reports from other laboratories using related systems.
In order to establish a direct relationship between beta-amyloid protein (beta AP) and in vivo neurotoxicity, we made intraparenchymal injections and Alzet pump infusions of beta AP into the hippocampus and cortex of adult rats. We tested a number of synthetic beta AP peptides (beta AP 1-40, 1-38, and 25-35) and peptide controls (scrambled and reversed 1-40, and scrambled and reversed 25-35) over a wide range of concentrations and in a variety of vehicles. The rats were sacrificed from 2-35 days following the implant, and the brains examined by standard immunohistochemical and histological methods used to evaluate the pathologies associated with Alzheimer's disease. We report the lack of Alzheimer related pathology and no significant morphological differences between the beta AP peptide and the peptide and vehicle control injections. These observations indicate that the simple intraparenchymal injection of beta AP in the rat brain is not an appropriate model of Alzheimer-related neurotoxicity.
beta-Amyloid (1-40) and (25-35) have been reported to be toxic to primary cultured neurons. beta-Amyloid (1-40) was also reported to induce neurodegeneration following intracerebral injection. We attempted to replicate and extend these findings by injecting both the full length amyloid peptide and the 25-35 fragment. beta 1-40 (3 nmol in 1 microliter) or beta 25-35 (20 nmol in 2 microliters) in a vehicle of 10% DMSO (3 and 10 mM concentration, respectively) induced tissue loss and neurodegeneration. We also attempted to prevent the amyloid-induced damage by coinjecting 200 nmol of Substance P. There was no obvious reduction in the size of the lesions. Other studies, however, have reported antagonism of amyloid toxicity with tachykinin agonists. Since beta-amyloid does not appear to bind to tachykinin receptors, there is some question as to the site of the putative interaction of these peptides and, therefore, the mechanism by which beta-amyloid induces tissue damage. Our own results and published cell culture toxicity studies suggest that aggregation of the peptide and physical displacement of tissue may be responsible for both the neuronal and tissue loss, although this hypothesis is not consistent with other published findings.
Two specific methods, Northern blot analysis using a 50 nucleotides probe to the conserved region of the nerve growth factor (NGF) gene, and enzyme immunoassay using a monoclonal biotinylated rat anti-NGF IgG-avidin conjugated peroxidase system, were used to demonstrate the production and secretion of NGF by mouse striated muscle cell line G8-1. Calcium ionophore, A23187 (0.1-1 microM), forskolin (0.1-100 microM) and dibutyryl cyclic AMP (0.1-10 mM) strongly decreased the secretion of ir-NGF. The level of NGF mRNA was decreased by veratridine, A23187, forskolin and cyclic AMP but not by cyclic GMP. Consequently, we conclude that the secretion of NGF molecules paralleled the changes of NGF mRNA levels in the cells induced by all agents tested. Carmamylcholine also decreased the level of NGF mRNA. Immunoblot analysis suggested that denatured ir-NGF molecules exist in a higher molecular weight form (22 KDa) than those of mouse submaxillary gland (13 KDa). Both Ca(2+)- and cAMP mediated mechanisms contribute to the decreased production of NGF mRNA in the cells and the consequent inhibition of secretion of NGF molecules. Finally, molecular cloning of NGF of G8-1 cells was conducted and confirmed the structure of the gene that consists of 1, 3, and 4 exons deleting exon 2. Thus, G8-1 NGF is derived from transcript B.
MinK is a novel protein which induces an extremely slowly activating potassium channel when expressed in Xenopus oocytes. We discuss the properties and regulation of the current and localization and possible physiological roles of the MinK protein.
Rosenthal fibers are present in several neurologic disorders. Their occurrence in widespread subependymal, subpial, and perivascular locations is thought to be diagnostic of Alexander's disease, but they have also been reported in rare adult cases. Some of these patients were neurologically intact with severe systemic illnesses. In symptomatic cases, the neurologic disorder has simulated multiple sclerosis. We report an elderly woman with progressive parkinsonism, dementia, and hallucinations whose brain showed severe Rosenthal fiber proliferation.
Our study explores the mechanisms behind neurite galvanotropism. Using phase, differential interference contrast and ratiometric fluorescence microscopy, we reveal four responses of N1E-115 mouse neuroblastoma cells to 0.1-1.0 mV/microns uniform DC electric fields: cathode-directed neurite initiation and elongation, cathode-biased growth cone filopodial protrusions, transient cathode-localized calcium increases, and persistent cathode-localized membrane depolarizations. These newly demonstrated events are temporally and spatially correlated, suggesting that they are causally related. The calcium increases are prevented by calcium channel blockers and by the removal of extracellular calcium. We therefore propose that the observed field-induced membrane depolarizations activate voltage-dependent calcium channels, resulting in cathode-localized calcium influx. This, in turn, may initiate the observed cathode-biased growth cone filopodial protrusions, followed by the cathode-directed neurite elongation.
The effects of spermine, spermidine and putrescine on the binding of the GABAA-benzodiazepine receptor complex were examined in the hippocampus and frontal cortex membranes of the rat. The results demonstrated modulatory effects of polyamines on the binding of diazepam and flunitrazepam but not on that of GABA, muscimol and Ro 15-1788. When membranes were prepared without detergent, the polyamines enhanced the binding of diazepam. However, while the binding capacity increased after homogenization in the presence of the non-ionic detergent Triton X-100, the polyamines did not enhance the binding but inhibited the binding of diazepam and flunitrazepam at greater concentrations. Considered together with other studies, the present findings indicate that polyamines can modulate the binding characteristics of several different neurotransmitter receptor-ionophore complexes.

We tested the ability of identified neurons from two different families of pulmonate molluscs to form specific connections in vitro. The presynaptic neuron chosen for this study was the giant dopamine cell of Lymnaea stagnalis and Helisoma trivolvis which is known to synapse upon specific visceral and parietal ganglion neurons in both species. Here we show that the giant dopamine cells can reform specific connections in vitro on follower neurons from both species. Thus the mechanisms that determine synapse specificity are conserved between two different families of molluscs.
Intracellular calcium concentration ([Ca2+]i) dynamics were simultaneously monitored in multiple cultured rat neurons loaded with Fluo-3 and continuously stimulated with glutamate (GLU). Three response types were observed: 10 microM GLU caused an initial transient increase in [Ca2+]i; 20 microM a biphasic response characterized by a 150-350 s 'calcium trough' between peaks; and 40 microM an initial sustained increase in [Ca2+]i. Neurons in calcium-free medium treated with 40 microM GLU showed only an initial transient increase in [Ca2+]i, demonstrating the dependence of sustained secondary increases in [Ca2+]i on extracellular calcium sources. We observed synchronized responses of multiple neurons within a given culture well, after GLU treatment, supporting the hypothesis that sustained influx of extracellular calcium may be stimulated by depletion of intracellular calcium and/or the release of endogenous excitatory amino acids.

Primate fetal striatal neurons were transplanted into the ibotenic acid lesioned rhesus monkey striatum. Ten weeks after transplantation the monkeys were transcardially perfused and graft tissue was histologically stained. Golgi impregnated, and processed for electron microscopy. The monkeys received magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans before lesioning, after lesioning, and ten weeks after transplantation to noninvasively study the striatal grafts. The study demonstrated that fetal striatal grafts, measuring up to 0.4 x 0.8 cm, can survive for extended periods of time in the non-human primate. Hematoxylin-eosin stained sections of the transplant demonstrated that neuronal, glial, vascular, and lymphocytic cells were present in the graft. The majority of the neurons had somatic diameters between 8 and 20 microns and were characterized by nuclei containing multiple nucleoli. A few neurons within the graft had somatic diameters up to 40 microns. These larger neurons exhibited more mature cytoplasm containing a moderate amount of Nissl substance. Some of the blood vessels within the graft were surrounded by a large number of plasma cells, but there was no evidence of hemorrhage or necrosis. Bielschowsky staining and Golgi impregnation of the transplanted tissue demonstrated that there were neurons at various degrees of differentiation. Some of the neurons had varicose dendrites, growth cones, and filopodia, which are all characteristics of immature neurons, while others had a much more mature appearance, including a moderate number of dendritic spines. Some of these neurons had an appearance typical of differentiating &quot;medium spiny&quot; neurons of the normal striatum. Electron microscopic analysis of the transplanted tissue and individual Golgi-impregnated neurons within the transplant confirmed that there were developing neurons within the graft. These neurons had an increased nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio and had nuclei containing multiple nucleoli. The neuropil surrounding these neurons was loosely organized and contained large areas of extracellular space. The neuropil exhibited developing dendrites, numerous growth cones, and mature synapses. In summary, the study demonstrated that fetal striatal allografts can survive for up to three months in the rhesus monkey and undergo normal differentiation as assessed by Golgi impregnation and electron microscopy.

Paired helical filaments isolated from brains of two different patients with Alzheimer's disease were extensively treated with the ionic detergent, sodium dodecyl sulphate. Filaments were solubilized at different extents, depending on the brain examined, thus suggesting the existence of two types of paired helical filaments: sodium dodecyl sulphate-soluble and insoluble filaments. In the first case, the number of structures resembling paired helical filaments greatly decreased after the detergent treatment, as observed by electron microscopy. Simultaneously, a decrease in the amount of sedimentable protein was also observed upon centrifugation of the sodium dodecyl sulfate-treated paired helical filaments. A sodium dodecyl sulphate-soluble fraction was isolated as a supernatant after low-speed centrifugation of the sodium dodecyl sulphate-treated paired helical filaments. The addition of the non-ionic detergent Nonidet-P40 to this fraction resulted in the formation of paired helical filament-like structures. When the sodium dodecyl sulphate-soluble fraction was further fractionated by high-speed centrifugation, three subfractions were observed: a supernatant, a pellet and a thin layer between these two subfractions. No paired helical filaments were observed in any of these subfractions, even after addition of Nonidet P-40. However, when they were mixed back together, the treatment with Nonidet P-40 resulted in the visualization of paired helical filament-like structures. These results suggest that at least two different components are needed for the reconstitution of paired helical filaments as determined by electron microscopy. The method described here may allow the study of the components involved in the formation of paired helical filaments and the identification of possible factors capable of blocking this process.
Immunocytochemical expression of the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor was studied in human fetal and adult tissues using the monoclonal antibody ME20.4. In dorsal root ganglia, a few immunoreactive neurons were first detected in nine-week-old fetuses and many more were found in the following weeks of gestation. However, none was present in adult ganglia. The ME20.4-positive cells were larger than neurons immunostained by substance P, calcitonin gene-related peptide or galanin antibodies. In the spinal cord, fibres immunostained by ME20.4 appeared in a characteristic pattern that differed from the spatial and temporal distributions of synaptophysin- and neurofilament-immunoreactive fibres. Those expressing the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor were only detected in regions containing collaterals of primary sensory axons: (i) in the dorsal funiculus between seven and 18 weeks of gestation; (ii) in a ventrodorsal bundle reaching the ventral horn from weeks 12-14; (iii) in the medial region of the dorsal horn between weeks 12 and 20; (iv) in the superficial layers and lateral portion of the dorsal horn after the 14th week of gestation and also in adult spinal cord. During the fetal period, ME20.4 immunoreactivity was also found in motoneurons and peripheral nerve fibres in the skin, myotomes and gut. Sheaths of peripheral nerves and the adventitia of blood vessels were stained both in fetal and adult tissues. Thus, the low-affinity nerve growth factor receptor is: (i) strongly expressed in the developing human nervous system; (ii) transiently associated with a subset of large primary sensory neurons and with motoneurons; (iii) transiently and sequentially expressed by various groups of sensory afferents to the spinal cord; (iv) permanently expressed by fibres in the superficial layers of the dorsal horn, Clarke's column, nerve sheaths and the adventitia of blood vessels.
The possibility that endogenous histamine plays an important role in modulating the pathophysiology of heat stress was examined in young rats using a pharmacological approach. Subjection of young animals (six to seven weeks old) to heat stress at 38 degrees C for 4 h in a biological oxygen demand incubator (relative humidity 47-50%, wind velocity 20-25 cm/s) resulted in a profound increase in blood-brain barrier permeability to Evans Blue albumin (whole brain 375%) and [131I]sodium (whole brain 478%) along with a significant reduction in the cerebral blood flow (mean 34%). The water content of the whole brain was elevated by 4.5% (about 19% volume swelling) from the control. At this time-period, the plasma and whole brain 5-hydroxytryptamine levels were elevated by 656% and 328%, respectively, from the control group. Pretreatment with cimetidine (a histamine H2 receptor antagonist) significantly thwarted the increases in the brain water content and the blood-brain barrier permeability. In cimetidine-pretreated animals, the cerebral blood flow was significantly elevated and the plasma and brain 5-hydroxytryptamine (serotonin) levels were slightly but significantly reduced as compared with the untreated stressed group. However, prior treatment with mepyramine (a histamine H1 receptor antagonist) neither attenuated the changes in water content and the blood-brain barrier permeability nor altered the cerebral blood flow and 5-hydroxytryptamine levels. In fact, there was a significantly higher permeation of the tracers across the cerebral vessels in these drug-treated animals along with a greater accumulation of the brain water content as compared with the untreated stressed group. The cerebral blood flow and 5-hydroxytryptamine levels showed only minor changes from the untreated stressed group. These results show, probably for the first time, that (i) the endogenous histamine plays an important role in the pathophysiology of heat stress, and (ii) this effect appears to be mediated via specific histamine H2 receptors.
We have previously reported a vibration-induced, adenosine-mediated inhibition of nociceptive dorsal horn neurons in the cat spinal cord. The present study was conducted to investigate the mechanisms of this inhibition. In vivo intracellular recording was obtained from dorsal horn neurons in the lower lumbar segments of the anaesthetized cat. Vibration (80-250 Hz for 2-3 s every 15-20 s) was applied to the glabrous skin of the toes of the hind foot using a feedback-controlled mechanical stimulator. In 32 of 43 neurons tested, vibration produced a pronounced hyperpolarization of the membrane potential. This hyperpolarization peaked at -10 mV and decayed throughout the period of the application of vibration. It was associated with a decrease in membrane resistance, had a reversal potential negative to the resting membrane potential and was Cl(-)-independent, suggesting that it was due to an increase in a K+ conductance, properties typical of the response to adenosine. This inhibitory postsynaptic potential was unaffected by intravenous administration of bicuculline, strychnine and naloxone but was blocked by iontophoretic administration of 8-sulphophenyltheophylline, a P1-purinergic receptor antagonist. These results confirm our previous finding that vibration-induced inhibition of nociceptive dorsal horn neurons is mediated via the release of an endogenous purine compound and further suggests that this inhibition involves a postsynaptic inhibitory mechanism.
The involvement of the cerebral cortex, commissural fibers and thalamus on caudate-caudate relations was studied in locally anesthetized, paralysed and artificially ventilated cats. This type of experimental preparation was necessary since a complete suppression of spontaneous and evoked activity is produced by subanesthetic doses of general anesthesia. Two types of caudate action potentials were encountered on the basis of their waveform characteristics: biphasic and triphasic spikes, the former being the largest population (80%). These waveforms were independent of the microelectrode resistance and the distance to recorded neurons. However, their responses were very similar to both central and peripheral stimuli. Caudate stimulation depressed the spontaneous discharges of the majority of the responsive units recorded within the opposite nucleus, while striatal neurons were activated by stimulation of the contralateral cortex. Decortication, thalamic lesion (motor nuclei and massa intermedia) and section of the corpus callosum decrease the firing rates of caudate neurons with biphasic spikes, while the discharges of the neurons with triphasic action potentials remained unchanged. Bilateral ablation of the cerebral cortex decreased the responsiveness of striatal neurons to contralateral nucleus and sciatic nerve and reduced the number of spontaneously active cells per recording tract. Section of the commissural fibers also depressed the caudate responses to the contralateral nucleus, and to the opposite precruciate cortex, although thalamic lesion did not affect the responsiveness of caudate cells to both central and peripheral stimuli.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Cortical epileptiform afterdischarges (spike-and-wave rhythm) induced by low-frequency stimulation of the sensorimotor cortex were dose-dependently shortened by ketamine (10, 20 and 40 mg/kg, i.p.). Myoclonic jerking during stimulation was unaffected by ketamine whereas the same motor pattern accompanying afterdischarges was markedly suppressed by this drug. Paired-pulse as well as frequency potentiation of the cortical interhemispheric (transcallosal) responses were not significantly altered by the 40 mg/kg dose of ketamine. The two simple potentiation phenomena studied probably did not play a role in initiation of cortical epileptic afterdischarges.
In vitro studies performed in mammalian brain slices have shown that cortical neurons differ in their intrinsic membrane properties. In the rodent cortex these properties are related to a specific cell morphology and synaptic connectivity in some cells but not in others. Due to their small size, little is known about the intrinsic membrane properties of layer 6 cells, however, and it is not clear whether cell morphology is related to electrophysiological properties in this layer. We used a combination of intracellular recording and dye-filling to study the electrophysiological and morphological characteristics of layer 6 cells of the rat sensorimotor cortex in vitro and compared their properties to those of large layer 5B pyramidal cells. Our sample of 24 filled and anatomically reconstructed cells in layer 6 confirms previous Golgi studies that showed them to be a morphologically diverse group consisting of regularly and irregularly oriented pyramidal cells and spiny nonpyramidal cells. Regular layer 6 pyramidal cells differed with respect to the length of their apical dendrites and extent of their axonal arborizations, while irregularly oriented pyramidal cells consisted of sideways or inverted pyramidal cells of variable size and morphology. Spiny nonpyramidal cells included bi-tufted and multi-polar cell types that differed in size and extent of dendritic trees. Many layer 6 cells showed long horizontal axon collaterals in layer 6, and an oblique or vertical projection to layer 4. Stimulation with intracellular constant current pulses revealed that the morphological diversity was mirrored by a similar electrophysiological diversity. Most layer 6 cells were capable of firing trains of action potentials characterized by an initial doublet or triplet followed by a train of single spikes (phasic-tonic mode). The majority of layer 6 cells could fire in either a tonic (single spikes only) mode with low strength current input and a phasic-tonic pattern with higher current strengths. A minority fired either always phasic-tonic or tonic-only spike trains. The size and sequence of spike afterpotentials during low-rate repetitive firing was highly variable in layer 6 cells suggesting that the relative importance of ionic currents responsible for spike repolarization and afterpotentials varied from cell to cell. Subthreshold responses showed prominent inward rectification, while hyperpolarizing &quot;sag&quot; was present in most cells tested. In comparison, large layer 5B pyramidal cells fired either phasic-tonic only or both phasic-tonic and tonic patterns. A minority of cells were capable of firing repetitive bursts, while the remainder fired repetitive single spikes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
All of the progesterone receptor-containing cells of the monkey hypothalamus are GABAergic. The aim of this study was to further characterize these GABAergic progesterone receptor-containing neurons based on their calbindin or parvalbumin content. These calcium-binding proteins are characteristic markers of different populations of GABAergic neurons in the central nervous system. Double-immunolabeling for progesterone receptor and either calbindin or parvalbumin was performed on hypothalamic Vibratome sections of estrogen primed African green monkeys (Cercopithecus aethiops). Progesterone receptor-containing calbindin-immunoreactive neurons were observed in the ventromedial and periventricular areas of the hypothalamus. Forty-one per cent of the progesterone receptor-containing cells in this area were calbindin immunopositive. No double-immunolabeled neurons could be detected in the infundibular (arcuate) nucleus. In tissue double-immunolabeled for progesterone receptor and parvalbumin, none of the progesterone receptor-containing neurons exhibited immunoreactivity for parvalbumin. Electron microscopic double-immunostaining for progesterone receptor and calbindin confirmed the light microscopic results. Furthermore, a large number of asymmetric synaptic contacts were observed on the calbindin-immunoreactive neurons. These observations demonstrate that progesterone receptor-containing cells in the monkey mediobasal hypothalamus consist of at least two different types of GABA neurons, and indicate that progesterone receptor-containing calbindin cells may be postsynaptic targets of excitatory fibers.
A human genomic clone encompassing exons 1-3 of the neurotensin/neuromedin N gene was identified using a canine neurotensin complementary DNA probe. Sequence comparisons revealed that the 120-amino acid portion of the precursor sequence encoded by exons 1-3 is 89% identical to previously determined cow and dog sequences and that the proximal 250 bp of 5' flanking sequences are strikingly conserved between rat and human. The 5' flanking sequence contains cis-regulatory sites required for the induction of neurotensin/neuromedin N gene expression in PC12 cells, including AP1 sites and two cyclic adenosine-5'-monophosphate response elements. Oligonucleotide probes based on the human sequence were used to examine the distribution of neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA in the ventral mesencephalon of schizophrenics and age- and sex-matched controls. Neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA was observed in ventral mesencephalic cells some of which also contained melanin pigment or tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA. Neurons expressing neurotensin/neuromedin N messenger RNA were observed in the ventral mesencephalon of both schizophrenic and non-schizophrenic humans.
An antiserum against basic fibroblast growth factor was characterized by immunoblot experiments and used to investigate immunohistochemically the projection fields and fine structures of basic fibroblast growth factor-containing cerebellar Purkinje cells. The antiserum demonstrated clearly purified basic fibroblast growth factor and basic fibroblast growth factor-like molecules of the same molecular weight in homogenates of the adult rat cerebellum. Light and electron microscopic immunohistochemistry revealed that a large number of Purkinje cells, if not all, send immunoreactive dendrites to the molecular layer and basic fibroblast growth factor-containing axons to the deep cerebellar and lateral vestibular nuclei, where basic fibroblast growth factor nerve terminals form synapses with the soma and dendrites of neurons labeled weakly with basic fibroblast growth factor. Nerve cells with basic fibroblast growth factor had immunoreaction deposits mainly in free ribosomes, those attached to the endoplasmic reticulum and in the nuclear euchromatin. These findings suggest that basic fibroblast growth factor is present in cerebellar Purkinje cells and undergoes two modes of transport, one to axon terminals and the other to nuclear euchromatin, known as the RNA transcription zone.
The effects of epidermal growth factor on high density primary cultures of fetal (embryonic day 17) rat septal cells were examined. Under serum-free conditions, the continuous exposure of these cultures to epidermal growth factor for seven days significantly decreased choline acetyltransferase (EC 2.3.1.6) activity in a dose-dependent manner. Maximal decreases were observed from 1 to 10 ng/ml epidermal growth factor. This effect was completely abolished by the addition of anti-epidermal growth factor antibodies. The epidermal growth factor-mediated decrease in choline acetyltransferase activity was culture-time dependent, being first detectable after five days of factor application and may likely represent an inhibition of the spontaneous increase in enzyme activity that occurs with time in culture. Concomitant with changes in enzyme activity, epidermal growth factor produced a significant and proportional decrease in the number of acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons. This decrease in acetylcholinesterase-positive cells did not reflect a decrease in cholinergic cell survival as nerve growth factor could restore the number of acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons in epidermal growth factor-treated cultures to control levels. Furthermore, in these high-density cultures, epidermal growth factor did not affect general neuronal survival, while it did produce an increase in the number and intensity of glial fibrillary acidic protein-immunoreactive astroglia as well as in the number of macrophage-like cells. The proliferative response of these non-neuronal cells to epidermal growth factor, as assessed by [3H]thymidine incorporation, was evident after three days of epidermal growth factor application, persisted thereafter, and could be antagonized by the inclusion of the antimitotic 5-fluorodeoxyuridine. Furthermore, 5-fluorodeoxyuridine completely blocked the epidermal growth factor-mediated decrease in choline acetyltransferase activity. However, when epidermal growth factor was tested in pure glial cultures, it only directly induced proliferation of astrocytes. These results suggest that the proliferative response of either one or both of these glial cell types in the mixed cultures may be indirectly affecting cholinergic cell expression.
Recent evidence has shown that activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor mediates the thermal hyperalgesia produced in a model of neuropathic pain. As the acute nociceptive effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate have been reported to be mediated through production of nitric oxide and activation of soluble guanylate cyclase, these experiments were designed to determine whether the thermal hyperalgesia produced in a rat model of neuropathic pain is also mediated through the production of nitric oxide and activation of soluble guanylate cyclase. Loose ligation of the sciatic nerve with chromic gut sutures, but not bilateral sham rats, demonstrated evidence of a marked thermal hyperalgesia on day 3 post-surgery. In bilateral sham rats, intrathecal administration of either an alternate substrate for nitric oxide synthase, NW-nitro-L-arginine methyl ester, or the soluble guanylate cyclase inhibitor, Methylene Blue, did not produce any change in thermal nociceptive withdrawal latencies. These same treatments blocked the thermal hyperalgesia in rats with chromic gut ligatures for a period of 2 and 4 h, respectively. These results suggest that a sustained production of nitric oxide and subsequent activation of soluble guanylate cyclase in the lumbar spinal cord mediate the thermal hyperalgesia produced in a model of neuropathic pain in the rat.
Endopeptidase-24.11, which is identical with the common acute lymphoblastic leukemia antigen (CALLA), is a cell surface zinc metalloprotease that has the ability to hydrolyse a variety of physiologically active peptides. Interest in this enzyme is based on the view that it may play a role in the regulation of peptide signals in different tissues, including the nervous and immune systems. We have previously shown that endopeptidase-24.11 is present in Schwann cells in the peripheral nervous system of newborn pigs [Kioussi C. and Matsas R. (1991) J. Neurochem. 57, 431-440]. In the present study we have investigated the developmental expression of the endopeptidase by Schwann cells in the rat sciatic nerve, from embryonic day 16 to maturity. Endopeptidase-24.11 was monitored enzymatically as well as by immunoblotting and immunocytochemistry using the monoclonal anti-endopeptidase antibody 23B11. We found an age-dependent decline in both the enzyme activity and the levels of immunoreactive protein. Endopeptidase-24.11 was first detected at embryonic day 18 and was present in all neonatal and early postnatal Schwann cells. However, as myelination proceeded the endopeptidase was gradually suppressed in the majority of cells that form myelin but retained in non-myelin-forming cells in the adult animal. At this stage, only very few large diameter myelinated fibers expressed weakly endopeptidase-24.11. Schwann cells dissociated from postnatal day 5 nerves and cultured up to one week in the absence of axons expressed endopeptidase-24.11. These results show that the endopeptidase has a distinct developmental profile in the rat sciatic nerve, similar to that of a group of other Schwann cell surface antigens, including the cell adhesion molecules N-CAM and L1 and the nerve growth factor receptor. We suggest that, as is the case with these antigens, endopeptidase-24.11 may play a role in nerve development and/or regeneration. In addition, persistence of endopeptidase-24.11 in a minority of adult myelin-forming Schwann cells suggests a possible role for the enzyme in axon-myelin apposition and maintenance, especially of larger diameter axons.
Hippocampal pyramidal neurons cultured in vitro gradually develop morphologically and biochemically distinct axons and dendrites, resulting in functional neuronal polarization [Dotti C. G. et al. (1988) J. Neurosci. 8, 1454-1468]. We have studied the distribution of the growth-associated protein B-50 in hippocampal neurons of the rat at stage 3 of development by means of light and electron microscopic immunocytochemistry. Hippocampal neurons grown for two to three days in vitro were aldehyde fixed and immunolabelled using polyclonal rabbit antibodies to B-50 and goat anti-rabbit immunoglobulins tagged with 1 nm gold particles. In order to permit visualization by both light and electron microscopy, the gold probes were silver intensified. Light microscopy demonstrated the absence of B-50 immunostaining in living neurons and the presence after permeabilization by fixation and subsequent treatment of the neurons with sodium borohydride, indicating that B-50 is located intracellularly. Both immunofluorescence and immunogold-silver labelling revealed that B-50 immunoreactivity outlined all neurites of the morphologically polarized neurons. For quantitative electron microscopy, six morphologically polarized neurons (developmental stage 3) were carefully selected from immunolabelled Epon-embedded neurons and processed completely to ultrathin sections. In this way the ultrastructural localization of B-50 has been studied in the cell body, the neurites and their growth cones. For each sectioned neuron, the relative distribution of the gold-silver deposits (representing B-50) over the plasma membrane of various cellular compartments was quantitated. B-50 is located at the plasma membrane of the neuronal cell body and all neurites including their growth cones. The density of B-50 on the plasma membrane of growth cones is not different from that of the neuritic shaft. In addition, B-50 is present on the cytosolic side of the membrane of small electron-lucent vesicles (average diameter 102.7 +/- 2.5 nm) resembling transport vesicles. These vesicles are present in the cell body and the neurites. A two-fold concentration is found in the central region of the growth cones, suggesting a role of these vesicles in axonal transport, membrane insertion and (or) recycling. Since, at the onset of neuronal polarization, B-50 is present at the plasma membrane in all compartments of the hippocampal neuron, we suggest that at this stage of development B-50 does not participate directly in the processes leading to morphological polarization.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of prostaglandin I2 on the discharge properties of fine articular afferents (group III and group IV fibers) in the cat were examined by extracellular recordings from single units dissected from the medial articular nerve of the knee joint. Prostaglandin I2 was applied intra-arterially close to the joint in doses of 0.3-30 micrograms per 0.3 ml bolus injection, and its effects on the spontaneous activity as well as on discharges evoked by mechanical and chemical stimulation (bradykinin) were monitored. Prostaglandin E2 was also applied and the effects of prostaglandins I2 and E2 on particular units were compared. An excitatory effect of prostaglandin I2 was observed in 49% of 37 group III and in 37% of 27 group IV units. A sensitization to passive movements of the joint occurred in 71% of 31 group III and 48% of 21 group IV units. Sixty-seven per cent of 32 units (groups III and IV) were both excited and sensitized by prostaglandin I2 to movements of 27% were sensitized but not excited. In 64% of 11 group III and 63% of eight group IV units studied the responses to bradykinin were enhanced by prostaglandin I2. Prostaglandin E2 had qualitatively similar effects as prostaglandin I2 but excited and sensitized a lower proportion of articular afferents. Forty-one per cent of the units were sensitive to both prostaglandins but 26% of the fibers were only sensitive to prostaglandin I2. None of the units was exclusively sensitive to prostaglandin E2. In general, the excitatory and sensitizing effects of prostaglandin E2 had a longer duration than those exerted by prostaglandin I2. We conclude that prostaglandin I2 increases the sensitivity to mechanical stimuli as well as to chemical stimulation by bradykinin in the majority of articular group III and group IV fibers. Moreover, in a large proportion of articular afferents, prostaglandin I2 had an excitatory effect. Thus, prostaglandin I2 may be an inflammatory mediator which is important for inflammation-evoked activity in slowly conducting afferents and it may participate in the development of arthritic hyperalgesia and pain.
Immunocytochemical technique was used to study the distribution of c-FOS protein immunoreactive cells in the spinal cord and gracile nuclei 2 h after electrical stimulation of the sciatic nerve in ketamine/xylazine/acepromazine-anesthetized adult rats. Quantitative examination of the c-fos-labeled cells in the spinal cord laminae was made in unoperated and sham operated controls, after sciatic nerve transection without electrical stimulation, and after electrical stimulation at C-fiber or A alpha/beta-fiber intensity, both in normal animals and at various survival times after chronic sciatic nerve injury (transection and ligation) or crush. Unoperated animals showed very few c-fos-labeled cells, and sham operated controls showed labeled cells located mainly outside the sciatic nerve projection territory. A small increase in number of c-fos protein positive cells was seen after sciatic nerve transection without electrical stimulation. Stimulation of the normal sciatic nerve at C-fiber intensity resulted in c-fos protein-positive cells within the sciatic projection territory in the ipsilateral dorsal horn. Labeled cells were seen in all spinal cord laminae except lamina IX, with the vast majority in lamina I and outer lamina II. No labeled cells were seen in the gracile nucleus. Stimulation at A alpha/beta fiber intensity resulted in no or only a very small number of c-fos-positive neurons. Electrical stimulation of the injured sciatic nerve at C-fiber intensity, using the uninjured contralateral side as control, resulted in significant decreases in c-fos-immunoreactive cells in lamina I plus the outer portion of lamina II at 12 and 39 days survival after injury. A non-significant decrease was seen in these laminae also after 21 days. Significant increases were seen in laminae III and IV at 21 days. Decreases in laminae V, VI and more ventral laminae were significant at 21 and 39 days after injury. At longer survival times, the difference between the normal and injured side seen weeks after injury tended to disappear. Stimulation at A alpha/beta fiber intensity 21 days after injury resulted in increases in the numbers of labeled cells in ipsilateral laminae II, III and IV and in the gracile nucleus. Sciatic nerve stimulation after crush injury resulted in more variable side differences, with tendencies for the same alterations as those noted after chronic transection-ligation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Previous studies have indicated that the basal forebrain at the level of the preoptic area contains neurons which participate in the initiation of locomotion. This study attempted to localize those neurons by mapping sites at which 25- and 50-microA stimulation (50 Hz, 0.5 ms cathodal pulses, 10-s trains) initiated hindlimb stepping. Anesthetized rats were held in a stereotaxic apparatus supported by a sling so that stepping movements rotated a wheel. Anesthesia was maintained by periodic injections of Nembutal (7 mg/kg) supplemented by lidocaine injections. Stimulation was applied through 50-70-microns diameter pipettes filled with 2 M NaCl at approximately 1600 sites in the basal forebrain, adjacent thalamus, and striatum. A circumscribed grouping of 25-microA locomotor sites, centered in the lateral preoptic area, defined the preoptic locomotor region. It extended into the ventral bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, the lateral part of the medial preoptic area, the anterior hypothalamic area, the medial and rostral parts of the ventral pallidum, medial substantia innominata, and the horizontal limb of the diagonal band. This general region is known to project to the midbrain locomotor region and the ventral tegmental area; it is proposed to initiate locomotion in service of primary motivational systems. Among the structures generally negative for locomotor sites were the dorsal and ventral striata, septal complex, bed nucleus of stria terminalis, and lateral ventral pallidum and substantia innominata. These findings indicate that low current stimulation applied to a circumscribed area centered in the lateral preoptic area produces locomotor stepping in the anesthetized rat. Whether the activated elements in this preoptic locomotor region are cells or fibers is not yet known. The degree of localization afforded by these findings indicates that the areas that are most likely to contain the mediating elements are quite limited in extent.
The distribution of calretinin-containing cells was examined by in situ hybridization histochemistry and compared with the immunohistochemical mapping of calretinin in the thalamus of the rat. Results revealed a close correspondence between the immunohistochemical localization of cell bodies and the messenger RNA label produced by the calretinin oligonucleotide probe. Calretinin cells were most prominent in the midline (paraventricular, reuniens, rhomboid) and intralaminar (central medial, paracentral) nuclei and in a group of cells along the rostral central gray which appeared continuous with the caudal extent of the midline nuclei. A subpopulation of calretinin cell bodies was also identified in the reticular nucleus. The mediorostral lateral posterior nucleus, subparafascicular, lateral geniculate and habenular nuclei also contained calretinin messenger RNA probe label. In contrast, no positive cells were found in the anterior, ventral or posterior thalamic nuclei. The distribution of calretinin cells did not correspond directly with that of other histochemical markers. Thus, the in situ hybridization histochemical and immunohistochemical results revealed calretinin as a unique identifying marker for distinct sets of thalamic neurons.
In this report we describe an interesting form of plasticity in climbing fiber responses evoked in Purkinje cells of the rabbit cerebellum by periodic vestibular stimulation. The cerebellar nodulus receives a vestibular as well as a visual climbing fiber afferent input from the contralateral inferior olive. The vestibular input to the inferior olive originates from the ipsilateral medial and descending vestibular nuclei and terminates within the beta-nucleus. This projection to the beta-nucleus from secondary vestibular neurons is GABAergic. This means that vestibularly evoked activity of neurons in the beta-nucleus is controlled by modulation of an inhibitory input, rather than by modification of an excitatory input. We have recorded the climbing fiber responses of single Purkinje cells in the uvula-nodulus (lobules 9c, 9d and 10) of rabbits and we have characterized the climbing fiber response of each Purkinje cell from which we recorded by testing its sensitivity to otolithic stimulation, semicircular canal stimulation and optokinetic stimulation. Vestibularly evoked climbing fiber responses recorded from the left nodulus were stationary. They were repeatedly evoked, for tens of minutes, by sinusoidally rotating the rabbit about the longitudinal axis onto its left side (Fig. 1B). When the vestibular stimulus was stopped the discharge of these climbing fiber responses returned to non-periodic spontaneous levels. However, the vestibularly evoked climbing fiber discharge of approximately 5% of Purkinje cells was not stationary.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
A monoclonal antibody, BM89, obtained with Triton X-114-treated pig synaptic membranes as an immunogen, recognizes a neuronal antigen in the newborn porcine nervous system. By immunohistochemistry, BM89 staining was observed within the neuropil of all areas of the forebrain and spinal cord tested. In addition, BM89 labeled the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of spinal cord neurons. In the peripheral nervous system, BM89 immunoreactivity was present in a subpopulation of dorsal root ganglion neurons and was predominantly associated with non-myelinated axons in peripheral nerves. Initial biochemical characterization of the antigen in pig brain showed that it is an integral membrane glycoprotein with a molecular weight of 41,000. Moreover, it cross-reacts with the L2/HNK-1 carbohydrate epitope expressed by members of a large family of glycoproteins. Homologous antigens with molecular weights of 41,000-43,000 were identified in the rat, rabbit and fetal human brain. Immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry revealed that the epitope recognized by BM89 is developmentally regulated in the rat nervous system. In cryostat sections from rat cerebellum, spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia, an age-dependent decline of BM89 immunoreactivity was observed during postnatal development. In the cerebellum, the BM89 epitope was very abundant in cells of the external and the internal granular layers between postnatal days 5 and 15. During this period some staining was also identified in the developing molecular layer and the prospective white matter. Subsequently, and in the adult, overall staining was greatly reduced and remaining immunoreactivity was associated only with the internal granular layer. In the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia, staining was very prominent at postnatal day 5; it decreased considerably thereafter and was barely detectable in the adult. Immunostaining of rat brain and dorsal root ganglion cultures revealed that the BM89 antigen is a cell surface molecule expressed by a subpopulation of central and peripheral nervous system neurons. The biochemical properties in conjunction with the topographical location and the developmental profile of the antigen recognized by BM89 suggest that it may represent a developmentally important recognition molecule.
The present study was undertaken to quantify selected neuropeptides (thyrotropin releasing hormone, substance P, methionine and leucine enkephalin) in the cervical spinal cord and other regions of the central nervous system of Wobbler mice by radioimmunoassays during several stages of the motoneuron disease compared with age- and sex-matched normal phenotype littermates. In Wobbler spinal cord, thyrotropin releasing hormone is higher early in the disease, whereas in the brainstem it is higher at a later stage. Substance P in spinal cord is also higher late in the disease. Leucine enkephalin levels are greater at all stages in diseased spinal cord and brainstem, but methionine enkephalin increases only late in the disease. Highly significant increases of the peptides (except thyrotropin releasing hormone) appear in hypothalamus and midbrain only late in the motoneuron disease. Regression analyses show that thyrotropin releasing hormone in spinal cord and brainstem decreases normally with age in the control mice and at a faster rate related to the extent of motor impairment in Wobbler mice. Thyrotropin releasing hormone and methionine enkephalin in the Wobbler brainstem correlate (P less than 0.05) with the progress of the motoneuron disease. Methionine enkephalin increases faster in Wobbler brainstem and decreases faster in control spinal cord with age. The increase of leucine enkephalin in the Wobbler spinal cord correlates significantly with age and with the progress of the disease, but leucine enkephalin declines slightly with age in the controls. The changes of substance P in spinal cord and brainstem do not correlate significantly with the progress of the disease. In the hypothalamus, increasing values for substance P in control specimens and enkephalins in Wobbler specimens are significantly correlated with age. However, in the midbrain, higher methionine and leucine enkephalin levels are significantly associated with age only in the control mice. Alterations of neuropeptides in the Wobbler mouse spinal cord and brainstem may result from the degeneration of bulbospinal raphe neurons projecting to the ventral spinal cord, or from primary afferent or interneuronal nerve terminals. The data imply that the neuronal degeneration process in the Wobbler motoneuron disease is not limited to motoneurons. In the spinal cord, the data support our previous hypothesis that neuronal sprouting presynaptic to the motoneurons may account for increased neuropeptide concentrations. Alternatively, synthesis and/or degradation of these peptides may be altered. In addition, it is proposed that enkephalinergic neurons may develop abnormally in Wobbler mice. The early increase of leucine enkephalin in the Wobbler spinal cord possibly indicates its importance in the etiology of the motoneuron disease.
The somatodendritic morphology of projection neurons in the shell and core of the rat nucleus accumbens was studied. These cells were retrogradely labelled with Fast Blue from the ventral mesencephalon (substantia nigra/ventral tegmental area) and subsequently injected intracellularly with Lucifer Yellow and processed immunocytochemically. Digitized reconstructions revealed that the cell bodies of neurons located throughout the nucleus are small-to-medium in size. Neurons in the shell have significantly fewer dendritic arbours with fewer branch segments, fewer terminal segments, and lower spine densities than those in the core. Values for the same parameters are significantly greater for cells in lateral than in medial parts of the shell but the same for neurons located within and without enkephalin enriched parts of the core, with an exception of spine density being significantly greater in the enkephalin-rich compartment. Calculations based on these data reveal that neurons in the core have as much as 50% more surface area than those in the shell, which suggests that core neurons have a greater potential for collecting synaptic information than have shell cells. Furthermore, the differential distribution and action of various neurochemicals such as dopamine in the shell and core, supports the idea that different morphologies reflect the presence of distinct neuronal circuits in these two territories.
When human divers or experimental animals are exposed to high pressure, they develop the high-pressure neurological syndrome which is characterized by electroencephalographic changes, and behavioral disturbances. Recently, neurochemical disorders such as a pressure-induced increase in dopamine release have been demonstrated. In the present study, pharmacological experiments, using dopamine receptor agonists such as D1 receptor agonist SKF 38393, D2 receptor agonist LY 171555, and D1/D2 receptor agonist apomorphine, were performed to investigate dopamine receptor function at the neurochemical level. Only apomorphine and mixed SKF 38393 + LY 171555 prevented the pressure-induced increase in dopamine release while SKF 38393 or LY 171555 administered alone failed to do so. The results suggest that the D1-D2 link would be reduced under high pressure because of an abnormal function of D1 receptors which would allow high-affinity D2 states for dopamine. If so, such a preponderance of high-affinity states in D2 postsynaptic receptors could be associated with hyperbaric hyperlocomotor activity. Elsewhere, results also suggested that the pressure-induced disorders in dopamine receptor function could be involved in the pressure-induced elevation in dopamine release.
The neurochemical identity of preoptic neurons containing oestrogen receptors was investigated in the male and female rat using a sequential double-staining immunocytochemistry procedure. Single-immunostaining revealed large populations of cells with nuclear immunoreactivity to the oestrogen receptor in the medial preoptic area of the male and female rat. Optimal double-staining of sections for the oestrogen receptor and one of several neuropeptides or tyrosine hydroxylase, was achieved with short-term (two- to four-day) gonadectomized rats treated with colchicine where necessary. Neurotensin-immunoreactive cells were distributed in a sexually dimorphic manner in the region of the anteroventral preoptic nucleus and exhibited oestrogen receptor immunoreactivity in both sexes. Double-labelled cells in this area of the female rat comprised 50% and 11% of the total neurotensin- and oestrogen receptor-containing cell populations, respectively, compared with 25% and 4% in the male (P less than 0.01). The numbers of neurotensin-immunoreactive cells in the region of the medial preoptic nucleus were similar in male and female rats with double-labelled cells making up 20-38% and 3-5% of the total numbers of cells containing neurotensin and oestrogen receptors, respectively, in both sexes. Neurons immunoreactive for tyrosine hydroxylase were distributed in a gender-specific manner within the anterior periventricular area but were not immunoreactive for the oestrogen receptor in either sex. Following colchicine treatment, cholecystokinin-immunoreactive cells were identified predominantly within periventricular regions of the preoptic area and similarly, did not possess immunoreactivity to the oestrogen receptor in either the male or the female rat. Neurons containing luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone were found immediately lateral to the cell populations containing oestrogen receptors and immunoreactivity to the oestrogen receptor was not identified within any neurons containing luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone in either the male or female rat. The absence of oestrogen receptor immunoreactivity in neurons containing tyrosine hydroxylase, cholecystokinin or luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone suggests that gonadal steroids acting through this receptor do not influence these cells directly in either sex. In particular, it appears that gender-specific patterns of luteinizing hormone secretion cannot be attributed to sex differences in oestrogen receptor localization within luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone neurons. These experiments also show that the sexually dimorphic neurotensin neurons in the preoptic area possess oestrogen receptors and that female rats have larger number of neurons co-localizing neurotensin and oestrogen receptors. As such, these neurons may be involved in mediating sex-specific actions of the gonadal steroids in the preoptic area.
Through inhibition of reuptake, cocaine increases monoaminergic tone in the central nervous system. The activities of the neurons within the locus coeruleus play a pivotal role in central noradrenergic transmission and regulate overall levels of arousal and attention. We have found that cocaine in low concentrations (0.3-1.0 microM) induced slow oscillations (0.8 Hz) in membrane potential (2-6 mV). These oscillations were synchronized in neurons throughout the nucleus and were blocked by alpha 2-adrenergic receptor antagonists. The synchrony of these events was thought to arise from within the nucleus, through a combination of spontaneous activity (intrinsic properties) and noradrenergic mediated inhibitory postsynaptic potentials augmented by cocaine. The synchronous firing of noradrenergic neurons may facilitate transmitter release in the widespread projection areas and thus be important for the action of cocaine to increase levels of arousal.
Recent evidence suggests that repeated stimulation of D1 dopamine receptors within the rat striatum leads to an enhancement of both D1 and D2 dopamine receptor-mediated responses. The present study used both behavioral observations and extracellular single unit recording techniques to investigate this phenomenon following repeated administration of selective D1 dopamine receptor agonists. Groups of rats received twice daily administration of either saline or the partial D1 dopamine receptor agonist SKF 38393 (8 mg/kg, s.c.) for three weeks. Rats were tolerant to the ability of SKF 38393 to enhance grooming behavior when tested immediately following the last of the 42 treatment injections. However, the ability of this last SKF 38393 injection to potentiate oral stereotyped behavior following administration of the D2 DA agonist quinpirole was still evident. Following a one-day withdrawal, grooming responses to SKF 38393 had returned to normal. At this time, administration of quinpirole, without concomitant SKF 38393, failed to significantly promote oral stereotypies, as is typical of normal rats. Following a one-week withdrawal period, SKF 38393-induced grooming behavior was significantly enhanced and quinpirole, administered without SKF 38393, produced pronounced oral stereotyped behavior in 10 of 12 rats tested. Following a one-month withdrawal, these sensitized responses were no longer evident. Single-cell recordings from rat lateral striatal neurons revealed similar time-dependent alterations in the effects of iontophoretically administered SKF 38393 and quinpirole. Current-response curves revealed that, without a withdrawal period, striatal neurons were subsensitive to the inhibitory effects of SKF 38393 but not quinpirole. The decreased inhibitory responses of striatal neurons to SKF 38393 returned to normal levels after a one-day withdrawal. Following a one-week withdrawal, the effects of both agonists were significantly greater than that in saline-treated controls. Normosensitivity was evident following a one-month withdrawal. Repeated administration of the full D1 DA agonist SKF 81297 (0.5 mg/kg, s.c., twice daily) also resulted in sensitized responses of striatal neurons following a one-week withdrawal, demonstrating that the sensitization to SKF 38393 was not due to its partial agonist character. The present findings provide both behavioral and electrophysiological evidence that repeated stimulation of D1 dopamine receptors results in a brief subsensitivity, followed by transient sensitization of the D1 receptors. The enhanced effects of D2 dopamine agonists might be due to an enhanced synergism (enabling) produced by endogenous dopamine stimulating supersensitive D1 receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Pharmacological studies have shown that both cholinergic and dopaminergic transmitter systems are crucial for optimal choice accuracy in the radial-arm maze and that these systems interact in a complex fashion. Lesion studies have provided evidence that the basal nuclear complex of the forebrain, the origin of cholinergic projections to the cerebral mantle, may be critical for the cholinergic modulation of learning and memory. We have shown that knife-cut lesions of the medial cholinergic pathway significantly impair radial-arm maze choice accuracy performance. The current study examined the effectiveness of D1 and D2 ligands in counteracting this lesion-induced deficit. The adverse effects of medial cholinergic pathway lesions were diminished or reversed by daily treatment with a D1 agonist (SKF 38393), a D2 agonist (LY 171555) or a D1 antagonist (SCH 23390), but were not affected by treatment with a D2 antagonist (raclopride). The three beneficial treatments have previously been found to attenuate the adverse effects of nictonic or muscarinic blockade on choice accuracy performance in the radial-arm maze. The finding that these dopaminergic drugs ameliorate the memory deficit caused by lesions involving the cholinergic medial pathway suggests the importance of interactions between cholinergic and dopaminergic systems in radial-arm maze performance. These results may provide leads for the development of novel therapeutic approaches for treating human disorders thought to result from cholinergic hypofunction.
It has recently been demonstrated that alpha-bungarotoxin receptors, which behave as functional nicotinic receptors, are present in chick CNS. In this paper, we report the purification and characterization of a functional alpha-bungarotoxin receptor from chick cerebellum, a nervous tissue in which a clear inhibition of induced nicotine effects has been reported in vivo. This receptor contains at least three subunits of apparent mol. wt 52,000, 57,000 and 67,000. The use of monoclonal antibodies specific for the alpha 7 subunit demonstrated that 75% of the molecules present in our purified preparation belong to the alpha 7 subtype and that this antibody labels the 57,000 band in western blot, thus indicating that this is the toxin binding subunit. Reconstruction experiments in planar lipid bilayers show that this alpha-bungarotoxin receptor forms a cation selective channel whose opening is blocked by d-tubocurarine. Binding experiments on immobilized receptors over an alpha-bungarotoxin-Sepharose affinity column show that the ligand binding subunit is present in vivo in two copies per receptor. Immunological, pharmacological and functional experiments show that this purified receptor is very similar, but not identical, to the previously characterized chick optic lobe receptor, thus indicating the heterogeneity of these alpha-bungarotoxin receptors in the CNS.
Sulphur-containing excitatory amino acid transmitter candidates (500 microM) stimulated the Ca(2+)-independent efflux of exogenously-supplied D-[3H]aspartate from primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells superfused continuously with HEPES-buffered saline containing CoCl2 (1 mM) in place of CaCl2. The stimulated release of D-[3H]aspartate was markedly attenuated by 200 microM 6,7-dinitroquinoxalinedione, a concentration at which the antagonist inhibits both non-N-methyl-D-aspartate and N-methyl-D-aspartate ionotropic excitatory amino acid receptors. The Ca(2+)-independent component of evoked release was also markedly attenuated and, in some cases, abolished by removing NaCl from the superfusion medium. Furthermore, when 700 microM dihydrokainate (demonstrated herein as a mixed/non-competitive inhibitor of the high-affinity dicarboxylic amino acid transporter in cultured granule cells) was included in the superfusion medium, stimulated efflux of D-[3H]aspartate was reduced by between 15-78% of the control response; the extent of inhibition varying with the agonist employed. In constrast, agents which act as competitive inhibitors of the plasma membrane carrier in granule cells, e.g. beta-methylene-D,L-aspartate, potentiated the release of D-[3H]aspartate in a synergistic manner. Taken together, these findings are consistent with a mechanism for the Ca(2+)-independent release of D-[3H]aspartate that is mediated predominantly by activation of excitatory amino acid receptors resulting in a reversal of the high-affinity dicarboxylic amino acid transport system. Although the physiological relevance of such non-vesicular release from the cytosol remains obscure and is still a matter of some debate, this mode of release may be of pathological significance.
Extracellularly applied Pb2+ (1-150 microM) induced an outward current (IPb) in intracellularly perfused snail neurons. The current-voltage relationship of the Pb(2+)-induced current was linear over the potential range of -100 to -40 mV with negative slope conductance. The Pb-induced current was strongly dependent on the Na+ gradient. The IPb in intra- or extracellular K+- and Cl(-)-free or -rich solutions was almost the same as in control external and internal salines. The negative slope of the I-V curve and the decreased conductivity during Pb2+ application suggested that IPb is owing to the blocking of the resting Na conductance. Data obtained from single-channel measurements also supported this conclusion. Patch-clamp data showed that the steady-state Na channel has a conductance of 14 pS and both closed and open time-distributions displayed single exponential character.
The release of endogenous ATP and [3H]noradrenaline, and the mechanical response of the guinea-pig vas deferens to field stimulation of its motor nerves were examined using a perfusion system. The release of ATP at rest was 0.83 +/- 0.13 pmol/g per min, and ATP released by field stimulation (8 Hz, 480 shocks) was 5.47 +/- 1.23 pmol/g. The evoked release was completely inhibited when Ca2+ was removed and 1 mM EGTA was added, or by 1 microM tetrodotoxin. The release of ATP and [3H]noradrenaline in response to field stimulation was constant with an S2/S1 ratio of 1.10 +/- 0.11 for ATP and 0.92 +/- 0.03 for [3H]noradrenaline, respectively (where S1 and S2 are stimulation periods). Prazosin (1 microM), a potent alpha 1-adrenoceptor antagonist, significantly reduced the stimulation-evoked release of ATP by 75% and significantly reduced both mechanical twitch and tonic responses, but enhanced the release of [3H]noradrenaline. This finding indicates that there is an alpha 1-adrenoceptor-mediated release of endogenous ATP. However, the prazosin-insensitive portion of ATP release (25%) is considered to be of presynaptic origin. The stimulation of alpha 1-adrenoceptors by 1-noradrenaline or methoxamine in concentrations ranging from 10 to 100 microM resulted in a concentration-dependent release of ATP and a biphasic contraction of the vas deferens: a twitch response was followed by a tonic contraction. Prazosin (1 microM) completely prevented the effect of 1-noradrenaline or methoxamine on both ATP release and mechanical response. When Ca2+ was omitted and EGTA (1 mM) was added, 1-noradrenaline was still able to release ATP but failed to produce contraction. Nifedipine, a Ca-channel and ATP receptor antagonist, reduced the twitch contraction and enhanced the release of ATP from muscle in response to noradrenaline administration. This finding indicates that the release of ATP from the muscle is not linked to mechanical contraction. When the vas deferens was made deficient in noradrenaline by 6-hydroxydopamine pretreatment (100 + 250 mg/kg, i.p.), electrical field stimulation failed to release [3H]noradrenaline and ATP. Under these conditions, exogenous 1-noradrenaline was much more effective in releasing ATP from the smooth muscle, and producing twitch responses, followed by a tonic contraction. After reserpine pretreatment (2 x 5 mg/kg, i.p.), the field stimulation-evoked release of ATP and both phases of contraction were markedly reduced.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
At an identified neuro-neuronal synapse of Aplysia, 2,5-diterbutyl 1,4-benzohydroquinone, a selective blocker of the reticulum Ca2+ pump, was found to potentiate evoked quantal release of acetylcholine through an increased accumulation of Ca2+ in the presynaptic neuron during depolarization without any accompanying changes in the presynaptic Ca2+ current. We conclude that a rapid Ca2+ buffering system, similar to that associated with the endoplasmic reticulum, must be present in the nerve terminal and play a role in the control of Ca2+ which reaches the release system.
The regional, cellular and subcellular distribution of GABAA/benzodiazepine receptors was investigated by light and electron microscopy in the rat substantia nigra. The regional distribution and density of GABAA/benzodiazepine receptor subtypes (Type I and II) was studied using quantitative receptor autoradiography following in vitro labelling of cryostat sections with tritiated ligands. This was followed by a detailed study of the cellular and subcellular distribution and localization of GABAA/benzodiazepine receptors by light and electron microscopy using immunohistochemical techniques with a monoclonal antibody (bd-17) to the beta 2,3 subunits of the GABAA/benzodiazepine receptor complex. Finally, in situ hybridization histochemistry using 35S-labelled oligonucleotide probes was used to demonstrate the cellular distribution of mRNA for the alpha 1 and alpha 2 GABAA receptor subunits in the substantia nigra. The results of the autoradiographic and immunohistochemical studies showed a close correspondence in the regional distribution of GABAA/benzodiazepine receptors in the substantia nigra. A moderate-to-high density of receptors was present throughout the full extent of the substantia nigra pars reticulata with a very low density of receptors in the substantia nigra pars compacta. Quantitative autoradiographic studies showed that: (i) the pars reticulata contained mainly central Type I receptors; (ii) the highest density of receptors was present in the caudal pars reticulata (200 +/- 38 fmol/mg) with successively lower densities of receptors in the middle (176 +/- 31 fmol/mg) and rostral (150 +/- 26 fmol/mg) levels of the pars reticulata; and (iii) the density of receptors in the pars reticulata was reduced by 34% following 6-hydroxydopamine-induced degeneration of dopaminergic pars compacta neurons. At the cellular level, GABAA/benzodiazepine receptor immunoreactivity was localized in a punctate fashion on dendrites and neuronal cell bodies in the pars reticulata. At the subcellular level, GABAA/benzodiazepine receptor immunoreactivity was associated with the pre- and postsynaptic membranes of axodendritic synaptic complexes along the length of small-to-large sized smooth dendrites in the pars reticulata. Two types of immunoreactive axodendritic synaptic complexes were identified: most (about 80%) immunopositive synapses showed equal staining of the pre- and postsynaptic membranes and were associated with small (less than 1.0 micron) axon terminals containing few mitochondria and small, round-to-pleomorphic vesicles in synaptic contact with small, peripheral dendrites; less frequently (about 20%) immunopositive synapses showed a marked immunoreactive thickening of the postsynaptic membrane and were associated with large (greater than 1.0 micron) axon terminals containing numerous mitochondria and mainly pleomorphic vesicles in synaptic contact with large mainstem dendrites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Double-label immunocytochemistry has been employed to elucidate the chemical nature of the afferent neuronal projections to the estrogen receptor-containing neurons located in the medial preoptic area of the rat brain. To ensure a clear separation of the immunolabelled afferent profiles from the estrogen receptors, the former were visualized first and the diaminobenzidine reaction product was silver-gold intensified. Using a monoclonal antibody raised against purified human estrogen receptors, we observed an intense nuclear immunoreactivity in Vibratome, semithin and ultrathin sections. Neuropeptide-Y, serotonin-, phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase- and adrenocorticotrophin-immunoreactive axons and varicosities were observed in close apposition to the estrogen receptor-positive cells. At the ultrastructural level, neuropeptide-Y-immunoreactive boutons were seen in synaptic contact with cells showing estrogen receptor immunoreactivity in their nucleus. These results indicate that neurons located in the medial preoptic area, one of the principal sites for the control of female reproductive function, may be influenced by both estrogen and neurotransmitters/neuropeptides via, respectively, nuclear receptors and synaptic contacts.
Quantitative receptor autoradiography was used to examine the density and distribution of [3H]kainic acid and [3H]alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) binding sites in the hippocampal formation and parahippocampal gyrus obtained at autopsy from 10 Alzheimer's disease and eight normal control individuals. In control and Alzheimer's disease individuals, [3H]kainic acid saturation binding analysis in the outer molecular layer of the dentate gyrus fitted a single-site model. Added calcium ions did not alter the density of [3H]kainic acid binding in the human tissues. These results suggest that calcium-sensitive high-affinity kainic acid binding sites are not present in the human brain in contrast to kainic acid receptors in the rat brain. [3H]AMPA binding was also slightly different in the human brain as compared to the rat, being greatest in the inner third as compared to the outer two-thirds of the dentate gyrus molecular layer. In both control and Alzheimer's disease individuals, [3H]kainic acid and [3H]AMPA binding densities were similar at anterior and posterior levels of the hippocampal formation. In Alzheimer's disease patients, there was a significant increase in [3H]AMPA binding in the infragranular layer. In some, but not all Alzheimer's disease patients, there was an increase in [3H]kainic acid binding densities in the outer half of the dentate gyrus molecular layer. The same individuals which exhibited an increase in [3H]kainic acid binding in the outer molecular layer also displayed increased [3H]AMPA binding in the hilar region. Similar alterations in [3H]kainic acid binding have been observed in rats which had received fimbria-fornix lesions, a model of chronic epilepsy and in individuals with temporal lobe epilepsy. Advanced Alzheimer's disease patients are at risk of developing seizures. The results suggest that several factors including cortical and subcortical pathology and seizure activity may contribute to the alterations in [3H]kainic acid and [3H]AMPA binding observed in the hippocampal formation in Alzheimer's disease.
The primary amino acid sequences of the kainate binding proteins from the amphibian and avian central nervous systems are homologous with the functional alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate receptors that have been cloned from rat brain. In this study, we have analysed the anatomical and subcellular distribution of the alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate receptors in the rat hippocampus and cerebellum, using a monoclonal antibody that was raised against a kainate binding protein purified from frog brain. Immunoblots of rat hippocampus and cerebellum, and membranes from COS cells transfected with rat brain alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate receptor cDNAs (GluR1, GluR2, or GluR3) showed a major immunoreactive band migrating at a relative molecular weight of 107,000. In the cerebellum, an additional immunoreactive protein of approximately 128,000 mol. wt was also seen on immunoblots probed with the antibody. The distribution of this protein is apparently restricted to the cerebellum since the 128,000 mol. wt band was not present in other brain areas examined. The identity of the 128,000 mol. wt cerebellar protein is not known. Immunocytochemical analyses of the hippocampus demonstrated that alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate receptor subunits are present in the cell bodies and dendrites of pyramidal cells. The granule cells were also immunostained. All of the pyramidal cell subfields were heavily labeled. In the pyramidal cell bodies, a high level of immunoreactivity was observed throughout the cytoplasm. In the cerebellum, the Purkinje cell bodies and dendrites also displayed very high levels of immunoreactivity. In addition to the Purkinje neurons, the Bergmann glia and some Golgi neurons were clearly immunostained. Subcellular fractionation and lesioning experiments using the excitotoxin domoic acid indicated that the alpha-amino-3-hydroxyl-5-methyl-isoxazole-4-propionate receptor subunits were associated with postsynaptic membranes. Direct visualization of the immunoreactivity using electron microscopy confirmed the postsynaptic localization of the staining in the dendritic areas in both the hippocampus and the cerebellum. Thus, unlike the kainate binding proteins, which are found primarily extrasynaptically in the frog and on glial cells in the chicken cerebellum, the GluR1, GluR2, and GluR3 receptor subunits are localized to the postsynaptic membrane in the dendrites of neurons in the rat central nervous system.
The afferent connections of the parvocellular reticular formation were systematically investigated in the rat with the aid of retrograde and anterograde horseradish peroxidase tracer techniques. The results indicate that the parvocellular reticular formation receives its main input from several territories of the cerebral cortex (namely the first motor, primary somatosensory and granular insular areas), districts of the reticular formation (including its contralateral counterpart, the intermediate reticular nucleus, the nucleus of Probst's bundle, the dorsal paragigantocellular nucleus, the alpha part of the gigantocellular reticular nucleus, the dorsal and ventral reticular nuclei of the medulla, and the mesencephalic reticular formation), the supratrigeminal nucleus and the deep cerebellar nuclei. Moderate to substantial input to the parvocellular reticular formation appears to come from the central amygdaloid nucleus, the parvocellular division of the red nucleus, and the orofacial and gustatory sensory cell groups (comprising the mesencephalic, principal and spinal trigeminal nuclei, and the rostral part of the nucleus of the solitary tract), whereas many other structures, including the substantia innominata, the field H2 of Forel, hypothalamic nuclei, the superior colliculus, the substantia nigra pars reticulata, the retrorubral field and the parabrachial complex, seem to represent relatively modest additional input sources. Some of these projections appear to be topographically distributed within the parvocellular reticular formation. From the present results it appears that the parvocellular reticular formation receives afferents from a restricted group of sensory structures. This finding calls into question the traditional characterization of the parvocellular reticular formation as an intermediate link between the sensory nuclei of the cranial nerves and the medial magnocellular reticular districts, identified as the effector components of the reticular apparatus. Some of the possible physiological correlates of the fiber connections of the parvocellular reticular formation in the context of oral motor behaviors, autonomic regulations, respiratory phenomena and sleep-waking mechanisms are briefly discussed.
A dopaminergic projection from the ventral tegmental area to the ventral pallidum was identified in the rat using anterograde tract tracing and combined retrograde tracing-immunocytochemistry. The projection was found to be topographically organized such that fibers innervating the ventromedial ventral pallidum arose from neurons located along the midline nuclei of the ventral mesencephalon, including the nucleus interfascicularis and nucleus linearis caudalis. Ventral tegmental neurons situated more laterally, in the nucleus parabrachialis pigmentosus and nucleus paranigralis, projected to the ventromedial and dorsolateral ventral pallidum. The substantia nigra did not supply a major contribution to this projection. The proportion of ventral tegmental area dopaminergic neurons projecting to the ventral pallidum ranged from approximately 30% to 60%. The functional significance of the projection is indicated since intra-ventral pallidum microinjections of dopamine elicited a dose-dependent increase in locomotor activity. Furthermore, whereas pretreatment of the ventral pallidum with the GABAA agonist muscimol has been shown to attenuate opioid-induced locomotor activity elicited from the ventral pallidum, it did not attenuate the dopamine-induced motor response. Thus, while mu-opioids in the ventral pallidum may presynaptically regulate GABAergic efferents from the nucleus accumbens, it appears that the dopaminergic input directly influences the ventral pallidal output neuron which is involved in locomotion.
Whole-cell recordings were made from neurons of the rat locus coeruleus in a tissue slice removed from rat brain. Substance P caused an inward current in cells voltage-clamped at -60 mV. The effect of substance P was concentration-dependent (30 nM-3 microM) and was mimicked by similar concentrations of substance K and neuromedin K. The inward current resulted predominantly from an increase in membrane cation conductance; in potassium-free solutions it reversed polarity at about 12 mV. Substance P also reduced the conductance of an inwardly rectifying potassium current; this action was studied with low external sodium concentration. It is concluded that substance P excites rat locus coeruleus neurons by activating an intracellular transduction pathway leading to both cation conductance increase and potassium conductance decrease.
We previously demonstrated the existence of a retrograde axonal transport of radioactivity to the substantia nigra pars compacta following injection of mono-iodinated neurotensin in rat neostriatum. In the present study, the topographical and cellular distribution of this retrogradely transported material was examined by light and electron microscopic autoradiography. Four and a half hours after unilateral injection of [125I]neurotensin in the caudoputamen, retrogradely labelled neuronal cell bodies were detected by light microscopic autoradiography throughout the ipsilateral substantia nigra pars compacta as well as within the ventral tegmental area and retrorubral field. In semithin sections, silver grains were prevalent over the perinuclear cytoplasm of neuronal cell bodies but were also detected over neuronal nuclei. Analysis of electron microscopic autoradiographs revealed that the vast majority (greater than 85%) were associated with neuronal perikarya, unmyelinated and myelinated axons, dendrites and terminals. Within the soma, a significant proportion of silver grains (16% of somatic grains) was detected over the nucleus. However, the majority were identified over the cytoplasm where they often encompassed cytoplasmic organelles, including rough endoplasmic reticulum, mitochondria, Golgi apparatus, lysosomes, and multi-vesicular bodies. In dendrites and axons, a substantial percentage of silver grains (63-89%) was localized over the plasma membrane. A minor proportion (13% of total) of the autoradiographic labelling was detected over myelin sheaths, astrocytes, and oligodendrocytes. The present results are consistent with previous light-microscopic evidence for internalization and retrograde transport of intrastriatal neurotensin within nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons. They further suggest that retrogradely transported neurotensin may be processed along a variety of intracellular pathways including those mediating degradation in lysosomes and recycling in rough endoplasmic reticulum. The detection of specific autoradiographic labelling in the nucleus supports the concept that neurotensin alone, or complexed to its receptor, might be involved in the regulation of gene expression through direct or indirect interactions with nuclear DNA. Consequently, the retrograde transport of neurotensin in nigrostriatal dopaminergic neurons might provide a vehicle through which events occurring at the level of the axon terminal may initiate long-term biological responses.
To elucidate the pathogenesis of Leigh encephalopathy, histologic, biochemical, and mitochondrial DNA analyses were performed on biopsied muscles from 33 patients with the clinical characteristics of this disorder. On muscle histochemistry, cytochrome c oxidase activity was decreased or absent in 7 patients (21%), although none had ragged-red fibers. In 2 patients with cytochrome c oxidase deficiency, staining for this enzyme was poor in the muscle fibers and fibroblasts but was normal in the arterial wall, indicating tissue-specific involvement. Ten patients (30%) had biochemical defects, including 2 with pyruvate dehydrogenase complex, 4 with cytochrome c oxidase, 1 with NADH-cytochrome c reductase (complex I), and 3 with multiple complex deficiencies. None of the 28 patients in whom muscle mitochondrial (mt)DNA was analyzed had DNA deletions or point mutation at nucleotide positions 3,243 or 8,344. These results indicate that the underlying defect in Leigh encephalopathy is heterogeneous because only 30% of patients had enzyme defects demonstrable in muscle biopsy material.
Little is known about the extracellular factors that determine a cell's responsiveness to neurotransmitters. This is a particularly important issue for pharmacologically diverse cell types such as neurons and smooth muscle. This report demonstrates that the contractile responses of amniotic smooth muscle to a specific neuropeptide, substance P, is controlled by a molecule(s) intimately associated with the extracellular basement membrane. This molecule(s) normally represses the expression of substance P responsiveness in this tissue. When the amniotic smooth muscle is separated from the basement membrane by dissociation, normally unresponsive cells exhibit a progressive increase in responsiveness to substance P, beginning within the first 24 hr in culture. The induction of substance P responses was completely inhibited when the cells were plated onto isolated amniotic basement membrane rather than onto polyornithine or collagen I. Similar changes in the responsiveness to another agonist, histamine, did not occur. The data demonstrate that extracellular matrix exerts a major instructive influence in determining the responsiveness of avian amniotic smooth muscle to specific ligands. We suggest that similar regulatory mechanisms may operate in other tissues.
Patients with schizophrenia demonstrate a variety of attentional impairments which have proven difficult to relate to specific neural systems. Posner et al. (1988) reported an asymmetric slowing of right visual field orienting in schizophrenia similar to that observed in patients with parietal lesions. We examined the visual orienting performance of 19 patients and controls using two different versions of the Posner paradigm. In overall ANOVAs we found main effects of group, cue condition, and delay interval. However, we did not observe any main effect of visual field or interactions involving visual field. There was some evidence of an asymmetric cost of invalid cues similar to those reported by Posner et al. The bulk of data suggests bilateral attentional deficits.

In the 1980s, numerous studies demonstrated neuropathologic changes in schizophrenia. Increased ventricle-brain ratios in schizophrenics have been reported. Birth-related trauma coupled with a genetic predisposition may be involved in the increased ventricle-brain ratios and in the development of some forms of the illness. Probable embryogenic anomalies in the hippocampus and other informational processing centers seem involved.
Previous studies have demonstrated that para-substituted WIN 35,065-2 analogs of cocaine show high binding affinity for dopamine uptake sites both in vitro and in vivo, and inhibit DA uptake in vitro. These analogs also produce potent cocaine-like behavioral effects in various procedures. The purpose of the present studies was to evaluate the iodinated WIN 35,065-2 analog [125I]RTI-55 as an in vivo ligand for the DA transporter. Following intravenous injection in mice, [125I]RTI-55 showed highest accumulation in areas with high densities of dopamine uptake sites. Light microscopic autoradiography was used to examine binding with higher resolution. Displacement studies demonstrated that [125I]RTI-55 binding in dopamine containing regions, striatum and olfactory tubercles, was saturable and inhibited by other cocaine analogs. GBR 12909 and WIN 35,428 significantly inhibited [125I]RTI-55 binding in striatum, while paroxetine significantly inhibited hypothalamic binding but had little effect in striatum. The latter finding suggests that [125I]RTI-55 also binds to the serotonin transporter. Haloperidol had no effect on [125I]RTI-55 binding in any brain region measured. In addition, treatment of animals with the dopamine neurotoxin MPTP caused significant reductions in striatal [125I]RTI-55 binding. The results of these studies indicate that [125I]RTI-55 binds primarily to the dopamine transporter in the mouse striatum in vivo.
RTI-55 (3 beta-(4-iodophenyl)tropan-2 beta-carboxylic acid methyl ester), one of the most potent inhibitors of dopamine uptake reported to date, was radioiodinated and tested as a probe for the cocaine receptor in Sprague-Dawley rat brain. Saturation and kinetic studies in the striatum revealed that [125I]RTI-55 bound to both a high- and low-affinity site. The Kd for the high-affinity site was 0.2 nM, while the Kd for the low-affinity site was 5.8 nM. The corresponding number of binding sites in the striatum was 37 and 415 pmol/g protein. The pharmacological profile of specific [125I]RTI-55 binding in the striatum was consistent with that of the dopamine transporter. Additionally, [125I]RTI-55 was found to bind with high affinity to the cerebral cortex. Scatchard analysis revealed a single high-affinity component of 0.2 nM with a density of 2.5 pmol/g protein. The pharmacological profile demonstrated by [125I]RTI-55 in the cerebral cortex matched that of the serotonin transporter. Autoradiographic analysis of sagittal brain sections with [125I]RTI-55 binding was consistent with these findings. Specific binding of [125I]RTI-55 was blocked by dopamine uptake inhibitors in areas rich in dopaminergic nerve terminals. Conversely, serotonin uptake inhibitors blocked the binding of [125I]RTI-55 in brain areas rich in serotonergic neurons. These results demonstrate that [125I]RTI-55 may be a very useful ligand for the dopamine and serotonin transporters.

Proteins of the cyclophilin family display two intriguing properties. On the one hand, they are the intracellular receptors for the immunosuppressive drug cyclosporin A (CsA); on the other hand, they function in vitro as enzymes that catalyse slow steps in protein folding. A dissection of the role of CsA in mediating immunosuppression, together with recent studies on the biology of cyclophilins in the absence of this ligand, is providing fundamental insight into the cellular function of this protein family.
Hormonal effects are increasingly recognized as important influences on neuronal function and, ultimately, on animal behavior. Such 'higher' behavioral effects are well studied, particularly in relation to sexually dimorphic behaviors. Yet, somewhat surprisingly, a significant proportion of more basic neuroscience research papers fail to specify the sex of the subjects used. In this brief article Karen Berkley argues that knowledge of, and controlling for, the sex of research animals is important. In addition, if females are used, their reproductive-cycle status could provide a deliberate strategy to investigate the effects of gonadal steroid hormones on biological functions.
A small number of enkephalin-like immunoreactive cells were observed in the ganglion cell layer of the pigeon retina. Many of these neurons were identified as ganglion cells, since they were retrogradely labeled after injections of fluorescent latex microspheres in the contralateral optic tectum. These ganglion cells were mainly distributed in the inferior retina, and their soma sizes ranged from 12-26 microns in the largest axis. The enkephalin-containing ganglion cells appear to represent only a very small percentage of the ganglion cells projecting to the optic tectum (less than 0.1%). Two to 7 weeks after removal of the neural retina, there was an almost complete elimination of an enkephalin-like immunoreactive plexus in layer 3 of the contralateral, rostrodorsal optic tectum. These data provide evidence for the existence of a population of enkephalinergic retinal ganglion cells with projections to the optic tectum.
Immunocytochemical and autoradiographic methods were used to identify neurons in the pure cone retina of the lizard (Anolis carolinensis) that are likely to employ glutamate (GLU) or aspartate (ASP) as a neurotransmitter. GLU immunocytochemistry demonstrated high levels of endogenous GLU in all cone types and numerous bipolar cells. Moderate GLU levels were found in horizontal and ganglion cells. Mller cells and most amacrine cells had very low GLU levels. GLU immunoreactivity (GLU-IR) in the cones was present from the inner segment to the synaptic pedicle. A large spherical cell type with moderate GLU-IR was identified in the proximal inner plexiform layer (IPL). These cells also contain ASP and have been tentatively identified as amacrine cells. Uptake of [3H]-L-GLU labeled all retinal layers. All cone types and Mller cells sequestered [3H]-D-ASP, a substrate specific for the GLU transporter. Anti-ASP labeling was observed in cones, horizontal cells, amacrine cells, and cells in the ganglion cell layer. ASP immunoreactivity (ASP-IR) in the cones was confined to the inner segment. One ASP-containing pyriform amacrine cell subtype ramifying in IPL sublamina b was identified. Analysis of GLU-IR, ASP-IR, and GABA-IR on serial sections indicated that there were two distinct populations of horizontal cells in the Anolis retina: one containing GABA-IR, GLU-IR, and ASP-IR; and another type containing only GLU-IR and ASP-IR. Light GLU-IR was frequently found in GABA-containing amacrine cells but ASP-IR was not. The distinct distributions of GLU and ASP may indicate distinctly different roles for these amino acids. GLU, not ASP, is probably the major neurotransmitter in the cone-bipolar-ganglion cell pathway of the Anolis retina. Both GLU and ASP are present in horizontal cells and specific subpopulations of amacrine cells, but it is unclear if GLU or ASP have a neurotransmitter role in these cells.
Amphetamine, a common drug used by abusers, is able to produce a schizophreniform psychosis in man. The experiment reported here examined amphetamine in relation to its role in the nucleus accumbens septi (NAS) and the globus pallidus. The effects produced by apomorphine, a direct dopamine (DA) agonist, were compared with those of amphetamine, a known indirect DA agonist. The data revealed that amphetamine in NAS-lesioned animals produced very active stereotypy which intensified with time. This effect was blocked by pallidal lesioning. Apomorphine in pallidectomised rats produced persistent stereotypy, but of diminished intensity. The results are discussed in terms of the mediating roles of the NAS and globus pallidus on behavioural sequelae.
In the paper are discussed the main directions of the investigation of the higher nervous activity, fruitfully developed by academician L. A. Orbeli and his school. These directions are the following: the evolutionary approach, the study of the influence of the sympathetic nervous and endocrine systems, of the role of the extracortical brain structures, especially the hypothalamus and the cerebellum, and the significance of pain and efferent systems for the higher nervous activity.
The expression of MyoD1 in myogenic cells located in the muscle prospective region of the limb bud at stage 20-22 was highly sensitive to retinoic acid. Unlike RAR-beta, the expression of MyoD1 mRNA in the muscle precursor cells was significantly increased by retinoic acid at lower concentrations (0.1-10 nM), but inhibited by it at higher concentrations (0.1-1 microM). The ambivalent modulation of MyoD1 expression suggested that MyoD1 expression is regulated by not only the retinoic acid receptor and its response element, but also by other factors. Retinoic acid may be involved in the differentiation of the myogenic cells during early development.
To clarify the function of the receptor binding protein for inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6), we obtained a partial amino acid sequence from the purified protein and a partial nucleotide sequence from a cDNA clone of the gene. The sequences are essentially identical to those of the alpha-subunit of the clathrin assembly protein AP-2. The IP6 receptor protein analyzed by SDS-PAGE contains a series of subunits which are the same as those of AP-2. Antibodies to AP-2 react with the IP6 receptor protein in immunoblot analysis.
The experiment reported here was designed to highlight the effects of medial septal nucleus electrical stimulation on memory processes. To that end, we have used a learning task carried out in a 4-hole board in which animals were successively presented with the location of 2 baited holes. Under these conditions, the consequence of a weak stimulation (30 microA peak to peak, 80 s in duration) applied 30 s after acquisition of these 2 separate spatial informations was assessed on a retention test 24 h later. The results indicated that performance of stimulated animals was improved by medial septal stimulation as shown by an increase in the time duration of exploration of the second previously baited hole. However, post-training stimulation also produced a significant avoidance of the first previously baited hole not observed in the control groups. These results suggest that medial septal stimulation improves retroactive inhibition involved in working memory processes, thus leading to better retention of this kind of learning situation.
Postganglionic sympathetic nerves release norepinephrine (NE) as their primary neurotransmitter at vascular and other targets. However, much evidence supports involvement of additional messengers, co-transmitters, which are co-released with NE upon sympathetic nerve stimulation and thereby contribute to their actions, e.g., vasoconstriction. Two such putative co-transmitters, neuropeptide Y (NPY) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP) have been of particular interest since they fulfill several neurotransmitter criteria. Importantly, hitherto it has been difficult to antagonize vasoconstriction evoked by either NPY or ATP with agents that are devoid of intrinsic activity. The present study describes the ability of a novel inositol phosphate, D-myo-inositol 1,2,6-trisphosphate (Ins[1,2,6]P3; PP-56) to in vitro potently block vasoconstrictor responses elicited by NPY and ATP, but not by NE, as studied in guinea-pig isolated basilar artery. The action of Ins[1,2,6]P3 does not seem to occur through antagonism at NPY- or ATP-receptor recognition sites, labeled by 125I-peptide YY and 35S-gamma-ATP, respectively, in membranes of rat cultured vena cava vascular smooth muscle cells. However, it does involve inhibition of the influx of Ca2+ induced by either co-transmitter in these same vena cava cells. It is proposed that Ins[1,2,6]P3 may be a useful functional antagonist of non-adrenergic component(s) of the vasoconstrictor response to sympathetic nerve stimulation.
Quisqualic acid-mediated excitotoxicity has been attributed essentially to the activation of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate (non-NMDA) receptors. In the present study we demonstrate the possible involvement of both NMDA and non-NMDA receptors in quisqualic acid-induced toxicity in mouse brain slices, in vitro. Incubation of mouse brain sagittal slices with various concentrations of quisqualic acid resulted in significant increase in the leakage of lactate dehydrogenase and potassium from the slices into the medium. Prior incubation of mouse brain slices with NMDA (MK-801 or AP7) or non-NMDA receptor antagonists (GDEE or quinoxalinediones) protected against quisqualic acid-mediated toxicity. Slices prepared from animals pretreated in vivo with MK-801 (5 mg/kg b.wt.) were also resistant to the toxic effects of quisqualic acid, indicating the possible involvement of NMDA receptors in quisqualic acid toxicity.
The permeation of 36Cl from blood into choroid plexus (CP) and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) was studied in adult rats intraventricularly injected with either dibutyryl (db)-cAMP, theophylline with db-cAMP, or forskolin. All 3 treatments significantly enhanced the 15-min distribution (Vd) of 36Cl into CSF, by an average of 17-33%. In contrast, ouabain and acetazolamide (inhibitors of CSF production) reduced 36Cl uptake into CSF by 34% and 13%, respectively. A correlative analysis of the various treatments revealed that the volume of distribution of 36Cl in CSF varied inversely with that in the choroid plexus. This inverse relationship suggests drug effects on Cl movement across the apical (CSF-facing) membrane of CP.
In vivo microdialysis was used to study the effects of single (2 h) or repeated (2 h for 7 consecutive days) immobilization (IMMO) stress on extracellular fluid concentrations of norepinephrine (NE) and the deaminated metabolites of NE and dopamine, dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG) and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) in the paraventricular nucleus of conscious rats. During IMMO, NE, DHPG, and DOPAC levels increased markedly, with similar peak values and time courses in the repeatedly stressed and previously unstressed groups. NE levels during a 2-h baseline period were lower in the repeatedly stressed group than in the unstressed group (99 +/- 9 pg/ml vs. 167 +/- 13 pg/ml, P less than 0.05), whereas DHPG (1,697 +/- 263 pg/ml vs. 1,424 +/- 194 pg/ml) and DOPAC (5,989 +/- 863 pg/ml vs. 4,428 +/- 1150 pg/ml) levels tended to be higher, so that the NE/DHPG ratio at baseline was significantly lower in the repeatedly stressed group (P less than 0.05). The results indicate that IMMO stress enhances NE release, reuptake, metabolism, and synthesis in the PVN. Repeated exposure to IMMO may decrease the microdialysate NE/DHPG ratio by inhibiting exocytotic release or enhancing neuronal reuptake of NE. In either case, the results suggest that repeated exposure to stress alters the release and disposition of NE in the PVN of conscious animals.
Accurate binocular depth perception requires information about both stereopsis (relative depth) and distance (absolute depth). It is unclear how these two types of information are integrated in the visual system. In alert, behaving monkeys the responsiveness of a large majority of neurons in the primary visual cortex (area V1) was modulated by the viewing distance. This phenomenon affected particularly disparity-related activity and background activity and was not dependent on the pattern of retinal stimulation. Therefore, extraretinal factors, probably related to ocular vergence or accommodation, or both, can affect processing early in the visual pathway. Such modulations could be useful for (i) judging true distance and (ii) scaling retinal disparity to give information about three-dimensional shape.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is a putative inhibitory neurotransmitter in the vertebrate nervous system. Several lines of evidence suggest that GABA plays an important role in the processing and modulation of sensory input in the spinal cord dorsal horn. In the present study, the relationship between GABA-immunoreactive (GABA-IR) terminals and spinothalamic tract (STT) cells in the monkey lumbar cord was investigated. Physiologically characterized STT cells, one located in lamina V and two located in lateral lamina IV, were intracellularly injected with horseradish peroxidase (HRP). A fourth STT cell, located in lamina I, was retrogradely labeled following injection of HRP into the contralateral thalamus. Immunogold labeling of ultrathin sections through the cell bodies and proximal dendrites of the STT neurons demonstrated that the percentage of the GABA-IR terminals in contact with these profiles was 24.7% and 36%, respectively. The average STT surface length contacted by GABA-IR terminals for cell bodies and proximal dendrites was 18.2% and 26.7%, respectively. For the lamina I cell, 7 out of 35 (20%) of the terminals were GABA-IR and they covered 9.6% of the surface analyzed. These data demonstrate that GABA-IR terminals synapse directly on STT cells, constituting a substantial proportion of the terminal population on these cells. Furthermore, compared to the cell bodies, a greater percentage of the input on the proximal dendrites is GABAergic. These anatomical data are consistent with the findings of a previously published iontophoretic study that demonstrated that GABA can exert a strong inhibitory influence on STT cells. These findings are discussed in relation to GABAergic involvement in tonic and phasic inhibition of STT neurons.
Glutamate has been shown to excite spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons and has been localized to primary afferent neurons, spinal cord projection neurons, and interneurons in the spinal cord dorsal horn. The likelihood that glutamate-immunoreactive (GLU-IR) terminals directly innervate STT neurons was investigated. For these studies three lamina IV or V STT cells in the lumbar spinal cords of three monkeys (Macaca fascicularis) were identified electrophysiologically and characterized. Two were identified as high threshold neurons and one as a wide dynamic range neuron. Following intracellular injection of the cells with HRP and reaction to give the cells a Golgi-like appearance, the tissues were processed for electron microscopy. Postembedding immunogold methods with antibodies specific for glutamate were used to identify GLU-IR terminals apposing the somata and dendrites of the STT neurons, including dendrites that extended into laminae IV and III. The GLU-IR terminals were numerous and constituted a mean of 46% of the population counted that appose the STT soma and 50% of the profiles apposing the dendrites. Fifty-four percent of the somatic and 50% of the dendritic surface length was contacted by GLU-IR terminals. Most terminals contained round clear vesicles and some contained a variable number of large dense core vesicles. For one of the three cells examined it was determined that 45% of the terminals apposing the soma were GLU-IR and 30% of the terminals were gamma aminobutyric acid-immunoreactive (GABA-IR). In an additional monkey, a lamina I cell retrogradely labeled from the ventral posterolateral nucleus of the thalamus was found to be ensheathed in glial processes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The vocal control nucleus, HVc, of the songbird forebrain undergoes neurogenesis in adulthood, as ventricular zone precursor cells divide and their daughter cells migrate into the subjacent forebrain, where they differentiate into neurons. We have previously demonstrated that the migration and development of these new neurons can proceed in vitro, in HVc ventricular zone explant cultures derived from the adult canary HVc. By a combination of electron microscopy and electrophysiology, we now report that these newly produced neurons become functionally mature and synaptically competent in culture. These cells developed synaptic contacts which became morphologically evident during the second week in culture, and which preceded the development of both stimulus-evoked and spontaneous action potentials during the second and third weeks in vitro. Thus, the newly generated neurons of the adult avian forebrain can form structurally complex, electrically interactive networks in long-term culture.
Clonidine-displacing substance (CDS) from brain is biologically active in the kidney and stomach and on platelets. To determine whether CDS is contained in these and other peripheral tissues, homogenates of fresh brain, eight other organs and serum from rat were ultrafiltered (less than 10,000 mol. wt only), dried and extracted with methanol. Evaluation by radioimmunoassay (RIA) using antibodies to p-aminoclonidine showed that adrenal gland and gastric fundus (GF) contained significantly greater amounts of CDS-like radioimmunoactivity than brain; intermediate-to-low activity was present in heart, small intestine, serum, kidney and liver; lung and skeletal muscle values were near-background. RIA-positive extracts elicited well-correlated contractile activity in a GF smooth muscle bioassay; contractions persisted in the presence of antagonists of various transmitters and modulators, but were abolished by low concentrations of the calcium channel blocker verapamil. Serum levels of CDS were profoundly reduced following removal of the adrenal glands. We conclude that a CDS-like substance is present not only in brain as previously reported, but also in peripheral organs and in the circulation.
The production and secretion of plasminogen in cultured rat brain microglia was investigated. Urokinase-dependent caseinolytic activity was detected by zymography in microglial conditioned medium with a molecular weight of about 90 kDa. The 90-kDa protein was also detected by Western blotting with anti-rat plasminogen antiserum in the non-reducing condition. Immunoprecipitation with plasminogen antiserum following [35S]methionine labelling revealed that the plasminogen detected in microglial conditioned medium is synthesized in microglia. The amount of plasminogen in the conditioned medium was increased by stimulation with lipopolysaccharide. These results show that cultured microglia produce plasminogen and secrete it into the culture medium.
We studied whether ocular dominance plasticity can be restored to the aplastic visual cortex of the adult cat by peripheral administration of L-threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine (L-threo-DOPS), an exogenous precursor of L-noradrenaline (NA). We found that NA output in the visuocortical dialysate was significantly increased by a single administration of L-threo-DOPS (200 mg or 1 g, i.p.). Single unit recordings revealed a significant reduction of binocular cells (binocularity = 0.30) in juvenile cats (7-8 months of age) that had been monocularly deprived for one month in combination with L-threo-DOPS (200 mg/day, per os). These results suggest that peripheral administration of L-threo-DOPS enhances ocular dominance plasticity, presumably through activation of the central noradrenergic system.
Sympathetic neurons in rat coeliac-superior mesenteric ganglia (C-SMG) displayed an after-depolarization (ADP) following action potentials and after-hyperpolarization. The ADP had amplitudes of 3-10 mV and lasted for 2-6 s, during which membrane resistance and excitability of C-SMG neurons increased. The reversal potential of ADP was dependent on external K+ concentrations. The ADP was suppressed in a solution containing Cd2+ or zero Ca2+. The ADP thus appears to be produced by inhibition of certain K+ channels via a Ca(2+)-dependent process. Substances P (SP) depolarized ganglion cells and increased the ADP, leading to a long-lasting increase in membrane excitability of rat C-SMG neurons.
We have analyzed the metabolic pathway of maturation of APP751 in stably transfected 293 cells, in the presence of either of the cysteine protease inhibitors leupeptin or E-64. Metabolic labeling, followed by immunoprecipitation at various times in the chase with a rabbit polyclonal antibody (anti-BX6) specific to the carboxyl-terminal end of amyloid precursor protein (APP), revealed the accumulation of a novel approximately 22-kDa carboxyl-terminal fragment (22-CTF) in the inhibitor-treated cells. This fragment, which was not detectable in untreated cells, was immunoprecipitated by four separate antibodies to the carboxyl-terminal region of APP as well as by polyclonal and monoclonal antibodies specific to the first 16 amino acids of the beta-peptide domain. Antibodies to the amino-terminal end of APP do not, however, recognize the fragment. Co-treatment of the inhibitor-treated cells with either of the lysosomotropic agents chloroquine or ammonium chloride completely blocked the generation of this fragment but did not significantly affect APP maturation or secretion. All, however, slowed the intracellular turnover of the cell-associated, approximately 9-kDa carboxyl-terminal fragment (c-CTF) produced during constitutive secretion. Densitometric analyses of these results suggest that this non-secretory pathway of APP degradation, mediated by cysteine proteases in an intracellular acidic compartment, accounts for approximately 70% of total APP metabolism and that a key processing intermediate in this pathway is a 22-kDa, beta-peptide-containing APP carboxyl-terminal fragment. It is possible that inefficient degradation of such an intermediate leads to the formation of aggregating beta-peptide.
The bladder and other pelvic viscera are innervated in the rat by the major pelvic ganglion (MPG), a mixed sympathetic/parasympathetic population of neurons that participates in lower urinary pathophysiology. Neurons from the MPG of adult females were removed, dissociated and cultured in order to test retention of the neuronal phenotype and whether they responded to Nerve Growth Factor (NGF). The bladder-specific subset of MPG neurons were distinguished by retrograde labeling prior to culture. The adult ganglionic neurons adapted to culture with greater than 80% survival in the best cases. The cultured neurons retained excitability, as determined by measuring voltage-activated ionic currents. They were positive for neuron-specific beta-tubulin and many retained immunoreactivity for characteristic peptides and transmitter synthetic enzyme. The proportion of neurons in the different categories tested varied somewhat from that in vivo, but there was no evidence of selective death of a particular population. The cultured MPG neurons were responsive to NGF and anti-NGF antibody. NGF supported neuronal survival and expression of tyrosine hydroxylase. Added NGF also affected the expression of neuropeptide Y. Hypertrophied neurons from animals with experimental bladder outlet obstruction demonstrated increased responsiveness to NGF. The data suggest that NGF participates in adult neural plasticity due to continued responsiveness to the factor. Furthermore, questions concerning regulation of MPG neurons may be addressed in vitro.
The effects of the putative 5-HT1A receptor antagonist NAN-190 on feeding and spontaneous locomotor activity in rats were examined. The drug elicited a robust, dose-dependent (0.01-10 mg/kg) increase in food consumption in free feeding animals. Microstructural analysis of feeding induced by NAN-190 (3 mg/kg) revealed that the drug increased the duration of feeding and number of feeding bouts but decreased the feeding rate. The increase in feeding induced by 3 mg/kg of NAN-190 was not apparent until 2-4 h after injection. This prolonged latency to onset of the feeding response appeared to be due to response competition. Thus, a 'neuroleptic-like' action of the drug on spontaneous motor activity was observed during the the initial 2 h following injection. A dopamine receptor antagonist action of NAN-190 was also indicated by the results of studies in which the drug was observed to block oral stereotypy induced by the dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine. In interaction studies, NAN-190 (0.1 and 10 mg/kg) failed to block the feeding response induced by the prototypical 5-HT1A receptor agonist 8-OH-DPAT (0.0625 and 1.0 mg/kg) and indeed, appeared to have an additive effect with 8-OH-DPAT on consummatory behaviour. These data suggest that NAN-190 may act as a partial agonist rather than an antagonist at the 5-HT1A receptor and also provide the first evidence that the drug has dopamine receptor antagonist properties in vivo.
The immunophilins cyclophilin and FK506 binding protein (FKBP) are small, predominantly soluble proteins that bind the immunosuppressant drugs cyclosporin A and FK506, respectively, with high affinity, and which seem to mediate their pharmacological actions. The Ca(2+)-dependent protein phosphatase, calcineurin, binds the cyclophilin-cyclosporin A and FKBP-FK506 complexes, indicating that calcineurin might mediate the actions of these drugs. A physiological role for the immunophilins in the nervous system is implied by a close homology between the structure of NINA A, a protein in the neural retina of Drosophila, and cyclophilin, as well as by the high density of FKBP messenger RNA in brain tissue. Here we report that the levels of FKBP and mRNA in rat brain are extraordinarily high and that their regional localization is virtually identical to that of calcineurin, indicating that there may be a physiological link between calcineurin and the immunophilins. We also show that at low concentrations FK506 and cyclosporin A enhance the phosphorylation of endogenous protein substrates in brain tissue and in intact PC12 cells, indicating that these drugs may inhibit phosphatase activity by interacting with the immunophilin-calcineurin complexes.
Behavioural studies in both humans and animals have shown that an acute rise in circulating glucose levels at or around the time of training enhances subsequent retention performance and can also afford protection from the amnesia produced by posttraining injections of scopolamine. In an attempt to directly investigate the neurochemical basis for these effects of glucose we have tested the hypothesis that raised glucose levels may enhance acetylcholine (ACh) synthesis and release in the brain during conditions of increased neuronal activity, induced either by training or pharmacological challenge, via a microdialysis study using rats. Microdialysate concentrations of ACh overflow from the hippocampus of fasted rats induced by i.p. injections of scopolamine (1 mg/kg) combined with concurrent s.c. injections of either glucose (2 g/kg) or saline were compared in successive 15-min samples using an on-line HPLC system. Scopolamine injections resulted in an immediate 10-20-fold increase in hippocampal ACh overflow which subsequently progressively declined over a 4-h period to pretreatment baseline levels. The combined injection of glucose with scopolamine resulted in a highly significant enhancement (19.4%; P less than 0.01) in ACh content of the first two samples as compared to saline-injected controls. These results provide the first direct experimental evidence that raised glucose levels, via increased availability of acetyl-coenzyme A (acetyl-coA), transiently facilitates ACh synthesis and release during conditions of increased neuronal activity. This enhancement of ACh availability during states of cholinergic neuronal activation may underlie the previously observed facilitatory effects of glucose on memory performance and its protection from scopolamine-induced amnesia.
Cholinergic denervation of the rat hippocampus caused by electrolytic lesions of the medial septum (MS) results in a time-bound ingrowth of peripheral sympathetic noradrenergic fibers from the superior cervical ganglion to the dentate gyrus and CA3 region of the hippocampus. To determine the functional significance of hippocampal sympathetic ingrowth (HSI), [3H]phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) binding was assessed 4 weeks after MS lesions. In control animals, affinity for [3H]PDBu binding was found to be greater in the dorsal compared to ventral hippocampus, while the number of binding sites (Bmax) was similar between regions. Regardless of the presence of HSI, MS lesions resulted in increased affinity in the dorsal hippocampus, while the Bmax was found to 'normalize' in the ventral hippocampus by HSI. These results suggest that HSI is functional and can alter important cellular events.
The role of inflammatory cytokines in the pathogenesis of neurological diseases is not well understood. The neurotoxic effects of cytokines could be mediated by immunostimulation of glial cells to produce toxic concentrations of nitric oxide (NO) and reactive nitrogen oxides. Cultured microglia and meningeal fibroblasts, but not Type 1 astrocytes, were induced by lipopolysaccharides and cytokines to synthesize NO and reactive nitrogen oxides from L-arginine. In co-cultures of immunostimulated microglia and cerebellar granule neurons, neurotoxicity was blocked by an inhibitor of NO synthase, NG-nitroarginine, and by oxyhemoglobin, which inactivates NO. Microglial-induced neurotoxicity was also partially attenuated by the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists, MK-801 and 2-amino-5-phosphovalerate (APV). Superoxide dismutase, which stabilizes NO through inactivation of superoxide anion, augmented microglial-mediated neurotoxicity either alone or in combination with MK-801 or APV. Hence, immunostimulated microglia mediate neurotoxicity by NO, reactive nitrogen oxides, superoxide anion and NMDA-like substances. These findings suggest a novel role for microglial-produced NO and reactive nitrogen oxides as a neurotoxic agent in neurodegenerative disease states.
Nicotine and its metabolite, cotinine, were measured in rat plasma and brain by gas chromatography-mass spectrometry. Both agents were extracted from plasma and brain, separated on a capillary column, and quantified by single-ion monitoring. The major fragment ions of nicotine and cotinine at m/z 84 and m/z 98, respectively, were monitored by electron-impact ionization detection and the protonated molecular ions at m/z 163 and m/z 177, respectively, were monitored by chemical ionization detection. Both compounds were quantified using deuterium-labeled nicotine and cotinine, respectively, as internal standards.
A series of modifications of the CCK7 analogue (des-NH2)Tyr(SO3-)-Nle-Gly-Trp-Nle-Asp-Phe-NH2 was prepared and tested for binding to guinea pig CCK-A and CCK-B receptors and in CCK-A-mediated functional assays. Selected analogues also were tested for appetite suppressant activity in rats. Several conformationally restricted residues in the C-terminal tetrapeptide region, including delta Z-Phe33, (N-Me)Phe33, (N-Me)Asp32, (N-Me)Leu31, and 3PP31 (3PP = trans-3-n-propyl-L- proline) were found to be acceptable modifications at one or both receptor subtypes. The (N-Me)Asp32 and (N-Me)Leu31 modifications afforded potent and selective CCK-A and CCK-B ligands, respectively. SAR studies in the N-terminal acyldipeptide region examined structural requirements for the side chain at position 28, where Gly and Pro replacements were found to possess high affinity at both receptor subtypes. Other conformationally restrictive modifications were less active. All of the analogues that showed high affinity (less than 10 nM) for the CCK-A receptor also were full agonists in amylase release and most were full or nearly full agonists in the phosphoinositide (PI) turnover assay, the most notable exception being the delta Z-Phe33 analogue, which showed 69% of the maximal response in the PI assay. Potent activity in suppression of food intake in rats was found for selected analogues.
Immune responses in lymphocytes require cellular accumulation of large amounts of calcium (Ca2+) from extracellular sources. In the T cell tumor line Jurkat, receptors for the Ca(2+)-releasing messenger inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) were localized to the plasma membrane (PM). Capping of the T cell receptor-CD3 complex, which is associated with signal transduction, was accompanied by capping of IP3 receptors. The IP3 receptor on T cells appears to be responsible for the entry of Ca2+ that initiates proliferative responses.
In spite of their abundance, the function of PAs in the adult nervous system remains enigmatic. It is postulated that after trauma, the induction of polyamine metabolism (i.e. the polyamine response), which is inherently transient, is an integral part of a protective biochemical program that is essential for neuronal survival. Several functions ascribed to PAs may assume importance in cellular defense. Thus, regulation of the ionic environment, modulation of signal pathways, control of cellular Ca2+ homeostasis, inhibition of lipid peroxidation, and interaction with nucleic acids are all putative sites for PA action. During maturation, the CNS, unlike the peripheral nervous system, undergoes changes which result in the expression of an incomplete polyamine response after trauma. This may be due to an altered pattern of gene expression, and/or restrictive compartmentalization of the PAs and their metabolizing enzymes. Induction of this partial polyamine response after injury results in a sustained accumulation of putrescine, which by itself may be harmful, without the concomitant increase in spermidine and spermine. Administration of exogenous PAs after trauma exerts a neuroprotective effect. Exogenous PAs are postulated to gain access into cells via an induced uptake system after trauma, and function similarly to newly synthesized PAs. Besides the injured neurons themselves, tissues which are connected or associated with these neurons may be potential targets where PAs could act to stimulate neurotrophic factor production. Based on the neuroprotective effects of PAs in laboratory animals and on their proposed role in mechanisms of neuronal survival, the development of PA-based compounds as therapeutic neuroprotective agents should be pursued.
We have examined the morphology of preganglionic synapses in the rat superior cervical ganglion (SCG) at 10 days, 4 weeks and 1 year. Between 10 days and 4 weeks the mean thickness of the postsynaptic density (PSD) increased from 45.9 +/- 0.1 nm to 52.1 +/- 1.7 nm (P = 0.017), the mean length of the PSD (0.41 +/- 0.02 microns) did not change, and the distribution of synapses on the neuronal surface changed with a decrease in the proportion of somatic and an increase in the proportion of dendritic spine synapses. Since both synapse elimination and synapse formation are occurring during this period several mechanisms may contribute to these changes. However, between 4 weeks and 1 year, when there is no net change in the number of synapses, the mean length of the PSD increased to 0.53 +/- 0.02 microns (P = 0.001), there was no change in either the mean thickness of the PSD or the distribution of the synapses but the proportion of concave ('smile') synapses increased. A comparison with previous developmental studies of synapses in cerebral cortex of rat and chicken indicate that both the nature and the rate of synapse maturation can vary between different populations of synapses.

In an attempt to prevent disease exacerbations, intravenous gamma globulin (500 mg to 2 g/kg) plus methylprednisolone was administered monthly to 14 patients with progressive multiple sclerosis, 11 of whom were steroid dependent. Seventeen exacerbations of disease activity were seen in 11 patients over a mean follow-up period of 7.8 months. Four exacerbations occurred in 3 patients within one month of receiving 1.6 to 2.0 g/kg of intravenous gamma globulin (IVGG). Most exacerbations occurred within 2 weeks of steroids being tapered; thus a steroid sparing effect of IVGG could not be demonstrated. We conclude that IVGG plus methylprednisolone can be given safely at monthly intervals for a prolonged period but in the dosage administered did not prevent exacerbations in 80% of patients with progressive multiple sclerosis.
In the rat, neurons in the diagonal band of Broca (DBB) participate in baroreceptor-induced depression of spontaneous activity of vasopressin neurons in the supraoptic nucleus (SON). The present study examined the role of the catecholaminergic innervation of the DBB in this response. Male rats were anesthetized with pentobarbital (50 mg/kg ip) and stereotaxically injected in the DBB with either vehicle (2 microliters), 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA; 4 micrograms/2 microliters), or 6-OHDA preceded 20 min earlier by desimipramine (25 mg/kg ip), a norepinephrine uptake inhibitor. Two weeks later, the rats were reanesthetized and a transpharyngeal approach was used for extracellular recording from SON neurons. In vehicle-injected controls, baroreceptor stimulation produced by brief increases in blood pressure from metaraminol injections (10 micrograms/10 microliters iv) transiently arrested the spontaneous activity of 24 of 24 phasically active neurons tested. Sixty-three percent of the vasopressin neurons were not affected by comparable increases in blood pressure in 6-OHDA-treated rats, and the norepinephrine content of the DBB was significantly reduced. In experiments with desimipramine-pretreated rats, 92% of the vasopressin neurons were silenced by increases in blood pressure while the norepinephrine content of the DBB was not affected. Thus the noradrenergic innervation of DBB appears to participate in the baroreceptor sensitivity of SON vasopressinergic neurons.
To determine the role of the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) in the tonic maintenance of arterial pressure (AP) following chronic baroreceptor denervation, the present study examined the effect of inhibition of the NTS on AP in chronic sinoaortic denervated (SAD) and control rats. One to two weeks after complete SAD (no residual arterial baroreceptor reflexes) mean AP was not significantly different from that of control rats. Bilateral microinjections of muscimol and lidocaine into the NTS markedly increased AP in alpha-chloralose-anesthetized control rats. However, microinjections of these neuroinhibitory drugs had no effect on AP in SAD rats. Similarly, 1 h after bilateral destruction of the NTS conscious control rats were hypertensive, while AP in SAD rats was not changed. Plasma levels of vasopressin (VP), which were also elevated in control rats 1 h after NTS lesions, were not significantly altered in SAD rats. These results demonstrate that inhibition of the NTS has no effect on AP or plasma levels of VP in chronic SAD rats. This suggests neither the NTS nor afferents to the NTS supply a tonic inhibitory influence on AP after chronic baroreceptor denervation.
As spin-offs of the current revolution in the cognitive and neurosciences, clinical neuropsychologists in the 21st century will be using biological tests of intelligence and cognition that record individual differences in brain functions at the neuromolecular, neurophysiologic, and neurochemical levels. Assessment of patients will focus more on better use of still intact functions, as well as rehabilitating or bypassing impaired functions, than on diagnosis, as is the focus today. Better developed successors to today's scales for assessing personal competency and adaptive behavior, as well as overall quality of life, also will be in wide use in clinical settings. With more normal individuals, use of new generations of paper-and-pencil inventories, as well as biological measures for assessing differences in interests, attitudes, personality styles, and predispositions, is predicted.
alpha 1-Antichymotrypsin (ACT) is a serine protease inhibitor that is markedly elevated in the serum and cerebrospinal fluid of patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Patients with Down's syndrome are known to develop neuropathological changes of AD by age 40 years and many become demented. Therefore, in the present study, we obtained serum ACT levels from patients with Down's syndrome and AD, diagnosed by autopsy or clinically, and healthy control subjects. Newman-Keuls' multiple range test revealed a significantly greater (p less than 0.01) mean ACT level in the Autopsy AD (906.4 +/- 94.64 mg/L) and Clinical AD (745.00 +/- 59.95 mg/L) groups in contrast to the Old Control group (531.00 +/- 23.05 mg/L). The mean ACT level of the Down's Syndrome group (513.33 +/- 14.73 mg/L) was not significantly different from that of the Young Control subjects. Furthermore, we did not observe a positive correlation of ACT levels with age in the Down's Syndrome group, in spite of the age-dependent premature increase in neuropathological changes of AD that are known to occur in patients with Down's syndrome. A positive correlation between serum ACT levels and the density of plaques or tangles, neuropathological hallmarks of AD, in brains of patients with AD also did not exist. Thus, our results suggest that ACT levels may not parallel the development of the classical neuropathological hallmarks of AD.
The vestibulo-ocular reflex was studied via off-vertical axis rotation (OVAR) in the dark. The axis of the turntable could be tilted from vertical by up to 30 degrees. Eye movements were measured with electro-oculography. Results from healthy asymptomatic subjects indicated that 1) a reliable otolith-induced response could be obtained during constant velocity OVAR using a velocity of 60 degrees/s with a tilt of 30 degrees; 2) constant velocity OVAR rotation was nausea-producing and, especially if subjects were rotated in the dark about an earth-vertical axis prior to being tilted, disorienting; and 3) sinusoidal OVAR produced minimal nausea; the eye movement response appeared to be the result of a combination of semicircular canal and otolith components. We conclude that OVAR has the potential of becoming a useful method for clinically assessing both the otolith-ocular reflex and semicircular canal-otolith interaction.
The distribution of nerve fibers and cell bodies reactive for the peptides enkephalin, neuropeptide Y, substance P, and vasoactive intestinal peptide were studied in biopsies of external muscle taken from the gastric body and antrum of 17 patients undergoing surgery for gastroesophageal reflux, and in regions of healthy stomach resected as part of gastric cancer operations. The results were correlated with preoperative measurements of liquid and solid emptying from the stomach in the patients with gastro-esophageal reflux. In three cases, no delay was detected in either liquid or solid emptying, and the distribution of peptide immunoreactive fibers in the external muscle was similar to that of healthy muscle. In 14 cases, the emptying of either liquids or solids or both was delayed, and in eight of these clearcut changes in the distribution of peptide-immunoreactive fibers occurred. In six cases, the number of enkephalin-immunoreactive fibers was fewer than normal in the biopsy from the gastric body (in one of these samples the number of substance P-immunoreactive fibers was also reduced). In another cae, the number of substance P-immunoreactive fibers in the antrum was reduced, and in another the number of vasoactive intestinal peptide and neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive fibers in the antral biopsy was reduced. It is concluded that in patients with gastroesophageal reflux who have delayed gastric emptying, a proportion demonstrate abnormalities of the peptide-immunoreactive fibers that innervate the gastric external muscle.
A series of di-Mannich base derivatives (4 and 5) from 4-(7'-trifluoromethyl-1',5'-naphthyridin-4'-ylamino)phenol and 2-(7'-trifluoromethylquinolin-4'-ylamino)phenol, respectively, and mono-Mannich base derivatives (6) from 4'-chloro-5-(7''-trifluoromethylquinolin-4''- ylamino)biphenyl-2-ol were assayed for activity against the chloroquine-sensitive (FCQ-27) isolate of cultured Plasmodium falciparum using the inhibition of uptake of radiolabelled hypoxanthine. All seven di-Mannich base derivatives (5) revealed a higher activity than chloroquine, whereas the di-Mannich base derivatives (4) were slightly less active (with some derivatives more active and some less active than chloroquine). The mono-Mannich base derivatives (6) were less active than chloroquine. Comparative tests of selected compounds of (4 and 5) using a morphological assay revealed no significant differences in activity between the chloroquine-sensitive (FCQ-27) and chloroquine-resistant (K-1) isolates. Selected di-Mannich bases (4 and 5) and the mono-Mannich bases 5-7''-bromo (and 7-trifluoromethyl)-1'',5''-naphthyridin-4''-ylamino)-3-(t- butylaminomethyl)-4'-chlorobiphenyl-2-ols (7, X = Br, CF3) markedly suppressed parasitaemia in Plasmodium vinckei vinckei infected mice when administered (i.p.) in a single dose of 200 mg kg-1.
Magnetic resonance imaging was used to determine the volumes of brain, subcortical gray matter nuclei, and the ventricular and sulcal cerebrospinal fluid in 27 healthy men. Subjects were divided into young (less than 35 years, n = 10) and old (greater than 60 years, n = 17) groups. Volumes were normalized as percent intracranial volume. Older subjects had significantly less brain mass and significantly larger ventricular and peripheral cerebrospinal fluid volumes than the younger men. The caudate and lenticular nuclei were significantly smaller in older than younger men. This significant difference remained when their volumes were expressed as a ratio of cerebral brain matter volume. This cross-sectional study demonstrates age-related atrophy and concurrent dilation of cerebrospinal fluid spaces in healthy subjects. Of brain regions affected, the caudate and lenticular nuclei are significantly more affected by healthy aging than is cerebral brain matter; this may account for some of the motor abnormalities in aging.
Specialization within health care is evolving in response to the proliferation of knowledge about disease treatment and health management. The practice of psychiatric consultation-liaison nursing in the acute care hospital is diversifying through subspecialization as a result of this trend. This article examines the concept of subspecialization within psychiatric consultation-liaison nursing practice. Subspecialization is presented as a safeguard for professional viability and as a hallmark of quality consumer care. Specialization has advantages and potential disadvantages for nursing practice. Strategies are described that maximize the benefits and minimize the disadvantages of subspecialization.
Rats injected with either drug or saline were trained in a food-rewarded lever-pressing task until they could complete an FR10 requirement within the first 120s of the session, and were then tested for the retention of this response under various treatment conditions. In this procedure, state-dependency occurred with ketamine, phencyclidine, MK-801 and CGS 19755; rats trained with any of these NMDA antagonists failed to show response transfer when tested with saline. Also, in rats trained with saline the response failed to transfer in tests with any of these drugs. The doses at which the failure to transfer occurred in drug-to-saline tests, were approximately 3-fold lower than those at which the failure occurred in saline-to-drug tests. Even higher doses of these compounds were required to inhibit acquisition. The state-dependency which NMDA antagonists appear to produce in tests for saline-to-drug transfer, might constitute the mechanism whereby these compounds apparently disorganize the behavior of animals and, perhaps also, of humans. The data do not support the widely held notion that NMDA antagonists produce deficits in memory or retention; instead, at doses considerably lower than those impairing acquisition, NMDA antagonists produce a state upon which the recall of the newly learned response is dependent.
Requirements for an effective animal model of cognition are discussed with special reference to the cholinergic hypothesis of Alzheimer's disease. It is argued, with reference to research on vasopressin and ACE inhibitors, that many putative animal models of cognition lack predictive clinical validity because they either confound the effects of cognitive and arousal processes, or fail to model a specific component of cognitive functioning. A survey of recent research on the cholinergic hypothesis illustrates how these weaknesses can be overcome. Studies involving scopolamine and basal forebrain excitatory amino acid lesion models of the cholinergic deficit in Alzheimer's disease have employed a delayed-matching-to-position test in rodents which, unlike passive avoidance, allows the effects of memory and attentional variables to be distinguished. In combination with recent human studies, these experiments suggest that the cholinergic system has a major role in executive control of attentional resources, and lead to the recommendation of a 'top down' strategy in the investigation of neurochemical processes and pharmacological mechanisms underlying cognition.
Cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) has been shown to be coupled to phosphoinositide turnover in pancreatic acini as well as in a kind of neuroblastoma cell and a human embryonic cell line. Little is known, however, about its link with phosphatidylinositol breakdown in the brain. The brains (minus cerebella) from 1-2-day-old neonatal rats were enzymically dissociated into single cells. The intact cells were prelabelled by incubation with myo-[3H]inositol for 3 h, and were then stimulated with agonists in the presence of 10 mM-LiCl. Carbachol at 1 mM induced an increase in InsP3 labelling in brain cells (peak at 30 min, and then a gradual decrease), and a static accumulation of InsP with time, whereas the labelling of InsP2 remained essentially unchanged. A very similar time-response curve was obtained for 10 nM-CCK-8 in stimulating phosphoinositide turnover. The dose-response curve for incubated brain cells revealed that the formation of InsP3 increased when the concentration of CCK-8 was increased from 0.1 to 10 nM. A further increase in CCK-8 concentration to 100-1000 nM resulted in a gradual decrease in InsP3 formation. InsP and InsP2 levels stayed relatively stable. The production of InsP3 stimulated by 10 nM-CCK-8 was dose-dependently suppressed by the CCK-A antagonist Devazepide in the concentration range 1-10 nM; the effect declined when the concentration was further increased to 100-1000 nM. In contrast, the CCK-B antagonist L365,260 showed a sustained suppression of InsP3 production at concentrations above 0.1 nM, i.e. in the range 1-1000 nM. The results provide evidence that CCK-8 stimulates the turnover of phosphoinositide and increases InsP3 labelling in dissociated neonatal-rat brain cells, in which both CCK-A and CCK-B receptors seem to be involved.
Membrane-bound alkaline phosphodiesterase I was investigated in control fibroblasts and tumor-derived fibroblasts from patients with neurofibromatosis. Alkaline phosphodiesterase I activity of tumor-derived cells increased in a dose response to nicotinamide (0-9 mM) in culture; 5'-thymidine p-nitrophenyl phosphate was used as substrate. The enzyme activity increased 1.7-fold after 30 h of incubation with 9 mM nicotinamide, and after 3 weeks increased 5-fold. The nicotinamide-dependent enhancement of alkaline phosphodiesterase I activity was inhibited by actinomycin D, which specifically blocks RNA synthesis, but not by cycloheximide. These results suggest that the increase in the enzyme activity caused by nicotinamide was due to induction of alkaline phosphodiesterase I at the transcriptional level in tumor-derived cells. The metabolic effect of nicotinamide on alkaline phosphodiesterase I may be related to tumorigenicity in neurofibromatosis.

Chronic administration of diphenylene iodonium (DPI) to rats has been shown to model the characteristics of mitochondrial myopathy. Using this model the efficacy of menadione therapy has been assessed. Menadione treatment of rats injected with DPI was associated with improved weight gain and increased survival rate. This was accompanied by an improvement in muscle function as judged by analysis of isometric twitch tension of the gastrocnemius muscle (1 Hz for 20 min). The decline in phosphocreatine (PCr) levels in the gastrocnemius muscle during stimulation and delayed recovery in PCr after stimulation were similar in the menadione treated and untreated models. Menadione treatment of the DPI model resulted in a resting intramuscular pH significantly lower than control or untreated DPI rats, but a similar decline in intramuscular pH to the DPI rats during stimulation. The changes in metabolite levels were broadly similar in both the menadione treated and untreated DPI models following stimulation, although the changes, except for increased lactate concentration, were generally less marked in the menadione-treated DPI model.
Spontaneous disappearance of an intracranial aneurysm after subarachnoid hemorrhage is an uncommon event and usually associated with severe cerebral vasospasm, giant aneurysms or the use of antifibrinolytics. We present a young woman who suffered a grade 5 subarachnoid hemorrhage with severe vasospasm caused by a small anterior communicating artery aneurysm. The patient underwent a slow recovery and two years later requested surgery. Angiography demonstrated complete disappearance of the aneurysm. The neurosurgeon should be aware that spontaneous thrombosis of cerebral aneurysms can occur and ensure that angiography is repeated when surgery is significantly delayed.
The role of D1 receptors in motor control is poorly understood. In parkinsonian squirrel monkeys, the full D1 agonist C-APB (SKF 82958; 0.1-0.4 mg/kg s.c.) caused weak stimulation of locomotor activity. However, the motor stimulant effects of the D2 agonist (+)-PHNO (0.001 mg/kg s.c.) were not potentiated by C-APB (0.3 mg/kg). Differences between these observations and expectations from experiments using rodents are discussed.
Recent studies have led to a better understanding of several aspects of the organization and physiological mechanisms involved in the processing of information in the auditory cortex. A wide range of approaches have revealed new information regarding the histochemistry, cortico-cortical connections, single-unit physiology, and functional spatial organization, as well as mechanisms and effects of representational and learning-induced cortical plasticity.

Gliomas are usually incurable with current treatment regimens. The mainstay of current therapy is surgery and radiotherapy. Adjuvant chemotherapy with nitrosourea-based regimens for high-grade glioma has now been established as a means of improving survival times, although the results are disappointing and the treatment may entail significant morbidity and does not offer the prospect of cure. The role of chemotherapy for low-grade glioma is controversial, and its possible role as a primary therapy aimed at delaying the need for radiotherapy in young children must be better defined. The literature regarding chemotherapy of glioma is reviewed with particular emphasis on recent publications.
The autonomic nervous system is affected by most conditions that cause peripheral neuropathy. Autonomic dysfunction may be clinically significant in some conditions such as diabetes, amyloidosis, Guillain-Barr syndrome and porphyria, but in many the autonomic disturbances are of only minor clinical importance. Clinical tests of both sympathetic and parasympathetic function are necessary to establish the diagnosis.
The past year's literature reflects a continued interest in studying and refining standard investigative techniques, both urodynamic and radiographic, that have long been used to evaluate patients with lower urinary tract dysfunction. In addition, new, simple, and inexpensive technologies that allow relatively accurate diagnosis and that minimize medical costs have been introduced. These continued efforts to understand the pathophysiology of the lower urinary tract better bring both the practicing physician and the urogynecologist closer to making correct diagnoses and appropriate therapeutic decisions.
The effects of different benzodiazepine-receptor ligands on morphine withdrawal were studied: a benzodiazepine agonist, flunitrazepam; a benzodiazepine antagonist, flumazenil; a partial inverse benzodiazepine agonist, Ro 15-4513; and a partial benzodiazepine agonist, Ro 16-6028. Benzodiazepine-ligands were administered i.p. 30 min before naloxone-induced morphine withdrawal syndrome. Jumping behavior was significantly increased by Ro 15-4513 at 10 and 20 mg/kg. Flunitrazepam decreased jumps at all the doses used. Wet dog shakes were decreased by flumazenil and Ro 15-4513 and increased by Ro 16-6028 (only at the highest dose) and flunitrazepam. Our results show that the activation of the benzodiazepine receptor by agonists or high doses of partial agonists decreases jumping and increases wet dog shake behaviour, while the antagonists or the partial inverse agonists enhance jumping and decrease wet dog shakes. These modifications could be interpreted as an attenuation in the severity of the morphine withdrawal syndrome by benzodiazepine agonists.

Recent evidence has implicated the transforming growth factor-alpha (TGF alpha)/epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) system in the mechanism by which hypothalamic lesions accelerate female sexual development. Since acquisition and maintenance of reproductive functions depend on the secretory activity of LHRH neurons, the present studies were undertaken to characterize some of the cellular and molecular events that underlie lesion-induced activation of the LHRH neuronal network. Bilateral electrolytic lesions of the posterior portion of the preoptic region and anterior hypothalamic area (POA-AHA) in 22-day-old rats resulted in vaginal opening and ovulation within 7 days. Morphological maturation of LHRH neurons was assessed by the relative frequency of irregular and smooth neurons (the former being the predominant type in adult animals). Within 20 h after the lesion, there was a significant decrease in the proportion of LHRH neurons with spiny irregular contours, indicating reversal to a more immature morphological type. This change was followed by accelerated spine reformation, so that at the time of precocious proestrus, the incidence of irregular LHRH neurons was similar in lesioned and age-matched control rats. A striking increase in c-fos mRNA levels occurred within 1 h after the lesion in the area neighboring the site of injury, reflecting the immediate cell response to trauma. Immunohistochemical localization of the c-fos protein, used to estimate changes in cellular activity at the single cell level, demonstrated c-fos induction in unidentified cells near the lesion and astrocytes, but not in LHRH neurons 20 h after injury. In contrast, a selective increase in c-fos expression was observed in LHRH neurons during the initiation of precocious puberty 5-7 days later at the time of the first proestrus. An increase in plasma LH associated with a drop in LHRH content in the median eminence and an increase in pro-LHRH precursor in the POA-AHA, with no changes in LHRH mRNA, was found to antedate the first preovulatory surge of gonadotropins in lesioned rats. Assessment of the changes in PC2 mRNA, which encodes a novel dibasic endoprotease presumptively involved in tissue-specific processing of a class of prohormones that includes pro-LHRH, showed that the content of PC2 mRNA in the AHA-POA increases during normal puberty, but not in lesioned animals, thus providing a potential explanation for the divergent changes in pro-LHRH and mature decapeptide found in lesioned rats.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We used dual-wavelength fluorescence microscopy and monoclonal antibodies to growth-associated protein (GAP-43) and nerve cell adhesion molecule (N-CAM) to identify these proteins in nerve fibers of normal rat and rabbit corneas. Overlapping immunoreactivity of GAP-43 and N-CAM was evident along nerve fibers of rabbit corneal sections, suggesting that GAP-43 is constitutively expressed in these sensory nerves. The immune reaction of monoclonal antibody to GAP-43 and [125I]protein A was used to quantitate relative amounts of GAP-43 in the normal cornea and in a cornea subjected to a de-epithelializing wound. Collectively these findings imply that GAP-43 is axoplasmically transported from cells in the trigeminal (or superior cervical) ganglion to the cornea. Moreover, these data indicate that GAP-43 appears to be involved in the remodeling of corneal nerves that is necessary for normal innervation.
We have evaluated neurite outgrowth from mesencephalic tyrosine hydroxylase-positive neurons grown in vitro on different substrates. Cultures of ventral mesencephalon from rat embryos (E13) were plated on plastic dishes coated with the following substrates: L1, L2/HNK-1 &quot;residual&quot; (mainly J1/160 but also tenascin), MAG antigens from mouse brains, laminin, fibronectin, poly-L-lysine, RGD peptide, and plastic alone. After 3, 4, and 6 days in vitro, the cultures were stained using an antibody against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), and the length of TH-positive neurites was measured by computer-assisted image analysis in a double-blind fashion. L1 antigen had a significant positive effect on neurite outgrowth compared to the other substrates studied. Laminin and fibronectin were also favorable substrates. In cultures treated with cytosine arabinoside to prevent mitoses and glial proliferation, the positive effect of L1 was abolished, but laminin still had a stimulatory effect. These data indicate that L1 may be indirectly involved in differentiation or axonal elongation of substantia nigra dopaminergic neurons and suggest a complex effect involving both neurons and glia on dopaminergic neurite development.
Mice infected with an immunosuppressive murine leukemia virus (MuLV) mixture, LP-BM5, displayed profound and selective deficits in spatial learning in a modified Morris water maze. These deficits appeared before the appearance of gross neurological impairment or histopathological changes in the central nervous system. Thus, LP-BM5-infected mice displayed deficits in several aspects of trained performance compared to controls. Furthermore, a failure to exhibit any evidence of task acquisition in this maze was observed almost twice as frequently (P less than 0.0005) in infected mice as in uninfected controls. Moreover, in the absence of gross visual, motoric, or motivational impairment, LP-BM5 MuLV-infected animals exhibited neither the target directed search pattern nor the spatial preference characteristic of controls. The spatial learning and memory deficit described here is the first report of cognitive impairment accompanying viral-induced immunosuppression in a nonprimate species.
To further our understanding of the structure and organization of the zebrafish genome, we have undertaken the analysis of highly and middle-repetitive DNA sequences. We have cloned and sequenced two families of tandemly repeated DNA fragments. The monomer units of the Type I satellite-like sequence are 186 bp long, A+T-rich (65%), and exhibit a high degree of sequence conservation. The Type I satellite-like sequence constitutes 8% of the zebrafish genome, or approximately 8 x 10(5) copies per haploid genome. Southern analysis of genomic DNA, digested with several restriction endonucleases, shows a ladder of hybridizing bands, consistent with a tandem array, and suggests longer range periodic variations in the sequence of the tandem repeats. The Type II satellite has a monomer length of 165 bp, is also A+T-rich (68%), and constitutes 0.2% of the zebrafish genome (22,000 copies per haploid genome). Southern analysis reveals a complex pattern rather than a ladder of regularly spaced hybridizing bands.
Deterioration followed by recovery of behavioural absolute threshold and frequency selectivity has been observed in guinea pigs following kanamycin administration of 200 mg/kg body weight daily for 16 days. Deterioration in function consistently follows a high-to-low frequency pattern and recovery generally occurs at the lowest of the high (8-32 kHz) frequencies affected. The degree of recovery is related to the magnitude of the threshold elevation; where large (40-45 dB) elevations occur initially, the process appears to be partial since threshold recovers only to within 5-12 dB of pre-administration levels. In instances where smaller threshold elevations (5-20 dB) take place initially, recovery can sometimes be complete. However, when threshold elevations of over 50 dB occur, no recovery is apparent. Recovery is relatively slow, taking place over periods of up to 100 days post-kanamycin administration. Hair cell counts have established that the threshold elevation which remains in instances of partial recovery is not related to a reduction in hair cell numbers at the light microscope level.

The methodology of Receiver Operating Characteristic curves based on the signal detection model is extended to evaluate the accuracy of two-stage diagnostic strategies. A computer program is developed for the maximum likelihood estimation of parameters that characterize the sensitivity and specificity of two-stage classifiers according to this extended methodology. Its use is briefly illustrated with data collected in a two-stage screening for auditory defects.
Kainic acid-induced seizure activity in adult rats produces an impairment of long-term potentiation induction in hippocampal slices. As the consequences of seizure activity are different in adult and juvenile rats, we tested the ability of hippocampal slices prepared from kainate-treated juvenile rats to exhibit long-term potentiation. Long-term potentiation was induced by theta-burst stimulation and was not significantly different in slices prepared from control or kainate-injected juvenile rats (16-18 postnatal days). Short-term potentiation, however, was reduced in the kainate-treated juveniles. Calpain inhibitor I has been shown to prevent long-term potentiation formation in adult hippocampal slices, and we evaluated its effect on long-term potentiation in hippocampal slices from juvenile rats. Calpain inhibitor I produced a significant reduction in the degree of long-term potentiation induced by theta-burst stimulation in hippocampal slices prepared from 14-20 postnatal day-old animals. The results are consistent with the notion that, although similar mechanisms participate in the formation of long-term potentiation in juvenile and adult animals, juvenile animals are much more resistant than adult animals to the consequences of seizure activity.
The vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) of two rhesus monkeys was recorded before and after 14 days of spaceflight. The gain (eye velocity/head velocity) of the horizontal VOR, tested 15 and 18 h after landing, was approximately equal to preflight values. The dominant time constant of the animal tested 15 h after landing was equivalent to that before flight. During nystagmus induced by off-vertical axis rotation (OVAR), the latency, rising time constant, steady-state eye velocity, and phase of modulation in eye velocity and eye position with respect to head position were similar in both monkeys before and after flight. There were changes in the amplitude of modulation of horizontal eye velocity during steady-state OVAR and in the ability to discharge stored activity rapidly by tilting during postrotatory nystagmus (tilt dumping) after flight: OVAR modulations were larger, and tilt dumping was lost in the one animal tested on the day of landing and for several days thereafter. If the gain and time constant of the horizontal VOR change in microgravity, they must revert to normal soon after landing. The changes that were observed suggest that adaptation to microgravity had caused alterations in way that the central nervous system processes otolith input.
Extracellular responses from single horizontal semicircular canal afferents in two rhesus monkeys were studied after recovery from a 14-day biosatellite (COSMOS 2044) orbital spaceflight. On the 1st postflight day, the mean gain for 9 different horizontal canal afferents, tested using one or several different passive yaw rotation waveforms, was nearly twice that for 20 horizontal canal afferents similarly tested during preflight and postflight control studies. Adaptation of the afferent response to passive yaw rotation on the 1st postflight day was also greater. These results suggest that at least one component of the vestibular end organ (the semicircular canals) is transiently modified after exposure to 14 days of microgravity. It is unclear whether the changes are secondary to other effects of microgravity, such as calcium loss, or an adaptive response. If the response is adaptive, then this report is the first evidence that the response of the vestibular end organ may be modified (presumably by the central nervous system via efferent connections) after prolonged unusual vestibular stimulation. If this is the case, the sites of plasticity of vestibular responses may not be exclusively within central nervous system vestibular structures, as previously believed.
Using light microscopic immunocytochemistry, we have studied the distribution of protein gene product 9.5 (PGP 9.5), a neuron-specific protein first extracted from human brain (Doran et al., '83:J. Neurochem. 40:1542-1547), in the vertebrate retina. Retinas were obtained from frog, chicken, rat, rabbit, cow, cat, dog, and human. No immunoreactivity was observed in frog and only a faint staining was present in chicken. In mammalian retinas, a strong positive reaction was restricted to horizontal and ganglion cells, with minor interspecies variations. Immunostaining was present throughout the cell body and the dendritic tree in horizontal cells. At the level of retinal ganglion cells, immunolabel was particularly abundant in cell bodies and axons forming the optic nerve. Only the main dendrites were stained, the remainder of the dendritic tree giving rise to a diffuse punctate reaction in the inner plexiform layer. In rats, displaced amacrine cells, which are known to contribute largely (40-50%) to the total neuronal population within the ganglion cell layer (Perry, '81: Neuroscience 6:931-944) were not immunoreactive, as demonstrated from (i) analysis of the morphology, cell size and cell density of immunoreactive neurons in wholemounts; (ii) colocalization of retrograde label and PGP 9.5 immunoreactivity in about 80% of ganglion cells after injection of peroxidase into the optic nerve; and (iii) reduction of immunoreactivity in the inner plexiform and ganglion cell layers following optic nerve transection. Western blot analysis of extracts from rabbit retinas indicated that the immunoreactive species is PGP 9.5 or a closely related molecule. Recent studies have demonstrated that PGP 9.5 is a ubiquitin carboxyl-terminal hydrolase (Wilkinson et al., '89:Science 246:670-673). The present results, therefore, suggest that differences in the ubiquitination process exist between retinal neurons.
Acetylcholinesterase (AChE) activity, localized histochemically, appeared in the nuclei of presumptive somitic mesodermal cells prior to the onset of somitogenesis. AChE activity appeared in a rostro-caudal sequence, in cells located the equivalent of five somite lengths caudal to the last formed somite. To investigate whether AChE activity was required for somitogenesis, several inhibitors of AChE activity were tested for their ability to block somitogenesis. Diisopropylfluorophosphate (DFP), a broad spectrum inhibitor of serine proteases and related enzymes, was the only AChE inhibitor tested that disrupted somitogenesis. Gastrulae at 50% epiboly exposed continuously to DFP at concentrations between 40 microM and 90 microM completed epiboly, but exhibited a dose-dependent decrease in the number of somites formed, and a parallel decrease in the caudal extent of somite innervation, by 24 hours post-fertilization (h). Fifteen somite (15h) embryos exposed to DFP at the ED50 of 70 microM for 3 hours, followed by recovery to 24h, developed abnormal somites. Approximately five normal somites formed after drug treatment before the first abnormal somite formed. The abnormal somites corresponded in location to that area of the presumptive somitic mesoderm that would have initiated AChE activity while the DFP was present. While exposed to 70 microM DFP, presumptive somites formed and motoneurons extended processes that had initiated AChE activity at the time of treatment with DFP, although at a slower than normal rate. However, embryos exposed to 1 mM DFP for 30 minutes at both the 5 and 15 somite stages, followed by recovery to 24h, developed the normal number of somites but were reduced in the caudal extent of somite innervation, and occasionally developed abnormal primary motoneurons. As with the abnormal somites, the abnormal motoneurons would have initiated AChE activity while the DFP was present. Presumptive somitic mesoderm unable to initiate AChE activity due to inhibition by DFP developed abnormally. While the effects of DFP are not limited to inhibiting AChE, the data support the &quot;clock and wavefront&quot; model proposed for somite formation, and support the hypothesis that AChE activity has a role in somitogenesis in zebrafish.
Neuritogenesis and synapse formation are transient phenomena mediated in part by filopodial attachments (Tsui, Lankford, and Klein, Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. 82:8256-8260 1985). The attachments can be labeled by antisera against adherons, adhesive microparticles isolated from cell culture media (Tsui, Schubert, and Klein, J. Cell Biol. 106:2095-2108 1988). Here, two monoclonal antibodies raised against adherons have been found to recognize transiently expressed membrane antigens of developing avian retina. Early in development, monoclonal antibody (mAb) AD1 stained antigens that spanned the entire tissue. With time, immunoreactivity became restricted to optic fiber, ganglion cell, and inner plexiform layers. Immunoblots of embryonic day (E) 13 retina showed a broad band at 66-72 kD for particulate fractions and a fine band at 70 kD for soluble fractions. The particulate forms disappeared as retinas matured, but the soluble form did not. mAb AD2 initially labeled retina antigens of optic fiber, ganglion cell, and inner plexiform layers (IPL). Labeling in the plexiform layer showed discrete lamina. Immunoreactivity first appeared at E9, peaked at E15, and then disappeared shortly after hatching. In isolated cells, AD2 labeled small cell surface aggregates. Cytoarchitectural studies, using whole-mount transmission electron microscopy, showed AD2 antigen in cell surface microfilaments, including some that joined filopodia together. The adheron antigens recognized by mAbs AD1 and AD2 thus were (1) topographically restricted; (2) associated with cell surfaces; and (3) developmentally down-regulated. This pattern suggests a role in developmentally transient cell surface phenomena, such as neurite extension or junction biogenesis.
The formation of normal numbers of skeletal muscle fibres depends on functional innervation of the muscle before and during the period of secondary myotube formation, but little has been known about the physical relationship between nerve terminals and the myoblasts and secondary myotubes over the critical period. This paper reports the results of a serial-section electron microscopic study of the IVth lumbrical muscle of the rat hindlimb, studied on embryonic day 20 (E20), a time when all secondary myotubes are less than 24 h old, and new ones are rapidly forming. Most myoblasts lying within the endplate region of the muscle received some direct neural contact; in almost all cases, the contact originated from an extension of a differentiated nerve terminal present at the endplate of an adjacent primary myotube. At six of 15 neural contact sites on myoblasts, primitive synaptic specialization was present. The newly-formed secondary myotubes were also directly, although sparsely, innervated in nine of ten instances. One secondary myotube was never seen to be innervated, despite extensive serial tracing. Nerve terminals passing to secondary myotubes were also principally derived from the innervation zone of the earlier-formed primary myotubes. Primary myotubes were profusely innervated by multiple axons. The results suggest that most nerve terminals are initially accommodated on the primary generation of myotubes, but progressively transfer to pre-fusion myoblasts or to secondary myotubes as these appear. In general, very young secondary myotubes are innervated by only a single axon, rather than being polyneuronally innervated. The existence of some secondary myotubes which lack any direct innervation suggests that intimate nerve contact may not be obligatory for formation of new secondary myotubes.
The brainstem parabrachial nucleus (PBN) is viewed as an increasingly important site for the transfer of autonomic-related information to more rostral structures in the forebrain including the hypothalamus. In this study, we examined electrophysiologically in vivo and anatomically the nature of PBN input to the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) and particularly to the vasopressin-and oxytocin-secreting magnocellular neurosecretory cells within this nucleus. In urethane-anaesthetized rats, extracellular recordings from 108 antidromically identified neurosecretory PVN cells revealed an excitatory (37/43 cells) and less frequently an inhibitory (6/43 cells) response consequent to electrical stimulation in the PBN. Both vasopressin (12/37 cells)-and oxytocin (9/37 cells)-secreting neurons appear to respond to the PBN stimulus. Four cells projecting to the neurohypophysis could also be antidromically activated from PBN, and this observation may be indicative of collateral branching in some PVN neurosecretory neurons. In addition, recordings from 60 non-magnocellular (i.e. non-neurohypophysially-projecting) PVN cells revealed a facilitatory response (43/60 cells) following PBN stimulation, Iontophoretic injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin (PHA-L) were made within the rat lateral PBN and brains prepared for immunocytochemical examination of projections to the PVN region. PHA-L-labelled fibres and terminals were visualized within both the parvocellular and magnocellular divisions of the PVN. In addition, labelled fibres were also seen in a region immediately dorsal to the PVN. PHA-L-labelled fibres with axonal varicosities and boutons were visualized over immunocyto-chemically-identified vasopressin and oxytocin neurons within the magnocellular PVN. These convergent electrophysiological and anatomical data provide evidence for a PBN projection to the PVN that is predominantly excitatory to both magnocellular neurosecretory and non-magnocellular cells. Moreover, with respect to vasopressin-and oxytocin-secreting cells, the PBN input appears to be directed at both populations of peptidergic neurons.
Recent studies have demonstrated the presence of fibres immunoreactive for somatostatin-28 (SS-28), which originate in the brainstem and selectively innervate the magnocellular oxytocin (OT) cells of the supraoptic nucleus. The potential physiological relevance of this pathway was investigated in the present study by measuring plasma OT levels in response to intraperitoneal administration of cholecystokinin in conscious male rats pretreated with intracerebroventricular injections of either SS-28 or artificial cerebrospinal fluid. Cholecystokinin treatment produced the expected marked rise in plasma OT levels in control rats pretreated intracerebroventricularly with artificial cerebrospinal fluid. However, this response was markedly blunted by prior intracerebroventricular administration of SS-28, even though SS-28 itself had no effect on basal plasma OT levels, nor did it impair OT release in response to hypertonic saline injection. These results demonstrate that centrally injected SS-28 can selectively block cholecystokinin-stimulated release of OT in rats, and support an inhibitory role for this peptide in brainstem-mediated neurohypophysial hormone secretion. Central SS-28 administration also elicited up to 3-fold increases in the amount of food ingested in 1 h by previously sated rats. These observations suggest the possibility that endogenous SS-28 may be involved in stimulating food intake in rats, and establish the basis for future studies to clarify the role of this neuropeptide in controlling ingestive behaviours.
The aims of this study were to determine the important prognostic factors at presentation which identify patients with transient ischaemic attacks (TIA) who are at high risk (and low risk) of serious vascular events and to derive a prediction model (equation) for each of the major vascular outcome events. A cohort of 469 TIA patients referred to a University hospital, without prior stroke, were evaluated prospectively and followed up over a mean period of 4.1 years (range 1-10 years). The major outcome events of interest were 1) stroke 2) coronary event and 3) stroke, myocardial infarction or vascular death (whichever occurred first). Prognostic factors and their hazard ratios were identified by means of the Cox proportional hazards multiple regression analysis. The significant adverse prognostic factors (in order of strength of association) for stroke were an increasing number of TIAs in the three months before presentation, increasing age, peripheral vascular disease, left ventricular hypertrophy and TIAs of the brain (compared with the eye); the prognostic factors for coronary event were increasing age, ischaemic heart disease, male sex, and a combination of carotid and vertebrobasilar TIAs at presentation; and for stroke, myocardial infarction or vascular death they were increasing age, peripheral vascular disease, increasing number of TIAs in the three months before presentation, male sex, a combination of carotid and vertebrobasilar TIAs at presentation, TIAs of the brain (compared with the eye), left ventricular hypertrophy and the eye), left ventricular hypertrophy and the eye), left ventricular hypertrophy and the presence of residual neurological signs after the TIA. Prediction models (equations) of both the relative risk and absolute risk of each of the major outcome events were produced, based on the presence or level of the significant prognostic factors and their hazard. Before it can be concluded that our equations accurately predict prognosis and can be generalised to other populations, their predictive power needs to be validated in other, independent samples of TIA patients (which we are currently doing).
1. A previous study measured the relative contributions made by regularly and irregularly discharging afferents to the monosynaptic vestibular nerve (Vi) input of individual secondary neurons located in and around the superior vestibular nucleus of barbiturate-anesthetized squirrel monkeys. Here, the analysis is extended to more caudal regions of the vestibular nuclei, which are a major source of both vestibuloocular and vestibulospinal pathways. As in the previous study, antidromic stimulation techniques are used to classify secondary neurons as oculomotor or spinal projecting. In addition, spinal-projecting neurons are distinguished by their descending pathways, their termination levels in the spinal cord, and their collateral projections to the IIIrd nucleus. 2. Monosynaptic excitatory postsynaptic potentials (EPSPs) were recorded intracellularly from secondary neurons as shocks of increasing strength were applied to Vi. Shocks were normalized in terms of the threshold (T) required to evoke field potentials in the vestibular nuclei. As shown previously, the relative contribution of irregular afferents to the total monosynaptic Vi input of each secondary neuron can be expressed as a %I index, the ratio (x100) of the relative sizes of the EPSPs evoked by shocks of 4 x T and 16 x T. 3. Antidromic stimulation was used to type secondary neurons as 1) medial vestibulospinal tract (MVST) cells projecting to spinal segments C1 or C6; 2) lateral vestibulospinal tract (LVST) cells projecting to C1, C6; or L1; 3) vestibulooculo-collic (VOC) cells projecting both to the IIIrd nucleus and by way of the MVST to C1 or C6; and 4) vestibuloocular (VOR) neurons projecting to the IIIrd nucleus but not to the spinal cord. Most of the neurons were located in the lateral vestibular nucleus (LV), including its dorsal (dLV) and ventral (vLV) divisions, and adjacent parts of the medial (MV) and descending nuclei (DV). Cells receiving quite different proportions of their direct inputs from regular and irregular afferents were intermingled in all regions explored. 4. LVST neurons are restricted to LV and DV and show a somatotopic organization. Those destined for the cervical and thoracic cord come from vLV, from a transition zone between vLV and DV, and to a lesser extent from dLV. Lumbar-projecting neurons are located more dorsally in dLV and more caudally in DV. MVST neurons reside in MV and in the vLV-DV transition zone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Messenger RNAs for the subunits of the muscle nicotinic acetylcholine receptor (nAChR) were expressed in Xenopus oocytes. A two-electrode voltage clamp was used to measure the acetylcholine (ACh)-induced macroscopic currents. In addition, patch-clamp techniques were used to study nAChR channels in whole cells and in outside-out patches excised from BC3H-1 cells and in patches from oocytes. The single-channel and macroscopic currents were modified by compounds that are usually used to study protein phosphorylation. 2. IBMX (3-isobutyl-1-methylxanthine) is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor. Because it elevates the intracellular concentration of adenosine 3',5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP), IBMX is often used to indirectly activate cAMP-dependent protein kinase. H-7 [1-(5-isoquinolinylsulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine] is mainly used as a rather nonspecific inhibitor of protein kinase activity. Both IBMX and H-7 directly inhibit ACh-induced currents independent of their action on phosphorylation. This direct effect of these compounds is similar to the previously reported inhibition of nAChRs and K+ channels by forskolin, which is commonly used to elevate intracellular cAMP. 3. Macroscopic currents induced in the oocytes by 50 microM ACh had an average peak current of 605 nA, and the currents decayed biexponentially with tau of 15 and 225 s. When 300 microM H-7 was added simultaneously with the ACh, the average peak current was 228 nA and the tau were 1 and 108 s. When 500 microM IBMX was added simultaneously with the ACh, the average peak current was 308 nA and the tau were 9 and 237 s. H-7 and IBMX decreased the peak current induced by ACh, and the compounds increased the decay rate of the current. Under these experimental conditions, the IC50 for reduction of peak amplitude at -30 mV was 160 microM for H-7 and 475 microM for IBMX. 4. H-7 preferentially inhibits the open conformation of the nAChR channel, but there is also some inhibition of the closed channel. The inhibition is voltage dependent: inhibition decreases e-fold per 34 mV depolarization. H-7 does not become trapped within the closed channel and does not significantly alter desensitization under our experimental conditions. 5. H-7 and IBMX interrupt or terminate single-channel openings in membrane patches excised from oocytes or BC3H-1 cells.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Formation of axonal pathways involves a variety of molecules that influence cell-cell interactions. The polysialic acid (PSA) moiety of the neural cell adhesion molecule (NCAM) is present on neuronal surfaces during process outgrowth. Our studies reveal that the removal of PSA causes a decrease in the rate of elongation of retinal cell processes on a substrate of neuronal membranes derived from chick tectum. This effect was partially reversed by antibodies against the L1 adhesion molecule, but not by antibodies against NCAM, N-cadherin, or beta 1-integrins. This predominant effect of PSA on L1 was also observed in short-term, cell-cell adhesion assays, suggesting that PSA promotes optimal outgrowth on neuronal substrates by limiting the consequences of L1-mediated adhesion.
The molecular mechanisms underlying regulation of fluid production by secretory epithelia such as the choroid plexus are poorly understood. Two cAMP-regulated inhibitors of protein phosphatase-1, inhibitor-1 (I1) and a dopamine- and cAMP-regulated phosphoprotein, M(r) = 32,000 (DARPP-32), are enriched in the choroid plexus. We show here that these two phosphoproteins are colocalized in choroid plexus epithelial cells. We have developed a novel method for studying the phosphorylation state of DARPP-32 and I1 in intact cells, using a phosphorylation state-specific monoclonal antibody. Several drugs and hormones that are known to alter fluid secretion and that increase cAMP levels (forskolin, isoproterenol, vasoactive intestinal peptide) or cGMP levels (atrial natriuretic peptide) or that may use additional second messenger pathways (5-HT), increase the phosphorylation of I1 and DARPP-32 in rat choroid plexus. In contrast, dopamine does not alter cAMP and cGMP levels, or I1 and DARPP-32 phosphorylation. Our results indicate that DARPP-32, known to be regulated by dopamine in a number of tissues, can be phosphorylated in response to non-dopaminergic factors, including hormones acting through non-cAMP-dependent pathways. Our results also raise the possibility that inhibition of phosphatase-1, as a result of I1 and DARPP-32 phosphorylation, might be part of a final common pathway in the action of several factors that are known or thought to alter cerebrospinal fluid production.
The role of excitatory amino acids (EAAs) in the excitation of monkey spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons following activation of cutaneous primary afferent fibers by noxious and non-noxious stimuli was investigated. The responses of STT neurons to either NMDA or non-NMDA EAA ligands were blocked by infusion of specific antagonists through a microdialysis fiber into the region surrounding the cells. Our results show that blockade of non-NMDA receptors results in a nearly complete elimination of the responses of STT neurons to all stimuli. Blockade of NMDA receptors results in an attenuation of the responses to noxious stimuli but, in addition, prevents the development of the sensitization of STT neurons that is often observed after intradermal injection of capsaicin. These observations further support a role of EAAs in the transmission of sensory information from primary afferent fibers to dorsal horn neurons and a role for NMDA receptors in the generation of hyperalgesia.
Advance directives concerning treatment have been firmly established in our society. Reactions to them, however, are varied, especially when the health care provider possesses a different belief about the care, or non-provision of care, in a particular situation. It is important for the neuroscience nurse to be in touch with thoughts and feelings concerning a patient's treatment choice, and, when necessary, to seek input and support about those concerns. Clearly, if the nurse cannot carry out the patient's wishes, the nurse can use applicable state law provisions supported by the Patient Self-Determination Act, and request not to participate in the care of that patient. If, however, the neuroscience nurse does provide care, ethically and legally it must be done in accordance with the patient's expressed choices.

AHN 683 [1-(2-fluoro-5-N[1,3-dihydrol-1,1-bis(4-hydroxyphenyl)-3-oxo- 5-isobenzofurancarboxamide]-phenyl)-N-methyl-N-(1-methylpropyl)-3- isoquinoline carboxamide] is a fluorescein-derived ligand at peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors structurally related to the isoquinoline carboxamide, PK 14105. The binding of AHN 683 to rat renal membranes measured by fluorescence techniques was saturable with a maximum number of binding sites of 2.3 +/- 0.3 pmol/mg of protein. The KD (40.4 +/- 2.2 nM) estimated by fluorescence was in good agreement with the Ki (77.4 +/- 13.5 nM) obtained in competition studies with [3H] Ro 5-4864. AHN 683 exhibited rapid and reversible binding which was significantly reduced by the histidine modifying reagent, diethylpyrocarbonate. The potencies of a pair of isoquinoline carboxamide enantiomers as well as other structurally diverse peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptor ligands estimated by inhibition of AHN 683 binding were in good agreement with values obtained using radioligand binding techniques. AHN 683 binding was unaffected by compounds that do not recognize peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors. Moreover, a significant increase in the maximum number of binding sites of AHN 683 to rat renal membranes after chronic furosemide treatment (29.2%, P less than .02) was comparable to the increase measured using [3H]PK 11195 (35.6%, P less than .001). These findings demonstrate the feasibility of using fluorescent ligand binding techniques to quantitatively characterize peripheral-type benzodiazepine receptors.
Seasonal variations in daytime pineal 5-methoxytryptophol (5-ML) and in the daily pattern of both pineal 5-ML and melatonin concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassay in male and female jerboas, Jaculus orientalis. Pineal 5-ML content was found to be low in winter and spring and showed a short but marked increase in summer. A clear daily rhythm was present in pineal 5-ML in September, with high concentrations during daytime and low concentrations during nighttime. In May there was a considerable drop in the daytime values and a marked decrease in the amplitude of the rhythm, while in December the daily rhythm completely disappeared. On the contrary, a clear daily rhythm was observed for pineal melatonin in September, December, and May with high values during nighttime and low values during daytime; no differences in the amplitude of the rhythm could be observed. Illumination during early night prevented both the nocturnal decrease of 5-ML and the increase of melatonin in September; in May illumination had no clear effect on 5-ML, while it prevented the normal increase of melatonin. These results suggest a possible desynchronization between the regulation of 5-ML and melatonin synthesis and release, and stress the complexity of the mechanisms involved in the environmental synchronization of seasonal functions.

Can consciousness be understood as the ongoing active creation of information (of meaning)? 'Emergence', the central concept in this hypothesis, plays an essentially different role in it than in theories previously proposed.
The origin of the mammalian neocortex is usually considered as an improvement in the design of the brain. I suggest that the mammalian neocortex arose as a consequence of contingent adaptations in which there was no specific selection for more elaborate cognitive abilities. This perspective differs from the current view of brain evolution as a progressive phenomenon towards increased intelligence.
To investigate the involvement of the cAMP/protein kinase A (PKA) second messenger system in mediating the hormonal regulation of prodynorphin expression, a normal, homologous cell transfection model was used. Ovarian granulosa cells, which express high levels of prodynorphin mRNA in response to hormonal stimulation, were obtained from the ovaries of gonadotropin-primed 26-day-old rats, pooled, and cultured under serum-free conditions. Cells were transfected with a plasmid construct (proDYN-CAT) containing approximately 2 kb of the rat prodynorphin gene (-1858 to +133 by relative to the transcription start site) fused to the chloramphenicol acetyltransferase (CAT) reporter gene. Cultures were cotransfected with either a control plasmid (pUC13) or the Mt-REV expression plasmid; Mt-REV overexpresses a mutated form of the RIalpha regulatory subunit of PKA which binds to and thereby inhibits the activity of the catalytic subunit. When granulosa cells were cotransfected with proDYN-CAT and a control plasmid, CAT activity was stimulated by human FSH (20 ng/ml), human chorionic gonadotropin (10 ng/ml), and 8-(4-chlorphenyl thio)-cAMP (0.5 mM) (10-, 11-, and 6-fold, respectively; P &lt; 0.005). However, when cells were cotransfected with proDYN-CAT and Mt-REV there was a complete abolition of hormone and cAMP stimulation of CAT activity (P &gt; 0.4 vs controls). The effect of Mt-REV cotransfection was specific since cotransfection with Mt-REVwt, a plasmid which overexpresses the normal, wild-type regulatory subunit, had no effect on hormonal responsiveness. Furthermore, cotransfection with Mt-CalphaEV or Mt-CbetaEV (which overexpress the alpha or beta catalytic subunits of PKA and thus mimic the effects of PKA activation) significantly stimulated prodynorphin promoter activity by 14-fold (P &lt; 0.05). These results support the hypothesis that gonadotropin stimulation of granulosa cells increases prodynorphin promoter activity via a process which requires a functional PKA second messenger system. Thus, PKA may be a generalized mechanism by which stimulatory input increases cellular prodynorphin expression.
A large number of diverse pharmacological agents bind to a secondary domain on the muscarinic receptor, to influence allosterically the interaction of ligands at the primary binding site. Based on common structural features of these antagonists, we examined the interaction of protamine, an endogenous polycationic peptide, and of polyamines with muscarinic receptors in rat heart. Our results provide several lines of qualitative evidence that protamine allosterically modulates the conformation of muscarinic receptors, in a marked negatively cooperative manner. It decelerated the dissociation of N-[3H]methylscopolamine ([3H] NMS) initiated by atropine, in a concentration-dependent fashion. Inhibition by protamine of [3H]NMS binding at equilibrium showed a distinct plateau, which increased in magnitude at higher ligand concentrations. Scatchard analysis of saturation isotherms of [3H]NMS binding in the absence and presence of protamine indicated that protamine did not alter Bmax in a statistically significant fashion, although there was a trend of a concentration-dependent increase in this parameter. On the other hand, it caused a marked concentration-dependent decrease in the affinity of [3H]NMS, and this effect reached a ceiling limit. However, there were marked quantitative deviations of the interaction of protamine from a simple ternary allosteric model. Some of these discrepancies could be explained by the tendency of protamine to increase Bmax. The allosteric actions of protamine demonstrated in kinetic and equilibrium experiments were selective for m1 and m2 muscarinic receptors, compared with m3, m4, and m5 receptors, as studied in Chinese hamster ovary cells transfected with the genes of the different muscarinic receptors. Arginine residues play an important role in the allosteric interaction of protamine, inasmuch as poly-L-arginine qualitatively mimicked the effects of protamine. In contrast, no effects of the polyamines spermine, spermidine, and putrescine were observed on [3H]NMS binding. This is the first report on the allosteric modulation of muscarinic receptors by an endogenous peptide.
A stimulatory role for cAMP in the regulation of receptor-activated phosphoinositide hydrolysis has been examined in human SK-N-MCIXC and SK-N-MCIIE neuroepithelioma cells. The addition of optimal concentrations of oxotremorine-M, norepinephrine, endothelin-1, and ATP enhanced the release of inositol phosphates by 2-9-fold after activation of muscarinic, alpha 1-adrenergic, endothelin, and P2 nucleotide receptors, respectively. All combinations of these agonists elicited a release of inositol phosphates that was at least additive. However, the combined presence of oxotremorine-M and norepinephrine resulted in a phosphoinositide hydrolysis that was 30% greater than additive. This potentiation of inositol lipid hydrolysis resulted from an increased activity of the muscarinic receptor after the addition or norepinephrine and persisted after alpha 1-adrenergic receptor blockade. The enhancement of muscarinic receptor-stimulated inositol phosphate release could be quantitatively mimicked by inclusion of the beta-adrenergic agonist isoproterenol (EC50 approximately 0.1 microM), but not by alpha 1- or alpha 2-adrenergic agonists. Potentiation of oxotremorine-M-stimulated inositol lipid hydrolysis observed in the presence of either norepinephrine or isoproterenol was reduced in the absence of added Ca2+. Addition of either norepinephrine or isoproterenol to SK-N-MCIXC cells also resulted in a 16-fold increase in cAMP concentration. Although the cell-permeant 8-chloro-4-phenylthio-cAMP had a small inhibitory effect on basal inositol phosphate release, its inclusion resulted in a 19-31% enhancement of muscarinic, endothelin, ATP, and alpha 1-adrenergic receptor-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis. We conclude 1) that, in SK-N-MCIXC cells, the addition of beta-adrenergic agonists selectively enhances muscarinic receptor-stimulated phosphoinositide hydrolysis through a cAMP-dependent process and 2) that the ability of exogenously added cAMP to enhance the activation of all four inositol lipid-linked receptors indicates that the effects of cAMP on inositol lipid hydrolysis are compartmentalized in these cells.
Filtering of evoked potentials has been performed in clinical laboratories using both analog and digital methods. Analog methods introduce distortion caused by nonlinear phase shift which may be quite severe. Digital methods, while avoiding distortion caused by phase shift, reveal evoked potential components which may or may not correspond to distinct singular neuroanatomic generators or homogeneous neuroanatomic systems. Thus, components identified with zero phase shift digital filters at restricted bandpass must be compared with components seen in open bandpass recordings. In some specific circumstances, high-pass filtering of short-latency somatosensory-evoked potentials may distinguish slow asynchronous synaptic activity from fast and synchronous synaptic, lemniscal, or axonal activity.
The finding that in many human tumors there is allelic loss and/or mutations in p53, in combination with recognition that these events may play a role in multi-stage carcinogenesis, has focused considerable interest on this gene. To help keep abreast of this rapidly expanding field, recent experiments on the role and potential regulation of p53 are described: these include discussions of p53 as an anti-proliferative agent, the p53 mutations found in human tumors and tumor cell lines, the conformational states of p53, phosphorylation of p53 by p34cdc2, and signals for the nuclear localization of p53. p53 may act as a transcriptional activator and the specific DNA sequences to which p53 protein binds are also discussed as is the importance of abrogation of p53 function in overcoming cellular senescence.
Pituitary oxytocin (OT) secretion is inversely related to saline consumption in several experimental models of sodium appetite in rats. Because systemic OT administration does not inhibit sodium appetite, release of OT as a neurotransmitter within the brain, coincident with its secretion from the pituitary, may be related to inhibition of sodium ingestion. The present studies evaluated this possibility by increasing brain OT concentrations both exogenously and endogenously in rats with hypovolemia produced by subcutaneous administration of polyethylene glycol (PEG) solution. Intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of OT completely abolished intake of 0.5 M NaCl in PEG-treated hypovolemic rats, but did not significantly affect PEG-stimulated water intakes. Endogenous OT secretion was stimulated by systemic treatment with naloxone, which has been shown to increase peripheral and central OT levels. In both one-bottle (0.5 M NaCl) and two-bottle (water and 0.5 M NaCl) drinking tests, intraperitoneal naloxone completely abolished sodium appetite in association with markedly increased pituitary secretion of OT. This inhibition of sodium appetite could be prevented by i.c.v. pretreatment with a specific OT-receptor antagonist, although the antagonist by itself did not affect PEG-stimulated sodium intake. These findings therefore support previous reports which have found that sodium appetite in rats is inhibited by treatments that elicit pituitary release of OT, and provide more direct evidence that brain OT is causally involved in the inhibition of sodium appetite stimulated by such treatments in rats.
Three-dimensional data representing biological structures can be derived using several methods, including serial section reconstruction, optical sectioning, and tomography. The investigation, comprehension, and communication of structural relationships to others is greatly facilitated by computer-based visualization procedures. We describe SYNU, a suite of programs developed for interactive investigation of three-dimensional structure and for the production of high-quality three-dimensional images and animations. We illustrate the capabilities of SYNU in applications to biological data obtained by confocal light microscopy, serial section, and high-resolution electron microscopy from investigations at the cellular, subcellular, and molecular levels.
Recent advances in the pathogenesis and management of Guillain-Barr syndrome (GBS) and chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyneuropathy (CIDP) are presented. These diseases are both diagnosable and treatable. The role of Campylobacter infection preceding GBS and the use of intravenous immunoglobulin to treat CIDP are discussed.
We compared the performance of 12 patients with cerebellar atrophy (CA) and 12 normal controls matched for age and education on the Tower of Hanoi, a nine-problem task that requires cognitive planning. CA patients performed significantly worse than controls on this task despite no difference in planning and between-move pause times. A reanalysis of the data using just the subgroup of patients with pure cerebellar cortical atrophy (CCA) (N = 9) replicated the above results and also showed that CCA patients had significantly increased planning times compared with controls. Neither age, sex, education level, severity of dementia, word fluency, response time, memory, nor visuomotor procedural learning predicted CA or CCA performance. This deficit in cognitive planning suggests a functional link between the cerebellum, basal ganglia, and the frontal lobe concerning specific cognitive processes. However, the exact role of the cerebellum in cognitive planning remains undetermined.

P77PMC rat is a breed of rat with congenital audiogenic seizure (AS). AS attacks could be suppressed by cholecystokinin octapeptide (CCK-8) injected intracerebroventricularly (i.c.v.). In the present study we made i.c.v. injection of plasmid pSV2-beta Gal or pSV2-CCK encapsulated with lipofectin. Expression of pSV2-beta Gal in brain occurred from d 1 to d 14, with maximal expression at d 3 and d 4. After i.c.v. injection of pSV2-CCK plasmid, the AS of the P77PMC rats was markedly reduced, which was most obvious at d 3 and d 4. The time course of the AS repression was almost identical with that of pSV2-beta Gal expression. The results suggest that the repression of the AS in P77PMC rats is accounted for by the expression of foreign CCK gene in brain tissue.
The cholinergic pedunculopontine tegmental area of the anesthetized rat was explored for single units responsive to somatosensory stimulation. Units projecting to the intralaminar thalamus were identified by antidromic stimulation. Approximately one half of the somatosensory units consisted of low threshold units responsive to light tapping and stroking; the others were high threshold mechanoreceptive units. Most receptive fields were trigeminal and contralateral. These results suggest that somatosensory information is an important element in a subcortical system linking this area with the basal ganglia, superior colliculus and thalamus.
The expression of c-fos protein was examined by immunohistochemistry in serial sections of brainstem following the instillation of either autologous arterial blood (0.3 ml) or mock cerebrospinal fluid (0.3 ml) through a catheter placed in the cisterna magna, or following catheter placement alone in pentobarbital-anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats. After injection, blood was distributed within the subarachnoid space surrounding the brainstem and in the region of the circle of Willis. c-fos protein-like immunoreactivity was present at 1 h, peaked at 2 h and decreased by 8 h. At 2 h, immunoreactivity was strongly expressed within trigeminal nucleus caudalis (lamina I, IIo), as well as within nucleus of the solitary tract, area postrema, ependyma, pia mater and arachnoid in every animal. Moderate labeling was found in parabrachial nucleus, medullary lateral reticular nucleus and central gray. Sparse labeling was present in trigeminal nucleus caudalis (lamina III-V) and trigeminal nucleus interpolaris; few or no labeled cells were detected in other parts of the trigeminal nuclear complex, thalamus, cerebral cortex, cerebellar cortex or trigeminal ganglion. The number of positive cells was not related to the volume of injectate but was related to the amount of injected blood. The density of cell labeling evoked by injecting mock cerebrospinal fluid or after catheter placement was markedly lower than after blood in all brainstem areas. The number of labeled cells was greatly reduced within trigeminal nuclear complex, parabrachial nucleus and medullary lateral reticular nucleus, but not within the nucleus of the solitary tract, area postrema or ependyma when blood was injected into adult animals in which unmyelinated C-fibers were destroyed by neonatal capsaicin treatment. Similar results were obtained after blood was instilled into the cisterna magna of rats in which meningeal afferents were chronically sectioned at the ethmoidal foramen bilaterally. We conclude that blood in the subarachnoid space is an effective stimulus for activating c-fos expression within subpopulations of brainstem neurons. Activation within trigeminal nucleus caudalis is mediated in large part by excitation of small-caliber meningeal afferents (trigeminovascular fibers), whereas c-fos expression within nucleus of the solitary tract and area postrema may reflect direct stimulation of blood or blood products, or possibly the response to autonomic activation from noxious stimulation.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The motile responses of the guinea-pig hearing organ in response to a tone applied to the ear were measured by laser interferometry. Two types of responses can be recorded: (i) a vibration at the frequency of the applied tone; and (ii) a displacement response consisting of a shift in the position of the organ surface. The purpose of this study is to characterize the displacement response. The results are as follows. There is a relationship between the frequency of highest sensitivity (best-frequency) of the displacement response and the site from which it is recorded. High best-frequencies are noticed at more basal locations, low best-frequencies towards the apex. The displacement response is more frequency-selective than the vibration response. The displacement response is observed within physiological sound pressure levels. Its sharpness is dependent on the stimulus intensity, it shows biological variability and can be manipulated by drugs that are known to modify the receptor potential of the sensory cells, or to interfere with outer hair cell motility. These results suggest that the displacement response is an important step in the transduction process in the mammalian hearing organ and that it is generated by the motile action of the outer hair cells.
Basal levels of prostaglandin E2 in the rat brain were determined by radioimmunoassay to be 0.68-0.79 pmol/g brain. About one-third of the prostaglandin E2 (0.23-0.28 pmol/g) was resistant to extraction with ethanol, but could be recovered with a mixture of ethanol and 1 N HCl (9:1, v/v), indicating that a tightly bound form of prostaglandin E2 exists in the brain. The amount of the bound form of prostaglandin E2 was almost unchanged by pentylenetetrazole-induced convulsion or by transcardial perfusion with a formaldehyde solution, although these treatments resulted in 40- to 80-fold increases in prostaglandin E2 content extracted with ethanol at neutral pH. A polyclonal antibody against prostaglandin E2-albumin conjugates recognized the bound form of prostaglandin E2, giving a punctate appearance in many neuronal cell bodies in the brain. Although almost all of the neuronal perikarya were immunoreactive for prostaglandin E2, intense immunoreactivity was observed in the mitral cell layer of the olfactory bulb, layer V of the cerebral neocortex, anterodorsal and reticular nuclei of the thalamus, supraoptic, paraventricular, accessory neurosecretory and lateral mammaillary nuclei of the hypothalamus, mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus, nucleus of the trapezoid body and deep cerebellar nuclei. When the cerebral neocortical regions were observed electron microscopically, immunoreaction products were seen as fine granules which were clustered into small patches in the cytoplasm of neuronal cell bodies and proximal dendrites. No immunoreaction products were seen in glial cells or endothelial cells. These results suggest that prostaglandin E2 is involved in fundamental processes of neurons.
The basic characteristics of desensitization of the GABAA receptor were investigated in cultured rat hippocampal neurons (three days to four weeks in vitro) using whole cell patch clamp techniques. GABA at 10-500 microM was perfused on to neurons for 30 or 60 s, with 60 s intervals of wash with control bath solution between perfusions. Desensitization, evaluated by peak-to-plateau ratio and time constants of current decay (tau), was dose-dependent and culture age-dependent. Desensitization was observed as early as three days in culture, the earliest time tested. At all ages, higher concentrations of GABA induced both larger and faster desensitization. Desensitization was markedly voltage-dependent and decreased with depolarization; peak-to-plateau ratio went from 6.3 to 1.4 and tau went from 4.6 to 26.8 s when holding potentials were changed from -80 mV to +30 mV. Low concentrations of GABA (1-2 microM) perfused for 2-60 s, which did not induce any current, had no effect on the maximal response nor desensitization produced by a subsequent application of 100 microM GABA. This finding suggests that GABA receptors were not desensitized without first being activated.
The barbiturate anesthetic thiopental enhances recovery of the evoked population spike recorded from rat hippocampal slices after short periods of anoxia. Thiopental reduces changes in sodium, potassium and calcium but enhances the fall in ATP levels during anoxia. The postsynaptic population spike recorded from the CA1 pyramidal cell region of the slices treated with thiopental (600 microM) recovered to 67% of the preanoxic amplitude after 3.5 min of anoxia. There was less recovery (24%) when a lower concentration of thiopental (250 microM) was used. Untreated slices recovered to only 10% of their preanoxic amplitude after 3.5 min of anoxia. Other studies have demonstrated that maintaining ATP levels during anoxia may be an important mechanism of protection. In contrast to those studies, thiopental was protective although it enhanced the fall of ATP levels after 3.5 min of anoxia in the CA1 region and after 3.5 and 5 min in the dentate region. Thus enhanced recovery of the population spike with thiopental is not due to its preservation of ATP levels. This result allows a clear separation of improved ATP levels during anoxia from other mechanisms of protection. We therefore looked for other mechanisms of protection. Sodium and potassium levels were measured after 10 min of anoxia. In untreated tissue, sodium levels in the slice rose and potassium levels fell significantly. In thiopental-treated tissue, changes in sodium and potassium caused by anoxia and by veratridine under normoxic conditions were significantly reduced. During anoxia calcium-45 uptake increases; thiopental significantly reduces this uptake.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Twenty-five (96%) of 26 patients with histologically verified moderate to severe Alzheimer's disease had abnormal electroencephalograms. The patients with the slowest (5-6 Hz) dominant occipital rhythms had significantly lower choline acetyltransferase activity in the post mortem frontal cortex than the patients with highest rhythm (8-9 Hz) (analysis of covariance adjusted for the neuropsychological test score). Concentrations of dopamine, noradrenaline or serotonin in the frontal cortex did not differ in the patient groups with the slowest and highest rhythms. Neither did scores of senile plaques or neurofibrillary tangles differ between these groups. In Alzheimer patients, the frequency of the dominant occipital rhythm correlated with the total score of the neuropsychological test (r = 0.58, P less than 0.01) and with the subscales of praxic functions and expressive speech, memory and general reasoning. The results suggest that the cholinergic deficit may contribute to the slowing of the electroencephalogram found in patients with Alzheimer's disease.

The physiological responses of joint capsule sensory receptors in the ankle joint of the chicken were studied by recording the electrical activity from single sensory afferent nerve fibres dissected from the parafibular nerve. All units included in this study were sensitive to mechanical stimulation of the joint capsule and were classified with respect to nerve conduction velocity, receptive field size and response threshold. Rapidly adapting mechanoreceptors formed 23% of the receptors present in the sample and responded to the mechanical probe by giving a single response or a short burst of activity at the onset of stimulation. The majority of units identified showed a slowly adapting response and on the basis of conduction velocity were divided into group IV (CV 2.5 m/s), group III (CV 2.5-20 m/s) and those units conducting over 20 m/s. Group IV units had single spot-like receptive fields and mechanical thresholds ranging from 0.6 to 60 g. Group III units could be divided into two groups based on receptive field size. One group had spot-like receptive fields 1-2 mm in diameter, whereas in the other group the receptive fields were larger (over 2 x 3 mm). The large receptive field units had significantly faster conduction velocities, lower mechanical thresholds and steeper stimulus-response curves than small receptive field units. In response to movement of the joint very few of the receptors, whether rapidly or slowly adapting, were found to be excited by moving the joint by hand in the middle of its physiological range. The physiological properties of these avian mechanoreceptive fine afferent units suggest that while some are activated by normal joint movement and non-noxious local mechanical stimulation of the joint capsule, others have nociceptive functions. The receptors present in the ankle joint were correlated with the anatomical structures found in the avian joints and their physiological properties compared and contrasted to the joint receptors found in mammals.
Morphological features of nerve fibers and synapses containing GABA and [Met]enkephalin were studied at the light and electron microscopic levels in the superior cervical ganglia of rats by pre- and postembedding immunohistochemistry. Both GABA and [Met]enkephalin immunoreactivities were found in varicose nerve fibers, forming diffuse networks which were denser in the rostral than in the caudal part of each ganglion. For both antigens rich and basket-like innervation was observed around some of the principal neurons. The GABA-immunoreactive fibers were evenly stained, while in case of [Met]enkephalin-positive nerve fibers the varicosities showed intensive immunopositivity only. Postembedding immunochemistry revealed that both inhibitory substances were located in axon varicosities which established asymmetric synapses of Gray I type. Fine structural investigation revealed that GABA-like immunoreactivity was confined in the nerve endings to the clear synaptic vesicles of 40 nm diameter, whereas the immunogold particles, indicating the occurrence of [Met]enkephalin, were located over the large dense-cored vesicles of 120 nm diameter. The clear and dense-cored vesicles were, however, mixed in the nerve endings labeled by either neurotransmitter substance. Interestingly, the [Met]enkephalin-immunopositive axon terminals were found, consequently, in synaptic contacts with dendrites containing dense bodies in a row underlying the postsynaptic membrane thickening. Since nerve terminals with GABA-like immunoreactivity established synapses of Gray I type without such subjunctional bodies, one can reasonably assume that, in spite of similarities in termination pattern, there is no co-existence of GABA and enkephalin in the axons in the superior cervical ganglion.
The action of choline on &quot;maxi&quot; Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels was studied in excised patches of bovine chromaffin cell membranes. Choline (20-70 mM) applied to the internal surface of the membrane reduced the single channel current amplitudes, which can be explained by a fast channel block. The block is concentration- and voltage-dependent and is rapidly and completely reversed upon washout. The block becomes progressively greater with depolarization. The estimates of blocking parameters vary from channel to channel but appear to fall in two groups. A larger group (two-thirds of cases) with moderate affinity [KD(0) = 88.5 mM] and low voltage dependence (delta = 0.26) and a smaller group (one-third of cases) with very low affinity (KD = 306 mM) and moderate voltage dependence (delta = 0.59). The open state probability appears not to be affected at any choline concentration (up to 70 mM) or membrane potential (from -20 to +60 mV) studied, suggesting that choline does not affect the channel gating kinetics. Since the affinity of the choline block is low to moderate, the intracellular choline is not expected to alter the current flow through &quot;maxi&quot; Ca(2+)-activated K+ channels unless the choline concentration close to the protoplasmic membrane is much higher than the mean cellular concentration.
The effects of 5-hydroxytryptamine on the membrane potential and input resistance of 86 dorsal horn neurons were studied using intracellular recordings in isolated, hemisected spinal cords of adult frogs (Rana pipiens). Bath application of serotonin (5-100 microM) caused membrane depolarizations in 58 (67%) neurons, hyperpolarizations in 12 (14%) cells, biphasic responses in nine (11%) neurons, and no detectable change in seven (8%) cells. In some neurons depolarized by serotonin, the amine's responses could be mimicked by the selective 5-HT2 agonist (+/-)-1(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride and the 5-HT1C/2 agonist alpha-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine, and blocked by the 5-HT1C/2 antagonists ketanserin and mianserin. In other neurons depolarized by serotonin, the 5-HT3 agonist 2-methyl-5-hydroxytryptamine mimicked, and the 5-HT3 antagonist, 3-tropanyl-3,5-dichlorobenzoate, blocked the serotonin-induced responses. Depolarizing responses due to activation of 5-HT1C/2 receptors were generally accompanied by increases in the membrane input resistance, whereas depolarizations mediated by 5-HT3 receptors were associated with a decreased membrane input resistance. Superfusion with tetrodotoxin or low-Ca2+/high-Mg(2+)-containing media abolished about half of the depolarizing responses. Hyperpolarizations caused by serotonin were associated with a decrease in membrane input resistance, and might have been due to activation of a potassium conductance. These responses persisted in bathing solutions containing tetrodotoxin or low-Ca2+/high-Mg2+. The 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamine)tetralin hydrobromide mimicked, whereas the 5-HT1A antagonist spiroxatrine blocked, these hyperpolarizing responses. Other antagonists selective for 5-HT1C/2 or 5-HT3 receptors were without effect. Serotonin-produced biphasic responses consisted of either an initial depolarization followed by a hyperpolarization or the reverse. The selective 5-HT2 agonist (+/-)-1(2,5-dimethyoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane hydrochloride could only mimic the depolarizations, whereas the 5-HT1A agonist 8-hydroxy-2-(di-N-propylamine)tetralin hydrobromide produced only the hyperpolarizations. Spiroxatrine, a 5-HT1A antagonist, blocked only the hyperpolarizations without affecting the depolarizations, and methysergide, a non-specific 5-HT receptor antagonist, depressed both the depolarizations and hyperpolarizations. Serotonin also appeared to affect spinal dorsal horn neurons indirectly because it produced excitatory postsynaptic potentials, inhibitory postsynaptic potentials, and a mixture of both.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
It is well documented that sex steroids affect striatal dopamine systems. However, the mechanism(s) of these hormonal effects in the striatum is still not well understood. We now report that gonadal steroid hormones during the estrous cycle affect the morphology and steroid hormone content of the rat striatum. Rats displaying at least two consecutive estrous cycles were included in this study as well as a group of female rats ovariectomized two weeks before being killed. The striatum was dissected from one half of each brain and used for morphological studies. From the other half of each brain, the striatum was dissected and steroid hormone concentrations in striatum and the remainder of the brain were determined. Tissues and serum concentrations of 17 beta-estradiol, progesterone and prolactin were measured by specific radioimmunoassays. Serum 17 beta-estradiol and prolactin concentrations peaked in proestrus, while progesterone was high in diestrus and proestrus. 17 beta-Estradiol levels were higher in the striatum than in the rest of the brain; both were also shown to fluctuate during the estrous cycle and with a pattern similar to that observed in serum. Progesterone serum levels showed a similar pattern of changes during the estrous cycle to progesterone concentrations in the striatum and the rest of the brain. The ultrastructure of the striatal dendritic membranes was studied by freeze-fracture. A significant difference in the content of intramembranous particles in dendritic shafts, which are mainly contacted by dopaminergic synapses, was found during the estrous cycle. The numerical density of large (greater than 10 nm) intramembranous particles was increased in diestrus I and II and in the afternoon of proestrus compared to estrus, the morning of proestrus and ovariectomized rats. In contrast, the numerical density of small (less than 10 nm) intramembranous particles was decreased in cycling animals compared to ovariectomized rats and fell in the afternoon of proestrus and then progressively increased in the following days to peak in the morning of proestrus. A negative correlation between steroid concentrations and small intramembranous particle density was observed, while the correlation was positive for large particles. No changes were observed in the membranes of dendritic spines, the main postsynaptic target for cortical afferents. In summary, this is the first report that concentrations of 17 beta-estradiol and progesterone in the striatum fluctuate during the estrous cycle. This is associated with estrous cycle-dependent changes of intramembranous particle density of striatal dendritic membranes. Our data therefore indicate that the striatum is a brain region hormonally modulated under physiological conditions.
The effects of the neuropeptide neurotensin and the typical neuroleptic haloperidol on dopamine efflux were compared in the posteromedial nucleus accumbens of the chloral hydrate-anesthetized rat using in vivo chronoamperometry. Both neurotensin and haloperidol administration elicited an immediate increase in dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens. Gamma-hydroxybutyric acid lactone, an agent known to block impulse flow in dopamine neurons, either prevented when given before neurotensin or reversed neurotensin-induced increases in accumbens dopamine efflux. Haloperidol-induced increases in accumbens dopamine efflux were similarly affected by gamma-hydroxybutyric acid lactone. The dopamine receptor agonist apomorphine reversed neurotensin- and haloperidol-induced increases in dopamine efflux. Amphetamine, administered during the peak dopamine stimulatory effects induced by neurotensin or haloperidol, resulted in increases above baseline which were significantly greater than the effects of amphetamine alone. These combined drug treatment effects on baseline dopamine efflux were additive, indicating that the effects of amphetamine were not potentiated by neurotensin or haloperidol pretreatments. These in vivo results suggest that neurotensin and haloperidol may augment dopamine efflux in the nucleus accumbens via common mechanisms of action which may involve activation of mesotelencephalic dopamine neuronal firing. The inability of neurotensin to block amphetamine-induced efflux in the nucleus accumbens further suggests that neurotensin blockade of amphetamine-elicited locomotor activity is mediated by an action of neurotensin postsynaptic to dopamine nerve terminals in the nucleus accumbens.
The medial prefrontal cortex of the rat receives dopamine and non-dopaminergic projections from the ventral tegmental area. Both electrical stimulation of the ventral tegmental area and local application of dopamine induce an inhibition of the spontaneous activity of most prefrontal cortical neurons, including efferent neurons. In the present study, the techniques of extracellular recording and microiontophoresis were used in anesthetized rats in order to determine whether these dopamine- and ventral tegmental area-induced inhibitory responses involve GABAergic components. Prefrontal cortex output neurons were identified by antidromic activation from subcortical structures. The inhibitory responses evoked by the local application of dopamine were blocked by the iontophoretic application of the D2 antagonist sulpiride, and the GABAA antagonist bicuculline in 89 and 57% of the cases, respectively. In addition, sulpiride and bicuculline abolished the inhibition induced by ventral tegmental area stimulation in 54 and 51% of the prefrontal cortical cells tested, respectively. The implication of a non-dopaminergic mesocortical system in the ventral tegmental area-induced inhibition was further analysed using rats pre-treated with alpha-methylparatyrosine to deplete dopamine stores. The proportion of prefrontal cortical cells inhibited by ventral tegmental area stimulation was markedly reduced (39%) in alpha-methylparatyrosine-treated rats, when compared to controls (86%). Remaining ventral tegmental area-induced inhibition was no longer affected by sulpiride, but in all cases blocked by the local microiontophoretic application of bicuculline. The present results suggest that: (1) the dopamine-induced inhibition of prefrontal cortex neurons could involve cortical GABAergic interneurones; (2) the non-dopaminergic mesocortical system exerts also an inhibitory influence on prefrontal cortical cells and appears to be GABAergic.
The Rab genes have recently been cloned and sequenced in mammals, and their products represent good candidates for low molecular weight guanosine triphosphate-binding proteins involved in the regulation of intracellular transport of vesicles in higher eukaryotes. Remarkably, each of the Rab proteins appears to be associated with a distinct step of either the exocytic or endocytic pathway. In particular, Rab6p has been localized to the outermost Golgi cisternae in normal rat kidney cells, where its function remains unclear. In this work, we have carried out a series of immunocytochemical analyses of the subcellular distribution of Rab6p in a polarized cell, the electrocyte of Torpedo marmorata, to elucidate the molecular mechanisms involved in the sorting and targeting of synaptic proteins. We report that, aside from its Golgi localization, the bulk of Rab6p associates with clusters of post-Golgi vesicles, primarily those located at the cytoplasmic face of the innervated membrane of the electrocyte. Consequently, Rab6p presents a polarized distribution in this cell. Furthermore, we show that this distribution is dependent upon the integrity of the microtubule network of the electrocyte. These data are coherent with the notion that Rab6p is involved in the regulation of membrane traffic from the trans-Golgi network to the innervated plasma membrane, delivering, by way of a microtubule-based organelle transport mechanism, synaptic proteins to their appropriate locations.
Protein kinase C inhibitor was injected intracellularly by iontophoresis into CA1 somata either before or after long-term potentiation in the hippocampal slice preparation. Two different protein kinase C inhibitors, polymyxin B (PMXB) or 1-(5-isoquinolinesulfonyl)-2-methylpiperazine (H-7), injected 10 min before long-term potentiation induction caused potentiated responses to return to baseline 15-35 min after induction without significantly affecting the initial magnitude of potentiation. There was no effect on long-term potentiation persistence when H-7 or PMXB was injected intracellularly 5 min after long-term potentiation induction. In contrast, focal extracellular micro-pressure ejection of protein kinase C inhibitor in the stratum radiatum, 15 or 30 min, but not 60 min after long-term potentiation induction caused decay of long-term potentiation to baseline. This is probably a presynaptic action since intracellular inhibitors injected postsynaptically were ineffective 5 min after long-term potentiation induction. Focal application to stratum pyramidale produced a weaker decay than to stratum radiatum suggesting a Schaffer collateral presynaptic terminal site of action. We propose that activation of postsynaptic protein kinase C activity is necessary for long-term potentiation persistence but this activity persists for less than 5 min after induction. Presynaptic protein kinase C activity is also necessary for persistence and is time-limited to less than 60 min. It is attractive to think that these two events are sequentially activated and employ different protein kinase C subtypes differentially localized to presynaptic or postsynaptic elements.
Slices were made from the hippocampus of gerbils following transient ischemia achieved by clamping the carotid arteries for 5 min, and changes in the electrophysiology of CA1 pyramidal neurons were studied by whole cell patch-clamp recording as well as conventional intracellular recording. The great majority of CA1 neurons in slices made 2.5-3 days after ischemia showed reduced resting potentials and were easily depolarized by prolonged low-frequency stimulation or by tetanic stimulation of the Schaffer collateral/commissural input. This stimulus-induced depolarization was accelerated by intracellular injection of D-myo-inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate, which depolarized membrane potentials towards 0 mV without synaptic input stimulation. Intracellular application of BAPTA, a Ca2+ chelator, effectively blocked the stimulus-induced depolarization. When recording from ischemic neurons with patch pipettes containing both D-myo-inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate and BAPTA, excitatory postsynaptic currents were transiently potentiated by stimulation, but the membrane potential did not show stimulus-induced depolarization and remained steady for long periods. These results lend support to the view that the intracellular Ca2+ regulation system is severely disturbed following ischemia, and that input fiber stimulation leads to abnormal Ca2+ accumulation in ischemic neurons resulted in neuronal death. The reduction of free Ca2+ inside the ischemic neuron by BAPTA apparently saves neurons which are otherwise destined to delayed neuronal death.
Disruption of a restricted area of the pia-arachnoid compromises vascular irrigation of the underlying cortex, leading to infarction of the tissue. This study was undertaken to examine the effects of such brain injury on glial cells. Adult male Wistar rats were processed for glial fibrillary acidic protein immunoreactivity at 1, 4, 7, 15 and 30 days after undergoing cortical devascularization. One day post-lesion, glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells were observed only at the lesion site. Glial fibrillary acidic protein-positive cells were present in the ipsilateral remaining cortex, distant from the wound, between days 4 and 15, and were also evident in the thalamus beginning 4 days post-lesion. These diverse temporal patterns of GFAP immunoreactivity in different brain structures suggest that various mechanisms can mediate increased GFAP immunostaining following injury.
Basic fibroblast growth factor is a potent trophic factor with a wide spectrum of activity at various stages of neuronal development. In our studies on the effects of select lesions on the expression of growth factors, we observed that neurons of layer VIb of the rat cerebral cortex developed immunoreactivity for basic fibroblast growth factor and its receptor following injury. Recent evidence indicates that layer VIb of the rat cerebral cortex contains the subplate cell population, a group of neurons shown to participate in the development of the cerebral cortex. In this article, we examined the nature and time-course of the response to injury of the expression of basic fibroblast growth factor and its receptor in these cells. We used an anti-basic fibroblast growth factor monoclonal antibody that recognizes the active form of basic fibroblast growth factor, and a polyclonal antibody that recognizes the extracellular domain of the basic fibroblast growth factor receptor. The induction of basic fibroblast growth factor and its receptor in layer VIb cells occurred after entorhinal cortex lesion, fimbria-formix transection or aspiration of small segment of the frontoparietal cortex. The lesion-induced effect was transient, appearing by postlesion day 2 and having disappeared by postlesion day 7. These findings suggest that endogenous basic fibroblast growth factor may have a neuroprotective role on layer VIb neurons after trauma and/or may participate in cortical plasticity during adulthood.
The occurrence of monoamine oxidase-B in cerebral cortex and white matter in brains from three patients with the diagnosis of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and three controls was quantified by means of an autoradiographical method. [3H]L-Deprenyl, an irreversible and selective monoamine oxidase-B inhibitor, was used as ligand and the autoradiographs were analysed by computer-assisted densitometry. In both amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and control cerebral cortex, lamina I showed the highest, laminae II and III intermediate, laminae IV, V and VI the lowest [3H]L-deprenyl binding. White matter showed about one-third of the binding in the cortex. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis cases showed significantly higher binding of [3H]L-deprenyl in all the cortex laminae of the pre- and postcentral gyri. There was no difference in the binding between the amyotrophic lateral sclerosis cases and the controls in area 7 of the occipital cortex, an area which is relatively spared in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.
The effect of the excitotoxic N-methyl-D-aspartate agonist quinolinic acid in the caudal pontine reticular formation on the acoustic startle response was investigated in rats. Bilateral injections of 90 nmol of quinolinic acid led to large lesions in the reticular formation characterized by the loss of all neurons and a marked reduction or even abolition of the acoustic startle response; 18 nmol of quinolinic acid led to smaller lesions characterized by a selective loss of giant neurons within the caudal pontine reticular formation and a reduction of the startle amplitude. The partial correlation analysis revealed that the reduction of the amplitude of the acoustic startle response can be correlated with the loss of the giant neurons (r = 0.575; d.f. = 29; P less than 0.001) but not with the reduction of the number of all neurons (r = 0.207; d.f. = 29; P greater than 0.2) in the caudal pontine reticular formation. These findings were reconciled with electrophysiological and anatomical data indicating that the giant neurons in the caudal pontine reticular formation receive acoustic input and project to motoneurons of the spinal cord. It is concluded that the caudal pontine reticular formation is an important element of the startle pathway and that the giant reticulospinal neurons constitute an important part of the sensorimotor interface mediating this response.
The sympathetic and sensory innervation of guinea-pig trachea and lung were studied by means of retrograde neuronal tracing using fluorescent dyes, and double-labelling immunofluorescence. Sympathetic neurons supplying the lung were located in stellate ganglia and in thoracic sympathetic chain ganglia T2-T4; those supplying the trachea resided in the superior cervical and stellate ganglia. Retrogradely labelled sympathetic neurons were usually immunoreactive to tyrosine hydroxylase; the majority also contained neuropeptide Y immunoreactivity. However, a small number were non-catecholaminergic (i.e. tyrosine hydroxylase negative), but neuropeptide Y immunoreactive. Within the airways, tyrosine hydroxylase/neuropeptide Y-immunoreactive axons were found in the smooth muscle layer, around blood vessels including the pulmonary artery and vein, and to a lesser extent in the lamina propria. Periarterial axons contained in addition dynorphin immunoreactivity. Sensory neurons supplying the lung were located in jugular and nodose vagal ganglia as well as in upper thoracic dorsal root ganglia; those supplying the trachea were most frequently found bilaterally in the nodose ganglia and less frequently in the jugular ganglia. A spinal origin of tracheal sensory fibres could not be consistently demonstrated. With regard to their immunoreactivity to peptides, three types of sensory neurons projecting to the airways could be distinguished: (i) substance P/dynorphin immunoreactive; (ii) substance P immunoreactive but dynorphin negative; and (iii) negative to all peptides tested. Substance P-immunoreactive neurons innervating the airways invariably contained immunoreactivity to neurokinin A and calcitonin gene-related peptide. Retrogradely labelled neurons located in the nodose ganglia belonged almost exclusively (greater than or equal to 99%) to the peptide-negative group, whereas the three neuron types each represented about one-third of retrogradely labelled neurons in jugular and dorsal root ganglia. Within the airways, axons immunoreactive to substance P/neurokinin A and substance P/calcitonin gene-related peptide were distributed within the respiratory epithelium of trachea and large bronchi, in the lamina propria and smooth muscle from the trachea down to the smallest bronchioli (highest density at the bronchial level), in the alveolar walls, around systemic and pulmonary blood vessels, and within airway ganglia. Those axons also containing dynorphin immunoreactivity were restricted to the lamina propria and smooth muscle. The origin of nerve fibres immunoreactive for vasoactive intestinal polypeptide, of which a part were also neuropeptide Y immunoreactive, could not be determined by retrograde tracing experiments. Vasoactive intestinal polypeptide-immunoreactive fibres terminating within airway ganglia may be of preganglionic parasympathetic origin, whereas others (e.g. those found in smooth muscle) may arise from intrinsic ganglia.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
To elucidate the possible functional significance of sensory neuropeptides in visceral organs of mammals and birds the distribution, binding sites and the effects on ureteric peristalsis of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) were investigated in the ureter of guinea-pigs and chickens. In the guinea-pig numerous substance P and CGRP-immunoreactive fibres were located in the adventitia, smooth muscle layer, submucosa and occasionally in the epithelium. Varicose peptidergic fibres were often found on blood vessels. Binding sites for substance P were associated with blood vessels and epithelium in the following density order: venules greater than epithelium greater than arterioles. The highest density of CGRP binding sites was detected on the smooth muscle; venules and arterioles expressed moderate binding. The peristalsis frequency of the isolated ureter of the guinea-pig was increased by neurokinin A and substance P, whereas CGRP inhibited ureteric motility. In the chicken the immunoreactivity to substance P and CGRP was less pronounced. Immunoreactive fibres were found in the submucosa close to the epithelium and around ureteric ganglion cells. Correspondingly, substance P binding sites were located in the epithelium and in ureteric ganglia; however, specific CGRP binding was restricted to large blood vessels. In the chicken none of the sensory neuropeptides affected ureteric motility. Only high doses of the sensory neurotoxin capsaicin (greater than 10 microM) repeatedly produced a non-specific inhibitory effect, similar to that found in a capsaicin-desensitized guinea-pig ureter preparation. The data suggest that in the guinea-pig ureter sensory neuropeptides play a modulatory role in the regulation of ureteric motility and might have vascular and epithelial functions. In the chicken, substance P might be involved in the regulation of epithelial function and modulation of ganglionic transmission. The physiological or pathophysiological role of sensory neuropeptides and the efferent functions of afferent fibres appears to be much better developed in the guinea-pig than in the chicken.
The responses of sensory neuropeptides during unilateral, Freund's adjuvant-induced, paw inflammation in the rat were examined. After five days of inflammation, the substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide content in the sciatic nerve supplying the inflamed paw were increased by 60-75% when compared with the contralateral side. At this time-point, there was also a 30-40% increase in the substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide content of the dorsal root ganglia (L4-L6), and a 40% increase in the calcitonin gene-related peptide content of the L4-L6 segments of the dorsal spinal cord on the inflammation side. In the dorsal root ganglia, calcitonin gene-related peptide content was also increased as early as 12 h and 48 h after induction of paw inflammation. On day 5 of inflammation, the axonal transport of both sensory neuropeptides towards the inflamed paw, as determined after sciatic nerve ligation, was also markedly increased as compared with the control side. Despite this increased transport, the amount of substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide present in the inflamed paw itself was either reduced or remained unchanged from day 1 through to day 5 of inflammation pointing towards reduced storage and increased release of the peptides in the inflamed tissue. Nerve growth factor content was markedly increased in the sciatic nerve of the inflamed paw with a peak of +136% at time-point 24 h after induction of inflammation. When rats were systemically treated with anti-nerve growth factor serum, the increase in neuropeptide content in the sciatic nerve of the inflamed paw (day 5) was prevented. On the other hand, local injections of nerve growth factor for 5 days into a noninflamed paw were able to induce an increase in substance P and calcitonin gene-related peptide content in the supplying sciatic nerve. These findings point towards a regulatory function for nerve growth factor in vivo in the stimulation of sensory neuropeptide synthesis during prolonged inflammatory processes.
Stimulation of neurons in the ventromedial medulla produces antinociception that is mediated in part by indirect activation of pontospinal noradrenergic neurons. Substance P-containing neurons located in the ventromedial medulla project to the A7 catecholamine cell group and may serve as an excitatory link between these two cell groups. Thus, the antinociception induced by stimulation of the neurons in ventromedial medulla may be mediated by substance P released from these projections which activates spinally projecting noradrenergic neurons in the A7 cell group. This hypothesis was tested by determining whether microinjection of various doses of substance P into the A7 cell group of the rat could induce antinociception. The results indicated that substance P induced dose-dependent antinociception that was more pronounced in the hindlimb ipsilateral to the microinjections. This observation is consistent with anatomical observations that noradrenergic A7 neurons project predominantly to the ipsilateral spinal cord dorsal horn. Moreover, the antinociceptive effects of substance P microinjection appear to be mediated at least in part by activation of spinally projecting noradrenergic neurons in the A7 cell group, because intrathecal injections of the alpha-2 noradrenergic antagonists yohimbine and idazoxan blocked these antinociceptive effects. The results of these experiments support the hypothesis that the antinociception induced by stimulation of neurons in the ventromedial medulla is mediated in part by activation of substance P-containing neurons that project to, and activate, spinally projecting noradrenergic neurons located in the A7 catecholamine cell group.
We have examined collateral projections of locus coeruleus afferent neurons in the rostral medulla to the caudal nucleus of the solitary tract or to the periaqueductal gray using double retrograde labeling techniques in the rat. The present findings confirm previously reported connections to the locus coeruleus, the nucleus of the solitary tract and the lateral periaqueductal gray from the nucleus paragigantocellularis in the rostral ventral medulla. Our results also reveal previously unreported projections from the rostral dorsomedial medulla (in a similar region as locus coeruleus-projecting neurons) to the lateral periaqueductal gray. Following retrograde tracer injections into the nucleus of the solitary tract and the locus coeruleus, doubly labeled neurons were seen in both the nucleus paragigantocellularis and in the rostral dorsomedial medulla. Cell counts revealed that approximately 25% of locus coeruleus-projecting neurons in the nucleus paragigantocellularis, and 12% in the dorsomedial medulla, also innervate the caudal nucleus of the solitary tract. In contrast, no doubly labeled neurons within the rostral ventral medulla were found following injections into the lateral periaqueductal gray and the locus coeruleus, although singly labeled neurons for the two tracers were interdigitated in some regions. Following these injections, numerous neurons were also retrogradely labeled in the dorsomedial medulla in the region of the medial prepositus hypoglossi and the perifascicular reticular formation. A small percentage of locus coeruleus afferents in the dorsal medulla (approximately 10%) also projected to the lateral periaqueductal gray. These results indicate that neurons in both the ventrolateral and dorsomedial rostral medulla frequently send collaterals to both the locus coeruleus and the caudal nucleus of the solitary tract. A small number of neurons in the dorsomedial medulla project to both the locus coeruleus and the lateral periaqueductal gray, but separate populations of neurons project to the locus coeruleus and the lateral periaqueductal gray from the ventrolateral medulla. These results functionally link the locus coeruleus and the nucleus of the solitary tract by virtue of common afferents, and support other studies indicating the importance of central autonomic circuitry in the afferent control of locus coeruleus neurons.
By using immunohistochemistry combined with lesioning and retrograde neuronal labeling techniques, cholinergic neurons and corticotropin-releasing factor-immunoreactive neurons were examined for their distribution, coincidence and cerebellar projections in feline vestibular nuclear complex and adjacent brainstem structures. Cholinergic neurons as revealed here with choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity were found massively in the abducens and hypoglossal nuclei, dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve and nucleus of Roller; less numerously in the medial vestibular, prepositus hypoglossi and solitary nuclei and the caudal two-thirds of descending vestibular nucleus; and only occasionally in the intercalated and supravestibular nuclei and cell groups f, x and z. Corticotropin-releasing factor-immunoreactive neurons were found clustered in the prepositus hypoglossi nucleus and also in cell groups f and x and the rostral two-thirds of descending vestibular nucleus, less numerously in the medial vestibular, intercalated and solitary nuclei and nucleus of Roller, and only occasionally in the caudal one-third of descending vestibular nucleus, the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus nerve, supravestibular nucleus and cell group z. The lateral and superior vestibular nuclei did not contain either type of neuron. The two types of immunopositive neurons observed in most of the brainstem nuclei differed in cell size, distribution-pattern and rostrocaudal level of occurrence. While there were many regions which exhibited both types of immunopositive neurons, perikarya colocalizing the cholinergic and peptide markers were not detected in the brainstem. Following unilateral, partial lesioning of the vestibular nuclear complex, corticotropin-releasing factor-immunoreactive mossy fiber terminals (rosettes) disappeared from the ipsilateral flocculus. However, such lesions did not produce clear-cut changes of cholinergic terminals in the vermis. Following retrograde neuronal labeling combined with immunohistochemistry, the two types of immunopositive neurons observed in most of the brainstem sites were found to project to the vermal lobules I-III, IX and X. On comparison of these immunopositive projection neurons with non-immunoreactive, retrogradely labeled neurons, the cholinergic neurons and the peptide-immunoreactive neurons were found to constitute a major part of the total vestibulocerebellar neuronal population. The results indicate chemical heterogeneity in vestibular nuclear complex and cerebellar afferents.
Excitatory postsynaptic potentials evoked in neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei, either by electrical stimulation within the nuclei in cerebellar slice cultures or by electrical stimulation of olivary explants in olivo-cerebellar co-cultures, were investigated in the rat by means of intracellular recordings. In neurons of the deep cerebellar nuclei, stimulation of the nuclear tissue, as well as stimulation of the olivary tissue, induced a fast rising excitatory postsynaptic potential, followed by an inhibitory postsynaptic potential and a long-lasting excitation. The fast rising excitatory postsynaptic potential and the following inhibitory postsynaptic potential were blocked by 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione. The remaining depolarization was abolished by D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, suggesting that this potential was mediated by N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. With only D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate added to the bath, the slow excitation was depressed, whereas the fast excitatory and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials were not affected. In the presence of bicuculline, the 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione- and the D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate-sensitive excitatory postsynaptic potentials elicited by stimulation of the olivary tissue had the same latency, and were both graded with stimulation strength. The time-to-peak and the duration of the D-(-)-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate-sensitive excitatory postsynaptic potentials were considerably longer than those of the 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione-sensitive excitatory postsynaptic potentials.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Peripheral administration of low doses of dopamine agonist apomorphine induces a strong and short-latency inhibition of dopamine neurons in the substantia nigra, presumably via the activation of somatodendritic autoreceptors. We studied the site of action of apomorphine in anesthetized rats using volume-controlled pressure microejection combined with single unit recordings. Microapplication of apomorphine in the immediate vicinity of nigral dopamine neurons did not mimic the effect of intravenous administration of apomorphine (50 micrograms/kg), regardless of the concentration or volume used (10(-10)-10(-2) M, 10-100 nl). In contrast, the inhibition produced by systemic apomorphine was mimicked by drug application at a site 300 microns lateral and 600 microns ventral from the recording site in the zona reticulata of the substantia nigra, a region rich in dendrites of dopamine neurons. The inhibition induced by such a distant application of apomorphine could be reversed by systemic injection of D2, but not D1, receptor antagonists. Non-dopaminergic substances such as GABA, bicuculline or lidocaine were more effective when ejected close to rather than distant from the recording site, in a manner opposite to that of apomorphine. Similar to apomorphine, dopamine and D2 receptor agonists were more potent when intranigral applications were made at sites distant from, rather than close to, the recorded dopamine cells. Ejection of D2 antagonists in the substantia nigra zona reticulata attenuated the inhibitory effect of subsequent systemic apomorphine. Our results, together with other previous studies on the location of D2 receptors on dopamine neurons, suggest that peripheral administration of low doses of apomorphine inhibits nigral dopamine neurons by acting at D2 receptors located on the dendrites of these neurons.
Visually elicited activity contributes to the formation of orderly connections in the optic tectum of frogs. Glutamate receptors of the N-methyl-D-aspartate class participate in this process. Blocking those receptors interferes with activity-dependent refinement of maps in normal frogs and of ocular dominance bands in surgically produced animals with three eyes. Chronic application of N-methyl-D-aspartate sharpens the bands. The possibility that 5-amino-phosphonovaleric acid depresses tectal responsiveness was motivation for studying the effects of 5-amino-phosphonovaleric acid and N-methyl-D-aspartate applied both chronically and acutely. We evaluated tectal responsiveness to visual input by presenting flashes of light to one eye and recording responses in the ipsilateral tectal lobe. This method reveals the output of the tectal cells contralateral to the stimulated eye. These cells project via the nucleus isthmi to the opposite tectal lobe. We also mapped the receptive field dimensions of the crossed isthmotectal axons. Our results show that acute topical application of 500 microM or 1 mM N-methyl-D-aspartate dramatically increases spontaneous activity, while 100 microM N-methyl-D-aspartate causes little change. Chronic treatment with N-methyl-D-aspartate at a low dose (estimated to be in the micromolar range) shown to influence retinotectal mapping, reduces response latencies but produces no statistically significant changes in tectal cell firing rates or receptive field size. Acute application of 5-amino-phosphonovaleric acid produces complex results: 10 microM produces no changes in firing, 100 microM 5-amino-phosphonovaleric acid decreases firing, and doses of 500-100 microM increase the firing.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
In previous studies we have shown that labelled neurotensin injected into the rat striatum was found to be transported retrogradely in dopaminergic neurons through a process which was receptor and microtubule dependent. Now, we show, by in situ hybridization, the consequences of the striatal injection of neurotensin on the gene expression of tyrosine hydroxylase in the substantia nigra. Rats were injected with neurotensin or its fragments in the striatum of one side and with saline or the inactive fragment on the other. The number of nigral cells expressing tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA was found to increase by 40% after injection of neurotensin or its active fragment (neurotensin 8-13). In the same experimental conditions, the inactive fragment (neurotensin 1-8) was without effect. Time-course experiments revealed that the tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA was increased 4 h after neurotensin injection but not at 1 or 16 h. The fact that the increase of mRNA parallels the appearance of labelled neurotensin in the substantia nigra indicates that the changes in the gene expression of tyrosine hydroxylase might be the consequence of the retrograde axonal transport of neurotensin. These results represent the first evidence for the existence of a long-distance retrograde signalling process in which the neuropeptide and presumably its receptor may serve as information molecule between synapses and the cell body.
As a result of its interaction with a specific receptor, inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate mobilizes intracellular calcium. The metabolism of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate is rather complex: inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase produces inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate, a putative second messenger. In order to elucidate inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate function, a comparative in situ hybridization study of the distributions of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase and receptor mRNAs was performed in the adult rat brain using oligonucleotides derived from their cDNA sequences. The neuronal distributions of the mRNA for the receptor were larger than for the kinase. Highest levels of both mRNAs were found in the cerebellar Purkinje cells, where they were enriched in their neuronal perikarya and to a lesser extent in their dendrites. In addition to the cerebellum, mRNAs were mainly detected in the hippocampal pyramidal cells of the CA1 sector of the Ammon's horn and in the granule cells of the dentate gyrus, and also in a majority of the neurons in the cortical layers II-III and V, especially in the frontal cortex and cingulate cortex; caudate-putamen, accumbens, olfactory tubercle and Calleja islets; claustrum; anterior olfactory nucleus; taenia tecta; piriform cortex; dorsolateral septum; bed nucleus stria terminalis; amygdala; hippocampal CA2-4 sectors and subiculum. The inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor mRNA but not kinase mRNA was found in a majority of the neurons in the thalamus, especially in the parafascicular nucleus; hypothalamus, especially the medial hypothalamus; substantia nigra pars compacta and ventral tegmental area; superior colliculus; lateral interpeduncular nucleus and central gray. Taking into account the limitation in sensitivity of the technique, both mRNAs were not detected in glial cells and in the olfactory bulb; basal nucleus of Meynert, diagonal band nuclei; medial septal nucleus; substantia innominata; globus pallidus; entopeduncular nucleus; substantia nigra pars reticulata; ventral pallidum; subthalamic nucleus; spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia. In conclusion, cerebellum and hippocampus appear to contain almost similar levels of kinase mRNA. This is in contrast to receptor mRNA levels which were at much higher levels in the cerebellum when compared with the hippocampus. For this reason, we have chosen hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells and dentate gyrus granule cells for studying inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate 3-kinase function.
This study examined the release of endogenous amino acids from acute hippocampal slices, upon stimulation of the Schaffer collateral-commissural fibres. One-minute samples of superfusate were collected via a cannula placed over the CA1 stratum radiatum, and were analysed by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography. Evoked potentials were recorded to ascertain stimulation efficacy. Four minutes of continuous 50 Hz stimulation produced a tetrodotoxin-sensitive release of aspartate and glycine in the second minute of stimulation, as well as a tetrodotoxin-sensitive release of cysteine sulphinic acid, during stimulation and of homocysteic acid, following stimulation. Such 50 Hz stimulation also produced a tetrodotoxin-insensitive decrease in methionine levels, but no significant changes in any of the other 15 amino acids measured. Four minutes of continuous 1 Hz stimulation produced no changes in the levels of any of the amino acids measured, but four 600-ms trains of 100 Hz stimulation, which, unlike the 1 Hz stimulation, produced long-term potentiation, resulted in significant increases in levels of cysteine sulphinic acid and homocysteic acid, but not of any of the other amino acids measured. These results suggest that aspartate, glycine, homocysteic acid, and cysteine sulphinic acid play a role in synaptic transmission in the Schaffer collateral-commissural fibres, and that cysteine sulphinic acid and homocysteic acid may be released specifically by high-frequency stimulation.
Previous studies from our laboratory and others have shown that there are major age-related differences in brainstem neuronal function. Since GABAA receptors are major targets for GABA-mediated inhibitory modulation and play a key role in regulating cardiorespiratory function, especially during O2 deprivation, we examined differences in GABAA receptor density and distribution during postnatal development. Using quantitative receptor autoradiography, the present study was performed to examine the postnatal expression of GABAA receptors in the rat brainstem and rostral brain areas at five ages, i.e. postnatal day 1 (P1), P5, P10, P21 and P120. Ten-micrometer brain sections at different brain levels were labelled with [3H]muscimol in Tris-citrate buffer. We found that (i) GABAA receptors appeared very early in almost all the brainstem as well as rostral areas; (ii) at P1, the brainstem had a higher GABAA receptor binding density than rostral areas and its density peaked at P5 or P10; and (iii) receptor densities of the cerebellum and rostral brain areas such as cortex, thalamus and dentate gyrus increased with age, especially between P10 and P21, but most other subcortical areas like caudate-putamen and hippocampal CA1 area did not increase remarkably after birth. We conclude that: (i) GABAA receptors exist in most brain areas at birth; (ii) there are several patterns of postnatal development of GABAA receptors in the CNS with dramatic differences between the brainstem and cortex; (iii) brainstem functions rely more on GABAA receptors in early postnatal life than at more mature stages. We speculate that GABAA receptors develop earlier in phylogenetically older structures (such as brainstem) than in newer brain regions (such as cortex).
The high density of opioid-containing nerve endings in the median eminence together with the absence of direct effects of opioids upon pituitary suggest a local action of opioids in the median eminence. The aim of this work was to address the occurrence of mu-opioid binding sites in the median eminence at the electron microscopic level, using the highly selective radioligand [125I]FK 33-824. mu-Opioid receptors were labeled in vitro on slightly prefixed slices of mediobasal hypothalamus. The labeling was essentially detected in the external part of the median eminence. Most of the silver grains overlaid membrane appositions. Two overall types of appositions were concerned: nerve terminal-nerve terminal or nerve terminal-tanycyte. Detailed analysis of the silver grain distribution indicated that mu receptors were observed on membranes of different types of nerve endings but also of tanycytes. All the binding sites were localized out of synaptic junctions since the median eminence is totally devoid of these structures. Our results suggest that in the median eminence, opioid peptides have a paracrine and/or autocrine action occurring at least via mu receptors located on nerve terminals but also on tanycytes.
Dephosphorylation processes of target proteins are critical to the reversible regulation of intracellular signal transduction systems. Further, brain damage such as ischemic insult induces marked changes in protein kinase activity. To study these changes more thoroughly, specific monoclonal antibodies of the A and B subunits of calcineurin (protein phosphatase 2B) were raised, and regional alterations in the immunoreactivity of calcineurin in the rat hippocampus were investigated after a transient forebrain ischemic insult causing selective and delayed hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cell damage. In normal rats it was found that both the calcineurin A and the B subunits showed high immunoreactivity in the dendritic fields of the hippocampal formation. The immunoreactivity of subunit A in the strata oriens, the radiatum of the CA1 subfield and in the stratum lucidum of the CA3 subfield was most intense, whereas the immunoreactivity in the other CA3 subfields and in the dentate gyrus was relatively low. In contrast, the dendritic fields of the hippocampal formation were equally immunoreactive to calcineurin subunit B, although the stratum lucidum of the CA3, where the mossy fibers from the dentate granule cells terminate, showed a very high immunoreactivity of the B subunit. After transient forebrain ischemia in the CA1 subfield, where selective pyramidal cell death occurred two days after this ischemia, a marked loss of immunoreactivity in both subunits was observed, along with morphological pyramidal cell damage. A recovery of the immunoreactivity of A and B subunits in the strata oriens and radiatum was later noted 30 days after ischemia. In the stratum lucidum of the CA3, the immunoreactivity of both the A and B subunits was transiently depressed from 6 to 24 h, followed by a marked immunoreactivity enhancement from four to 30 days after ischemia. Further, in the histologically intact dentate gyrus, both the immunoreactivity of the A and B subunits in the molecular layer were transiently enhanced from four to 14 days after ischemia, particularly in the supragranular layer. The results clearly indicate that the protein dephosphorylation systems were markedly altered in the whole hippocampal formation during the recirculation period following ischemia. Further, the transient depression in the calcineurin immunoreactivity seen in the mossy fiber terminals may reflect modulated synaptic activity of the dentate granule cells, which may play a pivotal role in the delayed and selective death of the CA1 pyramidal cells. Thus, calcineurin appears to be an excellent marker enzyme for the detection of neuronal activity and synaptic plasticity after brain damage, such as an ischemic insult.
These experiments have shown that a group of neurons lateral to the trigeminal motor nucleus innervates the muscles of mastication. The work began to describe the location of digastric last-order interneurons, using the technique of transneuronal labeling with wheatgerm agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxide injected into the left digastric muscle of rabbits under general anaesthesia. Four to eight days later, the animals were killed with an overdose of anaesthetic and perfused. Coronal sections of the frozen brainstem were cut at 20 microns thickness and processed for peroxidase activity. Motoneurons in the ventral and caudal divisions of the trigeminal motor nucleus were labeled in all animals as expected. An additional population of neurons located ventrolaterally to the motor nucleus in cell group k were also found to be labeled if the survival time was five days or more. In an attempt to determine whether cell group k neurons were labeled transynaptically, two series of control experiments were carried out. In the first, crystals of fluorescein- and rhodamine-conjugated dextran amines and horseradish peroxidase were applied directly to central ends of cut digastric nerves. In the second, central ends of cut digastric nerves were enclosed in cuffs containing 40-60% horseradish peroxidase solutions. Again, neurons in both the trigeminal motor nucleus and cell group k were labeled suggesting that neurons within cell group k project to the digastric muscle. Similar experiments using dextran amines and wheatgerm peroxidase were carried out on the masseter muscle. Motoneurons in the dorsomedial and rostral half of the trigeminal motor nucleus, as well as primary afferent cell bodies in the mesencephalic nucleus of the trigeminal nerve, were labeled in all experiments. In addition, a population of neurons in cell group k, dorsal to those associated with the digastric muscle, were found to contain each one of the reaction products. Since it is thought that only the wheatgerm agglutinin-conjugated horseradish peroxidase transferred from one neuron to another, we conclude that cell group k neurons provide an additional innervation to the digastric and masseter muscles.
mu-Opioid receptors mediate inhibition of the N-type calcium channel current in the human neuroblastoma cell line SH-SY5Y. We have previously shown that chronic exposure to morphine induces homologous tolerance to this effect. Here we show that chronic incubation with morphine (1 microM for three to seven days) does not, however, induce physical dependence at the level of the calcium channel current. Initial experiments were performed using the whole cell voltage-clamp technique. Chronically treated cells were bathed in superfusate which also contained morphine (1 microM). On washout of morphine the current amplitude increased by 12% and this was reversed by re-addition of morphine. Naloxone (1 microM) elicited a similar increase. However, this increase is most likely due to a reversal of the residual inhibitory effect of morphine on the calcium channel current rather than being a novel withdrawal response. Chronic exposure to morphine did not change the voltage-sensitivity of the calcium channel current or induce the appearance of a current sensitive to the L-type calcium channel agonists Bay K 8644 (3 microM) and S(+)-PN 202-791 (1 microM). In a further series of experiments the nystatin-perforated patch technique was employed in order to prevent washout of any L-type current in these cells. Under these conditions a Bay K 8644-sensitive, L-type current was unmasked following treatment with omega Conus Toxin GVIA. The peak current was depressed by omega Conus Toxin GVIA (1 microM) by approximately 90% both in control cells and cells chronically exposed to morphine. Now Bay K 8644 (3 microM) almost doubled the remaining current but the effect was equal in both groups of cells. It is concluded that chronic exposure to morphine does not induce physical dependence and a withdrawal syndrome in the human SH-SY5Y neuroblastoma cell line by changing either N-type or L-type calcium channel activity.
Galanin has been shown to stimulate feeding or modulate neuroendocrine secretions when administered centrally. In the present work, using quantitative autoradiography, we documented the existence of [125I]galanin specific binding sites in several hypothalamic nuclei expected to mediate these effects. In standard binding conditions, [125I]galanin specific binding can be visualized in the hypothalamic ventromedial nucleus, stria terminalis, piriform cortex, central amygdaloid nucleus and medial amygdaloid nucleus, while it is almost undetectable in most neuroendocrine or autonomic hypothalamic areas. We hypothesized that high endogenous galanin levels in these regions might mask galanin receptors. We first showed that a high ionic strength/acid wash of brain slices is effective in removing more than 80% of specifically prebound [125I]galanin in all tested regions. After such treatments, specific binding sites could be revealed in the hypothalamus namely in the parvocellular paraventricular nucleus, periventricular nucleus, arcuate nucleus and median eminence. In contrast, regions already labeled in standard conditions exhibited a slight decrease in [125I]galanin binding. Thus, regions were ranked from low to high rate of occupancy of galanin receptors by endogenous galanin, the rate of occupancy of galanin receptors being maximal in median eminence (greater than 90%). We thus studied the regional effect of guanine nucleotides on [125I]galanin specific binding. A high concentration (100 microM) of guanyl 5'-yl imidodiphosphate, a nonhydrolyzable analog of GTP directly added to the incubation medium, inhibited [125I]galanin binding in all telencephalic regions. On the same sections and only in regions of high index of galanin receptor occupancy (arcuate nucleus, median eminence, dorsomedial nucleus, paraventricular nucleus, and periventricular hypothalamic nucleus), guanyl 5'-yl imidodiphosphate paradoxically enhanced [125I]galanin binding. The effects of acid preincubation and guanyl 5'-yl imidodiphosphate incubation on [125I]galanin binding were strongly correlated in these hypothalamic areas (r = 0.97). In all regions, guanyl 5'-yl imidodiphosphate increased the rate of dissociation of [125I]galanin. In competition studies, guanyl 5'-yl imidodiphosphate decreased the IC50 s of unlabeled galanin which were homogenized around 4 nM in most telencephalic and hypothalamic regions. Thus, the guanyl 5'-yl imidodiphosphate-induced stimulation of [125I]galanin specific binding measured in the neuroendocrine and autonomic hypothalamus is linked to an increase in receptor capacity and not to a rise in receptor affinity. Both inhibitory and stimulatory guanyl 5'-yl imidodiphosphate effects observed in [125I]galanin equilibrium binding studies were dose-dependent and guanine nucleotide-specific with guanyl 5'-yl imidodiphosphate more potent than GTP or GDP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Calbindin D28k-containing non-pyramidal cells were found in all layers and subfields of the hippocampus, with the highest frequency in stratum radiatum of the CA1-CA3 subfields. A large number of these neurons had a vertically oriented dendritic tree, often restricted to to stratum radiatum. In stratum oriens and near to the border of strata radiatum and lacunosum moleculare cells with horizontally running dendrites were also found. Multipolar cells were most common in stratum radiatum of the CA3 region. The GABAergic nature of the calbindin D28k-containing non-pyramidal cells was studied using the &quot;mirror&quot; technique. Adjacent thick sections were immunostained for calbindin D28k and GABA, and halved neurons were identified on the common surfaces. The majority of calbindin D28k-containing non-pyramidal cells were shown to be GABAergic. The GABA-negative calbindin cells were found in relatively large numbers in stratum oriens of the CA1-CA3 region, and occasionally in strata radiatum and pyramidale of CA2, and in stratum radiatum of the CA3c region near to the border of the dentate hilus. However, even in these cells a weak immunostaining, only slightly but consistently above background level, was always observed. Earlier studies have demonstrated that the somata of GABAergic neurons with distant projections may contain a level of GABA that is below the detection threshold of immunocytochemistry. Here we provide direct evidence that the calbindin-containing non-pyramidal cells were among those projecting to the medial septum. Following horseradish peroxidase injections into the medial septum 80% of the retrogradely labelled non-pyramidal cells were found to be immunoreactive for calbindin D28k, and 20% contained neuropeptide Y. These results suggest that the calbindin D28k-containing and apparently GABA-immunonegative non-pyramidal cells in stratum oriens of the CA1-CA3 regions may also be GABAergic, but have a distant projection, that is, to the medial septum.
The general goal of the present study was to investigate structural components of a neural system anatomically as well as functionally. The rat motor system, which is reasonably well understood, was selected and a new procedure was developed to combine a functional marker with axonal tracing methods (in the same animal). This was achieved by mapping c-fos induction immunocytochemically as a result of intracortical microstimulation in the distal forelimb area of the motor cortex. The anterograde tracers Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin or biocytin were deposited at the site of intracortical microstimulation, the former three weeks and the latter two to three days before stimulation. Neuronal nuclei, labeled for the expressed c-fos protein, were present and mapped in the following structures: motor cortex; basal ganglia (caudate-putamen, globus pallidus); thalamus (reticular, ventromedial and posterior nuclei); subthalamic nucleus; substantia nigra; tectum; red nucleus; pontine nuclei; inferior olive; external cuneate nucleus; cerebellar cortex; deep cerebellar nuclei. Labeling was often bilateral but generally more substantial ipsilaterally, except in the cerebellum where it was mainly contralateral. Axonal labeling, including terminal branches and boutons, was also found in most of the above structures with the exception of the globus pallidus, deep cerebellar nuclei, cerebellar cortex and external cuneate nucleus. These expected exceptions demonstrate that activity changes in these latter structures, as revealed by c-fos labeled neurons, were induced over more than one synapse. This combined procedure might, therefore, be useful in deciding whether two structures in a given system are linked directly (monosynaptically) or indirectly (polysynaptically) to each other. In contrast to the 2-deoxyglucose technique, functional mapping by means of c-fos induction provides cellular resolution, making it possible to establish fine details of axonal contacts with target neurons: boutons in close apposition to c-fos labeled neurons were clearly observed here, for instance in the cerebral cortex, caudate-putamen, thalamus, subthalamic nucleus and pontine nuclei. Surprisingly, the ventrolateral and ventrobasalis nuclei of the thalamus contained numerous and dense axon terminals labeled with Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin or biocytin, but the contacted neurons in the ventrolateral and ventrobasalis nuclei were not marked with c-fos. However, with respect to directly connected structures, there was, in general, a good correlation between structures with axonal labeling and those with c-fos labeled neurons.
Homicide was the United States' second leading cause of death among people aged 15 to 24 in 1988; non-fatal assaults occur 100 times more frequently. Yet as a society, we have ignored the problem. Risk factors for violent injuries comprise sociological, developmental/psychological and neurophysiological elements. Providers of primary care for children, young adults and their families can help parents develop healthy parenting techniques in child-rearing, help the grade-school-aged child develop non-violent conflict-resolution skills, and help young people learn to avoid violence and potentially violent activities and situations. Health care providers are able to reduce the incidence of violent injuries by addressing the issue of violence in periodic examination visits with both parents and children. Familiarity with risk indicators enables the health care provider to intervene early when needed. An anticipatory guidance outline and a violence-induced injury-visit form are included.
A rapid method for the synthesis of DNA fragments for competitive PCR analysis is described. This procedure takes advantage of the fact that if PCR is carried out with a mixture of re-ligated restriction digestion fragments, only those fragments containing binding sites for both PCR primers will be amplified. Following electrophoresis of the amplified mixture, the DNA fragment of desired size can be excised from an agarose gel, reamplified, and used for subsequent competitive PCR. We have used this procedure to synthesize deletion constructs for the rat glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) gene, and have used competitive PCR to determine the levels of this mRNA in primary cultures of rat brain astrocytes.
Six adults, who had recently experienced sudden recall of preschool memories of sex abuse or alien abduction/visitation, were given complete neuropsychological assessments. All experiences &quot;emerged&quot; when hypnosis was utilized within a context of sex abuse or New Age religion and were followed by reduction in anxiety. As a group, these subjects displayed significant (T greater than 70) elevations of childhood imaginings, complex partial epileptic-like signs, and suggestibility. Neuropsychological data indicated right frontotemporal anomalies and reduced access to the right parietal lobe. MMPI profiles were normal. The results support the hypothesis that enhanced imagery due to temporal lobe lability within specific contexts can facilitate the creation of memories; they are strengthened further if there is also reduction in anxiety.
Chronic ethanol consumption (12% v/v for 12 months) produced an accelerated decay of T-maze spontaneous alternation (SA) rates as the interval that elapsed between forced trials, used as acquisition, and a free test trial, used as a retention test, increased. Thus, alcohol-treated mice that exhibited normal SA rates at a short interval (5 min) were impaired at the longer one (6 h) relative to controls. This alcohol-induced deficit was almost completely reversed by physostigmine (0.05 mg/kg, IP) given only before the test trial. Parallel neurochemical analysis showed that chronic alcohol intake produced a significant decrease in hippocampal and cortical sodium-dependent high-affinity choline uptake. In particular, the significant cholinergic activation produced by a T-maze exploration in controls was attenuated in experimental subjects so that the between-groups differences already present in the quiet condition were amplified in the active (exploration) state. These findings suggest that the memory deficits induced by chronic ethanol consumption stem from a failure of some cholinergic-dependent retrieval processes. An attempt is made to relate the present results with our previous ones that emphasized the importance of diencephalic damage in alcohol-induced retrieval deficits.
We describe the general design, operating principles, and performance of a neurally organized, multiply adaptive device (NOMAD) under control of a nervous system simulated in a computer. The complete system, Darwin IV, is the latest in a series of models based on the theory of neuronal group selection, which postulates that adaptive behavior is the result of selection in somatic time among synaptic populations. The simulated brain of Darwin IV includes visual and motor areas that are connected with NOMAD by telemetry. Under suitable conditions, Darwin IV can be trained to track a light moving in a random path. After such training, it can approach colored blocks and collect them to a home position. Following a series of contacts with such blocks, value signals received through a &quot;snout&quot; that senses conductivity allow it to sort these blocks on the basis of differences in color associated with differences in their conductivity. Darwin IV represents a new approach to synthetic neural modeling (SNM), a technique in which large-scale computer simulations are employed to analyze the interactions among the nervous system, the phenotype, and the environment of a designed organism as behavior develops. Darwin IV retains the advantages of SNM while avoiding the difficulties and pitfalls of attempting to simulate a rich environment in addition to a brain.
This study examined the relationship between the affinity of glutamate agonists for the alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionic acid (AMPA) receptors and the characteristics of the physiological responses elicited by endogenous activation of the AMPA receptors. We tested the effects of chaotropic ions on [3H]AMPA binding in synaptic membranes as well as on synaptic responses elicited in CA1 by electrical stimulation of the Schaffer/commissural pathway in the in vitro hippocampal slice preparation. Of the chaotropic ions tested, only perchlorate and thiocyanate produced large increases in [3H]AMPA binding to synaptic membranes. The effect was due to an increase in affinity for agonists, as shown by a shift of the displacement curves of 6-cyano-7-nitro[3H]-quinoxaline-2,3-dione binding by AMPA or glutamate. The effect of thiocyanate on [3H]AMPA binding was extremely sensitive to temperature, as the binding was increased almost 10-fold at 0 degree C but only 2- to 3-fold at 35 degrees C. The effect of perchlorate was only weakly temperature dependent. Similarly, thiocyanate and perchlorate were the only chaotropic ions tested that increased the initial slope and amplitude of the extracellularly recorded potentials evoked in CA1 dendritic field. Both ions did not change paired-pulse facilitation, an index of transmitter release, or fiber volley amplitude, an index of afferent recruitment. The chaotropic ions had no significant effects on either [3H]glutamate binding to the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor or N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated synaptic responses. Finally, the effect of perchlorate on synaptic responses was significantly reduced after induction of long-term potentiation. These results indicate that an increase in affinity of the AMPA receptors for their agonists results in increased synaptic responses and strongly suggest that characteristics of the AMPA receptor are modified following long-term potentiation.
Nitric oxide (NO) is a messenger molecule of macrophages, endothelial cells in blood vessels, and neurons. A neuronal form of NO synthase (NOS) has been previously cloned. We now report the molecular cloning of macrophage NOS. The macrophage enzyme displays 50% sequence identity to the neuronal enzyme. Like neuronal NOS, macrophage NOS has recognition sites for FAD, FMN, and NADPH and also has a consensus calmodulin binding site. Macrophage NOS mRNA is strikingly inducible; it is absent in quiescent macrophages or spleen but is prominent 2-6 hr after endotoxin treatment.
Mapping of the electroencephalogram (EEG) has been found to be a valuable method in clinical neuropsychopharmacology. It is evident that careful treatment of artifacts is of utmost importance for EEG data processing, as artifacts that contaminate the EEG data can lead to spurious results. The artifact-processing method described in this article splits signal analysis into a preprocessing step, yielding individual electro-oculographic (EOG) regression factors for EOG minimization, and into a processing step, yielding target variables. The combination of avoiding, minimizing, and identifying artifacts, as well as visual checking of face validity, will help remove artifactual effects from the EEG.



Toxic lectins, plant proteins that inactivate ribosomes, irreversibly inhibit protein synthesis with high efficiency. After intraneural (subepineurial) microinjection, these agents are taken up by axons and are retrogradely transported to the perikarya, where they result in cell death. These 'suicide transport' toxins can produce pathway-specific lesions that are useful in several types of experiment, including cellular localization of neurotransmitter receptors. The toxins can be coupled to monoclonal antibodies to produce immunotoxins: reagents that can make highly selective lesions of specific types of neurons. Central or peripheral neurons that express the low-affinity NGF receptor are selectively destroyed by the immunotoxin 192 IgG-saporin. Development of other anti-neuronal immunotoxins should provide a variety of powerful selective lesioning tools.
The mammalian central auditory system contains a large number of subcortical auditory nuclei, which were once thought to form a simple relay system, taking signals from the ear to the cortex where all information processing would have occurred. Now it appears that these subcortical nuclei are themselves responsible for the extraction and analysis of the dimensions of sounds. Not only do the nuclei encode dimensions defining the nature of the sound, but also they extract features of sound location. Three major nuclei in the superior olivary complex of mammals extract the horizontal direction of a sound source, and it seems likely that other nuclei in the auditory system encode elevation and distance. This shift in viewpoint away from the attributes of sound to the attributes of sound sources is an important new step in the investigation of the role of the central auditory system in hearing.
Some visual stimuli produce a strong percept of motion, even though they fail to excite motion detectors based on Fourier energy or cross correlation. Models which suffice to explain the motion percept in these non-Fourier motion (NFM) stimuli include linear spatiotemporal filtering, followed by rectification, followed by standard motion analysis (Chubb &amp; Sperling 1988). We used the human &quot;motion-onset&quot; evoked potential, which has been assigned to area 17 on the basis of work in the macaque (van Dijk et al., 1986; van Dijk &amp; Spekreijse, 1989), to investigate the neural substrate of the processing stages postulated in the above models. Motion-onset VEPs elicited by FM and NFM matched for spatial and temporal characteristics were indistinguishable in temporal characteristics and scalp topography at a transverse chain of electrodes. Addition of textural cues (granularity and higher-order form) did not influence the response dynamics or scalp topography of NFM responses. However, comparison of responses to NFM stimuli and related stimuli without coherent motion but similar spatial and temporal properties showed that the motion-onset responses were distinct from responses to the onset of fixed flicker-defined contours not undergoing coherent motion. We discuss the implications of these results for computational models of motion analysis.
When two parallel gratings moving at the same speed are presented simultaneously, the lower-contrast grating appears slower. This misperception is evident across a wide range of contrasts (2.5-50%) and does not appear to saturate (e.g. a 50% contrast grating appears slower than a 70% contrast grating moving at the same speed). On average, a 70% contrast grating must be slowed by 35% to match a 10% contrast grating moving at 2 degrees/sec (N = 6). Furthermore, the effect is largely independent of the absolute contrast level and is a quasi-linear function of log contrast ratio. A preliminary parametric study shows that, although spatial frequency has little effect, relative orientation is important. Finally, the misperception of relative speed appears lessened when the stimuli to be matched are presented sequentially.
Observers carried out multiple, concurrent size discriminations with a range of size standards. The task was to classify each stimulus as larger or smaller than the appropriate standard size for the set to which it belonged. The set to which each stimulus belonged was indicated by its orientation, or in different experiments, by its spatial location. Observers were able to maintain appropriate discrimination, both when there were four concurrent standards and when there were eight. Both angle and position functioned as effective cues. The size of the orientational cue appeared to make little difference to the efficiency of discrimination. However, when the relationship between standard size and orientation was random, rather than regular, performance got worse. The analogy between such discrimination and size constancy is pointed out, and the results are discussed in relation to Andrews, D. P.'s [(1964) Quarterly Journal of Experimental Psychology, 16, 104-115)] account of perceptual calibration.
Giant intracranial aneurysms pose difficult problems for neurosurgeons. This article describes the technique of extracranial-intracranial saphenous vein bypass graft and carotid artery ligation as treatment to remove a giant intracranial aneurysm.
The protective effect of mild hypothermia was studied in rodent models of both permanent and transient focal cerebral ischemia. In Expt. 1, Wistar rats were exposed to 6 h permanent ischemia by bilateral occlusion of both common carotid arteries and right middle cerebral artery. In Expt. 2, animals were exposed to 3 h transient ischemia followed by 21 h reperfusion, and in Expt. 3, 3 h transient ischemia was followed by 69 h of reperfusion. Expt. 4 used 3 h transient ischemia followed by 3 h reperfusion. In Expt. 1, animals maintained at 37 degrees C rectal (normothermia) suffered a mean infarct volume (+/- S.D.) of 142 +/- 44 mm3 (n = 6), which was reduced for those exposed to permanent hypothermic (32 degrees C) ischemia to 56 +/- 64 mm3 (n = 10) (P less than 0.05). In Expt. 2, normothermic ischemia and reperfusion resulted in an infarction of 211 +/- 35 mm3 (n = 6). Intra-ischemic hypothermia (32 degrees C) followed by 21 h of normothermic reperfusion resulted in 17 +/- 12 mm3 of infarction (n = 9) (P less than 0.001). Hypothermia for either the first or second 1.5 h of the 3 h ischemic insult reduced the infarct volume to 116 +/- 76 mm3 (n = 6) (P less than 0.05) or 108 +/- 73 mm3 (n = 7) (P less than 0.01), respectively.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
gamma-Aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptors are ligand-gated ion channels that mediate inhibitory synaptic transmission in the central nervous system. The role of protein phosphorylation in the modulation of GABAA receptor function was examined with cells transiently transfected with GABAA receptor subunits. GABAA receptors consisting of the alpha 1 and beta 1 or the alpha 1, beta 1, and gamma 2 subunits were directly phosphorylated on the beta 1 subunit by adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cAMP)-dependent protein kinase (PKA). The phosphorylation decreased the amplitude of the GABA response of both receptor types and the extent of rapid desensitization of the GABAA receptor that consisted of the alpha 1 and beta 1 subunits. Site-specific mutagenesis of the serine residue phosphorylated by PKA completely eliminated the PKA phosphorylation and modulation of the GABAA receptor. In primary embryonic rat neuronal cell cultures, a similar regulation of GABAA receptors by PKA was observed. These results demonstrate that the GABAA receptor is directly modulated by protein phosphorylation and suggest that neurotransmitters or neuropeptides that regulate intracellular cAMP levels may modulate the responses of neurons to GABA and consequently have profound effects on synaptic excitability.
According to the dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia, D2 receptor blockade is essential for a drug to have antipsychotic potency, and antipsychotic potency and D2 blockade are linearly related in vitro. To test this assumption in vivo, we have compared clinical response with central D2 dopamine receptor availability measured by 123I-iodobenzamide single photon emission tomography in two groups of schizophrenic patients. 6 patients were on typical antipsychotic drugs and 10 were on the atypical antipsychotic clozapine, including 2 patients from the first group. The patients on typical antipsychotics showed poor therapeutic response despite D2 receptor blockade. Significant clinical improvement occurred in all patients on clozapine, but at a lower level of D2 blockade by the drug. These findings suggest a more complex relation between D2 blockade and clinical efficacy than was previously thought.
1-(2,5-dimethoxy-4-iodophenyl)-2-aminopropane (DOI), a serotonin type 2 (5-HT2) agonist, elevates plasma corticosterone levels and reduces the cerebral metabolic rate for glucose (rCMRglc) in the hippocampus, a structure which possesses few 5-HT2 receptors but a large number of steroid receptors. To explore the hypothetical interaction between 5-HT and steroid mechanisms in the hippocampus, we measured rCMRglc in intact, adrenalectomized and metyrapone-pretreated rats after saline or DOI administration. Metyrapone pretreatment alone had no significant effect on rCMRglc, but adrenalectomy produced widespread rCMRglc increases in the cortex, hippocampus and monoaminergic brainstem nuclei. In intact rats, DOI 10 mg/kg reduced rCMRglc in limbic areas and increased it in the interanteromedial and paracentral thalamic nuclei. Metyrapone pretreatment and adrenalectomy abolished rCMRglc responses to DOI in hippocampal areas and enhanced those in thalamic nuclei. These results indicate that brain responses to DOI are dependent upon the functional state of the hypothalamus-pituitary-adrenal cortex axis.
We evaluated changes in the cholinergic neuronal system and learning ability with aging. Choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity, a presynaptic index of the cholinergic system, was decreased in the cerebral cortex, hippocampus, striatum, and hypothalamus in the brain of aged rats compared with young adults. Muscarinic cholinergic binding sites (receptors, MCR), a postsynaptic index of the cholinergic system, were markedly decreased in all areas of the brain. However, intraperitoneal injection of 1 mg/kg of dihydroergotoxine (DHET) for 14 days normalized both ChAT and MCR in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. In the striatum, ChAT was normalized, but MCR did not recover. Aged rats showed marked learning impairment in a 30-day operant type brightness discrimination learning test. Daily DHET administration restored the discrimination ability in the aged rats to nearly the young adult level. DHET had no effects on central cholinergic indices or learning test results in young adult rats. These findings suggest that learning is impaired in aged rats due to impairment in the central cholinergic neuronal system, and that DHET normalizes the decreased function in this system, restoring the learning ability.
In adult rats, concurrent kindling of two limbic sites, alternating stimulation to each site, often results in the retarding of kindling at one or both sites. This inhibitory interaction between two limbic kindling foci is termed kindling antagonism and occurs irrespective of whether the sites are contralateral or ipsilateral. We have previously shown that kindling antagonism does not occur when 16- to 17-day-old rat pups are concurrently kindled in the hippocampus and contralateral amygdala or between the two amygdalae. In this study, adult and 16- to 17-day-old rats were concurrently kindled in the hippocampus and ipsilateral amygdala to determine if the local intrahemispheric mechanisms suppressing multiple kindled foci are age-dependent. Kindling antagonism occurred in 7 out of 10 adult rats. In contrast, in rat pups, kindling development was not suppressed. Concurrent kindling of the two limbic sites enhanced the development of severe seizures. Two 16- to 17-day-old rats receiving alternating stimulations exhibited spontaneous seizures. The age-specific failure of both inter- and intrahemispheric mechanisms to suppress the development of multiple kindling foci may explain the high incidence of multifocal seizures in the immature CNS.
Microdialysis probes with longer membranes (20-100 mm) provide increased relative recovery over traditional shorter probes (1-4 mm) developed for neuroscience applications. The characterization and optimization of &quot;straight through&quot; or &quot;loop type&quot; probes for use in subcutaneous tissue are considered. Membrane area, probe size, inlet and outlet tubing dimensions, and flow-rate are examined for their effects on relative recovery, the total collection rate, and bulk flow through the membrane wall. Polyacrylonitrile and regenerated cellulose membrane fibers with different geometries were compared. Sampling probes used fibers 3-10 cm long. Inlet and outlet tubing was varied from 25 to 110 microns I.D. with lengths of 10 to 50 cm. Probe configurations optimized for relative recovery, flow-rate, and utility for in vivo use are presented. Utilizing microdialysis probes with large membrane surface areas results in relative concentration recovery of greater than 50% at flow-rates of greater than 5 microliters/min. Therapeutic drug monitoring in subcutaneous tissue of awake animals is explored.

It is generally accepted that mammalian spinal motor neurons return to normal after axotomy if their regenerated axons successfully reinnervate appropriate peripheral targets. However, morphological abnormalities, recently observed in spinal motor neurons examined 1 year after nerve crush injury, raise the possibility that delayed perikaryal changes occur after regeneration is complete. In order to distinguish between chronic and progressive alterations in neurons with long-term regenerated axons, rat spinal motor neurons and dorsal root ganglion cells were examined at 5 and 10 months following unilateral sciatic nerve crush. Neurons with regenerated axons were identified by retrograde labelling with horseradish peroxidase. The structural properties of neurons ipsilateral to nerve injury were compared to those of neurons from the spinal cord and dorsal root ganglia on the contralateral side and from age-matched control rats. At 5 months postcrush, the morphology of motor and sensory neurons ipsilateral to injury was comparable to that of control cells. However, several features of the motor neurons with regenerated axons distinguished them from control motor neurons at 10 months postcrush. Mean perikaryal area of ipsilateral spinal motor neurons was larger than the means for control motor neurons (p less than .001). Ipsilateral spinal motor neurons also appeared clustered within the spinal cord and had thicker dendrites. Dorsal root ganglion cells with regenerated axons were slightly larger than control cells at 10 months postcrush but they exhibited no other morphological changes. The present findings indicate that spinal motor neurons are progressively altered after their regenerated axons have reestablished functional synapses with their peripheral targets.
A range of chemically modified heparins was examined for their ability to bind heparin-binding growth factor 1 (HBGF-1; acidic fibroblast growth factor) and potentiate the in vitro mitogenic and neurotrophic activity of HBGF-1. It was found that carboxyl-reduced heparin bound HBGF-1 as effectively as the native heparin molecule. Totally desulfated heparin and N-desulfated heparin lack HBGF-1-binding capacity, and substitution of the exposed amino group with acetyl or acetoacetyl groups only partially restored binding capacity, indicating that N-sulfates only play a limited role in growth factor binding. However, the failure of totally desulfated, N-resulfated heparin to interact with HBGF-1 demonstrated that N-sulfates alone are insufficient and ester sulfates are absolutely essential for HBGF-1 binding. In contrast, the ability of the modified heparins to potentiate the mitogenic activity of HBGF-1 correlated only to a limited extent with their affinity for HBGF-1. Thus, the carboxyl-reduced molecule which displayed similar affinity for HBGF-1 as native heparin was consistently less potent in augmenting mitogenesis. Similarly, the N-acetylated and the N-acetoacetylated species, which had much lower affinity for HBGF-1 than the carboxyl-reduced molecule, conferred similar biological activity to HBGF-1 whereas N-desulfated heparin, which was unable to bind growth factor, potentiated the mitogenic activity of HBGF-1 for both 3T3 and HUVE cells. In contrast, the neurotrophic activity of HBGF-1 was potentiated by modified heparin species which failed to bind HBGF-1 and were without activity in the mitogenic assays.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Microglial cells, which were isolated from a primary culture of neonatal rat brain, were transfected with temperature-sensitive simian virus 40 (SV40) large T gene by the calcium phosphate precipitation method. Four weeks after transfection, several colonies were generated, and cloned cells were characterized. One of the cloned cells (RBM129) proliferated actively at 37 degrees C and the dividing rate was significantly decreased at 40.5 degrees C. The expression of large T antigen was detected by western blotting in cells incubated at both 37 degrees C and 40.5 degrees C. The cell line showed high activity of non-specific esterase, isolectin B4 binding and phagocytosis. Also the cells were stained by ED 1 monoclonal antibody. These results indicate that these cells were derived from rat brain microglia, and immortalized by large T gene.
A little recognised feature of neurons is their large complement of lysosomes. Studies of the accumulation of the abnormal isoform of the prion protein (PrPSC) in the prion encephalopathies and the formation of beta/A4 protein from its precursor in Alzheimer's disease suggest that generation of these key proteins takes place in lysosome-related organelles. The release of hydrolytic enzymes from lysosomes may be a primary cause of neuronal damage. Although molecular genetic approaches have identified protein mutations central to the main neurodegenerative disease, cell biological observations are now beginning to unravel the intracellular pathways involved in the molecular pathogenesis of neurodegeneration: as a result, it is now appropriate to consider therapeutic manipulation of the lysosomal system as an approach to treatment.
In humans, complex I dysfunction has been observed in a high percentage of patients with mitochondrial myopathy. Analysis of mitochondria from these patients suggests the function and assembly of complex I is particularly susceptible to abnormalities of mitochondrial DNA, involving either point mutations of tRNA genes or major deletions. The evidence for a complex I defect in Parkinson's disease is accumulating, although the cause of this deficiency or the role it plays in the events that culminate in dopaminergic cell death remains unresolved.
1. Bovine inositol monophosphatase reacts with thiol reagents such as 5,5'-dithiobis-(2-nitrobenzoic acid) (DTNB), N-ethylmaleimide (NEM) and iodoacetic acid (IAA). 2. Modification by NEM results in nearly total loss of enzyme activity, whereas modification by IAA causes a slight increase in activity. 3. The loss of activity caused by NEM can be prevented by the inclusion of Ins1P, or better Ins1P and LiCl in the reaction mixture. 4. Two equivalents of p-nitrothiobenzoate (NTB2-) are released from the native enzyme on reaction with DTNB, and six equivalents of NTB2- are released from the SDS-denatured enzyme, suggesting that none of the six cysteine residues per molecule of enzyme is involved in intra- or inter-molecular disulphide bridges. 5. Both NEM and IAA react with two cysteine residues (residues 141 and 184 in the sequence) in a mutually exclusive manner. 6. NEM also reacts stoichiometrically with residue 218. 7. The NEM-induced loss of enzyme activity is accompanied by a 15% decrease in protein fluorescence. 8. A mutant of the enzyme which has an Ala-218 replacement for Cys-218 has full activity and is not sensitive to NEM, showing that the modification of this cysteine by NEM causes inhibition of the native protein by steric effects and that Cys-218 is not essential for activity.

Building on 19th- and early 20th-century conceptualizations--the synapse, the cellular nature of neuronal structure, the electrical basis of neural impulses--the heroic age, starting around World War I, set the stage for molecular definition of neuromuscular transmission. Without targeting specific diseases, the work took us to the verge of controlling some of humankind's cruelest dysfunctions.
Gamma-aminobutyric acid Type A (GABAA) receptors are the major sites of synaptic inhibition in the central nervous system. These receptors are thought to be pentameric complexes of homologous transmembrane glycoproteins. Molecular cloning has revealed a multiplicity of different GABAA receptor subunits divided into five classes, alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and rho, based on sequence homology. Within the proposed major intracellular domain of these subunits, there are numerous potential consensus sites for protein phosphorylation by a variety of protein kinases. We have used purified fusion proteins of the major intracellular domain of GABAA receptor subunits produced in Escherichia coli to examine the phosphorylation of these subunits by cAMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) and protein kinase C (PKC). The purified fusion protein of the intracellular domain of the beta 1 subunit was an excellent substrate for both PKA and PKC. PKA and PKC phosphorylated the beta 1 subunit fusion protein on serine residues on a single tryptic phosphopeptide. Site-directed mutagenesis of serine 409 in the intracellular domain of the beta 1 subunit to an alanine residue eliminated the phosphorylation of the beta 1 subunit fusion protein by both protein kinases. The purified fusion proteins of the major intracellular domain of the gamma 2S and gamma 2L subunits of the GABAA receptor were rapidly and stoichiometrically phosphorylated by PKC but not by PKA. The phosphorylation of the gamma 2S subunit occurred on serine residues on a single tryptic phosphopeptide. Site-directed mutagenesis of serine 327 of the gamma 2S subunit fusion protein to an alanine residue eliminated the phosphorylation of the gamma 2S fusion protein by PKC. The gamma 2L subunit is an alternatively spliced form of the gamma 2S subunit that differs by the insertion of 8 amino acids (LLRMFSFK) within the major intracellular domain of the gamma 2S subunit. The PKC phosphorylation of the gamma 2L subunit occurred on serine residues on two tryptic phosphopeptides. Site-specific mutagenesis of serine 343 within the 8-amino acid insert to an alanine residue eliminated the PKC phosphorylation of the novel site in the gamma 2L subunit. No phosphorylation of a purified fusion protein of the major intracellular loop of the alpha 1 subunit was observed with either PKA or PKC. These results identify the specific amino acid residues within GABAA receptor subunits that are phosphorylated by PKA and PKC and suggest that protein phosphorylation of these sites may be important in regulating GABAA receptor function.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We have previously shown that the thickness of the binocular area of the primary visual cortex is sexually dimorphic in rats. In the present study, sex differences in the number of neurons in this cortical area were examined in nine littermate pairs of 90-day-old Long-Evans hooded rats. Cytoarchitectonic characteristics were used to define the binocular visual cortex, and its volume was estimated through three-dimensional reconstruction of serial coronal sections for each hemisphere. Neuronal and glial density as well as neuronal soma size were estimated from semithin sections through a stereological technique, the disector, in the same animals that were used to estimate volume. The volume of the binocular area was 19% greater in males than in females. While there were no sex differences in soma size or in neuronal density, the differences in the volume of the binocular area resulted in significant sex differences (male greater than female) in the number of neurons overall and in every layer, except layer IV. Glial density was not different between the sexes, but the total number of glial cells was higher in males than in females. These results demonstrate that the binocular visual cortex of the rat is sexually dimorphic in its volume and much of the difference is due to sex differences in the number of neurons and glial cells.
The pervasiveness of sex differences in the size of the rat cerebral cortex was investigated in ten littermate pairs of socially housed Long-Evans hooded rats at 90 days of age. Overall, the cortex was longer and wider in male than in female rats. Sex differences were detected in most cortical regions with this sample size; the exception was the temporal cortex. While some asymmetries were found, they did not vary with the sex of the animal nor were they consistently in one direction. The contribution of the cortical layers to sex differences in cortical thickness was examined in four locations: the primary motor cortex, the forelimb area of the sensorimotor cortex and the monocular and the binocular areas of the visual cortex. The layers that showed sex differences varied among the areas but were confined to layers II-III, V and VI. Sex differences in cortical size were widespread in the adult rat but showed some regional and laminar specificity.
There is clinical and experimental evidence that monoamine neurons respond to lesions with a wide range of compensatory adaptations aimed at preserving their functional integrity. Neurotoxin-induced lesions are followed by increased synthesis and release of transmitter from residual monoamine fibers and by axonal sprouting. However, the fate of lesioned neurons after long survival periods remains largely unknown. Whether regenerative sprouting may contribute significantly to recovery of function following lesions which induce cell loss has been questioned. We have previously analyzed the response of locus coeruleus (LC) neurons to systemic administration of the noradrenergic (NE) neurotoxin N-(2-chloroethyl)-N-ethyl-2-bromobenzylamine (DSP-4) to adult rats. This drug causes ablation of nearly all LC axon terminals within 2 weeks after administration, followed by a profound loss of LC cell bodies 6 months later. The present study was conducted to determine the fate of surviving LC neurons and to characterize their potential for regenerative sprouting during a 16 month period after DSP-4 treatment. The time-course and extent of LC neuron degeneration were analyzed quantitatively in Nissl-stained sections, and the regenerative response of residual neurons was characterized by dopamine-beta-hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. The results document that LC neurons degenerate gradually after DSP-4 treatment, cell loss reaching on average 57% after 1 year. LC neurons which survive the lesion exhibit a vigorous regenerative response, even in those animals in which cell loss exceeds 60-70%. This regenerative process leads progressively to restoration of the NE innervation pattern in the forebrain, with some regions becoming markedly hyperinnervated. In stark contrast to the forebrain, very little reinnervation takes place in the brainstem, cerebellum and spinal cord. These findings suggest that regenerative sprouting of residual neurons is an important compensatory mechanism by which the LC may regain much of its functional integrity in the presence of extensive cell loss. Furthermore, regeneration of LC axons after DSP-4 treatment is region-specific, suggesting that the pattern of reinnervation is controlled by target areas. Elucidation of the factors underlying recovery of LC neurons after DSP-4 treatment may provide insights into the compensatory mechanisms of central neurons after injury and in disease states.
Rabbits with bilateral lesions involving either the anterior interpositus nucleus or the superior cerebellar peduncle were subjected to appetitive Pavlovian conditioning training involving repeated pairings of a 2-s tone with an intraoral pulse of water. Such training resulted in the rapid development of robust, anticipatory jaw-movement responses (JM CRs) to the tone, and, in fact, the performance levels exhibited by lesioned animals did not differ significantly from those observed in sham-operated control animals. Additional experiments involving unpaired tone/water presentations confirmed the associative character of the JM CRs. On the other hand, lesioned animals exhibited severe bilateral performance deficits when later subjected to aversive eyeblink conditioning procedures, consistent with previous findings. The present results thus suggest that the interpositus nucleus is not an essential neural substrate for the development of appetitively conditioned masticatory responses.
Horseradish peroxidase (HRP) was injected, bilaterally, into the rat masseter muscle, subsequent to an intramuscular or intraperitoneal injection of one of five dopamine antagonists (chlorpromazine and haloperidol as the D1 and D2 receptor antagonist, SCH 23390 as the specific D1 receptor antagonist, sulpiride and domperidone as the specific D2 receptor antagonist). Control rats received an injection of a corresponding vehicle solution. After a survival period of 16 h, the brainstem was cut into 60 microns cryosections and processed with the TMB technique. The amount of retrogradely transported HRP was quantitatively measured in terms of the amount of HRP reaction product present in the motoneuron by the method which we have developed using an image processing system combined with a light microscope and a TV camera. Chlorpromazine, haloperidol, SCH 23390 and sulpiride significantly raised the quantity of retrograde transport of HRP. On the contrary, domperidone which can not penetrate the blood-brain barrier showed no significant change in the amount of the retrograde transport. In addition, an intravenous injection of chlorpromazine (8 mg/kg) was found to increase the amplitude of monosynaptic masseteric reflex EMG activity evoked by stimulations of the mesencephalic trigeminal nucleus. These results suggest that a possible regulatory system involving the dopamine receptor in the uptake and retrograde transport of HRP from axon terminals to cell bodies of the masseteric motoneuron exists in higher order neurons which make synaptic contact with the motoneuron.
Using quantitative receptor radioautography, binding sites for the 'peripheral-type' benzodiazepine receptor ligand [3H]PK 11195 were studied in rats 4 week after end-to-side portacaval anastomosis and in sham-operated controls. Portacaval anastomosis resulted in region-selective increases in density of [3H]PK 11195 binding sites in cerebellum, pons greater than thalamus, cerebral cortex greater than hippocampus greater than striatum. Possible mechanisms implicated in these changes include (i) the action of endogenous ligands for the mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptor such as octadecaneuropeptide and (ii) neurotoxic actions of ammonia. In view of the proposed role of these receptors as modulators of intermediary metabolism and neurosteroid biosynthesis, such changes could contribute to the neurochemical mechanisms responsible for portal-systemic encephalopathy.
This paper outlines the synthesis of selected acid mimics of the non-peptide CCK-B selective antagonist CI-988, 1. CCK-B and CCK-A binding affinities of these analogues are described and their CCK-B affinity and selectivity rationalized by consideration of the pK(a) values, charge distribution, and geometry of the respective acid mimics. Several of the compounds have CCK-B binding affinities similar to the parent carboxylic acid 1 (CCK-B, IC50 = 1.7 nM; pK(a) = 5.6) and span a pK(a) range of less than 1 (sulfonic acid 27) to greater than 9.5 (5-thio-1,2,4-triazole 24). Among the more active compounds synthesized are tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7)]dec-2-yl [R-(R*,R*)]-[2-[[2-[[(3-hydroxy-5-isoxazolyl)acetyl]-amino]-2- phenylethyl]amino]-1-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl)-1-methyl-2-oxoethyl+ ++]carbamate (15), tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7)]dec-2-yl [R-(R*,R*)]-[1-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl)-1-methyl-2-oxo-2-[[2-[(1-oxo- 3-sulfopropyl)amino]-2-phenylethyl]amino]-ethyl]carbamate, monosodium salt (27), and tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7)]dec-2-yl [R-(R*,R*)]-[1-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl)-1- methyl-2-oxo-2-[[2-[[(1H-1,2,4-triazol-5-ylsulfinyl)acetyl]a mino]-2-phenylethyl]amino]ethyl]carbamic acid (34) which have CCK-B binding affinities of IC50 = 2.6, 1.3, and 1.7 nM, CCK-A/-B ratios of 650, 780, and 550 and pK(a) values of 6.5, less than 1, and 7.0, respectively.
Abnormalities in the layer II neurons of human entorhinal cortex have been implicated in the pathophysiology of Alzheimer's disease and schizophrenia. The reported abnormalities are not homogeneously distributed throughout the entorhinal cortex, suggesting that layer II of entorhinal cortex may contain different subpopulations of neurons, each with a different susceptibility to pathological mechanisms. In order to investigate the possible heterogeneity of neurons in layer II of human entorhinal cortex, we first identified distinct subdivisions of human entorhinal cortex by adapting the cytoarchitectonic criteria for subdivisions of monkey entorhinal cortex described by Amaral et al. (J Comp Neurol 264:326, 1987). The morphology and regional distribution of distinct subpopulations of human layer II neurons were determined through the use of immunohistochemical techniques. Multipolar, stellate, and modified pyramidal neurons in the characteristic cell clusters or islands of layer II were immunoreactive for nonphosphorylated neurofilament proteins. The intensity of immunoreactivity for the nonphosphorylated neurofilament proteins gradually increased along the rostrocaudal axis of entorhinal cortex and was primarily due to a similar gradient in the density of labeled neurons per island. The calcium-binding protein calbindin D-28K was found in both pyramidal and nonpyramidal neurons in layers II and superficial III. The distribution of calbindin-immunoreactive neurons also depended upon the region of entorhinal cortex. In rostral entorhinal cortex, labeled neurons were scattered throughout the superficial layers, whereas in caudal entorhinal cortex, distinctive patches of small calbindin-immunoreactive neurons were found among the layer II islands. Another calcium-binding protein, parvalbumin, was present in nonpyramidal neurons in layers II and III that were distinct from those containing calbindin. The regional distribution of parvalbumin-positive neurons was very similar to that of the neurofilament immunoreactive neurons; in rostral entorhinal cortex very few parvalbumin-labeled neurons were present but their frequency gradually increased in the caudal direction. In addition, punctate parvalbumin immunoreactivity was frequently encountered in the location of the nonphosphorylated neurofilament protein-positive layer II islands. These findings demonstrate that layer II of human entorhinal cortex contains distinct subpopulations of neurons, that the relative density of each subpopulation differs across cytoarchitectonic regions, and that the patterns of distribution of these subpopulations are in some cases similar and in other cases complementary. This heterogeneity in the organization of layer II of human entorhinal cortex has important implications for the study of some neuropsychiatric disorders.
The presence and distribution of dopaminergic neurons and terminals in the hypothalamus of the rat were studied by tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) immunohistochemistry. Strongly labelled TH-immunoreactive neurons were seen in the dorsomedial hypothalamic nucleus, periventricular region, zona incerta, arcuate nucleus, and supramammillary nucleus. A few TH-positive neurons were also identified in the dorsal and ventral premammillary nucleus, as well as the lateral hypothalamic area. TH-immunoreactive fibres and terminals were unevenly distributed in the mammillary nuclei; small, weakly labelled terminals were scattered in the medial mammillary nucleus, while large, strongly labelled, varicose terminals were densely concentrated in the internal part of the lateral mammillary nucleus. A few dorsoventrally oriented TH-positive axon bundles were also identified in the lateral mammillary nucleus. A dopaminergic projection to the mammillary nuclei from the supramammillary nucleus and lateral hypothalamic area was identified by double labelling with retrograde transport of wheat germ agglutinin-horseradish peroxidase and TH-immunohistochemistry. The lateral mammillary nucleus receives a weak dopaminergic projection from the medial, and stronger projections from the lateral, caudal supramammillary nucleus. The double-labelled neurons in the lateral supramammillary nucleus appear to encapsulate the caudal end of the mammillary nuclei. The medial mammillary nucleus receives a very light dopaminergic projection from the caudal lateral hypothalamic area. These results suggest that the supramammillary nucleus is the principal source of the dopaminergic input to the mammillary nuclei, establishing a local TH-pathway in the mammillary complex. The supramammillary cell groups are able to modulate the limbic system through its dopaminergic input to the mammillary nuclei as well as through its extensive dopaminergic projection to the lateral septal nucleus.
To better understand the functional organization of the mammillary nuclei, we investigated the afferents to this nuclear complex in the rat with iontophoretically injected wheat germ agglutinin conjugated to horseradish peroxidase. Particular attention was paid to tracing local hypothalamic afferents to these nuclei. Injections into the medial mammillary nucleus (MMN) revealed strong projections from the subicular region, and weaker projections from the prefrontal cortex, medial septum, and the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca. Other descending subcortical projections to the MMN arise from the anterior and the lateral hypothalamic area, the medial preoptic area, and the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. Ascending afferents to the MMN were found to originate in the raphe and various tegmental nuclei. Following all injections into the MMN, labelled neurons were found in nuclei surrounding the mammillary body. The lateral and posterior subdivisions of the tuberomammillary nucleus projected mainly to the pars medianus and pars medialis of the MMN. The dorsal and ventral premammillary nuclei projected to the pars lateralis of the MMN. The supramammillary nucleus at rostral level had a small projection to the pars medialis and lateralis of the MMN. However, the most obvious projection from this nucleus was to the pars posterior of the MMN, chiefly from the lateral part of the caudal supramammillary nucleus. Injections into the lateral mammillary nucleus revealed inputs from the presubiculum, parasubiculum, septal region, dorsal tegmental nucleus, dorsal raphe nucleus, and periaqueductal gray. In addition, the lateral mammillary nucleus was found to receive a moderate projection from the medial part of the supramammillary nucleus and stronger projections from the lateral part of the caudal supramammillary nucleus. A very light projection was also seen from the lateral and posterior subdivisions of the tuberomammillary nucleus. These findings add to our knowledge of the extensive and complex connectivity of the mammillary nuclei. In particular, the local connections we have demonstrated with the supramammillary and tuberomammillary nuclei indicate the existence of significant local circuits as well as circuits involving more distant brain regions such as the septal nuclei, subiculum, prefrontal cortex, and brain stem tegmentum.
Neurogenesis of the developing embryonic retina is described for the African cichlid fish, Haplochromis burtoni, from 4 days post fertilization until all cell phenotypes are generated (day 7). Cell addition and differentiation both begin at the same absolute location which later becomes the central retina. As observed in most other vertebrates, cones and ganglion cells differentiate first, followed by amacrine and bipolar cells. Rod photoreceptors, which are added late, differentiate last. Changes in retinal thickness, retinal stretching, cell size, and cell density were measured during development. From day 4 through 7, there is an increase in retinal thickness largely due to the expansion of the inner plexiform layer (IPL) and outer nuclear layer (ONL). The inner nuclear layer (INL) decreases in thickness and there is a transient decrease in the density of cells in the scleral portion of the INL. Cells increase in size in the ganglion cell layer (GCL) and the vitread INL, decrease in size in the sclerad INL, and remain the same in the ONL. Changes in the density of the cell layers were observed: the density of ONL cells increased, the density of GCL cells decreased, and INL cells increased then decreased. From day 4 to day 6, eye growth is entirely due to cell addition because no retinal stretching was observed in the ONL or the horizontal layer. During this same developmental period, the pattern and rate of neurogenesis were measured in the differentiated portion of the retina by means of 3H-thymidine labeling. A small number of cell divisions within the differentiated INL precede the onset of cell divisions in the ONL. The number of 3H-thymidine labeled cells within the INL increases at a low rate consistent with an asymmetric pattern of cell division characteristic of stem cells. In contrast, cell divisions in the ONL increase exponentially, consistent with a symmetric pattern of cell division characteristic of progenitor cells. Double-label experiments (3H-thymidine and a rod specific opsin antibody) show that some of the symmetrically dividing cells in the ONL express the rod specific opsin within 2 days, suggesting that these dividing cells are rod progenitors. Although we do not hae conclusive evidence, these developmental processes support the hypothesis that stem cells within the INL could be the source of rod precursors in the embryonic teleost retina.
The anesthetic effects of the (+) and (-) isomers of isoflurane were determined in mice. Like the clinically important racemate, both isomers produced dose-dependent increases in anesthetic sleep time. A statistically significant (P less than 0.005, ANOVA) difference in the potencies of these isomers ((+) greater than (-)) was observed. To our knowledge, this is the first demonstration of a stereospecific action of a volatile anesthetic in vivo.

Physiological measurements suggest that the inhibition of primate spinothalamic tract cells by serotonin is mediated by myelinated axons. Previous morphologic studies emphasize that most serotonin-containing axons in the spinal cord are unmyelinated. Accordingly, the possibility that some serotonin-containing axons in the primate dorsolateral funiculus of the spinal cord are myelinated was investigated. Macaque monkeys were given L-tryptophan and the monoamine oxidase inhibitor, nialamide, intraperitoneally 1 h prior to sacrifice to increase axonal stores of serotonin. The animals were perfused (0.05 or 0.5% glutaraldehyde, 4% paraformaldehyde), and transverse sections of the thoracic cord were reacted with antibody against serotonin and then prepared for electron microscopy. Many of the immunostained axons in the dorsolateral funiculus included fine, myelinated fibers with diameters of 0.7-2.2 microns. Unmyelinated serotonin-containing axons were also observed. The observation of myelinated serotonin-containing axons in the white matter of the monkey dorsolateral funiculus contradicts the view that the descending serotoninergic projection consists entirely of unmyelinated fibers, particularly since the conduction velocity of the fine fibers would be too slow to account for the earliest latency of descending inhibition following stimulation in the brainstem. The presence of myelinated serotoninergic axons presumably accounts for the latencies reported for the inhibition of primate spinothalamic cells following stimulation of the periaqueductal gray, an inhibition that can be blocked with serotonin antagonists and that is associated with the release of serotonin in the dorsal horn.
Rats received bilateral ibotenic acid-lesions of the nucleus basalis magnocellularis. Starting two weeks after the lesion, cytochrome c (0.3 micrograms/rat/day) or 0.01, 0.1, 1 or 10 micrograms/rat/day human recombinant nerve growth factor (NGF) was infused into the lateral ventricle. The highest dose of NGF reduced the weight gain of the animals. Six weeks, but not two weeks of treatment with 10 micrograms/rat/day NGF increased choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) activity in the frontal cortex, parietal cortex and hippocampus, predominantly on the side of the ventricular cannula. The 1 microgram/rat/day dose only increased ChAT activity in the frontal cortex on the infused side. Six weeks of treatment with 10 micrograms/rat/day NGF increased the size, but not the number of NGF-receptor-immunoreactive neurons in the nucleus basalis. This treatment did not affect the levels of dopamine, norepinephrine and serotonin in any of the brain regions studied. These data suggest that prolonged treatment with relatively high doses of NGF is necessary to increase ChAT activity in cortical regions of nucleus basalis-lesioned rats. This treatment will also increase ChAT activity in the intact septohippocampal system, but does not affect the levels of several non-cholinergic neurotransmitters.
Previously we have shown that the [125I]DEEP-labeled dopamine transporter from the rat nucleus accumbens has a higher apparent molecular weight than that from striatum. The present study confirms and extends these observations. Experiments with nucleus accumbens showed [125I]-DEEP to specifically bind to a protein with an apparent molecular weight of 76 kDa and with the pharmacological properties of the dopamine transporter. In exoglycosidase studies, treatment with neuraminidase, but not alpha-mannosidase, reduced the apparent molecular weight of the dopamine transporter from both the striatum and nucleus accumbens; however, a difference in the apparent molecular weight was still observed. N-Glycanase treatment, on the other hand, did reduce the apparent molecular weight of the dopamine transporters from the two regions to a similar value, approximately 56 kDa. In radioligand binding studies examining the effect of partial deglycosylation on striatal dopamine transporters, neuraminidase did not affect specific [3H]WIN 35,428 binding at 4 and 40 nM concentrations. In conclusion, the present study demonstrates that the difference in the apparent molecular weight of the dopamine transporter from these two regions is due to a difference in glycosylation and that the dopamine transporter from both regions contains similar amounts of sialic acid in their carbohydrate structure. Furthermore, the present data also indicate that the polypeptide portion of the dopamine transporter from both regions could be the same gene product.
Music, like other forms of expression, requires specific skills for its production, and the organization and representation of these skills in the human brain are not well understood. With the use of positron emission tomography and magnetic resonance imaging, the functional neuroanatomy of musical sight-reading and keyboard performance was studied in ten professional pianists. Reading musical notations and translating these notations into movement patterns on a keyboard resulted in activation of cortical areas distinct from, but adjacent to, those underlying similar verbal operations. These findings help explain why brain damage in musicians may or may not affect both verbal and musical functions depending on the size and location of the damaged area.
Some characteristics of vertical optokinetic nystagmus and after-nystagmus, in particular, its up/down gain asymmetry, are known to be influenced by gravity direction, which is basically perceived by otolith organs. However, how such an information of gravity direction is processed within the central nervous system is not well understood, even though the role of cerebellar uvula and nodulus in vertical eye movements has been identified for some time. Accordingly, in this study, vertical optokinetic nystagmus and after-nystagmus were studied in squirrel monkeys both in the upright and side-lateral positions (different gravity direction to the head), before and after uvulonodulectomy. When the optokinetic stimulus was given, the slow phase eye velocity of optokinetic nystagmus was significantly higher in the side-lateral position than that obtained in the upright position. This difference disappeared after uvulonodulectomy. When the initial slow phase eye velocity of optokinetic after-nystagmus was compared, the one obtained in the side-lateral position was significantly higher than that acquired in the upright position. This difference also disappeared after the uvulonodular ablation. Thus, in this study of vertical optokinetic nystagmus and after-nystagmus, the role of uvula and nodulus in relaying the information of gravity direction was confirmed.
Disconjugate eye torsion induced by 0 G and 1.8 G during parabolic flight was studied in nine former astronauts in 1990 and eight in 1991, four of whom were included in the previous experiment. The astronauts could be divided into two statistically significant groups on the basis of low and high scores of disconjugacy. When their histories of space motion sickness (SMS) were later revealed, all of the low scorers had not been sick on previous space flights; all the high scorers had had SMS. These data give support to the hypothesis that SMS in one-half or two-thirds of astronauts is due to an otolith, probably utricular, asymmetry in those persons.

A total of 116 patients on lithium treatment were followed up for 2 years to determine the course and the clinical relevance of thyroid abnormalities. Elevated thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) concentrations were transitory in most patients, except those with serum antithyroid antibodies. The patients who initially had microsomal antibodies remained positive, with an increase in titre in two-thirds of cases. Three young patients of both sexes developed thyroid autoimmunity early in the treatment. The risk of developing hypothyroidism was higher in women, especially in the presence of antibodies. TSH concentrations were significantly lower when carbamazepine was combined with lithium.
Rats maintained for 10 days on a 10% ethanol solution as the sole source of fluid developed marked tolerance to ethanol-induced loss of righting reflex, but no tolerance to the stimulatory effects on mesolimbic dopaminergic system. An ethanol challenge stimulated both the electrical activity of A10 dopaminergic cells and dopamine output in the ventral striatum of behaviourally tolerant animals and of controls to the same extent. These results are compatible with the hypothesis that an increased dopamine neurotransmission in the limbic system participates in the reinforcing effect of ethanol.
We studied the behavioral effects of a novel cholecystokinin tetrapeptide (CCK-4) analogue, A71623, with full agonist activity and high affinity and selectivity for the CCK-A receptor subtype relative to the CCK-B receptor. In tests for anorectic activity, A71623 was found to suppress 60-min intakes of a liquid diet in both deprived and sated rats, and the effects were blocked by a selective CCK-A antagonist, A70104. Compared with CCK-8, A71623 was found to have improved potency and duration of action; the most potent route of administration was intraperitoneal. A71623 also suppressed the intake of a liquid diet and a 0.2 M sucrose solution in lean and obese Zucker rats. In daily injection studies, the anorectic activity of CCK-8 diminished rapidly, whereas the suppressant effects of A71623 on food intakes and body weight gains persisted throughout the 11-day treatment period. Finally, A71623 reduced the spontaneous locomotor activity of rats at doses above those required to suppress intakes. These studies are the first to describe the behavioral effects of a potent and highly selective CCK-A receptor agonist.
Several diverse treatments that stimulate pituitary secretion of oxytocin (OT) in rats produce a parallel inhibition of gastric motility and food intake. The present experiments demonstrate that injection of hypertonic saline (HS) is another such treatment. Systemic administration of large doses of OT had no effect on gastric motility. Lesions within the region anteroventral to the third ventricle (AV3V region) severely impaired the drinking response to HS without affecting its inhibition of either gastric motility or food intake. These and other results suggest that despite the close association of pituitary secretion of OT with inhibition of both gastric motility and food intake in intact animals after HS administration, these effects may be dissociated by lesions within the AV3V region. Consequently, osmosensitive cells located within the periventricular tissue of the rostral AV3V region, which are critical for the stimulation of thirst and pituitary OT secretion after systemic injection of HS, do not appear to be essential for the parallel inhibition of gastric motility and food intake produced by this treatment in rats.
Systemic administration of cholecystokinin (CCK) or LiCl inhibits gastric motility and food intake in rats. Brain stem-projecting oxytocin (OT) neurons in the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) have been proposed to mediate the inhibitory effects of CCK and LiCl on gastric motility and food intake. In the present studies, we found that basal gastric motility was elevated in rats 12-20 h after knife-cut lesions of the PVN; however, this effect disappeared 3 days later. Furthermore, CCK and LiCl inhibited gastric motility at 12-20 h, 3 days, and 3 wk after PVN lesions, although their effects were blunted. Injection of the local anesthetic lidocaine into the PVN had effects similar to acute PVN lesions. In rats with PVN lesions, the inhibitory effects of CCK and LiCl on food intake were indistinguishable from those in sham-lesioned rats. We conclude that the PVN tonically inhibits gastric motility and that it participates in, but is not essential for, the inhibitory effects of CCK and LiCl on gastric motility and food intake in rats.
Psychiatry's appropriate agenda and severe distractions in sustaining it are presently a concern and have historically been so as we struggle with the issues of linking body, mind, and human purpose. Biology requires behaving, variability, and the development of regulations to implement &quot;purpose&quot; in coping with the milieu. Psychiatry begins and ends with our patients--with their diseases and dysfunctions, their biographies and aspirations--which, as a clinical medical science, we must systematically study. Doing that, we will borrow from and pose problems for all the life sciences. New knowledge about how cells and biological systems acquire, code, and exchange information challenges all of medicine. In assessing our advances and future, we consider the history of biological issues in psychiatry and the &quot;sins&quot; of biologism or reductionism. We will see that research questions and strategies in the current study of disease and therapeutics have not fundamentally shifted from Freud and Meyer to modern molecular neurobiology. The tension between the socially conditioned purposive self and impersonal biological processes is an inescapable intrinsic tension for psychiatry of which we must be cognizant as we continue the search.

We examined whether the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist MK-801 (dizocilpine) would reverse parkinsonism or potentiate the effects of L-dopa in primates treated with 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP). In contrast to its effect in rodent models, treatment with MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) caused bradykinesia and ataxia in parkinsonian primates, but no locomotor stimulation. Coadministration of MK-801 (0.1 mg/kg) with L-dopa (20 mg/kg) induced marked dystonia accompanied by bradykinesia and ataxia. Dystonia was not induced by either treatment given alone. These findings indicate that MK-801 should not be advocated as an adjunct to dopamine agonist therapy in Parkinson's disease.
mRNA and protein populations were studied in the brains of Maudsley reactive (MR) and Maudsley nonreactive (MNR) rat strains, which exhibit differing levels of emotionality. Translational analysis of forebrain mRNA indicated that the relative levels of two translation products (42 kDA, pI 5.0; 30 kDa, pI 5.8) were increased in the MR compared to the MNR strain. In addition, a charge-shift variant of a 36 kDa protein was present in the MR strain. Analysis of brain protein patterns indicated that a protein of 39 kDa, pI 5.0, was found to be more abundant in MR compared with MNR strains in both frontal cortex and hippocampus and the relative level of one protein (40 kDa, pI 5.8) was decreased in the frontal cortex.
N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists disrupt learning on a variety of tasks. Previous findings indicate that glucose, naloxone, and physostigmine ameliorate learning deficits produced by several treatments. The present experiment examines whether these agents also reverse the amnestic effects of NMDA receptor blockade. Mice were tested for spontaneous alternation performance in a Y-maze. The animals received either saline or the NMDA antagonist, NPC 12626 (35 mg/kg, IP), 50 min prior to testing and received an additional injection of saline, glucose, naloxone, or physostigmine 30 min prior to testing. NPC 12626 significantly decreased alternation scores. Glucose (250 mg/kg), physostigmine (0.01 mg/kg), and naloxone (1 mg/kg) reversed the effects of NPC 12626. Thus, impairments of learning after NMDA receptor blockade share with other amnestic conditions the susceptibility to attenuation by glucose, naloxone, and physostigmine.
The studies described here provide information about the genetic and morphological bases for the significant differences in testis size among three closely related C57BL mouse substrains: C57BL/6J, C57BL/6ByJ, and C57BL/10J. C57BL/6J mice have normal-size testes while the other two substrains have small-size testes. Genes controlling testis size are postulated to be among the estimated forty genes that differ between the C57BL/6J and C57BL/6ByJ substrains. The number of genes involved in testis size regulation was examined using recombinant inbred mouse strains. An investigation of the role of Y chromosome genes was performed by completing molecular analyses with a mouse Y chromosome-specific probe. Sertoli and germ cell counts provided insight into the morphological basis for the different testis sizes. The experimental results suggest that there are at least two autosomal testis-size genes and that they control testis size by regulating the number of Sertoli cells.
The expression of the c-erbB-1, c-myc, Ha/N-ras and c-fos oncogenes was investigated in 62 astrocytomas of low, intermediate and high grades by immunogold silver histochemistry. Elevated expression of c-erbB-1 was observed in 95%, 48% and 86% of low, intermediate and high grade tumours respectively, c-myc in 5%, 33% and 76% respectively, Ha/N-ras in 0, 43% and 71% respectively and c-fos in 55%, 48% and 52% respectively. Controls included normal brain and tumour sections immunoreacted with pre-immune serum or with antisera absorbed with synthetic peptides. Analysis of co-overexpression revealed that low grade tumours co-overexpressed a maximum of two of these genes, intermediate grade tumours a maximum of three of these genes, while co-overexpression of all four genes was observed in some high grade tumours. Co-overexpression of c-erbB-1 and c-fos was frequently observed in low grade astrocytomas and may be predictive of non-progression. On the other hand, there was a statistically significant increase in the number of tumours overexpressing Ha/N-ras or c-myc with increasing grade of tumour, suggesting that overexpression of these two oncogenes may be indicative of progression.
Published 100 years ago, Freud's monograph on aphasia, Zur Auffassung der Aphasien, is an incisive analysis of the so-called diagram-makers, those aphasiologists who would reduce brain and language to simple schemes of circumscribed cortical centers linked by unidirectional subcortical pathways. Chief architects of the diagram-maker school were Wernicke and Lichtheim, and their formulations of conduction aphasia and the transcortical aphasias were particular targets of Freud's trenchant criticism. Freud argued against functional differentiation within left hemisphere perisylvian language regions, and he suggested that traditional aphasic syndromes were artifacts of lesions that included cortical language regions and deeper white matter pathways not directly involved with language. He provided an innovative classification of aphasia based on types of associations presumed to be affected. Freud, however, failed to adduce new clinical or pathological observations; he was perhaps unnecessarily harsh in challenging authorities in the field of aphasia; and his theory had to compete with a straightforward and already entrenched anatomical view of language representation. Despite Freud's lucid argumentation, his carefully crafted monograph was never widely noted.
The caudal human nucleus of the solitary tract (NTS) is composed of 10 subnuclei. The commissural subnucleus spans the midline below the obex, merging rostrally into the medial subnucleus. The other subnuclei of the NTS are best seen just above the obex. The ventrolateral subnucleus contains large, darkly staining neurons. The interstitial subnucleus consists of neurons lying in groups intermingled with the fibers of the tract. The lateral subnucleus is small at caudal levels, merging with the interstitial subnucleus more rostrally. The dorsal subnucleus contains large melanotic neurons and encircles the substantia gelatinosus, a round, cell-poor subnucleus. The ventromedial subnucleus curls around the medial and ventral edge of the tract. The intermediate subnucleus, laying ventrolateral to the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus, also contains melanotic neurons. The subpostremal subnucleus separates the area postrema from the NTS proper. The medial subnucleus is the largest subnucleus in the caudal NTS, containing medium-sized fusiform neurons. Adoption of a uniform cytoarchitectural map of the caudal NTS will permit more accurate comparisons between human and nonhuman studies.
Acute haloperidol administration decreases the number of rat striatal D2 dopamine receptor (D2-receptor). The potential involvement of decreased D2-receptor gene transcription in the above process was examined using Northern blot analysis. There was a dose- and time-dependent transient decrement in the level of striatal D2-receptor mRNA after haloperidol. The decrease in transcription may be mediated via blockade of D2-receptor, since S(-)-sulpiride but not the inactive enantiomer R(+)-sulpiride produced the inhibition.
The structure of the normal resting EEG crosspectrum SVV(omega) is analyzed using complex multivariate statistics. Exploratory data analysis with Principal Component Analysis (PCA) is followed by hypothesis testing and computer simulations related to possible neural generators. The SVV(omega) of 211 normal individuals (ages 5 to 97) may be decomposed into two types of processes: the xi process with spatial isotropicity reflecting diffuse, correlated cortical generators with radial symmetry, and processes that seem to be generated by more spatially concentrated, correlated sources. The latter are reflected as spectral peaks such as the process. The eigenvectors of the xi process are the Spherical Harmonic Functions which explains the recurring pattern of maps characteristic of the spatial PCA of qEEG data. A new method for estimating sources in the frequency domain which fits dipoles to the whole crosspectrum is applied to explain the characteristics of the localized sources.
For the past decade the Cuban Neuroscience Center has organized on behalf of the Ministry of Public Health of the Republic, a nationwide Program for the introduction of quantitative EEG (qEEG). This Program has involved a) development of standardized equipment for &quot;paperless&quot; EEG, qEEG and brain topography; b) establishment of a network of 21 laboratories of clinical neurophysiology; c) creation of the specialty of clinical neurophysiology which trains physicians from all provinces in both traditional and quantitative electrophysiological methods; d) introduction of standardized protocols for the collection of clinical and electrophysiological information; e) organization of a national normative and neuropsychiatric database; f) establishment of normative regression equations. Among the special issues discussed are: 1) relationship between traditional and quantitative methods; 2) evaluation of the effectiveness of the technology introduced; 3) use of qEEG in the early detection of brain dysfunction.
Double-labelling immunohistochemistry and retrograde transport of the carbocyanine dye, DiI, were used to establish the pathways of submucous neurons to the mucosa of the guinea-pig small intestine. Following the application of DiI to a villus, DiI-labelled nerve cell bodies were found in the submucous plexus up to 8.3 mm circumferentially and 3.8 mm longitudinally. The size of each of the four characterised classes of submucous neurons was determined and their distributions and projections mapped. Cells characterised by vasoactive intestinal polypeptide immunoreactivity accounted for 52% of DiI-labelled cells and had the longest projections. Cells characterised by neuropeptide Y (19%) or by calretinin immunoreactivity (13% of all DiI-labelled neurons) had relatively short projections and cells with substance P immunoreactivity (20%) had intermediate lengths of projection. When DiI was applied directly to the submucous plexus, filled neurons of all classes had significantly shorter projections, indicating that they must run for considerable distances in other pathways to the mucosa, probably via the non-ganglionated plexus. On average, each villus is innervated by at least 70 submucous neurons. From quantitative estimates there are 9 submucous neurons per villus. Thus, each submucous neuron is likely to supply about 8 villi. This demonstrates a high degree of convergence and divergence in the innervation of the mucosa.
Studies of the cerebral cortex, particularly those of the visual system, demonstrate the existence of multiple, anatomically segregated and functionally specialized cortical areas. There is no evidence that these areas, which are linked by a network of reciprocal connections, are coordinated by a higher-order center. The visual image that we perceive, however, seems to be unified and coherent. In this article, we address the problem of integration posed by these observations. In an extension of our previous work, we develop a dynamic model of reentry. Reentry is a process of parallel and recursive signaling along ordered anatomical connections that achieves integration by giving rise to constructive and correlative properties within and among maps. We present and test a computer model simulating nine functionally segregated visual areas organized into three streams for form, color, and motion. The model receives visual input consisting of camera images of objects of different shapes and colors. We show the specialized response properties of the areas in the three streams. A computational strategy involving a phase variable is introduced to represent explicitly the dynamics of short-term temporal correlations among thousands of units distributed across different areas. We then illustrate constructive and correlative consequences of reentry within a system of reciprocal intra- and interareal connections by two examples taken from psychophysics: generation of form from motion and motion capture. The model solves the so-called &quot;binding problem&quot; through short-term correlations, which serve to link similar object features within a simulated cortical area and to bind multiple attributes of one or more objects across several areas, including a nontopographic one. Integration emerges from cooperative effects within and among the specialized areas. These effects lead to a simple output, a simulated foveation response, that is used as a basis for conditioning. Reward is mediated by the activation of a saliency system that is modeled on diffuse projection systems in the brain. As a result, the visual cortical model carries out foveation responses to input stimuli that require the dynamic conjunction and discrimination of form, color, and location for successful performance.
Monkeys and humans have similar capacities to discriminate between the frequencies of mechanical sinusoids delivered to the glabrous skin of their hands. Combined psychophysical-electrophysiological experiments in monkeys discriminating in the range of flutter provided evidence that this capacity depends upon differences in the cycle lengths in the sets of periodically entrained activity, evoked by the stimuli discriminated, in neurons of areas 3b and 1 of the (sensory) hemisphere opposite the stimulated hand. Identical experiments have now been made, in similarly trained and discriminating monkeys, in the motor cortex (area 4) of the hemisphere opposite the arm projecting selectively to one of two targets, to indicate discrimination (five hemispheres, 1137 neurons studied). We observed a selective signal of the upcoming correct discrimination in about 25% of the neurons of area 4 active in the task. The neuronal discharge occurs selectively for stimuli either lower or higher in frequency than that of the base stimulus, and commonly begins within 200-300 msec after onset of the comparison stimulus. These neuronal discharges are aperiodic, with no sign of the stimulus frequencies. EMG recording during performance of the discrimination showed that the muscles of the arm opposite the side of recording were silent during the period of stimulus presentations. Recordings during trials in which the animal made errors showed most commonly that the output of the discrimination operation was itself in error, followed by an appropriate arm projection to the wrong target. We interpret the selective response during the comparison stimulus to be a postdiscrimination signal projected transcallosally from the sensory hemisphere to the motor area of the hemisphere controlling the responding arm. We obtained no evidence that the discrimination operation is localized to any particular area, and we surmise it to occur in the dynamic activity within the distributed system linking the sensory cortex of one hemisphere and the motor cortex of the other. One-third of the neurons of the motor cortex responded to indentation of the skin of the ipsilateral hand, at trial onset. These responses varied from those closely linked to that sensory stimulus to those linked to the upcoming movement of the contralateral hand. These onset responses did not occur when similar sequences of mechanical stimuli were delivered to alert but idling monkeys.
It has been hypothesized, based on physiological evidence, that there is a greater proportion of beta 2-adrenergic receptors on the myocytes of the conduction system when compared with the working myocardium. The purpose of these studies was to examine beta-adrenergic receptor subtype in the conduction system of the dog by using the technique of coverslip autoradiography. Scintillation studies of [125I]pindolol binding to ventricular sections demonstrated that binding was saturable (dissociation constant of 116 pM), had the correct order of potency for a beta-receptor, and was stereoselective. Both betaxolol (beta 1-selective) and ICI-118,551 (beta 2-selective) competition curves fit a two-site model in nonlinear curve-fitting analyses (78% beta 1-receptors). Autoradiographic studies determined that the myocytes of the sinoatrial node had approximately twice as many autoradiographic grains as the surrounding atrial myocytes. The myocytes of the atrioventricular bundle had a number of grains similar to the number in surrounding septal myocytes. Autoradiographic inhibition curves with betaxolol or ICI-118,551 demonstrated that both the sinoatrial node and the atrioventricular bundle had inhibition profiles similar to the surrounding myocytes (predominantly beta 1) but unlike the inhibition profiles of arterioles (predominantly beta 2). Calculations using the dissociation constants derived from the nonlinear curve-fitting analysis and the percent specific binding in the presence of 4 x 10(-7) M betaxolol or ICI-118,551 determined that the proportion of beta 1- to beta 2-receptors was the same (70-80% beta 1) when comparing the sinoatrial node and the surrounding atrial myocytes.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Measures of false positive (FP) and false negative (FN) localization error are defined to assess the accuracy of diagnostic imaging procedures. These measures involve the weighting of FP and FN pixels in accordance to their distances from the true localization of the lesion and the region detected as abnormal by the classifier. The distance-based localization receiver operating characteristic (DL-ROC) curve is defined to describe the dependence of the FP and FN localization measures on the classifier's decision threshold. A computer system is presented for the analysis of localization experiments according to these concepts. As an illustration, the accuracy of two types of brain electric topographic montage is studied in the localization of brain tumors and sites of stroke.

Transforming growth factor beta (TGF beta) influences the growth and differentiation of a wide variety of nonneuronal cells (nnc) during embryogenesis and in response to wounding. In the present study TGF beta 1 and TGF beta 2 were examined for their neurotrophic actions on neonatal rat dorsal root ganglion (DRG) neurons with ganglionic nnc in dissociated cultures. TGF beta 1 and TGF beta 2 each increased both neuronal survival and levels of the peptide neurotransmitter substance P (SP) expressed per neuron as well as per culture. TGF beta 1 was maximally effective at a concentration of 40 pM, whereas TGF beta 2 was about 10-fold less potent. Survival effects promoted by simultaneous treatment with both factors were not additive. TGF beta 1 also changed the morphology and distribution of DRG nnc which resulted in clustering of DRG neurons on top of the nnc. Cotreatment of the cultures with two different anti-nerve growth factor (NGF) antibodies eliminated the neurotrophic effects of TGF beta 1. However, treatment with TGF beta 1 did not alter NGF mRNA expression in the cultures nor did it change the amount of NGF in the medium. Further, TGF beta 1 greatly enhanced survival effects and SP stimulation promoted by exogenous NGF at concentrations up to 100 ng/ml. The neurotrophic effects of TGF beta 1 were significantly attenuated by decreasing the proportion of the ganglionic nnc, suggesting a role for these cells in mediating TGF beta 1 action on the neurons. It is hypothesized that the neurotrophic activity of TGF beta depended upon the presence of molecules immunologically related to NGF and that the effects of TGF beta were synergistic with NGF. These observations suggest that TGF beta may play a role in the differentiation and regeneration of DRG neurons in vivo.
The cercus of the first instar cockroach, Periplaneta americana, bears two filiform hairs, lateral (L) and medial (M), each of which is innervated by a single sensory neuron. These project into the terminal ganglion of the CNS where they make synaptic connections with a number of ascending interneurons. We have discovered mutant animals that have more hairs on the cercus; the most typical phenotype, called &quot;Space Invader&quot; (SI), has an extra filiform hair in a proximo-lateral position on one of the cerci. The afferent neuron of this supernumerary hair (SIN) &quot;invades the space&quot; occupied by L in the CNS and makes similar synaptic connections to giant interneurons (GIs). SIN and L compete for these synaptic targets: the size of the L EPSP in a target interneuron GI3 is significantly reduced in the presence of SIN. Morphometric analysis of the L afferent in the presence or absence of SIN shows no anatomical concomitant of competition. Ablation of L afferent allows SIN to increase the size of its synaptic input to GI3. Less frequently in the mutant population, we find animals with a supernumerary medical (SuM) sensillum. Its afferent projects to the same neuropilar region as the M afferent, makes the same set of synaptic connections to GIs, and competes with M for these synaptic targets. The study of these competitive interactions between identified afferents and identified target interneurons reveals some of the dynamic processes that go on in normal development to shape the nervous system.

The current interest in memory disorders in schizophrenia results from the way perceptions of schizophrenia--whose organic origin is becoming increasingly evident--and memory--according to which there exist not one, but several memories--have developed. Memory disorders in the schizophrenic cannot be considered in isolation from knowledge accumulated in other areas of the cognitive and neuro-sciences; a more detailed understanding of these disorders requires a comparison of the different cognitive approaches, both with each other and with the neurobiological and clinical approaches, so that they can be integrated. Despite numerous methodological and conceptual difficulties, it now appears to have been established that the schizophrenic's memory deficit should be seen in the context of a wider cognitive deficit, that the memory tasks are not all disturbed and that the memory deficit cannot be identified with one specific form of memory. Thus, iconic formation, short-term memory in the traditionally accepted sense and implicit memory are hardly, if at all, affected; in contrast, the early processing of information, working memory and explicit memory are disturbed, probably to the extent that they require the implementation of strategies to organise the information to be memorized. Finally, in certain tasks, such as those evaluating latent inhibition or negative priming, schizophrenics perform better than normal subjects, suggesting that schizophrenics' cognitive deficit is localised. This profile of memory disorders is compatible with a dysfunction predominating in the frontal and temporo-hippocampal regions. Neuroleptics and anticholinergics have opposite effects on cognitive and mnesic performance, which is improved by the former and aggravated by the latter. The influence of clinical symptoms, positive or negative, institutionalisation of patients and chronic tardive dyskinesia is unclear. Among the theoretical proposals put forward to account for the observed disorders, those relating to a disturbance of the action planning process and to that of the internal representation of context are compatible with the observed memory disorders. All the clinically derived data and those produced by the cognitive and neurosciences indicate a need to reformulate the links between memory, selective attention and evaluation of the relevance of a stimulus, to develop a general model of the reciprocal interactions between cognition and affectivity and to look for the origin of a pathology as complex as schizophrenia, not in a local lesion in an isolated cerebral structure but in a disturbance of the dynamic interactions within a functional, parallel and distributed network of broadly interconnected regions.

FSH mRNA is transcribed after the onset of high FSH secretion during proestrus and estrus. Pituitary cell fractions separated by size and density were studied to determine if expression of FSH mRNA activity was predominantly in one subset during the estrous cycle and to determine the source and significance of &quot;silent FSH&quot; cells that secrete FSH, but store too little for detection. Pituitary cells were separated by centrifugal elutriation, plated, and then exposed to 0.1-1 nM [D-Lys6]GnRH for 3 h. Media were assayed for FSH by RIA, and the cells were fixed for immunocytochemistry or in situ hybridization. The percentages of immunoreactive FSH cells in unseparated populations increased from 8% at metestrus to 12% during proestrus. Percentages of cells with FSH beta mRNA showed the same rise; however, peak levels were higher (17%) during proestrus and estrus. Small cells with FSH beta mRNA were more frequent than those with antigens early in the cycle. The largest cell fractions contained 38-44% immunoreactive cells. Only 8-21% of these cells had FSH beta mRNA, except during the morning of proestrus (33%). The distribution analyses showed that the increment in immunoreactive FSH cells during diestrus initially stemmed from smaller subsets; however, over half of immunoreactive FSH cells were large by the evening of proestrus. During the time of active transcription of FSH mRNA, more than half of the cells with FSH beta mRNA were small or medium-sized. Thus, early in the cycle, FSH beta mRNA is transcribed in the smaller cells, which may be the source of the silent FSH cells reported in previous studies. During proestrus, smaller FSH cells also secreted as well if not better than those in the unseparated population or large fractions. When they secreted more than expected from their percentages of FSH cells, this response was interpreted to be due to either the presence of cells that are immunoreactively silent or the possible removal of autocrine or paracrine regulatory factors.

Acute and late onset movement disorders frequently complicate the treatment of psychosis with typical neuroleptic drugs like haloperidol, but not with atypical neuroleptic drugs like clozapine. Although the neural mechanisms underlying neuroleptic-induced movement disorders remain unknown, alterations in basal ganglia function are likely involved. A potential role for the endogenous opiate peptides in neuroleptic-induced movement disorders is suggested by the immunocytochemical localization of met5-enkephalin (ME) in the striatopallidal projection pathway, and by the increased levels of ME measured by radioimmunoassay in the rat caudate-putamen nuclei (CPN) following haloperidol treatment. We sought to determine whether met5-enkephalin-like immunoreactivity (MELI) in terminal fields within globus pallidus and in perikarya in CPN was differentially altered in rats chronically treated with haloperidol or clozapine. Acrolein-fixed forebrain sections were collected from cohorts of adult rats receiving 21-day oral administration of haloperidol, clozapine, or water. Sections from the three treatment groups were collectively processed for immunocytochemical labeling using varying dilutions of ME antiserum and the avidin-biotin peroxidase method. In globus pallidus, densitometry measures revealed significantly increased levels of immunoperoxidase labeling for ME in haloperidol-treated, but not in clozapine-treated animals. In CPN, optical densitometry as well as cell counting measurements also showed a significant increase in MELI only in the haloperidol-treated group. These results support the concept that alterations in endogenous opiate peptides in basal ganglia may contribute to movement disorders seen in patients receiving typical neuroleptic drugs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Investigators have described changes in pituitary corticotropes that correlate with changes in the physiological state of the animal. The stellate subtype degranulated and enlarged initially after adrenalectomy. This was followed by repopulation of the granules during the first 3 weeks after surgery with larger granules. There was also an increase in the percentage of corticotropes. More recent studies have shown that chronic stimulation with corticotropin-releasing hormone (CRH) produces some of the same changes; however, the magnitude differs because of corticosterone feedback. Corticotropes are heterogeneous in size, shape, storage patterns, and secretory responses. Specific changes are evident within a short time after stimulation as well. Their average cellular area increases within 1-2 h of stimulation by CRH in vitro or cold stress in vivo. Whereas many corticotropes acutely stimulated by cold or a novel environment are better granulated, others are depleted of granules. Cold stress for 30 min also stimulates an increase in the percentage of immunoreactive corticotropes and cells that bind CRH or arginine vasopressin (AVP). Secretagogues like CRH or epidermal growth factor (EGF) act in vitro to increase percentages of cells that store adrenocorticotropin (ACTH) or express mRNA for pro-opiomelanocortin. AVP or angiotensin II (A-II), or their activated second messengers, also increase percentages of cells that bind CRH and store ACTH. Inhibition of ACTH secretion by ion channel blockers or corticosterone has potent inhibitory effects on percentages of CRH-bound cells. AVP binding is not affected. Some of the inhibitory states reduce the average area of corticotropes. However, about 30% of the cells remain unaffected by these inhibitors. The rapid changes in cell percentages with the different treatments have led workers to postulate the existence of reserve cells that may be sensitive to certain levels of types of stimuli. Several candidate reserve cells are proposed. One group of cells that store ACTH with gonadotropins may function in the proestrous female to stimulate adrenal progesterone. Another multihormonal cell may function during cold stress to release both ACTH and thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH) under the influence of AVP. There may be subpopulations of corticotropes that act in synchrony with other cell populations. They may be awaiting the proper type or combination of secretagogues to support the pituitary-adrenal and other axes.
Machado-Joseph disease (MJD) is an autosomal dominant neurodegenerative spinocerebellar ataxia that has been described primarily in families of Azorean or Portuguese descent. MJD and chromosome 6p-linked spinocerebellar ataxia (SCA1) are difficult to differentiate clinically, and it has been suggested that they may be allelic variants of the same disorder. We have tested MJD families for linkage to six DNA sequence polymorphisms located on chromosome 6p, including the highly informative dinucleotide repeat, D6S89. Seventeen centimorgans telomeric to and 41 cM centromeric to D6S89, a region that includes the SCA1 locus reported to be within 3 cM of D6S89, have been excluded. These data provide conclusive evidence that MJD and SCA1 are nonallelic.
Zinc finger genes encode proteins containing tandemly repeated zinc-mediated folded structures that are found in several transcriptional regulatory proteins. To identify new zinc finger genes, we have screened at low stringency human cosmid libraries enriched in chromosome 22 sequences with a probe derived from the finger region of the mouse Kruppel-like gene, mKr2. We identified 23 nonoverlapping human cosmids cross-hybridizing with the probe. All sequences obtained from cosmid subclones hybridizing with the probe revealed Kruppel-type consensus sequences. Hybridizations to somatic cell hybrid panels and to metaphase chromosomes revealed that 2 nonoverlapping zinc finger cosmids map to chromosome 22p and 4 map to 22q11.2. The 17 other nonoverlapping cosmids most likely map to other chromosomes. The short arms of acrocentric chromosomes are thought to encode only ribosomal RNA genes. Therefore, the identification of two zinc finger genes on chromosome 22p represents an unexpected finding of unknown significance. The four zinc finger genes that map to 22q11.2 are within the cat eye and DiGeorge syndrome regions and thus provide us with potential candidate genes for these developmental malformations.

This study evaluates whether three forms of sprouting occur in the hippocampus of the cat following unilateral entorhinal cortex (EC) lesions: (1) sprouting of projections from the EC contralateral to the lesion; (2) sprouting of the commissural/associational system; and (3) sprouting of mossy fibers. Tract tracing techniques were used to define the normal organization of the entorhinal cortical projection system, the commissural/associational (C/A) systems, and the mossy fiber projections in normal cats. The same techniques were then used to evaluate whether there were changes in these projections in animals with long-standing unilateral EC lesions. The projections from the entorhinal cortex were evaluated autoradiographically following injections of 3H proline into the entorhinal area. The projections of the C/A system were traced using the Fink-Heimer technique after lesions of the hippocampal commissures, and by using autoradiographic techniques after injections of 3H proline into the hippocampus. The distribution of mossy fibers was evaluated using the Timm's stain. The results reveal that unilateral lesions of the EC in cats lead to the same sorts of sprouting that have been described in rats. There is: (1) an increase in the density of the crossed projection from the surviving EC to the contralateral dentate gyrus that had been deprived of its normal EC inputs; (2) an expansion of the terminal field of the C/A projection system into portions of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus normally occupied by EC projections; and (3) an increase in supragranular mossy fibers in some animals. The mossy fiber sprouting was especially prominent when the lesions encroached upon the hippocampus. The studies also reveal additional details about the normal organization of hippocampal pathways in cats. The most important points are: (1) there is a crossed projection from the entorhinal cortex to the contralateral dentate gyrus; and (2) there is a complex laminar organization of the commissural and associational terminal fields in the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus that appears to be related to the point of origin of the projections along the septotemporal axis of the hippocampus. This heretofore unrecognized aspect of the laminar organization of C/A terminations has important implications for the temporal competition hypothesis, which has been advanced to account for the development of these afferent systems.


Presumptive astrocytes isolated from 10-day white Leghorn chick embryos, Factor VIII-positive human brain capillary endothelial cells, meningeal fibroblasts from 10-day chick embryos, Swiss mouse 3T3 cells, and human astrocytoma cell lines, SKMG-1 and U373, were rendered quiescent when placed in culture medium that contained 0 or 0.2% serum for 48 h; their proliferation was markedly reduced and they incorporated [3H]thymidine at a low rate. [3H]Thymidine incorporation and cell proliferation were induced in all types of cells by addition of guanosine, GMP, GDP, GTP, and to a lesser extent, adenosine, AMP, ADP or ATP to the culture medium. The stimulation of proliferation by adenosine and guanosine was abolished by 1,3-dipropyl-7-methylxanthine (DPMX), an adenosine A2 receptor antagonist, but not by 1,3-dipropyl-8-(2-amino-4-chorophenyl)xanthine (PACPX), an A1 antagonist. Stimulation of proliferation by the nucleotides was not abolished by either DPMX or PACPX. The P2 receptor agonists, alpha, beta-methyleneATP and 2-methylthioATP, also stimulated [3H]thymidine incorporation into the cells with peak activity at approximately 3.5 and 0.03 nM, respectively. These data imply that adenosine and guanosine stimulate proliferation of these cell types through activation of an adenosine A2 receptor, and the stimulation of cell proliferation by the nucleotides may be due to the activation of purinergic P2y receptors. As the primary cultures grew older their growth rate slowed. The capacity of the purine nucleosides and nucleotides to stimulate their growth diminished concomitantly. The 3T3 cells showed neither decreased growth with increased passages nor reduced response to the purines. In contrast, although the doubling time of the immortalized human astrocytoma cell lines SKMG-1 and U373 remained constant, the responsiveness to purinergic stimulation of the U373 cells decreased but that of the SKMG-1 did not. These data are compatible with a decrease in the number, or the ligand-binding affinity of the purinergic receptors, or a decreased coupling of purinergic receptors to intracellular mediators in primary cells aged in tissue culture.
The purpose of this study was to develop a short tool for the assessment of home environment and psychosocial development of preschool children, based on the data collected on a sample of one hundred and fifty children in the age range of 2 years 10 months to 3 years 8 months. Co-relation analysis was used in identifying home environment and psychosocial development variables for the development of the tool.
Seventy two subjects with OCD were compared with 18 normal healthy volunteers on multiple neuroendocrine responses to clonidine. Significant heterogeneity in OCD was observed in responses of growth hormone. There was also significant disturbances in Cortisol and ACTH release. An interactional model for noradrenergic and serotonergic dysfunction in OCD is discussed.
Strain differences in both immune function and behavior were observed following exposure of mice to the death of cage-cohorts. AKR/J, BALB/cN, and C3H/HeJ mice were exposed to a dead cohort for two hours at 48 hour intervals for 30 days. During this two hour period, AKR/J mice displayed intense fighting and mounting behavior. In addition, these mice attacked, cannibalized, and buried carcasses. Neither C3H/HeJ nor BALB/cN mice exhibited the complete repertoire of behaviors directed at either carcasses or cage-cohorts observed in AKR/J mice. After 15 exposures to the death of cage-cohorts, allogeneic cytotoxic T-lymphocyte (CTL) response was suppressed in AKR/J mice, but was enhanced or unchanged in C3H/HeJ and BALB/cN mice, respectively. Other immune parameters including natural killer (NK) cell activity, and lipopolysaccharide-stimulated B cell proliferation were unchanged in AKR/J mice but increased in BALB/cN mice exposed to the death of cage-cohorts for thirty days. These results suggest: 1) that both suppression of the CTL response and behaviors indicative of defensive burying in AKR/J mice may specifically be due to the loss of cage-cohorts, since they were not observed following exposure of these mice to the death of contraspecific animals; and 2) that both the behavioral repertoire and immune responses following exposure to the death of cage-cohorts may be strain dependent. This strain dependence may reflect differences in the ability to cope with the intermittent presentation of a stressor, and may explain, at least in part, variability in stress-induced changes in immune functions.
A recent principal components analysis (Kistler and Wightman, 1992) has shown that the transfer functions of the human external ear, for a wide range of source locations, can be expressed as weighted sums of a small number of basis vectors. Directional transfer functions obtained in this laboratory, using substantially different measurement techniques, yielded principal component basis vectors that are remarkably similar to those reported by Kistler and Wightman. When this subject population was divided in half according to the overall physical sizes of subjects, basis vectors computed for the subpopulation of smaller subjects were shifted systematically to higher frequencies relative to those computed for the subpopulation of larger subjects.
The phenotypic actions of the oligotriche gene mutation on testicular function have not been elucidated, although it is known that male mice homozygous for the mutation are infertile. In the present study, the effect of the oligotriche gene mutation on mouse testicular function was analyzed by comparing normal and mutant mice. Spermatogenesis was analyzed by enumerating germ cells in seminiferous tubules at specific stages of spermatogenesis and by electron microscopy. Steroidogenic potential was estimated by radioimmunometric determination of testosterone secreted by testes perfused in vitro. Parallel studies were completed for male mice homozygous for the quaking gene mutation, a mutation known to cause male mouse sterility by disrupting sperm tail development. The experimental results suggest that the oligotriche and quaking gene mutations interfere with sperm tail formation by different mechanisms. Testicular steroidogenesis was not affected by either gene mutation. The results provide the first evidence that the oligotriche gene mutation induces male mouse sterility by effecting the complete absence of a sperm tail. This phenotypic action is different from that of the quaking gene mutation.
A reversed-phase high-performance liquid chromatographic method for the analysis of 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) from plasma or brain tissue is described. Samples were deproteinized with perchloric acid, centrifuged, alkalinized with potassium hydroxide and recentrifuged. The supernatants were derivatized with o-phthaldialdehyde and injected onto a C18 3-microns column (100 mm x 4 mm I.D.) pumped with 1 ml/min methanol-acetonitrile-0.1 M sodium phosphate buffer pH 6.0 (28:5:67, v/v). The retention times for ACPC and the internal standard were 15 and 31 min, respectively. The minimum detectable amount of ACPC was 0.08 nmol. The extraction recovery of ACPC (2.7-270 nmol) from spiked plasma or brain tissue ranged from 88 to 109%. The intra- and inter-day coefficients of variation for 27 nmol ACPC were 3.9 and 4.9%, respectively. This method was utilized to obtain preliminary pharmacokinetic parameters following ACPC administration to mice.
The course of decline was studied in 16 patients with probable or definite dementia of the Alzheimer type (DAT) over 2.7 to 6.8 years from first to last evaluation. Overall severity of dementia was measured with the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS), the Dementia Rating Scale (DRS), and the Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE), at approximately annual intervals. An initial plateau phase, during which language and cognitive functions did not change for periods of 9 to 35 months, was observed in 5 patients who initially had an isolated memory impairment without significant impairment of nonmemory language or visuospatial function. Once nonmemory functions began to decline, the rate of decline was remarkably steady in most individual patients but varied markedly among patients. The initial rate of decline after the plateau phase, as measured with the WAIS and DRS, was a significant predictor of subsequent rate in individual patients (r = .66, p less than .01, and r = .67, p less than .01, for the WAIS and DRS, respectively). The MMSE was a less reliable measure of longitudinal change in dementia severity and did not predict future rates of decline (r = .29). These results demonstrate a biphasic trajectory of decline in patients with DAT. Stable interindividual differences in rate of decline may provide a basis for designing more sensitive studies of treatments intended to slow or halt the progress of DAT.


Neither excitotoxic neurodegeneration nor lipopolysaccharide induces an acute myelomonocytic exudate in the murine central nervous system (CNS) parenchyma (Andersson, P.-B., V. H. Perry, and S. Gordon. 1991. Neuroscience, 42:201; Andersson, P.-B., V. H. Perry, and S. Gordon. 1992. Neuroscience 48:169). In this study formyl-methionyl-leucyl-phenylalanine, platelet-activating factor, interleukin 8 (IL-8), IL-1, or tumor necrosis factor alpha were injected into the hippocampus to assess whether these leukocyte chemotaxins and known mediators of recruitment could bypass this block. They induced morphologic activation of microglia and widespread leukocyte margination but little or no cell exudation into the CNS parenchyma. By contrast, there was acute myelomonocytic cell recruitment to the choroid plexus, meninges, and ventricular system, comparable to that in the skin after subcutaneous injection. The normal CNS parenchyma appears to be a tissue unique in its resistance to leukocyte diapedesis, which is shown here to be at a step beyond chemotactic cytokine secretion or induction of leukocyte adhesion to cerebral endothelium.



Computer imaging is rapidly becoming an indispensable tool for the quantification of variables in research and medicine. Whilst its use in medicine has largely been limited to qualitative observations, imaging in applied basic sciences, medical research and biotechnology demands objective quantification of the variables in question. In black and white densitometry (0-256 levels of intensity) the separation of subtle differences between closely related hues from stains is sometimes very difficult. True-colour and real-time video microscopy analysis offer choices not previously available with monochrome systems. In this paper we demonstrate the usefulness of colour thresholding, which has so far proven indispensable for proper objective quantification of the products of histochemical reactions and/or subtle differences in tissue and cells. In addition, we provide interested, but untrained readers with basic information that may assist decisions regarding the most suitable set-up for a project under consideration. Data from projects in progress at Tulane are shown to illustrate the advantage of colour thresholding over monochrome densitometry and for objective quantification of subtle colour differences between experimental and control samples.
The delivery of cytoskeletal proteins to the axon occurs by slow axonal transport. We examined how the rate of slow transport was altered after axonal injury. When retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons regenerated through peripheral nerve grafts, an increase in the rate of slow transport occurred during regrowth of the injured axons. We compared these results to axonal injury in the optic nerve where no substantial regrowth occurs and found a completely different response. Slow transport was decreased approximately tenfold in rate in the proximal segment of crushed optic nerves. This decreased rate of slow transport was not induced immediately, but occurred about 1 week after injury. To explore whether a decrease in the rate of slow transport was induced when the regeneration of peripheral nerves was physically blocked, we examined slow transport in motor neurons after the sciatic nerve was transected and ligated. In this case, no change in the rate of the comigrating tubulin and neurofilament (NF) radioactive peaks were observed. We discuss how the changes in the rate of slow transport may reflect different neuronal responses to injury and speculate about the possible molecular changes in the expression of tubulin which may contribute to the observed changes.
Laminins are extracellular matrix proteins that mediate their effects on cells through integrin and nonintegrin receptors. Two receptors of 67 and 110 kD that bind laminin with a high affinity (Kd approximately nM) have been reported in neural cells. Here, we discuss these and other nonintegrin laminin receptors that have been implicated in neural function. In addition, we report studies characterizing a 43 kD protein, (P40), immunologically related to the 67 kD laminin receptor, which may be involved in retinal development. In our studies, polyclonal antisera (anti-P-20-A) to a synthetic peptide derived from the sequence of a cDNA for a putative high-affinity laminin receptor (67 kD) detected a protein of 43 kD in immunoblots of adult rat retinas. Immunohistochemistry with this antiserum showed that the retinal immunoreactivity was predominantly localized in the ganglion cell layer of both adult chicken and rat retinas where it appeared to be intracellular. Retinal ganglion cells were shown to be immunoreactive by retrogradely labeling them from the superior colliculus with a lipophilic dye and subsequently with anti-P-20-A antisera. Consistent with the preferential localization of the P-20-A immunoreactivity in ganglion cells, there was a substantial decrease in the amounts of P40 on Western blots following optic nerve section and resulting retinal ganglion cell death. Screening of a rat (PC12 cell) cDNA library with the anti-P-20-A antiserum further confirmed the specificity of the antiserum for the rat homologue of P40. Rat P40 is 97% identical to the mouse and 87% identical to human P40 at the nucleic acid level and 98% at the protein level. Restriction mapping of the rather abundant positive clones in the library that cross-hybridized with a human cDNA probe for P40 indicated that the full-length cDNA of 1.2 kb was the major and perhaps the only cDNA in the library. In Northern blots of adult rat retina, these clones hybridized to a single 1.2-kb transcript. Electroblots of retinal homogenates probed with radioiodinated laminin demonstrated binding to a broad band at 110 kD, but none at 43 kD. Taken together these findings suggest that P40 may not be a laminin receptor and are in keeping with the hydrophilic composition of the protein, its intracellular localization, as well as other features predicted by its nucleic acid sequence.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The developing mouse was used to assess biochemical changes in membrane lipids during the period when nerve growth cones become synapses. Growth cone particles and synaptosomes were simultaneously obtained from common brain homogenates. Incorporation of the essential fatty acid, docosahexaenoic acid (22:6 omega-3), was correlated with the developmental changes in endogenous fatty acid content of growth cones and synaptosomes. Analysis of endogenous lipid content indicated that, at all ages studied, the growth cones contained more arachidonoyl acyl chains (20:4 omega-6) than did synaptosomes. Before the onset of synaptogenesis, levels of arachidonoyl chains increased and levels of 22:6, oleoyl and linoleoyl chains decreased in synaptosomes. Although stearoyl and palmitoyl (16:0) remained stable in synaptosomes, 16:0 decreased in growth cones. With the exception of 16:0 and 20:4, endogenous fatty acyl content of growth cones and synaptosomes became similar by postnatal day 10, which coincides with the onset of synaptogenesis. When 5-day-old mouse pups were injected intraperitoneally with [3H]22:6, the incorporation into growth cone and synaptosome phospholipids was greatest in phosphatidylethanolamine, followed by phosphatidylserine and phosphatidylcholine. Nominal labeling was present in phosphatidic acid and phosphatidylinositol. Labeling in neutral lipids was less than that of phospholipids, with triacylglycerol incorporating most of the neutral lipid label, followed by diacylglycerol and free 22:6. Only the growth cone fraction contained detectable amounts of 22:6-labeled cholesterol esters. The distribution of 22:6 label in plasma 72 h after injection indicated that approximately 60% of the label was in phospholipids with approximately 40% in neutral lipids and less than 5% in free fatty acids.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The extracellular matrix (ECM) at the vertebrate neuromuscular junction is a repository of functionally important molecules, some of which can regulate the formation of synapses during regeneration. One candidate molecule is s-laminin, a 185-kDa homologue of the laminin B1 chain. Whereas several members of the laminin family are present throughout the ECM ensheathing muscle fibers, immunoreactivity for s-laminin is found selectively at synaptic sites in adult and embryonic rats, and is detectable at a time when synaptogenesis is taking place during development. We have reported previously that a rat schwannoma cell line, D6P2T, produces and releases large amounts of s-laminin in culture. We have now purified s-laminin from medium conditioned by these cells by using a simple three-step procedure. Serum-free, conditioned medium is separated by ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-Sephacel, followed by size-exclusion chromatography on 500 HR-Sephacryl. Finally, s-laminin is dissociated from other ECM components by agarose gel electrophoresis under reducing conditions and recovered in solution by extracting slices of agarose gel. The purified preparation displays one silver-stained band that is recognized by three monoclonal antibodies known to bind to different epitopes on s-laminin. Lectin-binding studies demonstrate that s-laminin is a glycoprotein and bears many of the carbohydrate moieties present on the B1 and B2 chains of laminin. Thus, the three 185-220-kDa members of the laminin family are related in both their protein and carbohydrate domains.
The selective metabotropic glutamate receptor agonist trans-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid (trans-ACPD) stimulates phosphoinositide hydrolysis and elicits several physiological responses in rat hippocampal slices. However, recent studies suggest that the physiological effects of trans-ACPD in the hippocampus are mediated by activation of a receptor that is distinct from the phosphoinositide hydrolysis-linked receptor. Previous experiments indicate that cyclic AMP mimics many of the physiological effects of trans-ACPD in hippocampal slices. Furthermore, recent cloning and biochemistry experiments indicate that multiple metabotropic glutamate receptor subtypes exist, some of which are coupled to yet unidentified effector systems. Thus, we performed a series of experiments to test the hypothesis that ACPD increases cyclic AMP levels in hippocampal slices. We report that 1S,3R- and 1S,3S-ACPD (but not 1R,3S-ACPD) induce a concentration-dependent increase in cyclic AMP accumulation in hippocampal slices. This effect was blocked by the metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonist L-2-amino-3-phosphonoproprionic acid but not by selective antagonists of ionotropic glutamate receptors. Furthermore, our results suggest that 1S,3R-ACPD-stimulated increases in cyclic AMP accumulation are not secondary to increases in cell firing or to activation of phosphoinositide hydrolysis.
The effects of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) on somatostatin (SS)-containing neurons were examined by measuring dopamine, norepinephrine (NE), SS, and SS mRNA in striatum and frontal cortex of C57/B16 mice at various times following treatment with MPTP-HCl (96 mg/kg i.p.). MPTP caused a 70% depletion of dopamine in striatum by 1 day and a 40% depletion of NE in frontal cortex within 3 days. SS content was increased in frontal cortex 4 days later, but not in striatum; there were no changes in SS mRNA. Maprotiline, a specific NE-uptake blocker, prevented both the depletion of NE and the increase of SS in frontal cortex due to MPTP administration. These results support the possibility that NE can regulate SS in frontal cortex and are discussed in terms of the decrease of SS seen in parkinsonian patients with dementia.
Histamine can cause the release of catecholamines from bovine adrenal medullary chromaffin cells by a mechanism distinct from that of the depolarizing agents nicotine or high K+ buffer. It was the aim of this study to determine the protein phosphorylation responses to histamine in these cells and to compare them with those induced by depolarization. A number of proteins showed increases in phosphorylation in response to histamine especially when analyzed on two-dimensional polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis or by phosphopeptide mapping; one protein of 20,000 daltons was markedly dephosphorylated. Emphasis was given to the effects of histamine on tyrosine hydroxylase (TOH) phosphorylation, because this protein showed the most prominent changes on one-dimensional gels. Histamine acted via H1 receptors to increase TOH phosphorylation; the response was blocked by the H1 antagonist mepyramine and could be mimicked by the H1 agonist thiazolylethylamine, but not by the H2 agonist dimaprit. The H3 agonist (R) alpha-methylhistamine increased TOH phosphorylation at high concentrations, but the response was blocked entirely by mepyramine. Histamine rapidly increased the phosphorylation of TOH, with a maximum reached within 5 s and maintained for at least 30 min. This was in marked contrast to nicotine-stimulated protein phosphorylation of TOH, which was rapidly desensitized. The initial phosphorylation response to histamine was independent of extracellular Ca2+ for at least 3 min, but the sustained response required extracellular Ca2+. This was in contrast to the situation with both nicotine and high K+ buffer, which under the conditions used here caused a response which was dependent on extracellular Ca2+ at all times investigated. In the presence of histamine, the phosphopeptide profiles for TOH were essentially the same with or without Ca2+, suggesting that the same protein kinases were involved, but at longer times there was evidence of new phosphorylation sites. The mechanism or mechanisms whereby histamine modulates TOH phosphorylation are discussed with emphasis on the differences from depolarizing agents.
We have quantitated the alpha 1, alpha 5, gamma 2S, and gamma 2L gamma-aminobutyric acidA (GABAA) receptor subunit mRNAs in the maturing cerebellum in vivo and in cerebellar granule neurons differentiating in vitro. Absolute amounts of mRNA were measured by reverse transcription and competitive polymerase chain reaction (PCR) analysis with appropriate internal standards. The alpha 1 and gamma 2L mRNA content increased continuously during postnatal cerebellar maturation and their changes with time matched very closely those of the cerebellar granule cells differentiating in vitro. The gamma 2S subunit mRNA showed a relatively constant pattern of expression both in vivo and in vitro, with comparable absolute concentrations in both developmental paradigms. The alpha 5 mRNA was initially high in vivo and decreased (eight-fold) to adult levels as postnatal cerebellar development progressed. In vitro the amount of alpha 5 GABAA receptor subunit mRNA was higher than in vivo at 3 days, increased by more than twofold by 8 days, and declined to approximately the initial values at 23 and 28 days in vitro. Collectively, the results indicate that the alpha 1, alpha 5, gamma 2S, and gamma 2L GABAA receptor subunit mRNAs are regulated differentially in a temporal manner during in vivo and in vitro maturation. Moreover, a comparison of the ontogenetic profiles of the gamma 2S and gamma 2L mRNAs indicates that alternative splicing of the gamma 2 primary RNA transcript is regulated developmentally during postnatal maturation of the rat cerebellum.

Peripheral toxicity may explain the disappointing therapeutic effects of nonselective muscarinic agonists in Alzheimer's disease. Partial agonists might exhibit an improved therapeutic index. We compare the central and peripheral cholinergic effects of RS86 with the M1/M3 partial agonists AF 102B and L-689,660 ((-)-3-[2-6 chloropyrazin)yl]-1-azabicyclo[2.2.2]octane) in primates. Administration of RS86 (1.5-2.25 mg/kg i.m.) or L-689,660 (0.1-0.3 mg/kg i.m.), but not AF 102B (up to 6 mg/kg i.m.), caused partial reversal of the disruptive effects of scopolamine on cognition. However, performance remained significantly poorer than in untreated control animals. Adverse effects prevented examination of higher doses. Centrally-mediated hypothermia was induced by RS86 (0.05 mg/kg p.o.) and L-689,660 (0.01 mg/kg p.o.) but only by a high dose of AF 102B (7 mg/kg p.o.). The putative therapeutic advantages of partial M1/M3 agonists over RS86 are discussed.
Recent studies have shown that the Alzheimer disease (AD) neocortex is characterized by a loss of large neurons, the presence of dilated terminal axons, widespread loss of synapses, and a disruption of the dendritic cytoskeleton which is manifested as Tau immunoreactive threads. In the present study we have investigated the relationship between synaptic and dendritic abnormalities in the neocortex of Alzheimer patients and examined the extent to which these structural alterations correlate with the severity of cognitive impairment in AD. Quantitative neuroanatomical data were obtained from immunofluorescence-labeled specimens using a laser-scanning confocal microscope, computer-assisted image processing and serial section reconstruction techniques. We found that the AD cases showed a 34% loss in the number of presynaptic terminals per 100 square (sq) microns, many of which showed structural abnormalities. The AD neuropil had an average of 10 +/- 7 dendritic threads per 1,000 sq microns, with the average thread measuring 2 sq microns. Severe AD cases had thicker threads compared with mild to moderate AD cases. Three-dimensional analysis showed clustering of synapses around threads, as well as presynaptic boutons apposed to dendritic neuropil threads. Statistical analysis showed that the strongest correlation was between synapse density and Blessed score of cognitive impairment. Thread counts did not correlate with either but were correlated with tangle counts. Stepwise multiple regression analysis showed that tangle counts, but not threads, strengthened the correlation between Blessed score and synapses. We conclude that synaptic damage may precede dendritic thread and tangle formation, and that threads do not necessarily induce synaptic pathology. Instead, dendrite sprouting in the denervated regions could be associated with increased accumulation of cytoskeletal proteins observed in the dendritic threads.
Cultures of newborn rat spinal cord contain multiple types of astrocytes. By using a combination of cultures enriched for glial precursors and clonal analysis, we have identified a particular astrocyte precursor that gives rise to morphologically distinct classes of astrocytes. This astrocyte precursor labels with the monoclonal antibody A2B5, is highly migratory, proliferates in response to serum and platelet-derived growth factor, and differentiates into process-bearing astrocytes, many of which subsequently assume a &quot;pancake&quot;-shaped morphology. A2B5+ astrocyte precursors share antigenic and migratory characteristics with previously described O2A progenitor cells but differ in their response to regulatory factors, including serum and coculture with type 1 astrocytes. More importantly, these astrocyte precursors do not give rise to oligodendrocytes. In their proliferative response to serum and their capacity to differentiate into astrocytes, these glial precursors resemble type 1 astrocyte precursors from optic nerve. However, unlike type 1 astrocyte precursors, these cells are A2B5+, highly migratory, and do not give rise to fibroblast-like astrocytes. Neonatal rat spinal cord cultures contain approximately twice the number of the A2B5+ astrocyte precursors than O2A progenitor cells. By contrast, the majority of A2B5+ cells in postnatal day 7 optic nerve cultures are O2A progenitors. The presence of large numbers of A2B5+ astrocyte precursors in rat spinal cord cultures may reflect the more complex cytoarchitecture of the spinal cord compared to the optic nerve.
The precise sites for prostaglandin E2 (PGE2)-related activity responsible for the promotion of wakefulness and elevation of brain temperature were determined in several regions of the monkey brain. PGE2 was administered through a microdialysis probe into 11 brain loci mainly in the preoptic area/anterior hypothalamic region (POA/AH) and the tuberomammillary region in the posterior hypothalamus (TuM-PH). Administration of PGE2 into the POA/AH resulted in a marked and dose-dependent febrile response. When a low dose (15 pmol/min) of PGE2 was administered into the POA/AH, brain temperature increased significantly up to a 0.6 degrees C rise, but sleep behavior and amounts of time in wakefulness, slow wave sleep (SWS), and REM sleep during the administration period were not significantly different from those of the control monkeys. Dose of PGE2 above 150 pmol/min elevated the brain temperature and heart rate more markedly and suppressed sleep. The degree of inhibition of sleep by PGE2 was closely correlated with the changes in these autonomic responses. On the other hand, when a low dose of PGE2 was administered into the TuM-PH, the time spent awake during the administration period increased up to 3.5-fold and the amount of time spent in SWS decreased to 50% of that of the control level, with negligible changes in brain temperature and heart rate. The awaking response of PGE2 in the TuM-PH was also dose dependent, but was not correlated with the change in brain temperature. Among 11 brain regions tested, the hyperthermic effect of PGE2 was most potent in the POA, while its awaking effect was most pronounced in the TuM-PH close to the mammillary complex. These findings demonstrate that the site of action of PGE2 for the regulation of sleep-wakefulness is clearly distinct from that for the temperature regulation. PGE2 may be involved in the neurochemical mechanism of wakefulness mediated in a specific site in the PH.
The vocal control nucleus of the adult songbird forebrain, HVc, exhibits de novo neurogenesis in adulthood, with the production of new neurons from precursor cells located in the overlying ventricular zone (Goldman and Nottebohm, 1983). We previously established that explants derived from neurogenic regions of the adult canary forebrain could be maintained in vitro, under conditions that permitted the migration and differentiation of those new neurons previously generated in vivo (Goldman, 1990). However, we found no evidence for continued neuronal mitogenesis in these cultures, which were raised in high concentrations of serum. In the present study, we investigated the permissive conditions for in vitro neurogenesis by these adult forebrain-derived ventricular zone explants. When HVc explants derived from adult zebra finches were maintained in low-serum medium, in vitro neurogenesis could be demonstrated by 3H-thymidine uptake as long as 5 days after explantation. Immunocytochemistry for microtubule-associated protein-2 followed by autoradiography confirmed the neuronal identity of these 3H-thymidine-incorporating cells. In vitro neuronal production occurred in an inverse relation to the serum concentration: Over the range of 2.5-25% fetal bovine serum, neuronal 3H-thymidine labeling was most frequent in those cultures exposed to the lowest serum levels. This facilitation of in vitro neuronal mitogenesis by serum depletion suggests that fetal serum may contain factors that inhibit the division of adult-derived neuronal precursor cells, either directly or by agents released by serum-stimulated glial or ependymal cells.
Principal cells in the medial nucleus of the trapezoid body (MNTB) are believed to be critical components in the circuit subserving sound localization. These cells, located in the superior olivary complex, convert excitatory inputs, arriving from the contralateral cochlear nucleus by way of large somatic synapses (the calyces of Held), to inhibitory projections onto principal cells in the ipsilateral lateral superior olive (LSO). We have characterized a population of cells in the rat MNTB using intracellular recording and labeling techniques in a brain slice preparation. MNTB principal cells had spherical or ellipsoid somata that gave rise to single large-diameter dendrites, which branched extensively and often extended beyond the borders of MNTB. Commonly observed axonal projection targets included LSO, the superior paraolivary nucleus, and the medial superior olive, and occasionally the lateral nucleus of the trapezoid body. The projections of individual MNTB cells showed an orderly topography that is consistent with the known tonotopic maps of the nuclei. In response to current injection, principal cells exhibited several nonlinearities, including rectification for depolarizing currents and a &quot;sag&quot; in the membrane potential for hyperpolarizing currents. Superthreshold depolarizing currents elicited transient firing behavior. Application of the potassium channel blocker 4-aminopyridine reduced or eliminated the rectification in the current-voltage relationships and caused depolarizing currents to elicit repetitive firing. Stimulation of afferent inputs elicited short-latency spikes, presumably driven by calyceal synaptic inputs; long-latency, presumably polysynaptic, EPSPs; and short- and long-latency IPSPs. The duration of synaptic events was strongly dependent on membrane potential, and this effect was probably due to the intrinsic membrane properties of the cell. In all cases tested, EPSPs were blocked by CNQX or DNQX, and IPSPs were blocked by strychnine. Two injected non-principal cells differed from principal cells in their morphologies and physiological characteristics.
Intracerebral grafts consisting of primary fibroblasts genetically engineered to express NGF were used to assess the regenerative capacity of cholinergic neurons of the adult rat septum. Our data reveal that NGF-producing grafts sustain a significantly higher proportion of NGF receptor-immunoreactive septal neurons following axotomy (approximately 65-75%) than do grafts of noninfected fibroblasts. In addition, NGF promotes the regeneration of septal axons. Following the ablation of cholinergic septal projections to the hippocampus, NGF-producing grafts placed within the lesion cavity contain large numbers of AChE-positive axons; control grafts, on the other hand, lack such cholinergic axons. Ultrastructural examination reveals that unmyelinated axons within NGF-producing grafts use many different substrates for growth, including astrocytes and components of the extracellular matrix. Grafts of control fibroblasts possess the same cellular and matrix substrates but contain only a small population of axons, probably of peripheral origin. AChE-positive axons growing through NGF-producing grafts provide a new topographically organized input to the deafferented hippocampal dentate gyrus. Furthermore, regenerating septal axons terminate predominantly on the dendritic processes of granular neurons. The dentate gyrus ipsilateral to grafts of noninfected fibroblasts, on the other hand, remains devoid of AChE-positive fibers. From these results, we conclude that the availability of NGF is a necessary requirement to sustain axotomized cholinergic septal neurons and to promote axon regeneration and cholinergic reinnervation of dentate granular neurons by these lesioned neurons. The presence of many permissive substrates (e.g., astrocytes, basal lamina, and collagen) alone, however, is not sufficient to induce axon regrowth from adult septal neurons.
We describe a microdialysis probe with attached side catheter for making submicroliter injections at the site of the probe in the awake, freely moving rat. This design allows the local application of drugs which cannot be applied in the perfusion medium either because of their inability to pass through the dialysis membrane or because of their interference with chromatographic detection of compounds of interest.
Permeability-surface area products (PAs) of the blood-nerve barrier (BNB) and blood-brain barrier (BBB) to 125I-labeled native bovine serum albumin (nBSA, pI approximately 4), and to 2 cationized albumins (cBSA) of differing pI (pI approximately 8 and 11), were quantitatively determined in awake rats, using an i.v. bolus injection technique. Mean PAs of the BNB and BBB to 125I-nBSA, after a circulation time of up to 120 min, were (0.17 +/- 0.23) and (0.09 +/- 0.05) x 10(-5) ml/s.g. wet wt, respectively (n = 12 rats), and were not significantly different from 0 (P greater than 0.05). Mean PAs of the BNB and BBB to 125I-cBSA (pI approximately 8), after circulation time of 12 min, were (1.9 +/- 0.1) and (1.7 +/- 0.1) x 10(-5) ml/s.g wet wt, respectively (n = 8). Significant greater PAs, at both the BNB and BBB to 125I-cBSA (pI approximately 11) [(8.2 +/- 1.8) and (3.0 +/- 0.6) x 10(-5) ml/s.g wet wt, respectively (n = 12)], than both PA's of nBSA and cBSA (pI approximately 8) were found. The accumulation of 125I-cBSA in epi-perineurial tissues also was higher than that of 125I-nBSA, and was related to the degree of cationization. Our results indicate that, as at the BBB, the transfer of cationized serum albumin is enhanced over that of native albumin at the BNB of the mammalian peripheral nerve.
A frontal pole cDNA library from monkey (Macaca mulatta) brain was screened to identify mRNAs that are expressed more in frontal pole as compared to primary visual cortex. Three cDNA clones, whose greater expression was confirmed by Northern blot analysis, were identified as cytochrome oxidase (COX) subunits I, II, and III (COX I, II, and III). Each clone showed higher levels of mRNA in the frontal pole, dorsal lateral prefrontal cortex, and hippocampus than in the primary visual or somatosensory cortices. COX histochemistry of prefrontal, visual, and somatosensory cortical regions demonstrated heterogeneous distributions, with highest activity in dendrite-rich neuropil of the cortex. A laminar distribution of COX mRNA expression also was demonstrated with in situ hybridization. mRNA was detected in cell bodies and in apical dendrites. These results indicate region specific differences in the distribution of COX activity and in the corresponding mRNA for three of its subunits within the monkey brain. Such differences may be related to differences in the distribution of neuropil as compared with cell bodies among the brain regions studied, and may be relevant to selective vulnerability in Alzheimer's disease.
Middle cerebral artery blood flow velocity and jugular bulb venous oxygen saturation (SJO2) were measured by transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasonography and continuous venous oximetry, respectively, in 41 severely brain-injured patients. The purpose of the study was to examine the relationships between TCD flow velocity, SJO2, and alterations in blood pressure (BP), intracranial pressure (ICP), and cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP). In these patients, CPP was reduced either by rising ICP or by falling BP. Both forms of reduction of CPP resulted in a greater fall in diastolic flow velocity than other flow parameters. As CPP decreased below a critical value of 70 mm Hg, a progressive increase in TCD pulsatility index (PI) was observed (r = -0.942, p less than 0.0001), accompanied by a fall in SJO2 (r = 0.78, p less than 0.0001). At pressures above 70 mm Hg, there was no correlation of either PI or SJO2 with CPP. The relationship between PI and CPP held true in patients with both focal and diffuse pathologies and was the same whether changes in CPP resulted from alterations in ICP or BP. The PI and SJO2 correlated better with CPP than with ICP or BP. Transcranial Doppler ultrasonography can identify states of reduced CPP. Decreases in SJO2 with falling CPP suggested progressive failure of cerebral blood flow to meet metabolic demands. Monitoring of TCD and SJO2 may be used to define the optimum CPP level for management of severely brain-injured patients.
Patients with symptomatic aneurysms that are not excluded from the cerebral circulation have a poor prognosis. Standard treatment is surgical exploration with direct clipping of the aneurysm. Because of their large size or relationship to the base of the skull, some aneurysms may not be suitable for direct surgical clipping and may require alternative treatment modalities. A prospective clinical and radiological study of seven patients treated with the endovascular placement of platinum-Dacron microcoils to exclude the aneurysm from the cerebral circulation is reported. The seven patients ranged in age from 37 to 63 years; four were women. At completion of the endovascular procedure, total occlusion of the aneurysm with preservation of the parent artery had been achieved in four patients and 90% occlusion of the aneurysm in two. In the seventh patient, occlusion of the internal carotid artery resulted in the patient's death. At the 6-month follow-up review, both patients with an aneurysm less than 20 mm in size had persistent aneurysm thrombosis; however, the two patients with giant aneurysms had partial recanalization. Both required repeat thrombosis of their aneurysm with the placement of additional microcoils, one at 6 weeks and one at 6 months. These two patients have persistent aneurysm thrombosis at 12 months following their second procedure. The patient mortality rate for this study was 14%, while the procedure mortality/morbidity rate was 9%. It is concluded that thrombotic aneurysm therapy of difficult aneurysms is a safe procedure and will have a place in the treatment of selected aneurysms.
Therapeutic agents for reducing raised intracranial pressure (ICP) may do so at the expense of reduced mean arterial pressure (MAP). As a consequence, cerebral perfusion pressure (CPP) = (MAP - ICP) may not improve. It is unknown whether the level of MAP alters cerebral blood flow (CBF) when MAP and ICP change in parallel so that CPP remains constant. This study investigates CBF at a constant CPP but varying levels of MAP and ICP in 12 anaesthetized cats. CBF was studied at three levels of CPP: 60 (n = 4), 50 (n = 4), and 40 mm Hg (n = 4) under conditions of both intact and impaired autoregulation. At CPP levels of 50 and 60 mm Hg, when autoregulation was intact, CBF remained unchanged. With loss of autoregulation, there was a trend for CBF to increase as MAP and ICP were increased in parallel at a CPP of 50 and 60 mm Hg, although the relationship did not achieve statistical significance. Absolute CBF levels were, however, significantly different between the autoregulating and nonautoregulating groups (p &lt;0.001). At a CPP of 40 mm Hg, CBF showed a linear correlation with blood pressure (BP) (r = 0.57, p &lt;0.05). These results demonstrate that when autoregulation is impaired, there is a functional difference between autoregulating and nonautoregulating cerebral vessels despite similar MAP and CPP. These results also show that at a CPP of 40 mm Hg when autoregulation is impaired, CBF depends more on arterial driving pressure than on CPP.
Two patients with indirect optic nerve injury are reported. In one, head injury was minor, while in the second, the head injury was severe. Both the patients had immediate type of optic nerve injury with complete visual loss. CT scans for the orbit and optic canal were normal. Visual evoked potentials (VEP) repeatedly performed in the first 6-8 weeks were absent in both the patients. Onset of visual recovery was very late, in first case it was noticed after 12 weeks and in the second case visual recovery started after 8 weeks. Both the patients had partial visual recovery.
The fenfluramine racemate belongs to a new therapeutic class of molecules acting on food intake, without psychostimulant or addictive potential. This molecule was extensively studied in the treatment of obesity and its action was better understood by studying the dextrogyre and levogyre enantiomers. New methods allowed to show that dexfenfluramine (the dextrogyre isomer) worked through a serotoninergic activity which was responsible for the effect on food intake and disorders of eating behavior. New pharmacological concepts have emerged by using this molecule and new animal models, nearer to human pathology, were found (stress induced eating, carbohydrate selection...). Molecular Biology and Neurosciences have already led to a better knowledge of the central mechanism of action of the molecule by describing its effect on receptors and binding sites; however a lot of other concepts remain to be discovered.
The possibility that the amount of newly synthesized material made available for fast axonal transport is regulated by nerve impulse activity was examined in an in vitro preparation of bullfrog dorsal root ganglia (DRG) and sciatic nerve. Under conditions that precluded effects of impulse activity on either uptake or incorporation of precursor, patterned stimulation of the sciatic nerve (1 out of every 2 s) produced a frequency- and time-dependent decrease in the amount of radiolabeled protein accumulating at a nerve ligature. The response to patterned stimulation was significantly greater than that to continuous stimulation when the same number of stimuli were delivered. In unligated nerve preparations, patterned stimulation decreased the amplitude of the transport profile with no concomitant change in the wave front distance. Nerve stimulation produced no observable ultrastructural alterations within neuronal cell bodies of the DRG. We propose that the physiological significance of these results is not that nerve impulse activity decreases fast axonal transport, but that the amount of transport increases during periods of electrical quiescence. According to this hypothesis, activity-dependent macromolecules of the axolemma and nerve terminals are replenished during periods when the neuron is firing less frequently. These findings are discussed in light of reports that chronic in vivo stimulation increases the amount of fast-transported, radiolabeled protein (Chan et al., 1989) and that TTX-blockade of neuronal activity has no effect on protein transport (Edwards and Grafstein, 1984; Riccio and Matthews, 1985).
Neurons require a large amount of intracellular transport. Cytoplasmic polypeptides and membrane-bounded organelles move from the perikaryon, down the length of the axon, and to the synaptic terminals. This movement occurs at distinct rates and is termed axonal transport. Axonal transport is divided into the slow transport of cytoplasmic proteins including glycolytic enzymes and cytoskeletal structures and the fast transport of membrane-bounded organelles along linear arrays of microtubules. The polypeptide compositions of the rate classes of axonal transport have been well characterized, but the underlying molecular mechanisms of this movement are less clear. Progress has been particularly slow toward understanding force-generation in slow transport, but recent developments have provided insight into the molecular motors involved in fast axonal transport. Recent advances in the cellular and molecular biology of one fast axonal transport motor, kinesin, have provided a clearer understanding of organelle movement along microtubules. The availability of cellular and molecular probes for kinesin and other putative axonal transport motors have led to a reevaluation of our understanding of intracellular motility.
Several polyamines have been shown to interact with a site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor that regulates the binding of open channel blockers. Spermine (SP) and spermidine (SD), polyamine agonists, enhanced binding of open channel blockers, whereas arcaine (ARC), diethylenetriamine (DET), and putrescine (PUT), polyamine antagonists, reduced the polyamine enhancement of open channel blocker binding. We previously showed that SP had multiple actions on NMDA receptor single-channel currents that underlie its effect on whole-cell NMDA receptor current. At high concentrations, SP produced a voltage-dependent decrease in NMDA receptor single-channel conductance and average open time. In the present study, another polyamine agonist (SD) produced a similar reduction of NMDA receptor single-channel conductance at higher concentrations. The polyamine antagonists (ARC, DET, and PUT), however, produced a voltage-dependent reduction in NMDA receptor whole-cell currents and reductions in single-channel conductance and average open time, even in the absence of polyamine agonists. The rank order of potency for reduction of NMDA receptor single-channel conductance by polyamines was ARC greater than SP greater than SD greater than PUT = DET, a rank order similar to that for the inhibitory actions of polyamines in receptor binding assays and for the effects of the antagonists on NMDA receptor whole-cell currents. The polyamine antagonist DET did not block the reduction of single-channel conductance by the polyamine agonist SP. In fact, the effects of SP and DET on single-channel conductance were additive. DET also showed a variable enhancement of NMDA receptor whole-cell currents in some neurons, suggesting polyamine agonist-like properties. These results are not consistent with the standard pharmacological profile for agonists and antagonists acting at the same site. Potential mechanisms for the effects of the polyamines on single-channel conductance are discussed.
We have investigated the pharmacological profile of the opioid stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity in rat olfactory bulb, in order to identify the opioid receptor subtype(s) involved in this response. The synthetic delta-selective agonists (D-Ala2)deltorphin I, (2-D-penicillamine,5-D-penicillamine)-enkephalin, and (D-Ser-Leu5-enkephalyl)-threonine were effective stimulators of the enzyme activity, with EC50 values of 6.7, 420, and 63 nM, respectively. A significant increase was also observed with the mu-selective agonists (N-methyl-Phe3,D-Pro4)-morphiceptin, dermorphin, and (D-Ala2-N-methyl-Phe4-Gly-ol5)-enkephalin (DAGO). The latter two agonists displayed biphasic concentration-response curves, with high affinity components accounting for 75-80% of the maximal responses. The kappa-selective agonists U-50,488 and U-69,593 were ineffective, whereas (D-Ala2)dynorphin A-1-11, dynorphin A, dynorphin A-1-13, and dynorphin A-1-6 acted with a rank order of potency consistent with their affinity for delta receptors. The stimulatory responses of Leu-enkephalin, beta-endorphin, dynorphin A, and delta-selective agonists were counteracted by naltrindole with pA2 values of 9.39-8.93, whereas naloxone was less potent (pA2 = 8.17-7.59). The kappa-selective antagonist norbinaltorphimine was the least potent. The inhibition by naltrindole and naloxone of DAGO stimulation showed biphasic curves, with 90% of the response being antagonized more potently by naloxone than by naltrindole. These results demonstrate that delta- and mu- but not kappa-opioid receptor subtypes stimulate basal adenylate cyclase activity in rat olfactory bulb.
The distribution of acetylcholinesterase (AChE)-rich pyramidal neurons was studied in the cortices of 7 Alzheimer's Disease (AD) patients and 4 normal-aged subjects. Both groups showed a characteristic distribution of these neurons with the highest density in motor and premotor areas, moderate density in association cortices, and low density in limbic-paralimbic areas. Three areas (Brodmann areas 6,22, and 24) were chosen for quantitative analysis. The number of pyramidal neurons that display an AChE-rich staining pattern was significantly reduced in AD patients. Nerve cell density was not significantly different in adjacent Nissl-stained sections. The density of AChE-rich (cholinergic) fibers was also decreased in all three cortical areas of the AD patients but was not correlated with the number of AChE-rich neurons. Loss of AChE-rich neurons was more pronounced in areas with high counts of tangles. These findings show that layer 3 and 5 pyramidal neurons in AD display a reduction of AChE activity. This phenomenon can not be attributed to the well known loss of cortical neurons or cholinergic innervation in AD.
Entry of dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA) into plasma from specific organs may reflect regional activity of tyrosine hydroxylase, the enzyme responsible for the immediate synthesis of DOPA and rate-limiting for subsequent formation of catecholamines. Therefore, cardiac spillovers of DOPA, noradrenaline and the intraneuronal metabolite of noradrenaline, dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), were examined during two periods of graded electrical stimulation of the sympathetic nerves to the heart in anesthetized dogs. Responses were examined before and after neuronal uptake blockade with desipramine. Cardiac spillover of DOPA increased by 1.8- and 4.4-fold during sympathetic stimulation before desipramine and by 1.6- and 3.3-fold after desipramine. Fold increases in cardiac spillover of DOPA were much lower than but positively related with fold increases in noradrenaline spillover (5.9- and 13.8-fold increases before and 9.0- and 15.8-fold increases after desipramine). Increases in cardiac spillover of DHPG (1.5- and 2.3-fold increases) were blocked by desipramine so that fold changes in spillover of DOPA were greater than and poorly related to changes in spillover of DHPG. Fold increases in cardiac spillover of DOPA showed a close one-to-one positive relationship with fold increases in the sum of cardiac spillovers of noradrenaline and dihydroxyphenylglycol before and after desipramine. For a given fold increase in noradrenaline release, transmitter turnover is increased fractionally and noradrenaline synthesis need also only increase fractionally to maintain transmitter stores constant. The close relationship between fold increases in cardiac spillover of DOPA and combined spillovers of noradrenaline and DHPG is consistent with regulation of tyrosine hydroxylase activity to match changes in noradrenaline synthesis with changes in noradrenaline turnover. Changes in cardiac spillover of DOPA appear to reflect local changes in tyrosine hydroxylase activity.
In the present work we studied the effect of serotonin (5-HT) on the kinetics of Na+/K(+)-ATPase in subcellular preparations of the cerebral cortex from male Wistar rats using various concentrations of ATP and K+ with and without added 5-HT. Also we studied the effect of 5-HT on the enzyme in glial or neuronal preparations. The results indicated that there was a significant increase (P &lt; 0.05) of the Vmax in the presence of 5-HT in the whole tissue preparation (homogenate) but not in the subcellular fractions, suggesting that the interaction could be preferentially with the glial pump. Further results supported that this was the case since activation by 5-HT was mainly in the glial preparations. Kinetic data and the binding of [3H]ouabain supported that the enzyme is activated by 5-HT through the exposure of more enzymatic active sites.
The effects of 2-guanidinoethanol (GEt) on the release of monoamines and on the activity of their degrading enzymes were studied in order to investigate why 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DO-PAC) increased to a much greater extent than homovanillic acid (HVA) after GEt injection into rat brain. In differential pulse voltammograms recorded using an electrochemically treated carbon fiber electrode, two distinct oxidation peaks, one at 130mV (DOPAC peak) and the other at 300 mV (5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA) peak), were observed. In the hippocampus, the DOPAC peak increased markedly compared to the peak height recorded prior to the intracerebroventricular injection of GEt (6 mumol). Although the DOPAC peak height increased to 350% 4 hours after GEt injection, the 5-HIAA peak showed no change. In the striatum, the DOPAC peak increased to 150% 3 hours after GEt injection. Serial changes in the extracellular levels of DOPAC, HVA, and 5-HIAA were monitored in the striatum after GEt injection, using an in vivo brain micro-dialysis technique. Although the DOPAC levels strated to increase 80 minutes after GEt injection, HVA and 5-HIAA levels showed no change. On the other hand, monoamineoxidase, which metabolizes dopamine to DOPAC, was not activated and catechol-O-methyltransferase, which metabolizes DOPAC to HVA, were not inhibited by 5 mM of GEt in vitro. These data suggested that GEt increased the release of dopamine, but not of serotonin, and that GEt might restrict the DOPAC transport system.
Tyrosine, tryptophan, and their metabolites in the brain of ddY, non-stimulated El (El (-)), and stimulated El (El (+)) mice were measured using the three dimensional HPLC. The tryptophan content was lower in El (+) than ddY and El (-) mice. The 5-hydroxytryptophan content was much higher in both El groups. The serotonin content of El (+) was higher than that of ddY and El (-) mice. The kynurenine content was remarkably high in the El mice. The dopamine content was lower in El (-) than in ddY mice, whereas it was greater in El (+) than in El (-) mice. The norepinephrine showed higher levels in El (+) mice. These facts suggest that El mice possess congenital metabolic abnormalities of tryptophan and tyrosine and that kynurenine may play an important role as convulsant in El mice seizures along with changes in serotonin, dopamine, and norepinephrine that are inhibitory agents and responded to the repetitive convulsions.
We assayed N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors [3H]3-(2-carboxypiperazin-4-yl)propyl-1-phosphonic acid ([3H]CPP) bindings) and evaluated their distribution in the brain by quantitative autoradiography in young adult and aged rats. In the young adult rats, NMDA receptors were present at relatively high concentrations in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. In the aged rats, NMDA receptors were decreased in the nealy all areas of the brain, especially in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. Chronic administration of bifemelane hydrochloride, a drug for sequela of cerebrovascular diseased, at a dose of 15 mg/kg/day for 14 days, markedly attenuated these decrease in NMDA receptors. Since NMDA receptors are considered to be involved in memory and learning processes, our results suggest that bifemelane hydrochloride may be applicable to the treatment of disturbed memory and learning.
The proteolytic conversion of oxytocin and Arg8-vasopressin by purified rat thymocytes was studied at 37 degrees C and physiological pH 7.4. The formed peptide fragments were isolated by high performance liquid chromatography and characterized by amino acid analysis. When oxytocin was incubated with rat thymocytes, oxytocin 1-8 and oxytocin 1-7 were isolated. In contrast, only Arg8-vasopressin 1-8 was found when Arg8-vasopressin was incubated with thymocytes. The formation of oxytocin 1-8, oxytocin 1-7 and Arg8-vasopressin 1-8 was prevented partially by 10(-3) M phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and iodoacetamide, and abolished by 0.5 x 10(-3) M Zn2+ and Hg2+ ions and 10(-3) M o-phenanthroline, but not by 10(-5) M leupeptin, lima bean trypsin inhibitor, trasylol, captopril and phosphoramidon. 0.5 x 10(-3) M EDTA was without effect on the formation of oxytocin 1-8 and Arg8-vasopressin 1-8 but increased by about 30% the formation of oxytocin 1-7. The results suggest that proteases capable of metabolizing oxytocin and Arg8-vasopressin are localized in the thymocyte surface membrane. Since oxytocin and vasopressin are synthetized by thymic epithelial cells and exert several actions on thymocytes, these proteases may play a physiological role in the inactivation of neurohypophyseal peptides at the thymocyte level.

Studies with in vitro model systems suggest that at least part of the neurologic deficits of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-1-associated cognitive/motor complex may stem from neuronal injury mediated by the HIV-1 coat protein gp120. Concurrent activation of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors is also necessary for gp120 to induce neuronal damage. We studied memantine, a drug that blocks NMDA receptor-operated ion channels, for possible protective effects from gp120-induced neuronal injury. In identified rat retinal ganglion cells in culture, we found that 2 microM memantine completely prevented the injury engendered by 20 pM gp120. These data suggest that memantine has therapeutic potential as an NMDA antagonist capable of ameliorating neuronal damage associated with gp120.
In a retrospective study of 103 corticosteroid-treated MS patients, the average rate of fracture events was 3.2% of the patients per year over 7.1 (+/- 5.7 SD) years at risk. Fractures of the ribs, pelvis, hip, or vertebrae occurred in 11 patients and became most common 5 years after starting steroids. Relatively high or low cumulative doses of steroids did not correlate predictably with the occurrence of fractures.
Primary motoneurons in embryonic zebrafish innervate cell-specific muscles. During pathfinding, motoneuronal growth cones encounter three distinct regions: a common pathway, a choice point, and separate cell-specific pathways. To learn whether the order in which these regions are encountered influences pathway choice, we transplanted individual motoneurons to the choice point region. These cells selected their appropriate cell-specific pathways. Thus, the sequence in which pathway regions are encountered may not be important for accurate path-finding, and the cell-specific pathways may be delineated by distinct cues that individual growth cones recognize. Moreover, these cues are unlikely to be general ones, since primary sensory neurons transplanted to the same location do not extend growth cones along the motoneuronal pathways.
The inner ear of all jawed vertebrates arises from the epithelium of the otic vesicle and contains three semicircular canals, otoliths, and sets of sensory neurons, all positioned precisely within the cranium to detect head orientation and movement. The msh-C gene and two new homebox genes, msh-D and a gene related to distal-less, dlx-3, are each expressed in distinct regions of the otic vesicle during its early development in zebrafish embryos. Cells in the ectoderm express dlx-3 before induction of the otic vesicle, suggesting that dlx-3 has an early function in this process. Later, cells aligned with the future axes of the semicircular canals specifically express either dlx-3 or msh-D. Even later, sensory hair cells express msh-C and msh-D, while other cells of the epithelium express dlx-3. The early expression of these genes could specify the orientation and morphogenesis of the inner ear, whereas their later expression could specify the fates of particular cell types.
Recent observations have led to the suggestion that the metabotropic glutamate receptor may play a role in the induction or maintenance of long-term potentiation (LTP). However, experimental evidence supporting a role for this receptor in the induction of LTP is still inconclusive and controversial. Here we report that, in rat dorsolateral septal nucleus (DLSN) neurons, which have the highest density of metabotropic receptors and show functional responses, the induction of LTP is not blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate, but is blocked by two putative metabotropic glutamate receptor antagonists, L-2-amino-3-phosphonopropionic acid and L-2-amino-4-phosphonobutyrate. Furthermore, superfusion of (1S,3R)-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid, a selective metabotropic glutamate agonist, resulted in a long-lasting potentiation of synaptic transmission similar to that induced by tetanic stimuli. Our results demonstrated that activation of postsynaptic metabotropic receptors is both necessary and sufficient for the induction of LTP in the DLSN, and we suggest that such a mechanism may be important at other CNS synapses.
Long-term recording of stable action potentials with a new electrode configuration has been achieved for up to 15 months in monkeys. Action potentials are separated from the continuous multi-unit recordings made between two wires inside a glass open ended cone implanted in the motor cortex. Neural tissue is induced to grow into the glass cone by autologous sciatic nerve placed inside prior to implantation. Data presented here show that behavioral correlates of neural activity are related to flexion and extension movements of the contralateral hand and digits. These data suggest that this electrode can be used in both basic and applied studies.
We have previously reported that, in the rat dorsolateral septal nucleus (DLSN), metabotropic glutamate receptor (met-GluR) agonists evoked a slow depolarization accompanied by an increase in membrane conductance and burst firing. We have speculated that the burst firing elicited by met-GluR agonists may be due to activation or enhancement of a non-specific cation current, which exists in some DLSN neurons. Now we report that a slow afterdepolarization (sADP) mediated by a non-specific cation current was potentiated by both 1S,3R-ACPD and quisqualate. In addition, met-GluR agonists unmask a sADP in DLSN neurons which did not show a sADP under control conditions. Our data suggest that a non-specific cation current can be potentiated by activation of the met-GluR.
A complete reproductive cycle of ovulation, conception, pregnancy, and lactation is one of the most energetically expensive activities that a female mammal can undertake. A reproductive attempt at a time when calories are not sufficiently available can result in a reduced return on the maternal energetic investment or even in the death of the mother and her offspring. Numerous physiological and behavioral mechanisms link reproduction and energy metabolism. Reproductive attempts may be interrupted or deferred when food is scarce or when other physiological processes, such as thermoregulation or fattening, make extraordinary energetic demands. Food deprivation suppresses both ovulation and estrous behavior. The neural mechanisms controlling pulsatile release of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and, consequently, luteinizing hormone secretion and ovarian function appear to respond to minute-to-minute changes in the availability of metabolic fuels. It is not clear whether GnRH-secreting neurons are able to detect the availability of metabolic fuels directly or whether this information is relayed from detectors elsewhere in the brain. Although pregnancy is less affected by fuel availability, both lactational performance and maternal behaviors are highly responsive to the energy supply. When a reproductive attempt is made, changes in hormone secretion have dramatic effects on the partitioning and utilization of metabolic fuels. During ovulatory cycles and pregnancy, the ovarian steroids, estradiol and progesterone, induce coordinated changes in the procurement, ingestion, metabolism, storage, and expenditure of metabolic fuels. Estradiol can act in the brain to alter regulatory behaviors, such as food intake and voluntary exercise, as well as adenohypophyseal and autonomic outputs. At the same time, ovarian hormones act on peripheral tissues such as adipose tissue, muscle, and liver to influence the metabolism, partitioning and storage of metabolic fuels. During lactation, the peptide hormones, prolactin and growth hormone, rather than estradiol and progesterone, are the principal hormones controlling partitioning and utilization of metabolic fuels. The interactions between metabolic fuels and reproduction are reciprocal, redundant, and ubiquitous; both behaviors and physiological processes play vital roles. Although there are species differences in the particular physiological and behavioral mechanisms mediating nutrition-reproduction interactions, two findings are consistent across species: 1) Reproductive physiology and behaviors are sensitive to the availability of oxidizable metabolic fuels. 2) When reproductive attempts are made, ovarian hormones play a major role in the changes in ingestion, partitioning, and utilization of metabolic fuels.
Using intracellular recording, we examined the effects of three mammalian tachykinins, substance P (SP), neurokinin A (NKA), and neurokinin B (NKB), on sympathetic neurons of isolated rat coeliac-superior mesenteric ganglia (C-SMG). The 3 tachykinins elicited two distinct depolarizing responses in ganglion cells: fast depolarization with time-to-peak of 1-2 sec and duration of 5-10 sec, and slow depolarization with time-to-peak of about 20 sec and duration of 120-140 sec. Both fast and slow responses persisted in a solution containing low Ca2+ and high Mg2+ or tetrodotoxin, which indicates that the tachykinins directly act on ganglion cells to produce fast and slow depolarizations. The two types of tachykinin-induced responses exhibited clearly distinguishable properties. The membrane conductance was increased during the fast response, but not significantly changed, slightly decreased or sometimes increased during the slow response. Within certain range of membrane potential, the amplitude of fast response increased upon membrane hyperpolarization and decreased upon depolarization of ganglion cells. In contrast, the amplitude of slow response associated with membrane conductance decrease was increased with membrane depolarization and decreased with hyperpolarization. The fast response was markedly suppressed in a Na(+)-deficient solution, a solution containing nominally zero Ca2+ (plus 0.1 mM EGTA in some cases), and in a solution containing Cd2+ or Mn2+, whereas the slow response was not affected in these solutions and was augmented in some cells in K(+)-free solution. Thus it seems that the increase in Ca(2+)-dependent cationic conductance underlies the fast response and that the slow response is produced at least in part by suppression of certain K+ channels. The fast response progressively decreased in amplitude upon repeated application of the peptides with short intervals, whereas the slow response was rather augmented by repeated application. Lowering the temperature markedly depressed the slow response, while the fast response remained almost unaffected. It is therefore likely that the fast and slow depolarizations are mediated by two different subtypes of tachykinin receptors or a single class of receptors linked with two different intracellular mechanisms. Measurement of tachykinins in several sympathetic ganglia by combined use of HPLC and radioimmunoassay revealed that the highest amount of SP occurs in the C-SMG where the content of SP (136.0 pmol/g protein) was higher than those of NKA (44.3) and NKB (18.7). SP thus appears to function as a major tachykinin in rat C-SMG.
In the experiments on the primary cerebellar granule cell cultures, delayed neuronal death was induced by 15 min treatment of the cells with 50 microM glutamate. 5-(N-ethyl-N-isopropyl)amiloride (10 microM) known as a potent inhibitor of the Na+/H+ exchanger, when added to the glutamate-containing Mg(2+)-free solution caused a considerable (approximately by 40%) decrease in the number of dead cells counted 4 h after the termination of glutamate treatment. Patch-clamp experiments with freshly isolated rat hippocampal neurons have shown that the neuroprotective effect of 5-(N-ethyl-N-isopropyl)amiloride can be explained by its ability to block N-methyl-D-aspartate channels (receptors) at micromolar concentrations. A similar mechanism apparently underlies neuroprotective effect of external acidosis (reduction of pH from 7.6-7.8 to 6.7-6.8) during glutamate application. 5-(N-ethyl-N-isopropyl)amiloride (10 microM) and low pH (6.7) also proved capable of exhibiting neuroprotective effects upon application during the post-glutamate period. In this instance, however, the number of dead cells was decreased by no more than 20%. This neuroprotective effect of 5-(N-ethyl-N-isopropyl)amiloride and low pH is interpreted as resulting from inhibition of Na+/H+ exchange, since a direct blockade of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors by 1 mM DL-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate after termination of glutamate treatment did not attenuate the delayed neuronal death. Finally, we have established that the addition of 10 microM 5-(N-ethyl-N-isopropyl)amiloride to the cultures both during glutamate treatment and after its termination results in a complete protection of cultured cerebellar granule cells.
A model is proposed in which movement accuracy is regulated by means of corrective actions taken at discrete intervals throughout the course of a movement. A movement, as represented by its tangential velocity profile, cna be decomposed into a series of one or more submovements. Each submovement consists of a prototype velocity profile which can be scaled in magnitude and duration. For planar two-joint movements, we demonstrate that these submovements can be mathematically represented either in terms of velocity profiles or in terms of the underlying joint torque profiles. In either case, the submovements superimpose linearly to produce the composite movement. The model provides a very good fit to tangential velocity profiles recorded from human subjects during three-dimensional arm movements with constraints on accuracy and speed. The model assumes that when a submovement is present, its onset is associated with a change in the direction of the hand path and/or a zero crossing or inflection in at least one of the components of the velocity vector. The model is consistent with a strategy in which precision is achieved by periodic discrete actions which redirect the moving arm in order to bring the hand closer to the target. Since submovements were also observed in slow movements where accuracy constraints had been relaxed, we hypothesize that the strategy of superimposing a series of submovements to make one composite movement may be a general one. We suggest that it would be particularly appropriate for the process of learning a new motor skill.
The effect of electrical stimulation of the centromedian-parafascicular complex on local cerebral blood flow and local cerebral glucose utilization was investigated in anesthetized, paralysed and ventilated rats. Local cerebral blood flow and local cerebral glucose utilization were measured in separate groups of animals using the autoradiographic (14C)iodoantipyrine and (14C)2-deoxyglucose methods, respectively. Because of the well-established centromedian-parafascicular complex neuroanatomical connections, three functional neuronal systems were analysed and compared: the extrapyramidal motor system the limbic system and the reticular formation, also known as the ascending activating system. Cortical regions not included in the limbic system were considered separately. The validity of comparisons between changes in local cerebral blood flow and local cerebral glucose utilization across the brain was verified by assessing the reactivity and stability of the cortical blood flow during long-term centromedian-parafascicular complex stimulation. Centromedian-parafascicular complex stimulation elicited a marked but heterogeneous increase in local cerebral blood flow in 50 of the 52 cerebral structures measured. The most pronounced increases were seen in the lateral habenular nucleus (331 +/- 30% of control), the zona incerta (400 +/- 55%), the mesencephalic reticular formation (415 +/- 122%) and the parietal cortex (211 +/- 35%). In contrast, local cerebral glucose utilization remained statistically unchanged (P greater than 0.05) in 28 of these 50 individual brain regions during centromedian-parafascicular complex stimulation. The most pronounced increases in local cerebral glucose utilization were seen in the zona incerta (123 +/- 28%) and the mesencephalic reticular formation (193 +/- 26%). Local cerebral blood flow and local cerebral glucose utilization were linearly related in unstimulated controls, considering either all brain regions taken as a whole or the three systems separately. The significant increase in the slopes of the regression line between local cerebral blood flow and local cerebral glucose utilization for the reticular formation and the limbic system during centromedian-parafascicular complex stimulation indicates, however, that the coupling mechanisms for these systems, but not for the extrapyramidal motor system, were reset. The local cerebral blood flow to local cerebral glucose utilization ratio was heterogeneous in controls and differentially increased during centromedian-parafascicular complex stimulation, being markedly pronounced in the parietal cortex and in the reticular formation. We conclude that these results, for the first time, provide evidence that, the functionally well-defined neural networks may have different mechanisms whereby changes in vascular and metabolic demands are regulated.
We investigated the biosynthesis of various constituents (chromogranins A and B, secretogranin II, carboxypeptidase H and synaptin/synaptophysin) of large dense core and small vesicles in PC12 cells. These cells were treated for up to 18 days with nerve growth factor. Peptide levels were determined by quantitative immunoblotting, their mRNAs by Northern blotting. Nerve growth factor treatment changed the levels of the various peptides investigated and their mRNAs in three patterns. Peptide and mRNA levels for chromogranin A and chromogranin B were increased on day 1 and then declined. Synaptin/synaptophysin levels slightly decreased from day 1 onwards. On the other hand secretogranin II increased steadily up to 217% for peptide levels and 257% for mRNA levels. For carboxypeptidase H for which only the mRNA could be determined an analogous behaviour was seen. Its mRNA after 14 days of nerve growth factor treatment was 459% of controls. These results establish that the biosynthesis of the secretory proteins chromogranin A, chromogranin B and secretogranin II is regulated differentially during nerve growth factor treatment. We suggest that neuronal differentiation is accompanied by an increased biosynthesis of secretogranin II. For carboxypeptidase H, the marked increase in mRNA levels after nerve growth factor treatment is the first example that the biosynthesis of this peptide is significantly up-regulated. Synaptin/synaptophysin biosynthesis is not increased although this peptide is a major constituent of small vesicles which increase in number during nerve growth factor treatment.
The effect of cell contact on the expression of cell adhesion molecule L1 was investigated. The rat pheochromocytoma cell line PC12 cells were cultured at various densities in the presence or absence of the nerve growth factor. The addition of the nerve growth factor promoted the expression of L1. The expression of L1 was higher when the cells were cultured at high density than when done at low density both in the presence or absence of the nerve growth factor. Immunohistochemical staining of L1 showed that the expression of L1 was higher in the cells contacting each other. These results show that cell interaction affects the expression of cell adhesion molecule L1 in the PC12 cells.
In the nervous system, the neural cell adhesion molecule changes at the cell surface during development, from a form highly enriched in polysialic residues to several isoforms containing much less sialic acid, and is thought to participate in the structuring of neuronal groups and in the establishment of neuronal connections. Recent observations have indicated, however, that it may not be restricted to developing tissues since it is still present in certain adult neuronal centres which can undergo morphological reorganization. In this study, therefore, we examined systematically the distribution of polysialylated neural cell adhesion molecule immunoreactivity throughout the central nervous system of adult male and female rats, using light microscopic immunocytochemistry and immunoblot analysis with an antibody that specifically recognizes the polysialic residues of the molecule. Concomitantly, we compared this immunoreactivity to that due to all isoforms of the neural cell adhesion molecule, detected with a polyclonal serum raised against the NH2-terminal of the protein. Immunoreactivity due to the polysialylated isoform was consistently visualized in several discrete areas of the adult brain and spinal cord. An intercellular punctate immunolabelling characterized the staining in certain hypothalamic and thalamic nuclei, superficial laminae of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, ventral portion of the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus, lateral geniculate, parabrachial and habenular nuclei, bed nucleus of the stria terminalis, mesencephalic central gray and olfactory bulb. In other areas, such as the piriform cortex, dorsal aspect of the dentate gyrus and fimbria and lamina X of the spinal cord, isolated neuronal-like cells were either completely filled with immunolabel or showed a surface reaction on their cell bodies and processes. Highly immunoreactive isolated glial-like cells were also noted within the ependymal layer of the central canal and lateral ventricles and at times in the peripheral white matter of the spinal cord. In contrast to this discrete localization, staining due to all isoforms of the neural cell adhesion molecule was widespread and diffuse throughout the brain and spinal cord. The expression of the polysialylated isoform in the supraoptic nucleus and hippocampus was confirmed by immunoblot analysis; it occurred together with weakly sialylated isoforms. No obvious differences were detected in the amount or distribution of immunoreactivity due to the polysialylated isoform in relation to the sex or age of the animals (between three and 12 months of age). Our study thus demonstrates that well-defined areas of the central nervous system of the adult rat continue to express the polysialylated isoform of the neural cell adhesion molecule.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
A time-course study of the survival and immunological characteristics of rat neural allografts was undertaken in animals treated with a murine monoclonal antibody to the alpha-chain (p55) of the rat interleukin-2 receptor. This antibody, NDS 63, was administered for ten days following grafting beginning on the day of operation. Inbred rat strains differing at both major and minor histocompatibility loci were selected as donor and host. Furthermore, the recipient strain displayed a high responder major histocompatibility complex haplotype. All grafts were placed in the lateral ventricle. Comparison was drawn between NDS 63-treated recipients and two groups of controls; an untreated group and a second group treated with the monoclonal antibody NDS 66, directed at a second epitope on the alpha-chain of the interleukin-2 receptor, which has been shown to be ineffective in competing with interleukin-2 for binding. Immunocytochemical analysis of the transplants was performed at several time-points up to 150 days following grafting. Grafts of NDS 63-treated recipients exhibited 100% survival with minimal induction of major histocompatibility complex antigens (both class I and class II) and negligible leukocyte infiltration at all time-points studied. In contrast grafts from both groups of controls showed evidence of a chronic immune response with most grafts undergoing rejection as shown by markedly elevated major histocompatibility complex antigen expression accompanied by specific immune cell infiltration. This was a protracted process with several grafts undergoing complete rejection by 60 days and a majority, but not all, by 150 days after transplantation. It is concluded that NDS 63, a monoclonal antibody to the interleukin-2 receptor, may diminish the immune response to transplanted allogeneic neural tissue and thereby enhance its prospects for long-term survival.
The presence of glia-derived nexin and glia fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) was investigated in the hippocampus of Mongolian gerbils (Meriones unguiculatus) after transient forebrain ischemia. Bilateral clamping of the common carotid arteries for 7 min resulted in selective degeneration of CA1 pyramidal cells after a delay of three to four days, the so-called delayed neuronal death. Immunoreactivity for glia-derived nexin was found in astrocytes of all CA1 layers and was detectable until day 90 (the longest survival time studied). Astroglial reactivity was demonstrated in parallel by staining for GFAP. The co-localization of glia-derived nexin and GFAP was confirmed by double immunocytochemistry. Ultrastructural studies showed the exclusive presence of glia-derived nexin in astrocytes, in the vicinity of degenerating and preserved neuronal structures. Perivascular glia was intensely stained, but endothelial cells were devoid of immunoreactivity. Glia-derived nexin is a potent protease inhibitor with in vitro neurite-promoting activity. During adulthood, it is mainly present in the olfactory system, where receptor neurons are constantly being replaced. The ability of astrocytes to renew the expression of glia-derived nexin after selective delayed neuronal death and the prolonged presence of the protease inhibitor in a zone where degeneration occurs in the immediate neighborhood of preserved neuronal elements indicate that glia-derived nexin may play a role in structural rearrangements of the central nervous system.
The dorsal and ventral striatum of mammals has been known to be organized in a mosaic manner, referred to as &quot;patches&quot; and &quot;matrix&quot; of the caudatoputamen. The present study was primarily attempted in order to reveal the relationship of glutamatergic neuronal components to the mosaic organization in the rat striatum by using a monoclonal antibody to phosphate-activated glutaminase, a major synthetic enzyme of transmitter glutamate. Antibodies against glutamate decarboxylase and choline acetyltransferase were also used as the markers for GABAergic and cholinergic neuronal components, respectively. Glutaminase immunoreactivity was seen in a number of large- and a few medium-sized neurons in the caudatoputamen, nucleus accumbens and olfactory tubercle. The large neurons with glutaminase immunoreactivity were observed in the neuropil of the caudatoputamen and nucleus accumbens; glutaminase immunoreactivity was particularly marked in the neuropil of island-like patchy areas although it was seen throughout the neuropil of the nuclei. In the caudatoputamen, island-like areas with marked glutaminase immunoreactivity exhibited less marked choline acetyltransferase immunoreactivity than the surrounding background region, and were thus considered to correspond to the patches. The mosaic distribution of glutamate decarboxylase immunoreactivity in the caudatoputamen seemed identical with that of glutaminase immunoreactivity. However, in the nucleus accumbens, the mosaic pattern of neuropil labeling for glutaminase was neither consistent with that for glutamate decarboxylase nor that for choline acetyltransferase, suggesting the presence of non-GABAergic glutaminase-containing nerve terminals in the nucleus. In an attempt to clarify the origin of neuropil labeling for glutaminase in the striatum, lesions were made in the regions sending projection fibers to the caudatoputamen and nucleus accumbens. After placing lesions in the cerebral cortex, glutaminase immunoreactivity was decreased in neuropil of the caudatoputamen, but the mosaic pattern remained. Lesions which were placed in the intralaminar thalamic nuclei, amygdaloid body, globus pallidus or substantia nigra produced no substantial change in glutaminase immunoreactivity in the caudatoputamen and nucleus accumbens. After injection of kainic acid into the caudatoputamen or nucleus accumbens, glutaminase immunoreactivity in the neuropil of the affected regions was decreased to lose the mosaic pattern, indicating that neuronal components with glutaminase immunoreactivity in the neuropil of the patches were mainly of intrinsic origin. In summary, possible axon terminals containing glutaminase were observed with mosaic patterns in the caudatoputamen and nucleus accumbens, in which large cholinergic and medium-sized non-cholinergic neurons were immunoreactive for glutaminase. In the caudatoputamen, glutaminase immunoreactivity in neuropil was more marked in the patches than in the matrix.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
It has been suggested that not only mesostriatal but also mesolimbic pathways are involved in the degeneration of dopaminergic neurons in Parkinson's disease. Using quantitative ligand autoradiography we have investigated dopamine transporter sites in basal ganglia of patients affected by Huntington's chorea, Parkinson's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy. [3H]Mazindol, a ligand for catecholamine uptake, was used in the presence of desipramine to block the binding to norepinephrine uptake sites. Schizophrenic cases were entered in the study to take into account the effects of neuroleptics, commonly administered also to Huntington's disease patients, on dopamine uptake sites. In control cases high densities of [3H]mazindol binding sites were found in the caudate nucleus, putamen and nucleus accumbens, whereas very low densities were present in substantia nigra and ventral tegmental area. In Huntington's chorea the density of [3H]mazindol binding sites was slightly decreased in the caudate nucleus, an area severely affected by the neurodegenerative process. In schizophrenic patients the density of dopamine uptake sites in the basal ganglia was slightly reduced, mainly in the middle third of putamen. Both Parkinson's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy populations were characterized by a marked loss of [3H]mazindol binding sites in the neostriatum (about 75%) and in the nucleus accumbens (about 65%). These results suggest that in Parkinson's disease and progressive supranuclear palsy severe decreases of dopamine uptake sites occur not only in the mesostriatal pathway but also in the mesolimbic tract.
We have studied the development of olfactory nerves in the rat from their first contact with the telencephalic vesicle until the formation of glomerular structures in the olfactory bulb at early postnatal period. The study is based on serial semithin and ultrathin sections of material prepared for electron microscopy and antibodies to label radial glial cells, glial fibrillary acidic protein and Rat-401. Beginning on embryonic day 12, developing olfactory axons from the olfactory placode are accompanied by migratory cells, also derived from the olfactory placode, that reach the prospective olfactory bulb by embryonic day 13. The mass of migratory cells accumulate superficial to the telencephalic vesicle. The cells increase in number by mitotic divisions. The majority of these cells represent precursor elements that will later develop into the ensheathing cells of the olfactory nerves and olfactory nerve layer of the adult. Some migratory cells penetrate into the prospective olfactory bulb early during development. The first synaptic contacts of olfactory axons with dendritic processes in the olfactory bulb were observed at embryonic day 18. Glomerular formation is initiated by penetration of cells from the migratory mass into the prospective glomerular layer by embryonic day 20 to postnatal day 0. These cells form walls surrounding zones of high synaptic density forming protoglomeruli. Postnatally, the peripheral processes of radial glial cells branch profusely delimiting glomerular formations and transform into periglomerular astrocytes. Rat-401 stains radial glial cells from embryonic day 14. Immunoreactivity becomes restricted to the olfactory glomeruli during the first postnatal weeks and it virtually disappears by the end of the first postnatal month. We conclude that the early penetration of cells from the migratory mass into the prospective olfactory bulb, observed immediately after the first synaptic contacts were established, initiates the formation of olfactory glomeruli which becomes completed by the transformation of radial glial cells into periglomerular astrocytes.
It is commonly assumed that most, if not all, neurons contain the intermediate filament protein class known as the neurofilament protein-triplet. The following study investigated the distribution of neurofilament protein-triplet immunoreactivity in selected regions of the guinea-pig central nervous system using monoclonal antibodies directed against phosphorylation-independent epitopes on the three subunits under optimal tissue processing conditions. Neurofilament protein-triplet immunoreactivity was present in distinct subpopulations of neurons in the cerebellar cortex, neocortex, hippocampal formation, retina, striatum and medulla oblongata. In many of these regions, labelled neurons represented only a small proportion of the total. The selective distribution of this intermediate filament protein class was confirmed in double-labelling experiments using antibodies to the neurofilament protein-triplet in combination with antibodies to other neuronal markers. The distribution of neurofilament protein-triplet immunoreactivity also correlated with the distribution of staining observed with a silver impregnation method based on Bielschowsky. The present results in combination with previous observations have demonstrated that the neurofilament protein-triplet is found in specific subclasses of neurons in different regions of the nervous system. Content of this intermediate filament protein class does not appear to be correlated with neuronal size or length of projection. These results also suggest that the selectivity of staining between neuronal classes observed with classical silver impregnation methods may be due to the presence or absence of the neurofilament protein-triplet. The present results may also provide a new perspective on the basis of the selective vulnerability of neurons in degenerative diseases.
The various ligand binding sites of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor complex in the hippocampal formation and parahippocampal gyrus of Alzheimer's disease patients and age-matched normal individuals were examined using quantitative autoradiography. The hippocampus and parahippocampal gyrus of the normal elderly brain exhibited virtually identical distributions of L-[3H]glutamate, [3H]5-methyl-10,11-dihydro-5H- dibenzo[a,d]cyclohepten-5,10-iminemaleate ([3H]MK-801), [3H][(+/-)2-carboxypiperazine-4-yl]propyl-1-phosphonic acid ([3H]CPP) and strychnine-insensitive [3H]glycine binding sites (r greater than 0.87) suggesting that binding occurred to different domains of the same receptor macromolecule. The binding of [3H]MK-801 to channel-associated phencyclidine sites appeared to be most severely impaired in Alzheimer's disease, especially at the anterior hippocampal level. When the data were averaged and the means for Alzheimer's disease and control group compared, a 34% decrease (P less than 0.01) in [3H]MK-801 binding was identified in the CA1 stratum pyramidale and a smaller decrease was found in the dentate gyrus molecular layer, parahippocampal gyrus and subiculum. The CA1 region exhibited a similar 35% reduction (P less than 0.05) in L-[3H]glutamate binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive sites. This decrease most probably reflected a decline in receptor density. Binding of [3H]CPP to antagonist-preferring sites and [3H]glycine to glycine modulatory sites did not change significantly. However, a marked intersubject variability in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor binding was observed in control and Alzheimer's disease groups. This variability was not related to age, sex or post mortem delay. Some Alzheimer's disease patients showed markedly reduced receptor binding levels, while others showed no changes or even increased binding. The loss of N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive sites did not correlate with a loss of neurons in the CA1 region (r = 0.286). Similarly, no correlation between the level of binding to N-methyl-D-aspartate-sensitive sites and the density of neuritic plaques and neurofibrillary tangles was found. Intersubject variability in N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor responses in the Alzheimer's disease group may partially explain conflicting reports in the literature on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor changes in Alzheimer's disease, and imply that caution should be exercised before making any generalizations about receptor changes in Alzheimer's disease based on mean values only. The analysis of the individual Alzheimer's disease cases may also be valuable in determining the mechanism(s) underlying the disease.
Grafted neurons obtained from the fetal basal forebrain can provide a functional cholinergic reinnervation of the hippocampal formation in rats with a lesion of the intrinsic septal cholinergic afferents. In the present experiments graft-derived acetylcholine release in the hippocampus was studied by microdialysis in awake rats during different types of behaviours which are known to activate the innate septohippocampal cholinergic system and during different activity periods of the day-night cycle. Two types of basal forebrain grafts were studied: cell suspensions implanted into the hippocampus in rats with an aspirative lesion of the fimbria-fornix, and grafts of solid tissue implanted as a tissue bridge into the fimbria-fornix lesion cavity. Increased acetylcholine overflow was seen in both groups with grafts during sensory stimulation (by handling). The strongest response (50% increase in acetylcholine release) was seen in rats with solid basal forebrain grafts (equivalent to two-thirds of that seen in intact rats). Immobilization stress and motor activity (swimming) also resulted in increased, but more variable, acetylcholine release (+ 30%; about one-third of the normal response). None of these effects was seen in the control rats with fimbria-fornix lesion only. The two-fold difference in hippocampal acetylcholine release in normal animals between day and night was absent in both types of grafted rats. An acute knife-cut, transecting the connections between the solid basal forebrain graft and the host hippocampus, caused an immediate 75% reduction in acetylcholine release (similar to the effect of an acute fimbria-fornix transection in the normal rats) and the response to swimming was no longer evident. The results show that grafted cholinergic neurons can be functionally integrated into the host brain, allowing the grafted neurons to be activated in the correct behavioural contexts, although the changes in acetylcholine overflow were overall smaller and more variable than normal. The ability of the host to influence cholinergic graft activity, most probably mediated via activation of afferent host-graft connections, may contribute to the efficacy of basal forebrain grafts in the amelioration of behavioural impairments in animals with lesions of the forebrain cholinergic system.
The developmental influence of sympathetic innervation on parasympathetic nerve density was investigated in the tarsal smooth muscle of the rat. Specificity of acetylcholinesterase staining as a marker for parasympathetic innervation was first determined by acute selective denervations. Excision of the ipsilateral superior cervical ganglion caused a 39% reduction in the density of acetylcholinesterase-positive nerves seven days later, indicating that sympathetic nerves contribute to cholinesterase-positive tarsal muscle innervation. Excision of the pterygopalatine ganglion concurrent with superior cervical ganglionectomy caused a virtually complete disappearance of acetylcholinesterase-positive innervation within seven days, indicating that non-sympathetic cholinesterase-positive fibers derive from the pterygopalatine ganglion and are presumed to be parasympathetic. Analysis of the control population indicated that parasympathetic nerve density did not vary significantly between males and females, between the superior and inferior muscles, or in rats studied at four and 12 months of age. The influence of sympathetic innervation on parasympathetic nerve density during postnatal development was examined by conducting surgical sympathectomies on postnatal day 5 and quantifying acetylcholinesterase-positive nerve density at four months of age. Neonatal sympathectomy caused a 46% reduction in cholinesterase-positive nerve density beyond that which occurred in acutely sympathectomized adult controls. It is concluded that sympathetic innervation is required for developing parasympathetic nerves to attain their normal density within the rat tarsal muscle. This finding is consistent with the idea that sympathetic nerves can exert positive effects on parasympathetic nerve outgrowth during development.
Spinal cords of myelin-deficient and normal age-matched (control) rats were removed and their conduction and pharmacological properties studied in an in vitro brain slice chamber. The conduction velocity of the myelin-deficient dorsal column axons was reduced to about 25% of control axons; however, the amyelinated myelin-deficient axons displayed refractory periods and the ability to sustain high-frequency action potential discharge similar to that of dorsal column axons in control rats. Pharmacological results suggest that the myelin-deficient dorsal column axons qualitatively express a normal complement of ion channels and receptors. The demonstration of a normal representation of channels and receptors on these axons supports the proposal that the oligodendrocyte, and not the axon, is the site of the primary defect in the myelin-deficient rat mutant. It is concluded that, unlike acutely demyelinated axons which display marked frequency-dependent conduction block, amyelinated axons of the myelin-deficient rat spinal cord develop compensatory mechanisms to stabilize action potential conduction.
In the framework of the equilibrium-point hypothesis, virtual trajectories and patterns of joint stiffness were reconstructed during voluntary single-joint oscillatory movements in the elbow joint at a variety of frequencies and against two inertial loads. At low frequencies, virtual trajectories were in-phase with the actual joint trajectories. Joint stiffness changed at a doubled frequency. An increase in movement frequency and/or inertial load led to an increase in the difference between the peaks of the actual and virtual trajectories and in both peak and averaged values of joint stiffness. At a certain, critical frequency, virtual trajectory was nearly flat. Further increase in movement frequency led to a 180 degree phase shift between the actual and virtual trajectories. The assessed values of the natural frequency of the system &quot;limb + manipulandum&quot; were close to the critical frequencies for both low and high inertial loads. Peak levels and integrals of the electromyograms of two flexor and two extensor muscles changed monotonically with movement frequency without any special behavior at the critical frequencies. Nearly flat virtual trajectories at the natural frequency make physical sense as hypothetical control signals, unlike the electromyographic recordings, since a system at its natural frequency requires minimal central interference. Modulation of joint stiffness is assumed to be an important adaptive mechanism attenuating difference between the system's natural frequency and desired movement frequency. Virtual trajectory is considered a behavioral observable. Phase transitions between the virtual and actual trajectories are illustrations of behavioral discontinuities introduced by slow changes in a higher level control parameter, movement frequency. Relative phase shift between these two trajectories may be considered an order parameter.
In the neurosecretory nerve endings of the neurohypophysis depolarization-induced exocytosis is followed by endocytosis of vacuole-like structures with diameter similar to that of neurosecretory granules. However, it remains unknown whether the membrane of the endocytotic vacuoles is comprised primarily of retrieved secretory granule membrane, plasma membrane or of a mixture of the granule and plasma membrane. In the present paper membrane retrieval following depolarization-induced exocytosis has been studied in isolated neurosecretory nerve endings from the rat neurohypophysis. The origin of the retrieved membrane was assessed by pre-labeling the plasma membrane with an antibody against neural cell adhesion molecule, a plasma membrane specific protein. Horseradish peroxidase was used as an index of fluid endocytosis and secretion of vasopressin was measured by radioimmunoassay. Following potassium-induced depolarization, endocytotic vacuoles showed labeling with the fluid phase marker horseradish peroxidase but never showed significant neural cell adhesion molecule labeling. The time-course of endocytosis following closely that of exocytosis as endocytotic vacuoles labeled with horseradish peroxidase were only observed when the fluid phase marker was present in the extracellular medium during the period of evoked exocytosis. Our results are consistent with a model in which in neurosecretory nerve endings, after transient exocytotic fusion of the granule membrane with the plasma membrane, the granule membrane is rapidly and selectively retrieved into the nerve endings in the form of vacuoles similar in size to that of the neurosecretory granules.
Effects of noradrenalin and serotonin on cytoplasmic free Ca2+ concentrations ([Ca2+]i) were studied by using the fluorescent indicator fura-2 in cultured local interneurons of mouse olfactory bulb. Application of noradrenalin (0.1-100 microM) caused a rapid and concentration-dependent rise in [Ca2+]i, while isoproterenol was ineffective at concentrations up to 100 microM. The noradrenalin (1 microM)-induced increase in [Ca2+]i was completely inhibited by pretreatment with alpha 1-antagonist, prazosin (100 nM), whereas the inhibitory effect of alpha 2-antagonist, yohimbine, was about 100-times less potent. Serotonin (0.1-100 microM) also caused the dose-dependent rise in [Ca2+]i, which was inhibited by serotonin2 antagonist, ketanserin. Even in the absence of the extracellular calcium, the noradrenalin- or serotonin-induced increase in [Ca2+]i was observed. These results indicate that both noradrenalin and serotonin elicit the rise in [Ca2+]i in local interneurons of the olfactory bulb. They also suggest that the rise in [Ca2+]i is mediated by alpha 1-adrenergic and serotonin2 receptors, and that the increased calcium is mainly derived from intracellular calcium storage sites. The above results provide evidence to suggest that in the olfactory bulb, noradrenergic and serotonergic centrifugal fibers exert modulatory influences on synaptic interactions between mitral/tufted cells and local interneurons by increasing cytoplasmic Ca2+ in local interneurons.
This study examined cellular activity in the hypothalamus of developing rats in response to cold environmental temperatures. The appearance of the nuclear protein, Fos, in response to cold ambient temperatures in rats three to 35 days of age was used as a marker of neuronal activation. Fos-positive nuclei were first seen in response to cold ambient temperatures in the ventromedial nucleus at three days of age, the paraventricular nucleus at eight days of age, the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus at 10 days of age and the anterior hypothalamic nucleus at 21 days of age. The rectal temperature of the 10-day-old pups dropped by less than half that measured in the nine-day-old pups after 1 h in the cold. It is possible that the activation of neurons in the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus in the 10-day-old animal may contribute to the decreased hypothermia observed in the 10-day-old after 1 h in the cold. The high density of Fos-like immunoreactive-labeled nuclei in the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus in the 10-day-old rats that were exposed to the cold environment indicates increased neuronal activity at this site. The results suggest that, at least in the preoptic-anterior hypothalamus, the appearance of the cellular response to cold ambient temperatures is coincidental with a thermogenic response.
The expression of the c-fos proto-oncogene was studied in two different areas of the motor cortex and in the hippocampus of the rat after performance in an escape task in a Skinner box. Performance in this task caused an increase in the number of cells showing fos-like immunoreactivity in layers V and VI of the forelimb motor-sensory cortex with respect to yoked animals which had received the same amount, frequency and duration of aversive stimulation and manipulation as the trained animals. Therefore, this increase is the specific effect of performing the behavioral task. In the hindlimb motor-sensory cortex there were no differences between the trained and the yoked animals in any of the cortical layers. No differences were observed in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus between trained and yoked animals, while the control animals showed a much lower fos-like immunoreactivity. In conclusion, infragranular layers in the forelimb representation of the primary motor cortex become activated with respect to the expression of fos-like immunoreactivity after performance in an escape task in a Skinner box. This result is consistent with the idea that even in complex structures such as the cerebral cortex, specific trace systems become activated for the performance of complex behavioral tasks.
The effects of capsaicin injected intraperitoneally (200 micrograms/kg) or applied locally to the cortical surface (10(-5) M) were studied on cortical potentials evoked by peripheral electrical or mechanical stimulation. Capsaicin treatment (i.p.) differentially influenced the cortical evoked potentials depending on the type of stimulation. Just after both types of capsaicin application, the responses to both kinds of stimuli decreased in amplitude. Additionally, during this time a short fall in blood pressure was observed. Half an hour later, however, only in the case of interperitoneal application the potentials evoked by electrical stimulation were facilitated, while the potentials evoked by vibrissa deflection had recovered and stayed around the control levels thereafter. In addition, the responsive cortex area activated by electrical stimulation became enlarged after the i.p. injection of capsaicin, while that of the cortex region activated by mechanical stimulation did not change significantly. Capsaicin applied locally to the cortex resulted neither in the facilitation of evoked potentials nor in the enlargement of the responsive cortical area. The present findings are the first to demonstrate that the i.p. (but not local) administration of capsaicin, in low dosage, differentially influences the cortical responses evoked by electrical and mechanical stimulation of somatosensory afferents.
Bradykinin is one of several pro-inflammatory, pain-inducing substances produced during inflammation--the body's response to injury. In previous work we have shown that bradykinin and guanosine-5'-O-3-thiotriphosphate increase excitability in a subpopulation of cultured neonatal rat dorsal root ganglion neurons. We now describe experiments in which the mechanism underlying the stimulatory action of these two substances has been examined in more detail. Using the whole-cell voltage-clamp technique, bradykinin-sensitive cells were distinguished by their response to a 1-s depolarizing voltage-pulse which evoked more than one inward current during the step command. The secondary inward currents are likely to represent action potentials generated at the poorly clamped neurites of these cells. Bradykinin- and guanosine-5'-O-3-thiotriphosphate-induced changes in excitability were measured indirectly by a change in the number of inward currents recorded during the 1-s depolarizing voltage-step. The effect of activators and inhibitors of protein kinase C, arachidonic acid metabolism, G-protein activation and release of intracellular Ca2+ were examined on this response. In the presence of extracellular staurosporine (1.0 microM) or nordihydroguaiaretic acid (10 microM), these excitatory effects were reduced but not abolished, whilst indomethacin (20 microM) had no effect. Intracellular application of guanosine-5'-O-2-thiodiphosphate (10 mM) or ryanodine (100 microM) substantially reduced the effect of bradykinin. The excitatory effect of internal guanosine-5'-O-3-thiotriphosphate (500 microM) occurred gradually over time, and this was mimicked by internal application of myo-inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphorothioate (1.0 microM). From the results, it is proposed that G-protein activation is an essential component of the bradykinin response, which may also require a Ca(2+)-activated conductance modulated by protein kinase C and lipoxygenase metabolites of arachidonic acid.
The effects of two benzodiazepines, diazepam and triazolam, on long-term potentiation were tested in slices of hippocampus and piriform cortex. The drugs had little influence on baseline synaptic responses but both were very effective in blocking LTP elicited by theta pattern stimulation. The effects were fully reversible upon washout. Diazepam reduced the increase in burst responses that occurs during theta stimulation and thus appears to interfere with the initial triggering events for long-term potentiation. This may reflect the enhancing action of the drug on GABA-mediated inhibitory potentials. Triazolam did not detectably change the burst responses elicited by theta pattern stimulation. Experiments with slices of piriform cortex indicated that triazolam also failed to disrupt the development of long-term potentiation but instead caused the potentiation to decay back to baseline in 15-30 min. Triazolam thus seems to act on the mechanisms that stabilize long-term potentiation. These results provide a possible explanation for the amnestic effects of benzodiazepines in humans and animals and support the hypothesis that long-term potentiation contributes to memory encoding.
Male Wistar rats administered repetitively with pentylenetetrazol developed a dose-dependent enhancement of seizure behaviour referred to as pentylenetetrazol kindling. After a daily dose of 40 mg pentylenetetrazol/kg or physiological saline (control rats) injected intraperitoneally for a period of two weeks, hippocampal tissue was studied autoradiographically for high-affinity uptake of [3H]glutamate and, by activity staining, for aspartate aminotransferase and glutamate dehydrogenase. Most prominent changes were found in neuropil areas known to be endowed with glutamatergic structures. The uptake capacity of glutamate decreased by 48% (maximum rate), whilst activities of aspartate aminotransferase and glutamate dehydrogenase elevated to 140 and 130%, respectively. Cytochrome c oxidase activity was found to be unaffected. The findings indicate an important role of factors of the glutamate metabolism in the kindling process with respect to the production, utilization, and availability of transmitter glutamate.
We have developed dissociated primary neuronal cultures obtained from the substantia nigra and from the ventral tegmental area of postnatal rats (two to three days old). After making brain slices, the regions of the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area were separately dissected. The removed fragments of brain tissue were dissociated and cultured on a glial feeder layer. Double immunocytochemical labeling for tyrosine hydroxylase and GABA on cultures grown for two to three weeks showed the presence of 42% dopaminergic and 39% GABAergic neurons in substantia nigra cultures, whereas in ventral tegmental area cultures there were 65% dopaminergic and 21% GABAergic neurons. The dopaminergic neurons were characterized by thick and straight primary processes dividing into several branches. Varicosities were found mainly on distal parts of the processes. In contrast, GABAergic neurons possessed highly branched thick and thin primary processes with intensive arborization and numerous varicosities. Co-existence of dopamine and cholecystokinin was found in about 70% of dopaminergic neurons from the substantia nigra and in about 35% of dopaminergic neurons from the ventral tegmental area. Physiological properties of these cultured dopaminergic neurons were investigated with the whole-cell version of the patch-clamp method. After each physiological experiment, immunocytochemical labeling confirmed that the cell was dopaminergic. Properties of single action potentials, with an action potential height of 92 mV and duration of 1.6 ms, were similar to those reported for dopaminergic neurons in brain slices. The neurons showed a high resting potential, and no spontaneous firing of action potentials. Constant current depolarizations elicited trains of action potentials. In the majority of cells, the train stopped firing within a few seconds, while in some cells it lasted indefinitely. When the cell was hyperpolarized, the voltage response started to decline slowly (sag), indicating the presence of hyperpolarization-activated currents (time-dependent inward rectification). These results show that by using our culture method it is possible to obtain separate dissociated cultures of the substantia nigra and the ventral tegmental area from newborn rats. Because they are rich in functional dopaminergic neurons, these cultures will be a useful tool for studying various properties of dopaminergic neurons.
Three experiments that used a latent inhibition procedure to investigate the effects of ceronapril on attentional processes in the rat are reported. Latent inhibition is a behavioural paradigm in which prior exposure to a stimulus with no significant consequences retards subsequent conditioning to that stimulus when it is paired with reinforcement. Latent inhibition reflects a process of learning to ignore, or tune out, irrelevant stimuli, and has been suggested as an animal model of the attentional processes disrupted in the acute phase of schizophrenia. In animals, latent inhibition is disrupted by the administration of low doses of amphetamine and enhanced by the administration of neuroleptics. Ceronapril is an angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitor that has been shown to retard the breakdown of central cholecystokinin. It has been proposed that elevation of cholecystokinin levels in the brain may possess neuroleptic-like properties. We assessed this possibility by determining the effects of ceronapril on latent inhibition using a conditioned emotional response procedure, consisting of three stages: pre-exposure, in which the to-be-conditioned stimulus, a tone, was repeatedly presented without reinforcement; conditioning, in which the pre-exposed stimulus was paired with shock; and test, where latent inhibition was indexed by animals' suppression of licking during tone presentation. In Experiment 1, 20 tone pre-exposures were given, and conditioning consisted of five tone-shock pairings; we assessed the effects of 0.005 mg/kg, 0.05 mg/kg and 0.5 mg/kg ceronapril, compared with vehicle injections. In Experiment 2, five tone pre-exposures were given, and conditioning consisted of two tone-shock pairings: we assessed the effects of 0.05 mg/kg ceronapril, compared with vehicle injections.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Changes in striatal dopamine turnover and levels of tyrosine hydroxylase messenger RNA were examined in mice injected with D2 selective doses of fluphenazine-N-mustard, an irreversible blocker of dopaminergic receptors. The animals were killed at different times after acute and repeated injections of the drug and dopamine turnover was assessed by measuring dopamine and its metabolite, dihydroxyphenylalanine, in the striatum. Tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA was measured at the single-cell level in neurons of the substantia nigra pars compacta and the ventral tegmental area with quantitative in situ hybridization histochemistry. Acute treatment with fluphenazine-N-mustard induced an increase in both striatal dopamine turnover and the level of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA in the substantia nigra but not the ventral tegmental area. After two days of repeated drug injections (twice daily), tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA was decreased in the substantia nigra despite the persistence of an elevated dopamine turnover in the striatum. The decrease in mRNA was still observed after four days of repeated treatment while, at that time, turnover values were not different from control. No changes were observed in the ventral tegmental area. The initial increase in tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA in substantia nigra pars compacta suggests that activation of nigrostriatal neurons triggers a very rapid increase in genomic expression of the enzyme. The following decrease in mRNA levels precedes desensitization to the effects of the drug on dopamine turnover, further illustrating a lack of correspondence between increased neurotransmission and levels of tyrosine hydroxylase mRNA in catecholaminergic neurons of the central nervous system.
The expression of Fos, the product of the proto-oncogene c-fos, is thought to be a marker of neuronal activity. D1, but not D2, dopamine receptor agonists have previously been shown to increase Fos immunoreactivity in striatonigral neurons ipsilateral to a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion of the nigrostriatal pathway. In the present study, it was demonstrated that the D1 receptor agonist SKF 38393 rarely increased Fos in striatopallidal neurons of the 6-hydroxydopamine denervated striatum. Conversely, in the intact striatum, the D2 receptor antagonist haloperidol enhanced Fos expression predominantly in striatopallidal neurons labelled retrogradely from the globus pallidus or with an oligonucleotide probe complementary to mRNA encoding enkephalin. These results are consistent with studies suggesting that D1 receptors are located predominantly on striatonigral neurons and that D2 receptors reside principally on enkephalin-containing striatopallidal neurons. They also provide a neuroanatomical basis for neurochemical and neurophysiological observations indicating that dopamine facilitates the activity of striatonigral neurons but inhibits striatopallidal neurons. In another experiment the selective D2 receptor agonist quinpirole was found to increase Fos immunoreactivity in the globus pallidus ipsilateral to a 6-hydroxydopamine lesion. It is proposed that this may have been due to a D2 receptor-mediated inhibition of enkephalin and GABA release from striatopallidal terminals that in turn disinhibited the pallidal neurons. In a final series of experiments, brain microdialysis was used to determine the location of dopamine receptors regulating striatal Fos expression. Local application of the selective D1 receptor agonist CY 208-243 in the 6-hydroxydopamine-denervated striatum, or of haloperidol in the intact striatum via the dialysis probe increased Fos immunoreactivity in the immediate vicinity of the probe. Hence, the inductive effects of these systematically administered compounds on Fos expression in the striatum are mediated at least partly by local dopamine receptors in the striatum. Taken together, these results suggest that the differential regulation of striatonigral and striatopallidal activity by dopamine is mediated by the largely separate location of D1 and D2 receptors on these outputs.
The accessory olfactory bulb of the mouse was studied by current source-density analysis of field potentials to determine the laminar and temporal distribution of synaptic currents evoked by electrical stimulation of the vomeronasal organ. The one-dimensional current source-density analysis revealed two major spatially and temporally distinct inward membrane currents (sinks): one in the glomerular layer and the other in the external plexiform layer. The glomerular layer sink preceded the external plexiform layer sink by a mean of 5.5 ms. Local infusions of the broad-spectrum excitatory amino acid antagonist, kynurenate, into the accessory olfactory bulb blocked the external plexiform layer sink without an obvious effect on the glomerular layer sink. The selective non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione produced a dose-dependent blockade of the external plexiform layer sink, whereas the selective N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate was without effect. These results, taken together with the cytoarchitecture of the accessory olfactory bulb, suggest that the glomerular layer sink results mainly from synaptic excitation evoked in the glomerular dendritic branches of mitral cells by the vomeronasal afferent fibres and the external plexiform layer sink mainly from non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-mediated synaptic excitation in the peripheral processes of granule cells via the mitral to granule cell dendrodendritic synapse.
We previously reported that an N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent component of long-term potentiation with an apparent delayed onset can be induced in area CA1 of the hippocampus. Here we show that some but not all of this delay in onset can be accounted for by a transient heterosynaptic depression. We also show that N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent long-term potentiation is induced only in the input pathway tetanized, and not in a second pathway. However, prior induction of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent long-term potentiation in one pathway precludes later induction in an independent pathway. Calcium entry through dihydropyridine-sensitive Ca2+ channels may be a critical step for induction of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-independent long-term potentiation in area CA1 [Grover L. M. and Teyler T.J. (1990) Nature 347, 477-479]. Since the distribution [Westenbroek R. E. et al. (1990) Nature 347, 281-284] of dihydropyridine-sensitive Ca2+ channels in CA1 neuron dendrites does not suggest a basis for input-specific induction of long-term potentiation, an additional process may confer the specificity we observed. Tetanic stimulation of afferents into area CA1 can elicit several processes: a transient heterosynaptic depression, and a transient homosynaptic potentiation, as well as N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor-dependent and -independent long-term potentiation.
Amino acids were pressure-ejected in the ventral tegmental area of rats which were anesthetized with chloral hydrate and treated with pargyline. The extracellular dopamine concentration was recorded from the nucleus accumbens with an electrochemically treated carbon fiber electrode combined either with differential normal pulse voltammetry or with differential pulse amperometry. In distinct rats the discharge activity of single dopaminergic neurons was monitored in the ventral tegmental area while amino acids were pressure-injected at a distance of 200-300 microns from the recorded cell. GABA (24 and 50 nl, 1 M) induced a complete and reversible inhibition of the firing rate lasting for 3-6 min and a decrease in the basal extracellular dopamine level (-54% and -66%, respectively). Glutamate (32 nl, 10 mM), N-methyl-D-aspartate and quisqualate (100 microM) stimulated the firing rate and enhanced the dopamine extracellular concentration up to 10-times the basal one (18 nM). These increases subsided within 1-5 min. Their amplitude depended on the ejected volume (from 16 to 65 nl). At the time-resolution of the method (some seconds) all these variations in the dopamine release appeared closely time-correlated with those of the firing rate. When the mean discharge rate is considered, N-methyl-D-aspartate was as potent as quisqualate but the former promoted burst firing while the latter induced a sustained activity. As regards dopamine release, N-methyl-D-aspartate was twice as potent as quisqualate. This further shows that dopaminergic terminals convert physiological impulse flow into dopamine release as a high pass filter which favors bursts of action potentials.
Unilateral olfactory deprivation in the rat profoundly modifies olfactory bulb anatomy, chemistry and function. The present report examined the time-course of the functional effects of unilateral deprivation on inhibition in the olfactory bulb using paired-pulse stimulation of the lateral olfactory tract and olfactory nerve. In addition, an attempt was made to correlate these physiological measures with olfactory bulb dopamine and norepinephrine levels and tyrosine hydroxylase immunoreactivity. Deprivation from postnatal day 1 to postnatal day 20 or postnatal day 40 significantly enhanced lateral olfactory tract paired-pulse depression, while late onset deprivation (postnatal day 20) had no effect. Olfactory nerve paired-pulse depression was enhanced by 40 days of deprivation regardless of the age at onset. The time-course of these deprivation-induced physiological changes did not correlate well with reductions in dopamine. Dopamine levels were reduced in all deprivation conditions by 70-80% compared with control bulbs. Norepinephrine content was slightly elevated in deprived bulbs. These results suggest that early olfactory deprivation modifies olfactory bulb synaptic activity and further, as with other sensory systems, these effects are age and duration dependent.
Inhibitory postsynaptic currents mediated by spontaneous activation of GABAA receptors were studied using whole-cell voltage-clamp recordings in granule cells of the adult rat (postnatal day 60+) dentate gyrus in 400-microns-thick coronal half-brain slices maintained at 34-35 degrees C. The average amplitude of spontaneous inhibitory postsynaptic currents remained constant during a given recording period (i.e. no rundown was noted). The spontaneous currents had an average conductance between 200-400 pS, were mediated by Cl- flux through GABAA receptor/channels since they reversed at the Cl- equilibrium potential and were blocked by bicuculline or picrotoxin. Their mono-exponential decay time-constants (range: 4.2-7.2 ms) were prolonged by midazolam and pentobarbital in a dose-dependent manner. The effect of midazolam was reversed by the benzodiazepine receptor antagonist flumazenil (RO 15-1788) which, by itself, had no effect on the decay time-constant. The decay time-constant was also dependent on membrane voltage and on temperature. A 132-mV change in membrane potential produced an e-fold prolongation of the decay while the Q10 (between 22-37 degrees C) of the decay rate was 2.1. Within a given neuron, the frequency of spontaneous GABAergic events was remarkably constant over long time-periods, though the mean frequency among different cells showed large variability. Spontaneous miniature inhibitory postsynaptic currents also persisted under experimental conditions such as the presence of extracellular tetrodotoxin (1 microM), Cd2+ (200 microM) or lowered extracellular Ca2+/elevated Mg2+, which effectively abolished all stimulus-evoked GABAergic neurotransmission. The frequency of tetrodotoxin-resistant miniature events was increased by elevating extracellular K+ concentration and was diminished by the GABAB receptor agonist (-)baclofen only at a dose (50 microM) which was an order of magnitude larger than that required to depress stimulus-evoked responses. These findings are consistent with different mechanisms being responsible for the spontaneous and stimulus-evoked release of GABA from interneuron terminals and also identify pre- and postsynaptic modulatory factors of the endogenous, action-potential-independent, GABAergic neurotransmission as being important determinants of the excitability level of mammalian CNS neurons.
The mammalian carotid body is a peripheral arterial chemoreceptor organ involved in the regulation of respiration, and in the modulation of blood pressure through reflex control of peripheral vascular resistance and cardiac output. In addition to its responsiveness to blood gases, the organ is also sensitive to hyperosmotic solutions, and we have recently shown that a systemic hormonal regulator of natriuresis and diuresis, atrial natriuretic peptide, is a potent inhibitor of chemoreceptor activity evoked by hypoxia in the cat carotid body. The present study demonstrates atrial natriuretic peptide immunoreactivity in type I cells of the carotid body, and shows further that a biologically active atrial natriuretic peptide fragment, atriopeptin III, increases cyclic guanosine monophosphate immunoreactivity in type I cells in a dose-dependent manner. Moreover, double-labeling techniques demonstrate co-existence of atrial natriuretic peptide immunoreactivity with the atriopeptin III-enhanced cyclic guanosine monophosphate reaction product. These findings indicate the probable existence of atrial natriuretic peptide receptors coupled to membrane-bound guanylate cyclase on the parenchymal type I cells. Our findings support the view that cyclic guanosine monophosphate functions as a second messenger in this organ, and may serve as a functional activity marker in identifying type I cells which respond to atrial natriuretic peptide.
Immunofluorescence and immunogold labeling, together with sucrose gradient separation and Western blot analysis of microsomal subfractions, were employed in parallel to probe the endoplasmic reticulum in the cell body and dendrites of rat cerebellar Purkinje neurons. Two markers, previously investigated in non-nerve cells, the membrane protein p91 (calnexin) and the lumenal protein BiP, were found to be highly expressed and widely distributed to the various endoplasmic reticulum sections of Purkinje neurons, from the cell body to dendrites and dendritic spines. An antibody (denominated anti-rough-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum), which recognized two membrane proteins, p14 and p40, revealed a similar immunogold labeling pattern. However, centrifugation results consistent with a widespread distribution were obtained for p14 only, while p40 was concentrated in the rough microsome-enriched subfractions. The areas enriched in the inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor and thus presumably specialized in Ca2+ transport (stacks of multiple smooth-surfaced cisternae; the dendritic spine apparatus) also exhibited labeling for BiP and p91, and were positive for the anti-rough-surfaced endoplasmic reticulum antibody (presumably via the p14 antigen). Additional antibodies, that yielded inadequate immunocytochemical signals, were employed only by Western blotting of the microsomal subfractions, while the ryanodine receptor was studied by specific binding. The latter receptor and the Ca2+ ATPase, known in other species to be concentrated in Purkinje neurons, exhibited bimodal distributions with a peak in the light and another in the heavy subfractions. A similar distribution was also observed with another lumenal protein, protein disulfide isomerase. Taken as a whole, the results that we have obtained suggest the existence in the endoplasmic reticulum of Purkinje neurons of two levels of organization; the first identified by widespread, probably general markers (BiP, p91, possibly p14 and others), the second by specialization markers, such as the inositol 1,4,5-triphosphate receptor and, possibly, p40, which appear restricted to areas where specific functions appear to be localized.
Kindling of the Schaffer collaterals in the dorsal hippocampus of the rat induced an epileptogenic focus in area CA1. Pyramidal neurons were acutely isolated from this area in fully kindled rats one day after the last class five generalized seizure. Calcium currents were measured in these cells under the whole-cell patch voltage-clamp condition after blockade of sodium and potassium currents. Voltage-dependent calcium currents were activated by depolarizing voltage steps from different prepulse potentials. Calcium currents activated at 0 mV consisted of a sustained component and two voltage-dependent inactivating components. Current inactivation was fitted with two exponentials (time-constants of 13 and 72 ms) and a constant. When cells from kindled rats were compared with those from controls, the amplitudes of the slow-inactivating and the sustained component were significantly enhanced by 36% and 39%, respectively; the fast inactivating current showed only a small enhancement. Inactivation kinetics, time-to-peak and voltage dependency of activation and steady-state inactivation were unchanged. Shape and size of the analysed cells from kindled rats were not different from those in controls. We concluded that an increased specific calcium conductance of as yet unknown origin underlies the larger current. The magnitude of the observed changes is such that it will considerably increase calcium influx and consequently raise intracellular calcium concentration during tetanic stimulation and subsequent periods of paroxysmal activity. This increase will modulate calcium-dependent factors that regulate neuronal excitability and may lead to the enhanced excitability found in kindled tissue.
[3H]Kainate and L-[3H]glutamate binding sites in a rich source of kainate binding sites, fish brain, have been thoroughly analysed here for the purpose of studying the correlation between kainate binding sites and L-glutamate receptors in vertebrate CNS. The brain of a freshwater fish, Telapilia monsanbica, was found to contain three types of kainate binding sites: Type 1 sites (Kd = 1050 +/- 380 microM, Bmax = 4 +/- 4 pmol/mg), Type 2 sites (Kd = 133 +/- 20 nM, Bmax = 190 +/- 20 pmol/mg), and Type 3 sites (Kd = 23 +/- 15 nM, Bmax = 28 +/- 19 pmol/mg). The dissociation constants of L-glutamate to Type 1, 2 and 3 sites were, respectively, 0.28 +/- 0.04, 5.5 +/- 0.2 and 137 +/- 28 microM. Pharmacological characterization of these binding sites showed that Type 1 and 2 sites, respectively, corresponded to N-methyl-D-aspartate-subtype L-glutamate receptors and non-N-methyl-D-aspartate L-glutamate receptors. Autoradiographic studies showed that Type 1 and 2 sites were distributed widely in fish brain, indicating the involvement of L-glutamate receptors in various brain functions. Type 3 sites, on the other hand, were relatively insensitive to most endogenous amino acids and were only found in the molecular layer of cerebellum and torus longitudinalis. Type 3 sites possibly representing a distinctive class of receptor has been suggested by the results.
Histochemistry for cytochrome oxidase reveals a vibrissa-related pattern in trigeminal nucleus principalis, subnucleus interpolaris, and the magnocellular portion of subnucleus caudalis. This pattern is apparent in late fetal animals and is disrupted by transection of the infraorbital nerve on the day of birth. We recently reported results suggesting that the cytochrome oxidase pattern reflects primary afferent-induced clustering of second order neurons in all of these nuclei. If this conclusion is correct, it should follow that primary afferent lesions made after the cytochrome oxidase pattern became established in the brainstem might have little effect upon it. Accordingly, we transected the infraorbital nerve (the trigeminal branch that supplies the vibrissae) on postnatal days 0-10 and evaluated the vibrissa-related pattern in the brainstem with cytochrome oxidase histochemistry at varying intervals after these lesions. If the infraorbital nerve was sectioned on postnatal days 0-2, the vibrissa-related pattern was absent in trigeminal nucleus principalis, and both subnucleus interpolaris and caudalis. If such lesions were made after postnatal day 9, there was no appreciable effect upon the cytochrome oxidase pattern in any portion of the trigeminal brainstem complex. However, if lesions were made between postnatal days 3 and 8, the density and clarity of the cytochrome oxidase staining pattern were reduced in interpolaris and caudalis, but not in principalis. This difference was not due to differential transganglionic degeneration in these nuclei. Tracing with horseradish peroxidase demonstrated qualitatively equivalent primary afferent losses in principalis, interpolaris, and caudalis. Immunocytochemistry with a monoclonal antibody directed against parvalbumin also demonstrated a vibrissa-related pattern of cell bodies in principalis and interpolaris in rats killed on postnatal day 9 or later ages. The combination of retrograde tracing and immunocytochemistry revealed that the parvalbumin-immunoreactive neurons in principalis projected to thalamus while those in interpolaris were not labelled by tracer injections into the thalamus, midbrain, cerebellum or spinal cord. Infraorbital nerve transections made as late as postnatal day 8 resulted in a sharp decrease in the staining of parvalbumin-positive neurons in interpolaris, but not in principalis. Lesions made on postnatal day 10 had no qualitative effect upon parvalbumin-positive neurons in any portion of the trigeminal brainstem complex. The results of this study support the conclusion that the vibrissa-related cytochrome oxidase pattern in principalis becomes independent of primary afferent input at a very short interval after its initial appearance. In contrast, the patterns in more caudal portions of the trigeminal brainstem complex require maintenance of primary afferent input for a much longer postnatal period.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
We used an experimental model of neurogenic inflammation, plasma extravasation induced by bradykinin or capsaicin, to study the effect of receptor-selective opioid agonists on plasma extravasation. Plasma extravasation was induced in the knee joint of the rat by continuous perfusion of either bradykinin (160 ng/ml), an inflammatory mediator produced at sites of tissue injury, that produces plasma extravasation significantly dependent on the sympathetic postganglionic neuron, or capsaicin (5 mg/ml), a C-fiber excitotoxin, that induces plasma extravasation that is dependent on both primary afferents and sympathetic post-ganglionic neurons. When selective delta-((d-Pen2,5)-enkephalin) or kappa-(trans-3,4-dichloro-N-methyl-N[2-(- pyrolidinyl)cyclohexyl]benzeneacetamide; U50,488H) opioid agonists were perfused with bradykinin, plasma extravasation was significantly attenuated. Co-perfusion of the non-selective opioid antagonist naloxone (1 microM), reversed this opioid-induced inhibition of bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation. In contrast, co-perfusion of a selective mu-opioid agonist (Tyr-d-Ala-Gly-NMe-Phe-Gly-ol) did not reduce bradykinin-induced plasma extravasation. Tyr-d-Ala-Gly-NMe-Phe-Gly-ol was, however, able to completely inhibit the plasma extravasation produced by capsaicin. These results suggest that delta- and kappa-, but not mu-selective opioids inhibit bradykinin-stimulated plasma extravasation, while a mu-selective opioid inhibits primary afferent-dependent plasma extravasation. Therefore, inhibition of neurogenic plasma extravasation by receptor-selective opioids may depend on the relative contribution to plasma extravasation of unmyelinated afferent and sympathetic postganglionic neuron terminals. Our findings can also explain, in part, the variation in anti-inflammatory effects of receptor-selective opioids reported in different inflammatory conditions.
The neuropeptide FLFQPQRFamide is a structure related to FMRFamide which is able to inhibit the effects of both endogenous and exogenous opiates. This morphine-modulating activity is mediated via the stimulation of specific FLFQPQRFamide receptors, different from opiate receptors. In vitro quantitative receptor autoradiography was performed on frozen sections of rat central nervous system to characterize binding properties and visualize FLFQPQRFamide receptors using the specific ligand [125I]YLFQPQRFamide, a radio-iodinated analogue of FLFQPQRFamide. [125I]YLFQPQRFamide appeared to interact reversibly with a single class of binding sites (KD = 0.2 nM). The specific binding represented 80% of the total binding at 0.05 nM, the FLFQPQRFamide concentration used in this mapping study. Sites labelled with [125I]YLFQPQRFamide were distributed heterogeneously within the brain and spinal cord. A high density of FLFQPQRFamide binding sites was detected in the most external layers of the dorsal horn of spinal cord and various nuclei of pons and medulla including trigeminal, dorsal tegmental and reticular nuclei. Nucleus of solitary tract, parabrachial, ambiguous and facial nuclei are also intensively labelled. Some structures of mesencephalon and diencephalon exhibited a high density of FLFQPQRFamide binding sites: central gray, raphe nuclei and thalamic nuclei such as parafascicular, laterodorsal, central median, paratenial and paraventricular nuclei. Suprachiasmatic and mammillary nuclei, lateral, posterior and anterior areas of hypothalamus and medial preoptic area exhibited high labelling. FLFQPQRFamide binding sites were also seen in some structures of the dopaminergic meso-cortico-limbic system including ventral tegmental area, cingulate cortex, lateral septum and the head of the caudate-putamen. Dense labelling appeared in the presubiculum of hippocampus. The dissimilar mapping of FLFQPQRFamide and opiate brain receptors confirms our previous pharmacological findings in FLFQPQRFamide binding studies on rat spinal cord membranes, showing that FLFQPQRFamide receptors are different from opiate receptors. There was a good correspondence between localization of binding sites and that of the putative endogenous peptide. Both occur in brain areas previously associated with analgesic action of opiates. However, the mapping of FLFQPQRFamide receptors in the central nervous system suggests that the FLFQPQRFamide system could be implicated in other physiological functions.
Immunohistological and in situ hybridization techniques were used to study the influence of kainic acid-induced seizures and of pentylenetetrazol kindling on neurokinin B immunoreactivity and neurokinin B mRNA in the rat hippocampus. Pronounced increases in neurokinin B immunoreactivity were observed in the terminal field of mossy fibres 10-60 days after intraperitoneal injection of kainic acid. These slow but persistent increases in immunoreactivity were accompanied by markedly enhanced expression of neurokinin B mRNA in the granule cells and in hilar interneurons adjacent to the granule cell layer. These changes were preceded by transient increases in neurokinin B mRNA and immunoreactivity in CA1 pyramidal cell layer two and 10 days after kainic acid, which, however, subsided later on. Pentylenetetrazol kindling caused similar increases in neurokinin B mRNA expression in granule cells and in CA1 pyramidal cells, but not in hilar interneurons. In CA1, increased neurokinin B message was present two days after termination of the kindling procedure but not after 10 days. Sixty days after kainic acid injection, neurokinin B immunoreactivity extended to the inner-third of the molecular layer of the dentate gyrus. After pentylenetetrazol kindling, a neurokinin B-immunoreactive band was observed in the infrapyramidal region of CA3. Lesions of the dentate granule cells by local injection of colchicine in kainic acid-treated rats abolished the supragranular neurokinin B-positive staining, whereas it was almost unchanged after transection of the ventral hippocampal commissure. These observations suggest that neurokinin B immunoreactivity may be located in ipsilateral mossy fibres undergoing collateral sprouting to the inner molecular layer or to the infrapyramidal region in CA3, respectively. Preprotachykinin A mRNA, which encodes for neurokinin A and substance P, and substance P immunoreactivity were not changed in the hippocampus of epileptic rats compared with untreated animals. The observed changes in neurokinin B immunoreactivity and mRNA indicate that specific functional and morphological changes may be induced in hippocampal neurons by recurrent limbic seizures.
Female mice form a memory for the pheromones of the male with which they mate. It has been proposed that the site of the synaptic changes underlying this memory is the accessory olfactory bulb, at the first level of the accessory olfactory system. In this study we have examined the expression of the immediate-early genes c-fos, c-jun and egr-1 in the mitral and granule cells of the accessory olfactory bulb immediately after mating, during the period of memory formation. Transient increases were seen in the number of granule cell nuclei expressing c-fos and the number of granule and mitral cell nuclei expressing egr-1, during the period of memory formation. No changes were observed in the expression of c-jun during this period. The increase in the number of cells expressing c-fos and egr-1 required the association of mating and pheromonal exposure, conditions also required for memory formation. Large increases in the number of mitral and granule cell nuclei expressing c-fos and egr-1 were also observed following the infusion of the drug bicuculline into the accessory olfactory bulb in the absence of mating. This procedure has previously been shown to result in the formation of a nonspecific memory for male pheromones. These results associate the expression of c-fos and egr-1 in the accessory olfactory bulb with the conditions required for the formation of an olfactory memory for male pheromones.


In culture the protracted and abusive stimulation of glutamate (GLU) receptors results in neuronal death through a mechanism involving the persistent translocation of PKC and the destabilization of (Ca2+)i homeostasis [(Ca2+)i HD]. In contrast, intermittent GLU receptor use elicits a coordinated expression of immediate early genes (IEG) acting as nuclear third messenger. Brain ischemia also is known to result in the paroxysmal abusive stimulation of glutamate receptors. The glutamate receptive elements in turn degenerate largely as a function of their inability to control homeostatic Ca2+ due to the irreversible translocation of PKC. In the present study we employed an in vivo model of focal brain ischemia using the photosensitive dye, Rose bengal. With this model we sought to determine the neuroprotective actions of MK-801, a noncompetitive blocker of GLU at the NMDA-sensitive receptor and of the semisynthetic gangliosides LIGA 4 and LIGA 20 which in vitro have been demonstrated to block PKC translocation. Moreover, we sought to establish whether the persistent stimulation of ionotropic glutamate receptors would led to a change in ionotropic glutamate expression in the focal and perifocal area. Importantly, the perifocal area (i. e., the region surrounding the area of primary insult) is a region in which profound cellular reorganization occurs including neuronal death and glial proliferation and is a key region to target various neuroprotective drugs aimed at ameliorating the neurodegeneration following stroke. Receptor abuse dependent antagonists (RADA) drugs such as gangliosides selectively curtail the amplification steps that specifically differentiate signal transduction following physiological receptor use from that following pathological receptor abuse.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
We have developed a system for immobilizing non-adherent cells for use in macroscopic fluorescence measurements in a perfused cuvette. Using normal human T lymphocytes loaded with the fluorescent Ca(2+)-indicator, fluo-3, we have validated the properties of these cells immobilized on clear, non-fluorescent fluorohalocarbon film (Aclar) using the non-charged cell adhesive, Cell-Tak.

Some of our recent observations suggest that mental rotation may be important for reduction of motion sickness in microgravity as well as in the microgravity simulator. Therefore, we suggest that development of the ability to perform mental rotation may be important for adaptation to many virtual environments. Training virtual environment operators to perform mental rotation may enhance operator performance both by increasing their ability to &quot;locomote in&quot; and manipulate that environment and by reducing motion sickness associated with transitions between virtual and normal environments.
Placental alkaline phosphatase (PLAP) belongs to a class of proteins that are anchored to the plasma membrane by a COOH-terminal phosphatidylinositol-glycan (PI-G) moiety. Nascent forms of such proteins undergo NH2- and COOH-terminal processing to yield the mature PI-G-tailed proteins. We previously introduced a shortened engineered form of preproPLAP (preprominiPLAP) that permits monitoring in cell-free preparations its sequential processing to the pro form and then to the mature PI-G-tailed form. Previous studies were carried out by synthesizing the preproprotein cotranslationally in the presence of rough microsomal membranes (RM). Because of the complexity of the cotranslational system it was not possible to determine whether cofactors were required for processing. We have now prepared RM that are preloaded with prominiPLAP but contain little mature PI-G-tailed miniPLAP. Maximal processing requires supplementation with both ATP and GTP. Inhibitors of PI-G biosynthesis do not affect processing. Since cleavage and PI-G addition are presumably catalyzed by a transamidase, the nucleoside triphosphate requirements suggest that there are additional steps in prominiPLAP processing prior to transamidation with PI-G. These may involve translocation of the pro protein in a proper conformational state to the transamidase site.
Ortony and Turner (1990) asked &quot;What's Basic About Basic Emotions,&quot; and they concluded &quot;very little.&quot; They proceeded to advocate a &quot;componential&quot; or &quot;mosaic&quot; view of how emotional systems should be analyzed. Their thesis was flawed by their failure to consider the available neurobehavioral data. Genetically dictated brain systems that mediate affective-emotional processes do exist, even though there are bound to be semantic ambiguities in how we speak about these systems. This commentary summarizes key lines of evidence for coherently operating emotional systems in the brain and advocates the position that the issue of basic emotions can no longer be credibly discussed without adequate consideration of the relevant brain research in the area. The type of conceptual, logical analysis pursued by Ortony and Turner, in the absence of a thorough analysis of the available neurological data, is not an adequate basis for resolving what is basic about basic emotions.
Event-related potentials were recorded from normal subjects in an auditory selective attention task. Targets were rare longer (170-ms) tones of a designated pitch, embedded in a sequence of 100-ms standard tones. The effects of attention-modulated processing were evident in the event-related potentials elicited by the standards. Those to relevant standards were similar for easy (1000 Hz vs. 2000 Hz) and hard (1000 Hz vs. 1030 Hz) pitch separations, and were more negative frontocentrally than those to irrelevant standards. Difference waveforms (attended minus unattended standards) revealed Nd, a negative deflection that was earlier in latency for the easy task (onset, 120 ms; peak, 250 ms) than for the hard task (onset, 250 ms; peak, 350 ms). The speed of detection of the deviant longer tones was insensitive to the attention-modulated processes indexed by Nd. Median reaction time did not differ between tasks, although there were more misses and false alarms in the hard task (and nearly all of the latter were to the irrelevant longer tones). Neither direction of attention nor task difficulty affected the latency of mismatch negativity, N2, or P3 (as identified in difference waveforms: attended or unattended longer tones minus their respective standards). The data suggest that performance was guided by two independent but converging processes, automatic mismatch detection of the longer tone and attention-modulated processing of pitch, followed by selection of response.
Event-related potentials were recorded in two auditory tasks involving the discrimination of pitch or duration of binaurally presented tones. Frequently-presented nontarget tones, when compared to the same tones in a simple reaction time task, elicited two negative peaks, NA1 and NA2, followed by a positive peak, nontarget positivity. Infrequently-presented target tones, when compared to the nontargets, elicited mismatch negativity (MMN), followed by N2 and P3b. The peak latencies of NA1 and NA2 did not differ between the pitch and duration tasks, but the duration of NA1 and the peak latencies of mismatch negativity, N2, and P3b, as well as reaction time, increased in parallel for the duration task. It is proposed that the NA1-nontarget positivity sequence reflects the initiation, maintenance, and termination of an attention-modulated process, which is required for the performance of an auditory discrimination task, and that the MMN-N2-P3b sequence reflects a process elicited by infrequently-presented targets, which is the main determinant of reaction time under these testing conditions.

Emotional and neutral word versions of the fused rhymed words dichotic listening test were administered to members of 18 pairs of monozygotic twins discordant for schizophrenia, 7 pairs concordant for schizophrenia, and 7 pairs of normal twins. In the discordant group, affected twins had smaller right ear advantages than did their unaffected cotwins for neutral words. The difference was completely attenuated with the presentation of emotional words or in less powerful between-group comparisons that included twins concordant for schizophrenia and normal twins. It is unlikely that this finding reflects an abnormality in the lateralized representation of language, both because we did not find a correlation between handedness scores and dichotic listening scores and because emotional stimuli normalized results. The finding may reflect abnormalities in the allocation of attention for priming language centers in the left hemisphere. 'At risk' subjects, i.e., the unaffected members of the discordant pairs, did not differ significantly from normal monozygotic twins on measures of dichotic listening.
Nociceptive dorsal horn neurones, which are involved in the processing of pain-related information, are inhibited by input from vibration-sensitive, large diameter primary sensory fibres (Wall and Cronly-Dillon, 1960; Salter and Henry, 1990a,b). We have reported previously that the inhibition of spinal nociceptive neurones by vibration is mediated by adenosine acting through P1-purinergic receptors (Salter and Henry, 1987). In a number of different types of cell, adenosine is known to activate K+ currents (Gerber et al., 1989; Greene and Haas, 1985; Proctor and Dunwiddie, 1987; Segal, 1982; Trussell and Jackson, 1987) and we have recently found that the adenosine-mediated inhibition of nociceptive neurones by vibration is the result of an inhibitory postsynaptic potential (IPSP), which is, indeed, caused by a K+ conductance (De Koninck and Henry, 1988, 1992). It has been reported that adenosine-activated K+ channels in cardiac muscle cells are the ATP-sensitive K+ channels (Kirsch et al., 1990). Therefore, we questioned whether these channels might mediate the purinergic IPSP we have observed in nociceptive dorsal horn neurones. We report here that glibenclamide, a blocker of ATP-sensitive K+ channels (Ashcroft, 1988; Schmid Antomarchi et al., 1987a,b), blocks the inhibition of nociceptive neurones by vibratory stimulation when this compound is administered locally by iontophoresis or systemically by intravenous injection. In addition, direct intracellular injection of ATP was found to block the IPSP evoked by vibratory stimulation. These data indicate that the purinergic IPSP in nociceptive spinal neurones is mediated via ATP-sensitive K+ channels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effects of the novel competitive N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist, CGP 39551 [the carboxyethylester of CGP 37849; DL-(E)-2-amino-4-methyl-5-phosphono-3-pentenoic acid], on extracellular field potentials and long-term potentiation (LTP) induced in the dentate gyrus by stimulation of the perforant path were studied in anesthetized rats. CGP 39551 attenuated the population spike (PS) and excitatory postsynaptic potential (EPSP) amplitude of dentate field potentials, reduced the NMDA receptor-mediated component of train-evoked burst potentials, and prevented the induction of LTP. The decrease in PS and EPSP amplitude produced by CGP 39551 was observed mainly in non-potentiated synaptic populations; potentiated field potentials were only minimally affected by drug treatment. These results are consistent with receptors may contribute in a tonic manner to the state of dentate granule cell excitability. Finally, the differential modulation of potentiated and non-potentiated synapses by CGP 39551 suggests that a change in some properties of postsynaptic AMPA receptors is involved in the expression of LTP.
The drawings prepared by Santiago Ramn y Cajal have an inherent beauty as well as being accurate and arose partly as a result of the difficulty contemporary photographic methods had in reproducing informative images of the thick sections he used. Modern methods are better and in this brief article Alan Boyde presents some three-dimensional images of these historical preparations, generated by confocal microscopy.
Controversy, misunderstanding or uninformed opinion abound over the extent to which the great Spanish neurohistologist, Santiago Ramn y Cajal, specified his staining methods in his analytical papers, the methods by which he analysed and presented his data, and the microscopes available to him. In this paper, we have attempted to outline the information on these points that we have been able to obtain from a detailed examination of his writings and a study of the evidence remaining in the Cajal Museum in Madrid.

An involvement of protein tyrosine kinase in the transduction of the signals initiated by nerve growth factor (NGF) was investigated. A tyrosine kinase inhibitor, herbimycin, inhibited neurite outgrowth of rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells induced by NGF but not that by dibutyryl-cAMP. Herbimycin and genistein blocked NGF-dependent activation of ras p21 whose essential function in neuronal differentiation has been reported. These observations suggested that tyrosine kinase activity is involved in the signaling pathways. K-252a, by contrast, inhibited NGF-induced but not EGF-dependent activation of ras p21. Tyrosine kinase activity of gp140trk, a constituent of NGF receptor, is activated by NGF for much a longer period compared to the activation of EGF receptor autokinase activity by EGF. We further demonstrated that autophosphorylation of gp140trk is selectively inhibited by K-252a.
In research on the neural mechanisms for the processing of biologically important sounds such as species-specific sounds and sounds produced by prey and predators, it is necessary to study responses of central auditory neurons to biologically important sounds, information-bearing elements (IBEs) in them, and tone bursts. The tone bursts or constant-frequency (CF) components can be an IBE in many species of animals. Information-bearing parameters characterizing these sounds must be systematically varied, and tuning of neurons to individual parameters must be studied. The measurement of a tuning curve must be performed not only for excitatory responses, but also for inhibitory and facilitative responses, if any. The selectivity of a neuron to a particular type of sound must be tested for whether it is level-tolerant. Responses to complex sounds can probably be explained on the basis of those to IBEs and tone bursts, so that the use of the tone bursts, even though they are not IBEs, is as essential as that of the biologically important sounds.
The past 30 years has seen a remarkable development in our understanding of how the auditory system--particularly the peripheral system--processes complex sounds. Perhaps the most significant has been our understanding of the mechanisms underlying auditory frequency selectivity and their importance for normal and impaired auditory processing. Physiologically vulnerable cochlear filtering can account for many aspects of our normal and impaired psychophysical frequency selectivity with important consequences for the perception of complex sounds. For normal hearing, remarkable mechanisms in the organ of Corti, involving enhancement of mechanical tuning (in mammals probably by feedback of electro-mechanically generated energy from the hair cells), produce exquisite tuning, reflected in the tuning properties of cochlear nerve fibres. Recent comparisons of physiological (cochlear nerve) and psychophysical frequency selectivity in the same species indicate that the ear's overall frequency selectivity can be accounted for by this cochlear filtering, at least in bandwidth terms. Because this cochlear filtering is physiologically vulnerable, it deteriorates in deleterious conditions of the cochlea--hypoxia, disease, drugs, noise overexposure, mechanical disturbance--and is reflected in impaired psychophysical frequency selectivity. This is a fundamental feature of sensorineural hearing loss of cochlear origin, and is of diagnostic value. This cochlear filtering, particularly as reflected in the temporal patterns of cochlear fibres to complex sounds, is remarkably robust over a wide range of stimulus levels. Furthermore, cochlear filtering properties are a prime determinant of the 'place' and 'time' coding of frequency at the cochlear nerve level, both of which appear to be involved in pitch perception. The problem of how the place and time coding of complex sounds is effected over the ear's remarkably wide dynamic range is briefly addressed. In the auditory brainstem, particularly the dorsal cochlear nucleus, are inhibitory mechanisms responsible for enhancing the spectral and temporal contrasts in complex sounds. These mechanisms are now being dissected neuropharmacologically. At the cortical level, mechanisms are evident that are capable of abstracting biologically relevant features of complex sounds. Fundamental studies of how the auditory system encodes and processes complex sounds are vital to promising recent applications in the diagnosis and rehabilitation of the hearing impaired.



Given the importance of the swine (Sus scrofa) as an animal model for human development, physiology and disease, neurons containing the epinephrine-synthesizing enzyme, phenylethanolamine N-methyltransferase (PNMT), were mapped in the medulla oblongata of neonatal swine as a first step in identifying their roles in central autonomic control. Neurons were labeled immunocytochemically by using an antiserum to PNMT raised in rabbits against trypsin-treated enzyme purified from the bovine adrenal gland. The general regional organization of neurons expressing PNMT (-like) immunoreactivity (ir) in the neonatal swine was similar to data obtained in other species and, in some aspects, more closely resembled the pattern observed in the primate brain. Immunolabeled cells appeared to be more abundant and caudally more extensive than observed in other adult animals. PNMT-immunoreactive (ir) neuronal somata, however, were largely confined to the reticular formation in the ventrolateral quadrant and the nucleus tractus solitarii (NTS) and more restricted in distribution than those expressing tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) and dopamine beta-hydroxylase (D beta H)-ir on serial transverse sections. A close correspondence was observed between the distributions of TH- and PNMT-ir neurons and processes throughout the C1 and C2 areas. However, in the C1 and C3 regions TH-ir neurons outnumbered those containing D beta H and PNMT-ir. In contrast, cell groups enriched in PNMT-ir neurons and processes were characterized by relatively weak D beta H-ir. In the ventrolateral medulla (VLM), PNMT-ir cell bodies were concentrated rostrally and extended from the caudal pole of the facial nucleus to a level posterior to the calamus scriptorius. The rostral VLM was characterized by an admixture of bipolar and multipolar primarily medium-diameter immunostained neurons. A prominent cell column (condensation) organized ventromedially to the nucleus ambiguus pars compactus (NAc). A loosely organized cluster bordered the lateral aspect of the special visceral efferent column; another smaller aggregate was located in the ventromedial reticular formation adjacent to the inferior olive. At middle medullary levels, PNMT-ir neurons formed two distinct subgroups (dorsal and ventral) interrupted by a band of precerebellar relay neurons that extended between the medial and lateral limbs of the lateral reticular nucleus of Walberg. At obex, the dorsal cell group formed a diagonal array and assumed a position dorsal and dorsolateral to the medial limb of LRN. This group was distinguished by bipolar neurons with axes of orientation directed perpendicularly to the majority of neurons in the rostal VLM or those lying near the caudal ventromedullary surface.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
In many instances, the establishment of highly specific neuronal connections during development results from the rearrangement of axonal projections through the trimming of exuberant collaterals or the elimination of functional synapses or both. Although the involvement of the N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of the glutamate receptor has been demonstrated in the shaping of axonal arbors, its participation in the process of selective stabilization of synapses remains an open issue. In this study, the effects of chronic in vivo application of D,L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (D,L-APV), a selective antagonist of the NMDA receptor, on the synapse elimination process that takes place in the developing cerebellum of the rat have been analyzed. D,L-APV treatment prevented the regression of supernumerary climbing fiber synapses in 49 percent of the recorded Purkinje cells, while the inactive isomer L-APV was ineffective. Thus, activation of the NMDA receptor is a critical step in the regression of functional synapses during development.
Regulation of epithelial chloride flux, which is defective in patients with cystic fibrosis, may be mediated by phosphorylation of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) by cyclic AMP-dependent protein kinase (PKA) or protein kinase C (PKC). Part of the R-domain of CFTR (termed CF-2) was expressed in and purified from Escherichia coli. CF-2 was phosphorylated on seryl residues by PKA, PKC, cyclic GMP-dependent protein kinase (PKG), and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase I (CaM kinase I). Direct amino acid sequencing and peptide mapping of CF-2 revealed that serines 660, 700, 737, and 813 as well as serine 768, serine 795, or both were phosphorylated by PKA and PKG, and serines 686 and 790 were phosphorylated by PKC. CFTR was phosphorylated in vitro by PKA, PKC, or PKG on the same sites that were phosphorylated in CF-2. Kinetic analysis of phosphorylation of CF-2 and of synthetic peptides confirmed that these sites were excellent substrates for PKA, PKC, or PKG. CFTR was immunoprecipitated from T84 cells labeled with 32Pi. Its phosphorylation was stimulated in response to agents that activated either PKA or PKC. Peptide mapping confirmed that CFTR was phosphorylated at several sites identified in vitro. Thus, regulation of CFTR is likely to occur through direct phosphorylation of the R-domain by protein kinases stimulated by different second messenger pathways.
Task-irrelevant pairs of short tones were presented to healthy human subjects while electric potentials were recorded from their scalp ('event-related brain potential', ERP). Infrequent increments in the frequency of the first tone of the repetitive tone-pair elicited an extra ERP component termed 'mismatch negativity' (MMN) when the silent interval between the first and second tone of the pair ('inter-tone interval') was long (150, 300, or 400 ms) but not when this interval was short (20 or 50 ms). This effect did not depend on whether the two tones of the tone-pair were presented to the same or to different ears. The present inter-tone interval effect is consistent with the effects of backward-masking on recognition performance in audition, suggesting that the MMN reflects the neurophysiological basis of echoic memory.
Unexpected anterograde labeling is systematically observed in the pontine nuclei following iontophoretic injection of biocytin in the substantia nigra pars reticulata. Control experiments using WGA-HRP have led to deny the existence of a nigro-pontine pathway. The possibility that biocytin is taken up by fibers of passage has been tested. Deposits of biocytin in the corpus callosum result in a massive axonal labeling of this fibrous system. This study, in contrast to previous reports, stresses that biocytin is easily taken up and transported by axons. Hence, this tracer has to be used with careful controls when injected in structures crossed by fibrous tracts.
A glial antigen (GA-1) was identified by monoclonal antibodies (MAb) raised against C6 rat glioma cells. MAb-7D3 (IgG2a kappa) revealed GA-1 as a single protein band with a Rf value of 0.09 by the use of basic-PAGE Western blot. SDS-PAGE Western blot and radioimmunoprecipitation (RIP) further resolved GA-1 into two subunits with a molecular weight of 200 and 78 kDa respectively. Subcellular localization by immunocytochemical staining revealed its cytosolic presence with a punctate pattern perinuclearly. Significant expression of GA-1 may be detected in 4 glioma or glial cell lines derived from rat brain. However, no expression may be detected in the rest of the 18 mammalian cell lines or primary neural cell cultures examined. All of the above data thereby suggest that GA-1 may be glial specific whereas the epitope of GA-1 defined by MAb-7D3 is species (rat) specific.
Intracellular vital dye injection was used to examine the morphology of single sustentacular and receptor cells and the developmental fate of individual basal cells in the olfactory epithelium of the tiger salamander. In acute experiments, Lucifer yellow injections were used to identify single basal, receptor or sustentacular cells on the basis of their overall morphology. Dye-coupling between a number of the different epithelial cells was observed. Progeny of basal cells were examined by following labeled cells for up to 2 weeks using intracellular injection of rhodamine-labeled dextran. These experiments indicate that some olfactory epithelial cells are dye-coupled and that dye-filled basal cells can undergo division and migration.
We have used positron tomography (PET) to demonstrate that some parts of the motor system exhibit physiological adaptation during the repeated performance of a simple motor task, but others do not. In contrast to the primary sensori-motor cortex, the cerebellum exhibits a decrease in physiological activation (increases in regional blood flow during performance) with practice. A new application of factorial experimental design to PET activation studies was used to make these measurements in four normal males. This design allowed adaptation to be examined by testing for an interaction between regional cerebral blood flow (rCBF) increases brought about by a motor task and the number of trials (time). These findings are interpreted as the neurophysiological correlates of synaptic changes in the cerebellum associated with motor learning in man.
Hair cells bear an apical bundle of stereocilia arranged in serried rows. Deflection of the bundle controls the opening and closing of mechanoelectrical transduction channels, thereby altering the conductance across the apical plasma membrane. Two locations for these channels have been proposed in the bundle, either near the bases of the stereocilia or towards their tips. One hypothesis that is consistent with the latter possibility suggests that fine extracellular filaments, which run between the tips of the shorter stereocilia and the sides of the taller stereocilia behind, operate the channels. Determining the precise position of the channels is essential to test this hypothesis. We have therefore attempted to localize them immunocytochemically. Because hair-cell transduction is amiloride sensitive, the channels may have an amiloride-binding site associated with them. We have therefore used a polyclonal antibody raised against another amiloride-sensitive ion channel to hunt for them. This antibody recognizes a 62-64 kDa band in immunoblots of cochlear tissue, and produces discrete labelling in the hair bundle. This is most concentrated just below the tips of the shorter stereocilia, coinciding with a region of specialization in the closely apposed membranes of the short and tall stereocilia but not with either end of the tip link.
Astrocytes were prepared from rats of 4 ages, embryonic day 20, postnatal days 3 and 8, and adult, in order to study the developmental time course of expression of enkephalin and somatostatin (SS). Glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) content was constant in both cortical and cerebellar astrocytes prepared from all ages. SS mRNA and peptide decreased over this developmental time course in cerebellar astrocytes; the time course of changes in SS mRNA paralleled that for rat cerebellum. Proenkephalin (PE) mRNA increased about 3-fold in cerebellar astrocytes from embryonic day 20 to adult but remained constant in cortical astrocytes; in contrast, PE mRNA showed a 10- to 12-fold increase in rat cerebellum and cortex developmentally. For both cerebellar and cortical astrocytes, free met-enkephalin decreased from embryonic day 20 to adult, whereas total met-enkephalin (measured following trypsin-carboxypeptidase B digestion of the extracts) increased. These results suggest (1) that there is a developmental regulation of the expression of both enkephalin and SS peptides in astrocytes, and (2) that the regulation occurs at the level of transcription for SS but at the level of precursor processing for PE. Possible trophic functions for astrocyte-derived peptides early in CNS development are discussed.
The guinea pig complement factor H(FH) and the plasma precursor(PMCFS-1) of the major monocyte-chemotactic factor(MCFS-1) found in the skin site of delayed hypersensitivity reaction(DHR) induced in the guinea pigs were compared in the antigenicity and the function. Both anti-FH-IgG and anti-MCFS-1-IgG formed a single precipitation line against FH, PMCFS-1, MCFS-1 and guinea pig plasma, and these lines fused one another without any spur formation. The inhibition activity of FH for C3bBb was absorbed by anti-MCFS-1-F(ab')2 in a dose-dependent manner. PMCFS-1 inhibited C3bBb activity dose-dependently as FH. These results show that FH is identical to PMCFS-1 and imply that FH, converted to MCFS-1 plays as a monocyte-chemotactic factor in the site of DHR.
To clarify the effect of L-threo-3,4-dihydroxyphenylserine (L-threo-DOPS), a precursor of norepinephrine (NE), the effect of this drug on microneurographically recorded muscle sympathetic nerve activity (MSA) from the tibial nerve was analyzed in ten healthy male volunteers. A single dose of 600 mg of L-threo-DOPS was orally administered and the effect of this norepinephrine precursor on MSA at resting and at upright standing positions, as well as the MSA responsiveness to head-up tilting was examined by comparing the data obtained after administration of the drug with those obtained under control conditions. The plasma NE levels were determined in two subjects. The results were as follows: (1) resting MSA increased significantly 80 min after administration of L-threo-DOPS and was accompanied by an increase in plasma NE levels; (2) standing MSA when treated with the drug was not significantly different from values obtained under control conditions; and (3) MSA responsiveness to orthostasis was reduced after L-threo-DOPS. We conclude from the activation of MSA by L-threo-DOPS that this drug raised blood pressure not only through an increase in metabolized plasma NE levels, but also through the enhancement of MSA by activation of descending noradrenergic or adrenergic pathways proximal to the recording site of the sympathetic discharge.
Secreted proteins are processed from a nascent form that contains an NH2-terminal signal peptide. During processing, the latter is cleaved by a specific NH2-terminal signal peptidase. The nascent form of phosphatidylinositol glycan (PI-G) tailed proteins contain both an NH2- and a COOH-terminal signal peptide. The two signal peptides have much in common, such as size and hydrophobicity. The COOH-terminal peptide is also cleaved during processing. We propose that the amino acid in a nascent protein that ultimately combines with the PI-G moiety be designated the omega site. Amino acids adjacent and COOH-terminal to the omega site would then be omega + 1, omega + 2, etc. In previous studies, we showed that allowable substitutions at the omega site of an engineered form of placental alkaline phosphatase (miniPLAP) are limited to 6 small amino acids. In the present study, mutations were made at the omega + 1 and omega + 2 sites. At the omega + 1 site, processing to varying degrees was observed with 8 of the 9 amino acids substituted for alanine, the normal constituent. Only the proline mutant showed no processing. By contrast, the only substituents permitted at the omega + 2 site were glycine and alanine, with only trace activity observed with serine and cysteine. Thus, just as there is a -1, -3 rule for predicting cleavage by NH2-terminal signal peptidase, there appears to be a comparable omega, omega + 2 rule for predicting cleavage/PI-G addition by COOH-terminal signal transamidase.
In order to identify early events in the differentiation of motor neurons, the expression of several developmentally regulated, neuronal molecules was investigated by immunohistochemistry on consecutive sections of cervical spinal cord. Motor neurons are among the first neurons to be born and to differentiate within the embryonic rat spinal cord. They undergo their terminal mitosis on embryonic days 10 and 11 (E10-11) and acquire detectable levels of the transmitter synthesizing enzyme, choline acetyltransferase, by E11.5. Staining with antibodies to the 68 kD neurofilament protein revealed motor neurons extending processes out the ventral root as early as E10.5. Monoclonal antibodies to two different epitopes on the cell adhesive molecule, NCAM, bound to myotomes on E10.5, and began to recognize ventral horn neurons by E11. Two other markers of developing neurons, the growth-associated protein, GAP-43, and the surface glycoprotein, TAG-1, were clearly detected on young motor neurons by E11.5. Thus, during the 36 hours following the final mitosis of their precursors, motor neurons acquire cytoskeletal, enzymatic, and cell surface components that distinguish them from other developing cells within the spinal cord. Not all of the newly acquired molecules continue to be expressed by motor neurons. Immunoreactivity for TAG-1 was lost by E12.5, followed by a gradual reduction of immunoreactivity for GAP-43 and the highly polysialylated form of NCAM. By E15, only antibodies to choline acetyltransferase (Phelps et al., J. Comp. Neurol. 307:1-10, 1990), and to neurofilaments, selectively stained motor neurons within the embryonic spinal cord. The transient presence of GAP-43, TAG-1, and the embryonic form of NCAM coincides with a period of vigorous axonal growth and declines when motor neurons reach their targets. This report describes the temporal sequence of early stages in the differentiation of the rodent motor neuronal phenotype. Some of these changes may be related to interactions with their synaptic partners.
Degenerate primers, suitable for polymerase chain reaction studies and based on the conserved structure of G protein-coupled receptors, were used to isolate cDNA clones encoding putative G protein-coupled receptors from a human hippocampal cDNA library. One clone isolated by this approach (AC1) encoded a putative receptor with 39% amino acid sequence identity to the serotonin 5HT1A receptor and 47% identity to the 5HT1D receptor. When expressed transiently in the human embryonic kidney cell line 293, AC1 cDNA-encoded receptor displayed high affinity (Kd = 15 nM) and saturability for [3H]serotonin, suggesting that AC1 encodes a 5HT1-like receptor. However, 5-carboxamidotryptamine demonstrated low affinity (pKi = 5.15) compared with serotonin (pKi = 8.14), consistent with the observed binding of the putative 5HT1E receptor. The excellent correlation observed between the pharmacology of the expressed receptor encoded by AC1 and the human brain 5HT1E binding site confirms that AC1 encodes a 5HT1E receptor and establishes a fifth 5HT1-like receptor subtype.



We made extracellular recordings from 107 spontaneously active neurons in the caudal ventrolateral medulla, after identifying the cells by antidromically activating them from the rostral ventrolateral medulla, in urethane-anesthetized rabbits. We tested the response of these neurons to inputs from baroreceptors and chemoreceptors. The median conduction velocity for antidromically activated neurons was 0.84 m/s. Raising blood pressure with intravenous noradrenaline excited 22% of 96 neurons tested, inhibited 61%, and had no effect on the remaining 17%. The spontaneous discharge rate of neurons excited by an increase in blood pressure was 1.6 +/- 0.3 spikes/s, lower than the discharge rate of neurons inhibited by this procedure (4.9 +/- 0.5 spikes/s). Excitation of chemoreceptors by hypoxia increased the discharge rate of 14/16 neurons tested in the group excited by baroreceptor inputs. In the group inhibited by baroreceptor inputs 21/35 neurons tested were excited and 12/35 neurons were inhibited by chemoreceptor inputs. Neurons excited by an increase in blood pressure were located in the previously defined caudal vasodepressor region and in a region just rostral to the obex, intermediate between the vasodepressor region and the rostral sympathoexcitatory region. These neurons may form part of the central inhibitory link in the baroreceptor-vasomotor pathway. Other antidromically activated neurons in the vasodepressor region may be inhibitory vasomotor cells with a function relatively independent of baroreceptor inputs, or they may be A1 catecholamine neurons, with axons passing through the rostral medulla en route to the forebrain.
Physiological and pharmacological studies indicate that descending projections from the prefrontal cortex modulate dopaminergic transmission in the nucleus accumbens septi and ventral tegmental area. We investigated the ultrastructural bases for these interactions in rat by examining the synaptic associations between prefrontal cortical terminals labeled with anterograde markers (lesion-induced degeneration or transport of Phaseolus vulgaris leucoagglutinin; PHA-L) and neuronal processes containing immunoreactivity for the catecholamine synthesizing enzyme, tyrosine hydroxylase. Prefrontal cortical terminals in the nucleus accumbens and ventral tegmental area contained clear, round vesicles and formed primarily asymmetric synapses on spines or small dendrites. In the ventral tegmental area, these terminals also formed asymmetric synapses on large dendrites and a few symmetric axodendritic synapses. In the nucleus accumbens septi, degenerating prefrontal cortical terminals synapsed on spiny dendrites which received convergent input from terminals containing peroxidase immunoreactivity for tyrosine hydroxylase, or from unlabeled terminals. In single sections, some tyrosine hydroxylase-labeled terminals formed thin and punctate symmetric synapses with dendritic shafts, or the heads and necks of spines. Close appositions, but not axo-axonic synapses, were frequently observed between degenerating prefrontal cortical afferents and tyrosine hydroxylase-labeled or unlabeled terminals. In the ventral tegmental area, prefrontal cortical terminals labeled with immunoperoxidase for PHA-L were in synaptic contact with dendrites containing immunogold reaction product for tyrosine hydroxylase, or with unlabeled dendrites. These results suggest that: (1) catecholaminergic (mainly dopaminergic) and prefrontal cortical terminals in the nucleus accumbens septi dually synapse on common spiny neurons; and (2) dopaminergic neurons in the ventral tegmental area receive monosynaptic input from prefrontal cortical afferents. This study provides the first ultrastructural basis for multiple sites of cellular interaction between prefrontal cortical efferents and mesolimbic dopaminergic neurons.
We previously demonstrated that substantia nigra (SN) support cells selectively increase SN dopamine (DA) neuron survival in dissociated primary culture. Increased survival was elicited specifically by nigral support cells; glia from other brain regions exerted lesser effects. We now report that Type I astrocytes, the principal component of SN support cell monolayers, mediate the enhanced DA cell survival. Initially, the predominant glial subtypes in SN support cell cultures were identified. Postnatal day 1 rat SN was dissociated and cells were grown to confluence (7-9 days in vitro; DIV). Monolayers were immunostained with antibodies against glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP; an astrocyte-specific marker), myelin basic protein (MBP; an oligodendrocyte marker), or A2B5 (recognizes 0-2A progenitors and Type II astrocytes). The number of GFAP+ cells far exceeded MBP+ and A2B5+ cells, suggesting that astrocytes constituted the predominant subpopulation. Further, direct comparison of GFAP+ (Type I and Type II astrocytes) and A2B5+ (Type II astrocytes) cells indicated that the vast majority were Type I astrocytes. Greater than 98% of cells reacted with glial antibodies. To definitively characterize the cellular subtype that augments survival of DA neurons, glial subcultures were established. At 2 DIV, enriched populations of Type I or Type II astrocytes, or oligodendrocytes, were tested for the ability to elicit DA neuron survival. Embryonic day 16 rat SN dissociates were added and DA cell number was assessed with antibody against tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), the DA biosynthetic enzyme.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Clozapine alters mesolimbic dopamine (DA) function but spares nigrostriatal DA function in laboratory animals, but the underlying mechanism is unknown. In the present study, acute intraperitoneal injection of clozapine (5-40 mg/kg) increased extracellular DA levels in nucleus accumbens (Acb) and caudate-putamen (CPu) of awake, freely moving rats as measured by in vivo brain microdialysis, without anatomic selectivity. However, in serotonin (5HT)-denervated rats acute clozapine preferentially enhanced DA levels in Acb as compared to CPu. Since (i) up-regulation of 5HT receptors on DA neurons may result from 5HT denervation, (ii) clozapine has potent anti-5HT action, and (iii) 5HT receptors are more dense in Acb than CPu, these data appear to add additional weight to previous suggestions that a serotonergic mechanism may partly underlie clozapine's mesolimbic selectivity.
The cDNA sequence of the flavoprotein subunit of bovine heart succinate dehydrogenase is reported. This is the first complete eukaryotic sequence of the flavoprotein subunit to be characterized, and it encodes a 665-amino acid protein that consists of a presequence and a 621-residue mature protein. The deduced bovine sequence shows homology to the corresponding peptides of prokaryotic succinate dehydrogenase and the related fumarate reductases; in particular, there is good overall homology (48%) to the flavoprotein subunit of Escherichia coli succinate dehydrogenase. The conserved sequences comprising the active site and those involved in FAD binding are also found in the bovine protein. The active site of the bovine polypeptide contains a cysteine that confers sensitivity of the enzyme to sulfhydryl reagents; this cysteine is only present in some sequences and thus provides a discriminatory biochemical marker. A putative flavoprotein subunit of human placental succinate dehydrogenase (partial sequence) that lacks this critical cysteine (Malcovati, M., Marchetti, T., Zanelli, T., and Tenchini, M. L. (1991) in Flavins and Flavoproteins 1990 (Curti, B., Ronchi, S., and Zanetti, G., eds) pp. 727-730, Walter de Gruyter &amp; Co., Berlin) has only 16% homology to the bovine heart flavoprotein subunit. However, we show that the enzyme from human placenta is as sensitive to N-ethylmaleimide as that from bovine tissues. In addition, a transcript in human placenta and muscle hybridizes to the bovine heart flavoprotein cDNA and is the same size as that in bovine tissues.
Nitric oxide (NO) is an important molecular messenger accounting for endothelial-derived relaxing activity in blood vessels, mediating cytotoxic actions of macrophages, and functioning as a neurotransmitter in the brain and periphery. NO synthase (NOS) from brain has been purified to homogeneity and molecularly cloned. We now report that NOS is stoichiometrically phosphorylated by cAMP dependent protein kinase, protein kinase C, and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, with each kinase phosphorylating a different serine site on NOS. Activation of PKC in transfected cells reduces NOS enzyme activity by approximately 77% in intact cells and by 50% in protein homogenates from these cells. Utilizing fluorescence spectroscopy we find that purified monomer NOS contains 1 molar equivalent of both FMN and FAD. This stoichiometry is supported by enzymatic digestion of the flavins with phosphodiesterase, and titration of the FMN with a specific FMN binding protein. We demonstrate that purified NOS is labeled by a photoaffinity derivative of calmodulin. These recognition sites on NOS provide multiple means for regulation of NO levels and &quot;cross-talk&quot; between second messenger systems.

Withdrawal of rats from chronic ethanol (2-5 g/kg, every 6 hr for 6 days) resulted in withdrawal symptomatology and dramatic fall in extracellular dopamine (DA) in the ventral striatum as measured by microdialysis. The changes in DA output paralleled the withdrawal symptomatology and both phenomena were reversed by a challenge ethanol dose (5 g/kg orally). The results suggest that the decrease in DA output may be responsible for the aversive symptoms of withdrawal.
The present work is concerned with studying of the ability of different calcium channel antagonists to modify voluntary ethanol ingestion by rats selectively bred for high ethanol preference. The compounds were given s.c. thrice daily for 5 days at doses that did not produce locomotor impairment. While nifedipine, darodipine, and verapamil (each at the dose of 20 mg/kg thrice daily) produced a modest reduction in ethanol intake, isradipine (at the dose of 1 mg/kg three times a day) reduced ethanol intake by over 70%. For all compounds, the reduction in ethanol intake was compensated by a proportional increase in water consumption and the inhibitory effect persisted throughout the 5 days of treatment. The data indicate that calcium channel antagonists exhibit quite different potency in reducing ethanol preference, however this action is a general property of this class of compounds.
We examined the nucleotide sequence of deleted part of dystrophin mRNA and its translational product with immunoblot and immunohistochemical methods in a 6-year-old boy with a deleted DMD/BMD gene. On Southern blot analysis of his genomic DNA, we found a deletion of exons 10 to 37 in the DMD/BMD gene, which was expected to preserve the translational open reading frame (ORF). Dystrophin mRNA from his biopsy sample was amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR) and sequenced. The mRNA lacked the sequence corresponding to the gene from exons 10-37, and the translational ORF was preserved. The transcript was expected to code a 260 kDa protein. Dystrophin expressed in this patient was investigated with immunological methods. A 260 kDa protein was detected by immunoblot analysis with antidystrophin antiserum against nondeleted regions. These observations confirmed the preservation of the reading frame and the 260 kDa protein was produced as a mutant dystrophin. All these are compatible with the diagnosis of BMD. However, the immunohistochemical pattern of his muscle cells was peculiar. With deleted-region-directed antiserum, the membrane was not stained at all as in DMD patients. In contrast, with nondeleted-region-directed antiserum, all the muscle cell membrane was stained continuously as in non-DMD/BMD individuals. These are quite different from the staining pattern in most BMD patients where muscles are stained patchily or discontinuously.

The situations in which the first panic attack occurred were investigated in 44 patients affected by panic disorder. Although the first panic attack was reported to be unexpected and no avoidance was present before it, 75.8% of patients (N = 22) with panic disorder with agoraphobia had their first panic attack in phobogenic situations, compared with 20% of patients (N = 3) with panic disorder without agoraphobia.
For many species, blastocyst implantation is associated with a reduction in the number of cellular and extracellular matrix layers which separate the trophoblast from maternal vasculature. Following loss of uterine epithelial cells along the distal mural trophoblast, the mouse blastocyst encounters the residual epithelial basement membrane. This sheet of extracellular matrix must be breached and later removed prior to trophoblast invasion of the uterine stroma and formation of the placenta. The interactions between the trophoblast, luminal epithelial basement membrane, and decidual cells during the time when embryonic and uterine stromal cells first achieve contact were examined in this study. Distal mural trophoblast of activated delay blastocysts was in contact with the residual luminal epithelial basement membrane 36 hr after estrogen administration. This portion of the basement membrane contained areas in which the usual linear appearance was changed to an irregular, tortuous profile. The lamina densa frequently appeared flocculent and diffuse. Cytoplasmic processes from trophoblast and decidual cells simultaneously perforated the basement membrane at multiple discrete loci. With further development the basement membrane was lost, leaving trophoblast and decidual cells in close contact over large areas. In normally implanting blastocysts a similar stage of embryonic development, as described above, was attained by 0400 hr on day 6 of pregnancy. Regions of convoluted epithelial basement membrane were also seen in these implantation sites. However, only decidual cell processes were seen penetrating the residual basement membrane. These processes extended to the fetal side of the basement membrane and separated that matrix from overlying trophoblast. They contained organelles and formed rudimentary intercellular junctions with the trophoblast.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Although exercise-induced muscle fiber hyperplasia has been demonstrated through direct fiber counts following nitric-acid digestion of muscle, morphological studies to determine the mechanism of hyperplasia have not been performed previously. In this study, light and electron microscopy were used to evaluate evidence of muscle fiber splitting or de novo formation of new muscle fibers. Since both fiber hypertrophy and hyperplasia may result in alterations in the muscle nuclear populations, myonuclear number and satellite cell frequency were assessed quantitatively to determine their role in regulating muscle fiber size. Ten adult cats performed weight-lifting exercise, and the right (exercised) and left (control) forelimbs were fixed by vascular perfusion. Spaced serial sections were used to evaluate muscle fiber morphology along the length of fibers, and muscle fiber areas were measured. Myonuclei and satellite cells were counted using electron microscopy. Morphological evidence supporting muscle fiber hyperplasia was observed in exercised muscles. These observations included the presence of small fibers which may signify de novo fiber formation. Myonuclear counts indicate that myonuclear density is not a primary regulator of fiber size. Satellite cell frequency was unchanged following exercise. Autoradiographic studies revealed satellite cell activation by uptake of tritiated thymidine in exercised muscles. Satellite cell activation appears to result from increased activity in exercised muscles. These findings confirm previous studies demonstrating muscle fiber hyperplasia following weight-lifting exercise, and suggest that de novo fiber formation is the major mechanism contributing to muscle fiber hyperplasia in this model.
We report four children with idiopathic stroke syndromes who were assayed for human leukocyte antigen (HLA) class I markers and found to have HLA-B51 in common. This finding suggests that there may be a genetic predisposition for &quot;idiopathic&quot; childhood stroke, and host factors, possibly in concert with environmental factors or viruses, may play a major role in the mechanism of unexplained occlusion of the cerebral vasculature in children.
Neurology in the twentieth century has undergone extraordinary change, particularly in the past 40 years. We trace the major trends, including the growth of the field, the technological advances, the revolution in neuroscience, the emergence of neurology as a free-standing specialty, the rise of child neurology, and the development of neurological subspecialization. Subsequent articles in this series will expand on these subjects.
Glutamate receptors are the principal excitatory neurotransmitter receptors in the central nervous system and are involved in a number of normal and pathological neuronal processes. Using subunit-specific antipeptide antibodies developed against the predicted amino acid sequences of several rat glutamate receptor cDNAs, we have identified these proteins in post-mortem human central nervous system tissue. Immunoblotting of dissected brain regions demonstrates that these receptor proteins are differentially distributed. The ability to identify these proteins in post-mortem human tissues should allow examination of the changes in levels of receptor subtypes that occur in a variety of neurological and psychiatric diseases.
In two infants with recurrent lower respiratory tract infections starting within a few weeks of birth, dynamic electromyographic studies of sucking and swallowing evidenced a disorder of lingual and pharyngeal activities responsible for the episodes of aspiration. The central location of the anomaly was demonstrated by the absence of peripheral neuromuscular anomalies and by the presence of impaired blinking reflexes and brain stem potential anomalies. These neurofunctional anomalies improved over time and magnetic resonance imaging failed to disclose and structural anomalies of the central nervous system. The occurrence of the swallowing disorder as an isolated manifestation and its long duration, with follow-ups of 23 months and 4 years, are two unique features in these cases. Neurophysiologic investigations are essential for documenting the neurologic etiology of the swallowing disorders, demonstrating their location above or within the medulla oblongata, and differentiating functional and organic anomalies.
The care and treatment of patients with known increased intracranial pressure (ICP) is one of the most challenging, important and many times difficult task a neuroscience nurse faces in the critical care setting today. Advances in technology have allowed for more precise ways of measuring ICP and with these advances, nursing care has become increasingly complex requiring quick, effective decision making and a high level of expertise for the nurse caring for these patients. The research in this area remains relatively new and the unanswered questions still tend to outweigh the conclusive findings. The research has really just begun, but what research has been done provides us with useful information in helping to provide a plan of care that can be implemented with relative success. The purpose is to review the trends in the care and treatment of patients with increased ICP over the past five years and evaluate their effectiveness based on the literature reviewed. It will also provide a basic review of the relevant physiological principles of increased ICP as related to the above case and treatment.
Rats were trained for 20 days in a modified T maze to perform an invariant, tactile discrimination and a variable, delayed spatial discrimination, and then were exposed either to 30 min of transient forebrain ischemia or to low- or high-dose ibotenic acid to damage the dorsal hippocampus bilaterally. Only rats exposed to ischemia or high-dose ibotenic acid demonstrated impaired performance during 30 postoperative test days on both aspects of the task (p less than .05). Volume of hippocampal damage did not predict performance. However, the extent of CA1 pyramidal neuron loss correlated significantly with performance on the delayed spatial discrimination (p less than .01). Damage to the dentate gyrus and CA2-3 did not correlate with performance. These results support the view that the hippocampus, in particular the CA1 region, is crucial for certain types of memory performance.
The bacterial heat-shock protein DnaJ has been implicated in protein folding and protein complex dissociation. The DnaJ protein interacts with the prokaryotic analogue of Hsp70, DnaK, and accelerates the rate of ATP hydrolysis by DnaK. Several yeast homologues of DnaJ, with different proposed subcellular localizations and functions, have recently been isolated and are the only eukaryotic forms of DnaJ so far described. We have isolated cDNAs corresponding to two alternatively spliced transcripts of a novel human gene, HSJ1, which show sequence similarity to the bacterial DnaJ protein and the yeast homologues. The cDNA clones were isolated from a human brain-frontal-cortex expression library screened with a polyclonal antiserum raised to paired-helical-filament (PHF) proteins isolated from extracts of the brains of patients suffering from Alzheimer's disease. The similarity between the predicted human protein sequences and the bacterial and yeast proteins is highest at the N-termini, this region also shows a limited similarity to viral T-antigens and is a possible common motif involved in the interaction with DnaK/Hsp70. Northern-blot analysis has shown that human brain contains higher levels of mRNA for the DnaJ homologue than other tissues examined, and hybridization studies with riboprobes in situ show a restricted pattern of expression of the mRNA within the brain, with neuronal layers giving the strongest signal. These findings suggest that the DnaJ-DnaK (Hsp70) interaction is general to eukaryotes and, indeed, to higher organisms.
Light-microscope immunocytochemistry (ICC) was used to investigate postnatal changes in the morphology of LHRH neurons in the brains of male Syrian hamsters and to relate these changes to more overt maturational developments within the hypothalamo-pituitary-gonadal axis. The animals were maintained under long-day photoperiods (14L:10D), and groups of 6-7 were killed at 10-day intervals from Day 15 to Day 65. Their brains were fixed with 4% paraformaldehyde, sectioned sagittally with a vibratome (75 microns), and processed for ICC using monoclonal LHRH antibody HU4H. Throughout the study period, the hamsters showed a progressive increase in plasma gonadotropin levels, closely followed by an increase in testicular weight and plasma testosterone levels. Histology of the testes revealed that spermatogenesis was already qualitatively completed by Day 35 and quantitative aspects were established by Day 45. Within the brain, LHRH neuronal perikarya were distributed primarily in the medial septal-preoptic area and the diagonal band of Broca; morphologically, these immunopositive neurons were either monopolar or bipolar. The total number of LHRH neurons detected in the areas examined was approximately 440 throughout the developmental period, and the relative proportions of monopolar and bipolar subtypes (86% and 14%, respectively) remained unchanged. In contrast, the area of the perikarya, as determined by autoimage analysis, showed a highly significant age-related increase, both for the monopolar and bipolar neurons. It is suggested that these developmental changes in the LHRH neurons reflect an increase in LHRH synthesis and may, therefore, provide a neuroendocrine trigger for the onset of puberty.
1. The effects of a coelenterate toxin, palytoxin (PTX) have been studied in the isolated detrusor muscle. of the rat. 2. PTX (1-100 nM) initiated concentration-dependent contractions of the detrusor; the contraction led to an irreversible tachyphylaxis. Muscle desensitized to PTX continued to respond to acetylcholine (ACh) and excess K+ but the contractions were reduced compared to pre-PTX contractions. 3. Contractions evoked by PTX were not affected by the presence of atropine (10 microM), indomethacin (10 microM) or tetrodotoxin (0.5 microM) but were greatly reduced by nifedipine (3 microM) and by the absence of K+. PTX could not evoke contractions in the absence of Ca2+ or in tissues depolarized by exposure to excess K+. 4. PTX abolished the neurogenic contractile responses to electrical field stimulation (EFS). 5. Combined treatment with atropine (10 microM) plus nifedipine (3 microM) abolished contractile responses to EFS and greatly reduced the contractile response to PTX. 6. The contractile response to PTX (100 nM) was reduced following exposure of the muscle to alpha, beta-methylene ATP. 7. Exposure to PTX (100 nM) for 1-3 h reduced both the ACh content of the detrusor (by more than 80%), and the immunoreactivity of neuropeptide Y-containing nerve fibres compared to control. 8. It is concluded that the primary effect of PTX is to promote the release of endogenous motor transmitters, leading to their eventual depletion.
The synthesis of nerve growth factor (NGF) and nerve growth factor receptor (NGFR) were studied in a C6 glioma cell line by Northern blot hybridization. In response to a glutamate agonist N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA), NGF mRNA increased by up to 2-fold after 4-12 h of culture. The non-NMDA receptor agonists, quisqualate and kainate, did not induce any increase of NGF mRNA, and kainate actually produced a decrease. The increase in NGF mRNA in response to NMDA was dose-dependent at 1, 5 and 10 microM. NGF receptor (NGFR) mRNA showed changes in expression which were similar to those for NGF mRNA, but were less marked. The specific glutamate antagonist 2-aminophosphonovaleric acid (APV) blocked the increase of NGF mRNA produced by NMDA. In the absence of Ca2+, an increase of NGF mRNA was still observed but in the presence of 1 mM ethylglycol-bis-(beta-aminoethyl ether) N,N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA), NGF mRNA production abolished. The mechanism producing an increase in NGF mRNA by NMDA may be mediated by cyclic AMP since intracellular cyclic AMP and NGF mRNA levels both increased following treatment with NMDA or dibutyryl cyclic AMP.
This paper reviews the literature pertaining to seasonal patterns in psychiatric illnesses. Evidence on the season of birth phenomenon suggests that a greater risk of pre-, peri-, or post-natal damage is associated with the winter months. There is currently insufficient evidence to pinpoint the exact mechanism involved or to ascertain whether the mechanism is common to each condition. Studies of seasonal patterns of incidence of psychiatric disorders have highlighted the role of seasonally regulated environmental factors on internal biological processes. There is growing evidence that serotonin is involved in a variety of psychiatric disorders. Seasonal patterns have been observed in processes involving serotonergic functioning. Furthermore, it has been postulated that these processes may be influenced by photoperiod, suggesting that the seasonal patterns of incidence of several psychiatric conditions may share a common neurophysiological substrate.
P1 and P2 components of visual evoked responses (VERs) to flash stimuli were compared between patients diagnosed as suffering from Senile Dementia of the Alzheimer Type (AD) and elderly controls. Additionally the P100 component of the VER to pattern reversal stimuli at high and low contrast and using large and small check patterns was compared. Significant differences between moderate AD patients and the normal elderly were found for the P2 component of the flash stimulus and for the P100 component of the high spatial frequency pattern reversal stimuli at low contrast. These findings suggest a deficit in primary visual processing and a selective deficit in secondary visual processing in moderate cases of dementia. This indicates that visual processing capacities of AD patients decline as the disease progresses in line with the continual degeneration of neuronal populations involved with vision.
In the past 2 years powerful evidence has emerged to suggest that nitric oxide functions as a neurotransmitter in both the central and peripheral nervous systems. Recent evidence suggests that it may play a role in mediating forms of synaptic plasticity such as long-term potentiation in the CA1 region of the hippocampus, and long-term depression in the cerebellum. Abnormal secretion of nitric oxide may be responsible for the neurotoxicity mediated by NMDA receptors that results in the pathophysiology of strokes and neurodegenerative diseases.
In the past year significant advances have been made in our understanding of the role of protein dephosphorylation in the control of neuronal function. Molecular cloning has identified a large number of serine/threonine and tyrosine protein phosphatases in the nervous system. Many of these enzymes are selectively enriched in the nervous system, some are localized to specific neurons, and yet others are expressed only during specific periods of neuronal development. The availability of purified protein phosphatases and selective inhibitors has facilitated the analysis of these enzymes and their role in the regulation of neurotransmitter receptors and ion channels.
The ability of 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to produce parkinsonism has focused attention on potential endogenous or exogenous toxins that may follow similar uptake and conversion pathways to selectively target mitochondrial function in dopaminergic neurones. Exposure to such agents, together with a genetically determined susceptibility, is an attractive working hypothesis for the cause of Parkinson's disease. New insights into the mechanism of action of MPTP and its analogues are presented together with evidence supporting the potential role of endogenously produced toxins in the death of dopaminergic neurones in Parkinson's disease.
Correlation between mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) mutations and biochemical defects associated with several mitochondrial disorders is now possible using cybrid fusions. An understanding of the clinical heterogeneity of many inherited disorders may begin from the observation that different manifestations parallel different mutations in the same gene and, consequently, different activities of the aberrant enzyme in the body.
Current literature on neuropathies caused by metabolic defects and exogenous toxins is reviewed. Recent work on the molecular basis of hereditary amyloidosis is initially considered followed by various aspects of diabetic neuropathy and then the effects of ciguatoxin and podophyllin on peripheral nerves.
In the avian stretch model, the application of a weight overload to the humerus induces enlargement of the anterior latissimus dorsi (ALD) muscle and an increase in muscle fiber number which is accompanied by satellite cell activation. Myofiber injury may be an important stimulus to muscle fiber hyperplasia; therefore, light and electron microscopic evaluation was undertaken to determine if myofiber injury occurs in the stretch-enlarged ALD muscle of the adult quail. Autoradiographic studies were used to determine the terminal differentiation of labeled myogenic cells. A weight equal to 10% of body mass was attached to one wing of 27 adult quail and 3 birds were euthanized at 9 intervals of stretch, from 1 to 30 days. Birds were injected with tritiated thymidine at intervals ranging from 1 hr to 3 days prior to euthanization. Labeled nuclei were detected by light microscopic examination and identified by electron microscopy of a serial section. Three regions of the muscle were examined for disorganization of contractile elements, presence of cytoplasmic vacuoles, and/or phagocytic cell infiltration. The percentage of fibers exhibiting one or more of these criterion was significantly greater in the stretched ALD by Days 5 and 7 and declined at Day 10, reaching near control values by Day 14. Myofiber necrosis and phagocytic cell infiltration were only observed in the middle and distal regions of the stretched ALD muscle. Traditional signs of regeneration and repair were observed, including clusters of labeled myoblast-like cells and myotube formation within an existing basal lamina. New myotube formation with labeled central nuclei was also noted in the interstitial space, outside of basal lamina of persisting fibers. Labeled myonuclei were observed in the stretched fibers. These results demonstrate that chronic stretch produces regional injury and fiber degeneration and resultant regeneration in the ALD muscle of the adult quail. This may be an important stimulus for new fiber formation in this model.
The development of neuronal dendrites dramatically changes in the medullary respiratory centers from prenatal to postnatal periods. The number of spines increases with gestation and decreases rapidly after birth in controls, but persist in sudden infant death syndrome patients. These abnormalities including neurotransmitters may cause a maladaptation in the development of cardiorespiratory control.

The induction of ornithine decarboxylase (ODC) in adult CNS and the resulting changes in polyamine levels are often observed under conditions associated with activation of NMDA receptors, calpain stimulation and spectrin degradation. The present study was directed at evaluating the links between these two sets of events. We measured the effects of an acute treatment of adult rats with difluoromethylornithine (DFMO), an irreversible inhibitor of ODC, on biochemical alterations following kainate-induced seizure activity. Beside ODC activity and polyamine levels, we assayed the in situ spectrin degradation and the in vitro binding of 3H-Ro5-4864, a ligand for the peripheral benzodiazepine binding sites which is a good marker of glial proliferation, at various time intervals following systemic kainic acid (KA) injection. Kainate-induced seizure activity was followed by a transient increase in ODC activity, a long-lasting increase in putrescine levels and spectrin degradation, and a delayed increase in 3H-Ro5-4864 binding, mainly in hippocampus and piriform cortex. Treatment of the animals with DFMO markedly reduced the increase in putrescine levels up to 7 days after KA injection. It also reduced the increase in spectrin breakdown observed at 16 h but not at 4 and 7 days after KA injection. Finally, it did not modify the increase in 3H-Ro5-4864 binding measured 4 and 7 days after KA injection. The levels of putrescine were positively correlated with the extent of spectrin proteolysis in KA-treated animals whether or not they were treated with DFMO, at 16 h but not at 7 days after KA injection. The results indicate that the extent of spectrin breakdown observed shortly after KA-induced seizure activity is causally related to the changes in ODC activity and putrescine levels. Although the data are consistent with the idea that putrescine could be a marker for acute pathology, they do not support a role for polyamines in delayed neurotoxicity.
The aim of this study was to examine the effects of electrical acustimulation on gastric myoelectric activity and severity of symptoms of motion sickness. In experiment 1, 16 Chinese subjects received electrical acustimulation in one of two sessions. In experiment 2, 45 white and black American subjects were randomly divided into three groups: acustimulation, sham acustimulation, and control. Each subject sat in an optokinetic drum for 15 minutes baseline and 15 minutes of drum rotation. Subjects' electrogastrograms and subjective symptoms of motion sickness were obtained. In experiment 1, the mean symptom score and tachyarrhythmia during acustimulation sessions were significantly lower than during no-acustimulation sessions. In experiment 2, the mean symptom score of the acustimulation group was significantly lower than that of the sham-stimulation group and the control group; tachyarrhythmia in the acustimulation group was significantly less than that of the control group but not the sham-stimulation group. In conclusion, electrical acustimulation reduces the severity of symptoms of motion sickness and appears to decrease gastric tachyarrhythmia.

A glass multimicroelectrode system for simultaneous intracellular recordings is described in which four pieces of micropipettes with rectangular cross section are arranged in a square compartment. Each tip position is shifted from the central axis of the electrode stem toward the crest line of its corner. Such micropipettes are mechanically bundled to one another so that the horizontal spacing among tips can be made shorter than the electrode diameter and components are independently penetrable. This paper offers techniques for fabricating such an eccentric micropipette. Finally, an example of simultaneous recordings of intracellular membrane potentials in the carp retina is demonstrated. This paper provides a technique which would allow researchers to record from three or four neurons simultaneously.

We have demonstrated that CD45, a receptor-type protein tyrosine phosphatase, selectively regulates IgG production at the generative phase of precursors of IgG producers whereas Lyb-2 regulates IgG1 production induced by IL-4 in lipopolysaccharide (LPS)-activated B cells by acting on the generation of IgG1 precursor cells. These results point to an interesting possibility that both CD45 and Lyb-2 mediate a critical regulatory step(s) in IgG class switching. The present study was conducted to examine this possibility by elucidating the molecular mechanisms whereby CD45 and Lyb-2 control IgG synthesis in B cells activated by LPS and IL-4. Northern blot analysis showed that steady-state levels of C gamma 3, C gamma 2b and C gamma 1, but not Cmu, mRNA in LPS-activated B cells were reduced approximately 3- to 5-fold by CD45 mAb, and that the C gamma 1 mRNA level in B cells activated by LPS and IL-4 was significantly decreased by Lyb-2 mAb and CD45 mAb. Further, CD45 mAb inhibited expression of germline gamma 2b and gamma 3 transcripts induced by LPS and germline gamma 1 transcript expression induced by IL-4 plus LPS, but caused no inhibition in IL-4-induced germline gamma 1 transcript expression. In contrast, Lyb-2 mAb did not exert any inhibitory effect on the generation of germline gamma 1 transcripts induced by IL-4 and LPS or by IL-4 alone.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Based on physiological and psychophysical data, it has been suggested that the neural code for threshold detection in the P channel, mediated by Pacinian corpuscles (PCs), may be 2-4 neural impulses/stimulus (Bolanowski et al., 1988). To further test the efficacy of this code, responses from PCs were measured at different vibratory burst durations. Since it is known that the P channel has the capacity to summate vibratory stimuli temporally within the central nervous system, the effect should also be present in the physiological results. Temporal summation predicts a decrease in threshold at a rate of -3 dB/doubling of stimulus duration. Responses from single PCs were integrated by counting neural spikes over the entire burst duration. Furthermore, real-time responses were integrated with a low-pass filter, more accurately modeling the central process. For the spike-counting scheme, a criterion of 4 impulses/stimulus showed a decrease in stimulus amplitude for increases in duration similar to that obtained psychophysically. The amplitude-duration function obtained with the low-pass filter, however, resulted in a function which did not follow that obtained psychophysically, regardless of the number of impulses/stimulus. Since the P channel is known to have a central integrator, it has been concluded that activity of a single PC afferent probably is not sufficient to signal threshold in the P channel.
Previous research into stress in nursing has identified different sources of stress for different specialties without specifying the source of that stress or providing comprehensive understanding of the variables that might contribute to it. This study examines the work environment of 209 nursing staff using the Work Environment Scale. Significant differences were found between a UK sample and the original American norms. Further research highlighted significant interactional effects between demographic variables and the subscales of the WES, and these may form the basis for future research.
The protein product of the proto-oncogene c-src is a membrane-associated tyrosine kinase of unknown function. Identification of pp60c-src target membranes may elucidate the function of the c-src protein. The available evidence indicates that pp60c-src associates with distinct membranes within single cell types and has different distributions in different cell types. Our experiments demonstrate targeting of pp60c-src to an isolatable and biochemically identified membrane fraction in the neuroendocrine cell line PC12. The c-src protein was found to be specifically associated with synaptic vesicles since: (a) the pp60c-src immunofluorescent pattern overlapped with a synaptic vesicle marker, synaptophysin; (b) a significant proportion (44%) of the pp60c-src from PC12 but not fibroblast postnuclear supernatants was recovered in a small vesicle fraction; (c) an anti-synaptophysin cytoplasmic domain antibody immunodepleted all of the pp60c-src vesicles in this fraction, and (d) pp60c-src copurified during a 100-fold purification of PC12 synaptic vesicles. These results suggest a role for the c-src protein in the regulation of synaptic vesicle function.
The microtubule-associated protein tau is a developmentally regulated family of neuronal phosphoproteins that promotes the assembly and stabilization of microtubules. The carboxy-terminal half of the protein contains three copies of an imperfectly repeated sequence; this region has been found to bind microtubules in vitro. In addition, a fourth copy of the repeat has been found in adult-specific forms of tau protein. To examine the structure and function of tau protein in vivo, we have transiently expressed fetal and adult forms of tau protein and tau protein fragments in tissue culture cells. Biochemical analysis reveals full-length products with heterogeneity in post-translational modification synthesized in the cells. Immunofluorescent staining of transfected cells shows that, under our conditions, sequences on both sides of the repeat region are required for in vivo microtubule co-localization. These additional regions may be required either for enhancing microtubule contacts or for proper protein folding in the cell. In our expression system, the bundling of cellular microtubules occurs only in transfections using four-repeat tau constructs; any four-repeat construct capable of binding is also able to induce bundling. Our data suggest that the presence of bundles is correlated with enhanced microtubule stability; factors that increase stability such as higher levels of tau protein expression or the presence of the fourth repeat, increase the fraction of transfected cells showing bundles. Finally, the presence of tau protein in the cell allows all interphase microtubules to become acetylated, a post-translational modification usually reserved for a subset of stable cellular microtubules.
Clinical neuropsychology has made significant progress during the past 30 years. Practice and research have expanded remarkably in scope and are more incisive and more highly focused. There has been an explosive development of test methods but clinical neuropsychologists have yet to take full advantage of them. An effort should be made to combine the strengths of the &quot;fixed battery&quot; and &quot;flexible&quot; approaches to assessment. Further advances in neuropsychological assessment will come about only to the degree that they are linked to evolving concepts of brain-behavior relationships. Neuropsychologists now require a deeper understanding of basic neuroscience and cognitive psychology than was true in the past. Steps should be taken to insure that training to achieve that understanding is provided to the upcoming generation of neuropsychologists.
In conscious animals, handling and immobilization increase plasma levels of the catecholamines norepinephrine (NE) and epinephrine (EPI). This study examined plasma concentrations of endogenous compounds related to catecholamine synthesis and metabolism during and after exposure to these stressors in conscious rats. Plasma levels of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA), NE, EPI, and dopamine (DA), the deaminated catechol metabolites 3,4-dihydroxyphenylglycol (DHPG), and 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC), and their O-methylated derivatives methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol (MHPG) and homovanillic acid (HVA) were measured using liquid chromatography with electrochemical detection at 1, 3, 5, 20, 60, and 120 min of immobilization. By 1 min of immobilization, plasma NE and EPI levels had already reached peak values, and plasma levels of DOPA, DHPG, DOPAC, and MHPG were increased significantly from baseline, whereas plasma DA and HVA levels were unchanged. During the remainder of the immobilization period, the increased levels of DOPA, NE, and EPI were maintained, whereas levels of the metabolites progressively increased. In animals immobilized briefly (5 min), elevated concentrations of the metabolites persisted after release from the restraint, whereas DOPA and catecholamine levels returned to baseline. Gentle handling for 1 min also significantly increased plasma levels of DOPA, NE, EPI, and the NE metabolites DHPG and MHPG, without increasing levels of DA or HVA. The results show that in conscious rats, immobilization or even gentle handling rapidly increases plasma levels of catecholamines, the catecholamine precursor DOPA, and metabolites of NE and DA, indicating rapid increases in the synthesis, release, reuptake, and metabolism of catecholamines.
We have isolated the 5' flanking DNA sequences of the human gene encoding the 67,000-M(r) form of glutamate decarboxylase (GAD67), the gamma-aminobutyric acid synthetic enzyme. Transcription begins at a single promoter (P1) in adult brain but at two tandem promoters, P1 and P2, in fetal brain. P1, which is 3' to P2, resembles the promoter regions of many constitutively expressed genes, whereas P2 resembles a tissue-specific promoter. P1 contains a 10-base sequence (dec-1) that closely matches the element I cis-regulatory sequence identified in the promoter region of Drosophila 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine decarboxylase. Gel shift and transient expression assays demonstrate that the dec-1 sequence plays a role in the transcription of the human GAD67 gene.
Rat-1 fibroblasts were transduced to express Drosophila choline acetyltransferase. The presence of an active enzyme in these cells (Rat-1/dChAT) was confirmed using various methods. Rat-1/dChAT fibroblasts released acetylcholine (ACh) into the culture medium. Moreover, intra- and extracellular levels of ACh could be increased by adding exogenous choline chloride. In addition, serum starvation or confluence-induced quiescence caused an 80% decrease in recombinant choline acetyltransferase activity (compared with actively growing cells). ACh release was also repressed in quiescent fibroblast cultures. Exogenous choline could mitigate the decrease in ACh release. These results indicate that Rat-1 fibroblasts can be genetically modified to produce ACh and that ACh release can be controlled by introducing choline into the culture medium. Furthermore, these data demonstrate that the expression of the retroviral promoter used in this study decreases with the onset of quiescence; however, exogenous choline can increase the amount of ACh released by quiescent fibroblasts.
Investigation of neuroendocrine genes has revealed that transcription is regulated via multiple DNA binding sites, including the cyclic AMP response element (CRE). We show here that for the neuronal and chromaffin-specific gene tyrosine hydroxylase (TH), a 70-bp region (-229 to -160) lacking the CRE is sufficient, in either orientation, to confer levels of chloramphenicol acetyltransferase reporter expression equivalent to or greater than that conferred by 4.8 kb of the rat TH enhancer/promoter region. The 70-bp region contains potential binding sites for AP2, AP1, E2A/MyoD, and POU transcription factors, and functions when linked to the TH promoter, but not when joined to a heterologous RSV promoter. This demonstrates that promoter as well as enhancer elements are important for TH expression. In gel-shift assays, the 70-bp fragment forms a cell type-specific complex with nuclear extracts from TH-expressing cells. which is effectively competed by an oligonucleotide containing AP2, AP1, and E2A/MyoD (E box) sites, but not by one containing the POU site. These data suggest that the AP2, AP1, and/or E box sites may be involved in forming the cell-specific complex. Although it lacks an authentic CRE, the 70-bp region also mediated a twofold transcriptional response to forskolin, equivalent to that found with the endogenous gene. A different region (-60 to -29) bearing a consensus CRE mediated a sixfold increase in transcription in response to forskolin, but only minimally activated basal transcription from the TH promoter in the absence of forskolin.
Previous electrophysiological studies in the rat suggest that neurons in the diagonal band of Broca participate in baroreceptor-induced suppression of the spontaneous activity of vasopressin-secreting neurons in the hypothalamic supraoptic nucleus. In order to test this hypothesis, extracellular recordings were obtained from phasically-active vasopressin neurons in the supraoptic nucleus of anesthetized rats injected at least 3 days previously with ibotenic acid (1.25 g/250 nl) in the diagonal band of Broca, the medial and lateral septum, or the median preoptic nucleus. In normal rats, brief increases in blood pressure produced by injections of metaraminol (10 g/10 l iv) that were sufficient to activate peripheral baroreceptors, suppressed the activity of a majority (21 tested, 19 suppressed) of phasically-active vasopressin-secreting neurons. In rats with ibotenic acid lesions of the diagonal band of Broca, the number of phasically-active neurons that were baroreceptor-sensitive was significantly reduced (21 tested, 8 suppressed) while lesions of the medial and lateral septum (17 tested, 16 suppressed) or the median preoptic nucleus (21 tested, 20 suppressed) had no effect. The results support the hypothesis that diagonal band of Broca neurons participate in a central pathway mediating the inhibitory effects of peripheral baroreceptor stimulation on the activity of vasopressin-secreting neurons in the rat supraoptic nucleus.

Patients with &quot;migraine aura without headache&quot; can be separated from those with transient ischaemic attacks (TIA) on the basis of the onset of symptoms, which is generally gradual and which spread or intensify over minutes or hours, and from the typical migrainous nature of their visual symptoms. Fifty cases were prospectively identified and these were compared with 50 age matched patients with a TIA. Surprisingly, there were no significant differences in the prevalence of vascular risk factors and diseases in the two groups although those with TIAs tended to have more. Only one patient with &quot;migraine aura without headache&quot; suffered a subsequent vascular event (a myocardial infarction). Three patients with TIAs had strokes and two others died from vascular disease. Although the results are not conclusive, they do suggest that patients with the clinical characteristics of &quot;migraine aura without headache&quot; have a low risk of subsequent vascular events, lower than those with TIAs, despite perhaps having similar prevalence of vascular risk factors. Although their risk factors should be treated, patients with &quot;migraine aura without headache&quot; should be reassured and not subjected to inappropriate and potentially hazardous investigations and treatment.
An overall measure of the recovery of visual neglect in patients with an acute stroke is described: The &quot;Visual Neglect Recovery Inde&quot; (VNRI) expresses the amount of visual neglect on a battery of visual neglect tests as a percentage of complete recovery from the maximal visual neglect measurable. The principles underlying the development of the index are similar to those involved in the development of the Motricity Index for hemiplegia. A population of 68 survivors of stroke who presented with visual neglect at two to three days were followed for up to six months. The VNRI showed that neglect was greater in those with right hemisphere stroke than in those with left hemisphere stroke and that recovery was most rapid over the first 10 days and reached a plateau at three months. Most patients, including many with severe initial visual neglect, showed little visual neglect at three months. Stepwise regression analysis showed that the severity of visual neglect at three months and at six months post-stroke could be predicted by the severity of visual neglect and the presence of anosognosia at two to three days. A regression equation was produced which may enable clinicians to select patients for intensive treatment of visual neglect.
1. The vestibuloocular reflex (VOR) undergoes long-term adaptive changes in the presence of persistent retinal image motion during head turns. Previous experiments using natural stimuli have provided evidence that the VOR is subserved by parallel pathways, including some that are modified during learning and some that are not. We have used electrical stimulation of the vestibular labyrinth to investigate the temporal properties of the signals that are transmitted through the modified pathways. 2. Electrodes were implanted chronically in the superior semi-circular canal, the horizontal canal, or the vestibule for electrical activation of the vestibular afferents. Learning was induced by fitting the monkeys with spectacles that magnified or miniaturized vision. Before, during, and after motor learning, we measured the eye movements evoked by electrical stimulation of the labyrinth as well as the gain of the VOR, defined as eye speed divided by head speed during natural vestibular stimulation in the dark. 3. Trains of pulses applied to the labyrinth caused the eyes to move away from the side of stimulation with an initial rapid change in eye velocity followed by a steady-state plateau. Changes in the gain of the VOR caused large changes in the trajectory and magnitude of eye velocity during the plateau, showing that our stimulating electrodes had access to the modified pathways. 4. A single, brief current pulse applied to the labyrinth evoked an eye movement that had a latency of 5 ms and consisted of a pulse of eye velocity away from the side of the stimulation followed by a rebound toward the side of stimulation. To quantify the effect of motor learning on these eye movements, we pooled the data across different VOR gains and computed the slope of the relationship between eye velocity and VOR gain at each millisecond after the stimulus. We refer to the slope as the &quot;modification index.&quot; 5. In comparison with the evoked eye velocity, the modification index took longer to return to baseline and showed a large peak at the time of the rebound in eye velocity. Increases in stimulus current increased both the amplitude and the duration of the modification index and revealed several later peaks. These observations suggest that the full expression of motor learning requires activation of multisynaptic pathways and recruitment of primary vestibular afferents with higher thresholds for electrical stimulation. 6. The modification index was almost always positive during the initial deflection in eye velocity, and the latency of the first change in the modification index was usually the same as the latency of the evoked eye movement.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. Responses of spinothalamic tract (STT) neurons to mechanical and thermal stimulation of skin were recorded under urethane and pentobarbital anesthesia in 12 control rats and in 20 rats with experimental neuropathy. Activity of the STT cells in neuropathic rats was recorded 7, 14, and 28 days after inducing the neuropathy by placing four loose ligatures on the sciatic nerve. 2. All neuropathic animals showed guarding of the injured hindpaw and a shorter withdrawal latency from a radiant heat source of the neuropathic hindpaw than that of the sham-operated paw. 3. STT neurons in neuropathic animals showed the most profound changes 7 and 14 days after the nerve ligation. When compared with STT cells in unoperated animals, approximately half of the neurons had high background activity, responses to innocuous stimuli represented a larger percentage of the total evoked activity in wide dynamic range neurons, and the occurrence and magnitude of afterdischarges to mechanical and thermal stimuli were increased. 4. The mean threshold temperatures of heat-evoked responses of the STT cells in neuropathic animals were not different than those of cells from control animals. However, in neuropathic rats, cells reacting to small heat stimuli usually already had afterdischarges. 5. The increase in the background activity of STT cells is consistent with behavioral observations of spontaneous pain in this model of experimental neuropathy. Furthermore, the afterdischarges of STT cells may parallel the prolonged paw withdrawal in response to noxious stimuli that is seen in these animals and that is evidence for hyperalgesia. However, there was no indication of a lowered threshold for thermal stimuli as might be expected if the animals have thermal allodynia. Mechanical allodynia may have resulted from a relative increase in responsiveness to innocuous mechanical stimuli. However, responses to noxious mechanical stimuli were reduced compared with control, at least at 28 days after the ligation. Peripheral and central mechanisms responsible for the changes in responses of STT cells in neuropathic animals are suggested.
Transient potassium currents in mammalian central neurons influence both the repolarization of single action potentials and the timing of repetitive action potential generation. How these currents are integrated into neuronal function will depend on their specific properties: channel availability at the resting potential, activation threshold, inactivation rate, and current density. We here report on the voltage-gated transient potassium currents in embryonic mouse hippocampal neurons dissected at embryonic days 15-16 and grown in dissociated cell culture for up to 3 d. Two transient potassium currents, A-current and D-current, were isolated based on steady state inactivation and sensitivity to 4-aminopyridine (4-AP) and dendrotoxin (DTx). A-current had an activation threshold of approximately -50 mV and was half-inactivated at approximately -81 mV. A-current relaxations at voltages between -40 and +40 mV could be fit by single exponential functions with time constants of 20-25 msec; these time constants showed little sensitivity to voltage. In contrast, D-current had an activation threshold of between -40 and -30 mV and was half-inactivated at approximately -22 mV. D-current inactivation was voltage dependent; time constants of fitted exponential functions ranged from approximately 7 sec at -40 mV to 200 msec at +40 mV. A slower component of inactivation was also evident. D-current was preferentially blocked by 4-AP (100 microM) and DTx (1 microM). Operationally, A- and D-currents could be cleanly separated based on conditioning pulse potential and 4-AP sensitivity. Total transient potassium current amplitude increased during the time that neurons were in culture (recordings were made between 2 hr after dissociation and 3 d in culture). When normalized for cell capacitance (an index of membrane area), A-current density (pA/pF) decreased and D-current density increased, even during a period between days 1 and 3 when total transient current density remained constant. This observation suggests that A- and D-currents may be reciprocally modulated. Since blockade of D-current (with 100 microM 4-AP) increased both action potential duration and repetitive firing in response to constant current stimulation, long-term modulation of the A-current:D-current ratio may affect the excitability of hippocampal neurons.
Autopsy serves to monitor quality of care, determines means of death in puzzling medical situations and medicolegal cases, documents true disease rates and provides other essential data for registries and research. This article discusses the current status of autopsy, reasons for the declining rate, and myths commonly held by patients and their families. The neuroscience nurse can clarify misperceptions, provide accurate and timely information in a sensitive and articulate manner, and support patients and their families in their decisions about autopsy.
Two clonal immortalized neurons designated SN6.1b and SN6.2a were isolated by limiting dilution from a mouse embryonic septal cholinergic neuronal hybrid cell line SN6 (Hammond et al., 1986). In the serum-containing medium without extra differentiating agents, one-third of SN6.1b cells stably exhibited a morphology of differentiated neurons with extensive elaborate neurites, while a majority of SN6.2a cells, along with the parent cell line SN6, were round in shape with poorly branched short processes. Neurochemical studies showed that both clones synthesized choline acetyltransferase (ChAT), dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin, and glutamate. Immunocytochemically, they expressed a number of neuronal antigens, such as 200-kDa neurofilament protein, neuron-specific enolase, microtubule-associated protein 2, tau protein, tubulin, neural cell adhesion molecule, Thy-1.2, saxitoxin-binding sodium channel protein, ChAT, tyrosine hydroxylase, serotonin, and glutamate. The coexistence of cholinergic, catecholaminergic, serotonergic, and glutamatergic neurotransmitter markers in the clonal hybrid septal neurons that express a variety of immunocytochemical properties of differentiated neurons suggests that embryonic septal cholinergic neurons are potentially multiphenotypic with respect to neurotransmitter synthesis.
Alterations in cellular membrane structure and the subsequent failure of its function after CNS ischemia were monitored by analyzing changes in the plasma membrane marker enzyme (Na(+) + K(+)-ATPase. The levels of two isozymes of (Na(+) + K(+)-ATPase, alpha+ and alpha, which have distinct cellular and anatomical distributions, were studied to determine if differential cellular damage occurs in primary and peri-ischemic injury areas. The efficacy of monosialoganglioside (GM1) treatment was assessed, since this glycosphingolipid has been shown to reduce ischemic injury by protecting cell membrane structure/function. Using a rat model of cortical focal ischemia, levels of both ATPase isozyme activities were assayed in total membrane fractions from primary ischemic tissue (parietal cortex) and three peri-ischemic tissue areas (frontal, occipital, and temporal cortex) at 1, 3, 5, 7, and 14 days after ischemia. No significant loss of either isozyme's activity occurred in any tissue area at 1 day after ischemia. At 5 days, in the primary ischemic area, both isozyme activity levels decreased by 70-75%. The alpha+ enzyme activity loss persisted up to 14 days, while a 17% recovery in alpha activity occurred. In the three peri-ischemic tissue areas, enzyme activity losses ranged from 42%-59% at 3 days after ischemia. A complete restoration of both isozyme activities was seen at 14 days. After three days of GM1 ganglioside treatment there was no loss of total (Na*+) + K(+)-ATPase activity in the three peri-ischemic areas, and a significantly reduced loss in the primary infarct tissue. An autoradiographic analysis of brain coronal sections using 3H-ouabain supports the enzymatic data and GM1 effects. Reductions in 3H-ouabain binding in all cortical layers at 3 days after ischemia were visualized. GM1 treatment significantly reduced these 3H-ouabain binding losses. In summary, time-dependent quantitative changes in activity levels of ATPase isozymes (alpha+ and alpha) reflect the different degree of membrane damage that occurs in primary vs. peri-ischemic tissues (e.g., irreversible vs. reversible membrane damage), and that ischemia affects cell membranes of all neural elements in a largely similar fashion. GM1 ganglioside was found to reduce plasma membrane damage in all CNS cell types.
Retrograde thrombosis of feeding arteries is a potentially catastrophic complication occasionally reported following resection of arteriovenous malformations (AVM's). No successful therapy for this condition, which causes postoperative stroke, has previously been reported. A case of retrograde thrombosis of the left middle cerebral artery immediately following resection of a parietal AVM is reported in a patient with a retained intra-arterial catheter from preoperative embolization. The administration of urokinase within 4 hours of surgery resulted in dramatic clinical and angiographic improvement without hemorrhagic complications. While urokinase is considered highly experimental in this setting, this case demonstrates that thrombolytic agents should be viewed as therapeutic options worthy of further investigation.
Dihydroxyphenylalanine (dopa), the precursor of all the endogenous catecholamines, circulates in plasma at a concentration higher than that of the sympathetic neurotransmitter, norepinephrine (NE). Sources of dopa in plasma and the meaning of plasma dopa levels in terms of sympathoneural function have been unclear. Plasma concentrations of dopa, the catecholamines NE, epinephrine and dopamine, the deaminated catechol metabolites dihydroxyphenylglycol and dihydroxyphenylacetic acid, and the O-methylated metabolites methoxyhydroxyphenylglycol and homovanillic acid were measured during immobilization stress in conscious rats. Animals were pretreated with chlorisondamine to block ganglionic neurotransmission or with alpha-methyl-para-tyrosine to inhibit tyrosine hydroxylation. Immobilization produced rapid, sustained increases in plasma levels of dopa, catecholamines and catecholamine metabolites. Chlorisondamine decreased base-line plasma dopa and NE levels and abolished the increases in plasma dopa and NE levels during immobilization. alpha-Methyl-para-tyrosine administration produced sustained decreases in plasma dopa levels and markedly attenuated immobilization-induced increases in plasma dopa levels. Bilateral adrenalectomy augmented base-line plasma levels of dopa and NE and augmented dopa and NE responses during immobilization. The results indicate that during immobilization stress, increased postganglionic sympathoneural outflow stimulates the synthesis of dopa in sympathetic neurones and enhances release of dopa into the circulation. The data generally support the view that changes in plasma dopa levels during stress reflect in vivo changes in the rate of catecholamine biosynthesis in sympathetic nerve terminals.

Calcium-induced calcium release (CICR) pools have been demonstrated in brain and heart microsomes biochemically and autoradiographically by the sensitivity of 45Ca2+ accumulation to Mg2+, ATP, ruthenium red, caffeine, and tetracaine. The CICR pool colocalizes with [3H]ryanodine binding sites, supporting the notion that [3H]ryanodine labels CICR pools. Sites of CICR pools in the brain contrast with those of inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3)-sensitive Ca2+ pools with reciprocal localizations between the two Ca2+ pools in several structures. Thus, in the hippocampus CA-1 is enriched in IP3-sensitive Ca2+ pools, whereas CICR pools are highest in CA-3 and the dentate gyrus. The corpus striatum and cerebellum are enriched in IP3 pools, whereas the medial septum and olfactory bulb have high CICR densities. In cardiac tissue, CICR is localized to atrial and ventricular muscle, whereas IP3 pools are concentrated in coronary vessels and cardiac conduction fibers. The reciprocal enrichment of IP3 and CICR Ca2+ pools implies differential regulation of Ca2+ hemostasis in these tissues.
Recent studies have demonstrated transcriptional activation domains within the tumor suppressor protein p53, while others have described specific DNA-binding sites for p53, implying that the protein may act as a transcriptional regulatory factor. We have used a reiterative selection procedure (CASTing: cyclic amplification and selection of targets) to identify new specific binding sites for p53, using nuclear extracts from normal human fibroblasts as the source of p53 protein. The preferred consensus is the palindrome GGACATGCCCGGGCATGTCC. In vitro-translated p53 binds to this sequence only when mixed with nuclear extracts, suggesting that p53 may bind DNA after posttranslational modification or as a complex with other protein partners. When placed upstream of a reporter construct, this sequence promotes p53-dependent transcription in transient transfection assays.
The development of neurochemical knowledge is traced through the following stages: (1) Beginnings with academic medicine: a dissertation of 1719, (2) Relations with chemistry and scientific journals of around 1800, (3) A review and the naming of neurochemistry in 1856, (4) Government publication of neurochemistry; a full-time chemist of the brain, (5) Success in a biochemical environment, 1900-1940, (6) Neurochemistry with the neurosciences, (7) Neurochemical environments of 1955-1957.
Inhibition of [3H]-5-hydroxytryptamine ([3H]-5-HT) release from guinea pig brain slices via activation of the terminal 5-HT autoreceptor has previously been characterised as a model of 5-HT1D receptor activation, based on the rank potencies of a range of agonists, and the potent antagonism of the inhibitory effects of 5-HT by metitepine. The present study uses this model, in slices of the guinea pig hippocampus, to examine the antagonist potency of metitepine against the 5-HT receptor agonists sumatriptan, 5-carboxamidotryptamine (5-CT) and 5-HT. Addition of metitepine to the perfusion buffer (30, 300 and 1000 nmol/l) significantly shifted the concentration-response curve to 5-HT, producing a Schild slope of 1.1, and a pA2 value of 7.6. However, the ability of metitepine to antagonise the effects of sumatriptan or 5-CT in this model was less marked. A clear-cut shift in the concentration-response curve to sumatriptan was only achieved at 1000 nmol/l metitepine (apparent pA2 = 6.7), and this was similar to the ability of metitepine to attenuate the effects of 5-CT (apparent pA2 7.0 at 300 nmol/l and 6.7 at 1000 nmol/l). These findings suggest heterogeneity in the receptor mediating inhibition of [3H]-5-HT release in guinea pig hippocampus.
In the mammalian brain, the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of glutamate receptor is coupled to a cation channel and a strychnine-insensitive glycine receptor. The present paper demonstrates the presence of NMDA receptor-coupled strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors in embryonic chick retina. Both glycine and 1-aminocyclopropanecarboxylic acid (ACPC) exhibited similar potencies (271 +/- 39 vs 247 +/- 39 nM, respectively) as inhibitors of strychnine-insensitive [3H]glycine binding to retinal membranes. Moreover, glycine and ACPC enhanced [3H]MK-801 binding to sites within the NMDA-coupled cation channel in retinal membranes with potencies comparable to those reported in rat brain. While the potency of ACPC was significantly higher than glycine (EC50 54 +/- 12 vs 256 +/- 57 nM, P &lt; 0.02) in this measure, there were no significant differences in the maximum enhancement (efficacy) of [3H]MK-801 binding by these compounds. Since glycine appears to be required for the operation of NMDA-coupled cation channels, we examined the effects of glycine and ACPC on NMDA-induced acute excytotoxicity in the 14-day embryonic chick retina. Histological evaluation of retina revealed that either ACPC (10-100 microM) or glycine (200 microM) attenuated NMDA-induced (200 microM) retinal damage and a combination of these agents produced an enhanced protection against acute NMDA toxicity. ACPC (100 microM), but not MK-801 (1 microM) also afforded a modest protection against kainate-induced (25 microM) retinal damage. These findings demonstrate that while strychnine-insensitive glycine receptors are present in embryonic chick retina, occupation of these sites does not augment the cytotoxic actions of NMDA. Moreover, the ability of ACPC and glycine to attenuate NMDA-induced cytotoxicity does not appear to be mediated through occupation of these sites.
We investigated the effects of interruption of the impulse flow in the habenulopeduncular pathways by local infusion of tetrodotoxin on the acetylcholine and choline content in selected dopamine rich regions in the forebrain and midbrain in rats. The tetrodotoxin infusion caused a marked increase in acetylcholine content in the medial frontal cortex, striatum and ventral tegmental area+interpenduncular nucleus, but not in the limbic area or the substantia nigra, whereas choline content was reduced only in both the striatum and ventral tegmental area+interpeduncular nucleus. There was an increase in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid content in the striatum after the manipulation. These findings suggest that the dorsal diencephalic conduction system may be involved in the integration of the activity of cholinergic neurons in the forebrain and midbrain regions and striatal dopanine neurons may play a role in the modulation of cholinergic neurons.



A disorder of the gracile axonal dystrophy (GAD) mutant mouse is characterized by a neuromuscular disease with sensory ataxia (detectable 30 days after birth) and paresis of the hindlimbs (detectable at 80 days). In the sensory ataxia stage, histological study of the primary sensory system shows that, in addition to the lesions in the central nervous system, peripherally projecting axons have also started to degenerate at their distal ends in muscle spindles. Although the structure of Ia fibre endings appear normal until 15 days after birth, initial changes in the annulo-spiral structure are detected around the 20th day by a degeneration of the terminal axons. Degeneration then progressed proximally and the secondary endings also start to degenerate. Neuron cell bodies located in the dorsal root ganglia are morphologically intact until the later stages. Chronological studies indicate that, although axonal degeneration progresses throughout life, it is accentuated during the rapid somatic growth period. Around 50 days of age, transient regeneration takes place at axonal endings when somatic growth has attained a plateau. Such primary sensory endings tend to be restored by fine, multiple axons which gain access to the intrafusal fibres through the original endoneurial tubes. Ultrastructural observations at the fully affected stage show intrafusal muscle fibres lying scattered within spindles due to loss of the fine network of inner capsule layers and an almost complete loss of sensory endings from the surface of intrafusal muscle fibres. These results indicate that this mutant mouse is a useful model for naturally occurring 'dying back' type axonal degeneration or 'central and peripheral distal axonopathies', and would provide significant information about the complete evolution of the pathological processes involved.
There are two major classes of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-sensitive receptors: GABAA and GABAB. The GABAA receptor, the better known of the two GABA receptors, is a heterooligomeric complex that forms a chloride channel. Multiple subtypes of the GABAA receptor result from the composition of different subunits. In contrast to the GABAA receptor, the GABAB receptor protein has not been isolated and purified to homogeneity. Various effector systems, however, have been identified for the GABAB receptor using a limited GABAB-specific pharmacologic reportoire. In almost all cases, activated GABAB receptors employ a guanosine triphosphate-binding protein to transduce a signal intracellularly. There may be multiple subtypes of the GABAB receptor. Because the responses elicited by activation of GABAB receptors are small in terms of their intensity and are considered to be modulatory, the role these receptors play in the central nervous system (CNS) may not be very obvious. However, it is our view that in a finely tuned instrument such as the brain, treatment with neuromodulators (drugs that produce slight changes in brain neurochemistry) may be safer than most current drugs. Moreover, neuromodulators may have far greater potential as pharmacotherapeutic agents for CNS disorders. Thus, in this article, we will review the pharmacologic characteristics of the GABAB receptor, known physiologic roles that this receptor plays in the CNS, and the importance of this receptor in certain disease states.
To investigate immunohistochemically the spatial localization of putative odour receptor proteins, we synthesized a polypeptide which corresponds to a region of a putative odour receptor protein, I3, and raised an antibody to the peptide. In rat olfactory epithelium, the antibody specifically recognized cilia of a small subset of olfactory receptor neurons, suggesting that the odour receptor protein is localized selectively in the cilia. Olfactory receptor neurons having immunoreactive cilia were distributed sparsely throughout the epithelium. This suggests that receptor neurons expressing a similar odour receptor protein are probably distributed similarly in the epithelium.
Spinal cord cytoskeletal preparations from three different mammalian species contain several polypeptides in the SDS-PAGE molecular weight range 100-220 kDa which are recognized by all members of a panel of antibodies to glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and by anti-IFA, a panspecific intermediate filament protein antibody. The polypeptides are not recognized by antibodies to other intermediate filament proteins or to ubiquitin. The proteins coelute with GFAP in ion-exchange chromatography, cosediment with GFAP under filament assembly conditions, produce similar chemical digest patterns and have an amino acid profile close to that of pure GFAP, all properties expected for covalent GFAP multimers. Further experiments provide evidence for the existence of such multimeric complexes in vivo.
The expression of long-term potentiation and learning of a classical conditioning task increase [3H]-AMPA binding in hippocampus. Phospholipase A2 (PLA2) has been proposed to underly these changes, as PLA2 treatment of membrane preparations increases the affinity of AMPA receptors for agonists. We demonstrate here that preincubation of thin (10 microns) frozen rat brain sections with exogenous PLA2 and calcium at physiological temperature changes the binding properties of AMPA receptors. Quantitative autoradiography reveals that PLA2-treatment produces a differential increase in [3H]-AMPA binding across brain regions. The same treatment also decreases the binding of an antagonist ([3H]-CNQX) throughout the brain. We propose that PLA2 treatment results in a modification of the AMPA receptors which is regionally specific, probably due to different AMPA receptor subunit compositions.
The time course of facilitation of the agonist motoneurons upon initiation of voluntary ankle dorsiflexion was investigated in eight healthy subjects. The H-reflex and visually guided tracking methods were used for testing the excitability of the motoneuron pool and for controlling the initiation of movement as well as speed and force. Since the onset of voluntary EMG activity (EMG reaction time: EMGvRT) was delayed and/or obscured by test H-reflexes which were evoked very close to the behavioral responses, the subject was instructed to make response movements bilaterally, and EMGvRT was measured on the side without stimulation. In every subject, the EMGvRT was invariably longer in the ramp movement than in the step movement. The onset of H-reflex facilitation prior to EMG onset, which was regarded as indicating the arrival time of the descending motor command to the motoneuron pool, always started earlier in the ramp movement than in the step movement. The difference in facilitation onset between the two tasks was smaller than that in EMGvRT. Since the amplitude of the H-reflex at the onset of the voluntary EMG was equivalent in both movements, the development of H-reflex towards the behavioral EMG onset was more gradual in the ramp movement than in the step movement. The present results demonstrate that the longer reaction time in the slow ramp task depends on 2 factors: delay in the arrival of descending facilitatory impulses to the agonist motoneuron pool, and its slow recruitment thereafter.
The immunological identification of dystrophin isoforms at the neuromuscular junction and Torpedo marmorata electromotor synapse was attempted using various antibodies. A polyclonal antibody raised against electrophoretically purified dystrophin from T. marmorata electrocyte has been thoroughly investigated. This antibody recognized dystrophin in the electric tissue as well as sarcolemmal and synaptic neuromuscular junction dystrophin in all studies species (T. marmorata, rat, mice and human) at serum dilutions as high as 1:10,000. At variance, no staining of either the sarcolemma or neuromuscular junction was observed in Duchenne muscular dystrophy or mdx mice skeletal muscles. In these muscles, other members of the dystrophin superfamily, in particular the dystrophin-related protein(s) encoded by autosomal genes are present. These data thus demonstrate the specificity of our antibodies for dystrophin. Anti-dystrophin-related protein antibodies [Khurana et al. (1991) Neuromusc. Disorders 1, 185-194] which gave a strong immunostaining of the neuromuscular junction in various species, including T. marmorata, cross-reacted weakly with the postsynaptic membrane of the electrocyte. Taken together, these observations are in favor of the existence of a protein very homologous to dystrophin at the electromotor synapse in T. marmorata, whereas both dystrophin and dystrophin-related protein co-localize at the neuromuscular junction as in all species studied. The electrocyte thus offers the unique opportunity to study the interaction of dystrophin with components of the postsynaptic membrane.
A parallel clinical and behavioral study of adjuvant-induced arthritis in the rat showed four stages in the time-course of the disease: preclinical (first week), acute (weeks 2-4), post-acute (weeks 5-8) and recovery weeks 9-11) [Calvino et al. (1987) Behav. Brain Res. 24, 11-29]. As several studies have reported the expression of the proto-oncogene c-fos in spinal cord neurons following acute noxious peripheral stimuli, the aim of this study was to quantitatively assess Fos-like immunoreactivity in lumbar spinal cord neurons at various times of adjuvant-induced arthritis development, i.e. one, two, three, 11 and 22 weeks post-inoculation. The total number of Fos-like immunoreactive neurons in the lumbar enlargement correlated with the observed development of adjuvant-induced arthritis, i.e. Fos-like immunoreactivity was absent at one week, moderate at two weeks, greatly increased at three weeks, decreased at 11 weeks and returned to control values at 22 weeks. At three weeks, at the peak of Fos-like immunoreactivity distribution and acute stage of hyperalgesia, maximal labeling was observed in L3 and L4 spinal segments. In these segments, the most densely labeled region was the neck (laminae V and VI) of the dorsal horn (55%) and the ventral horn (35%) as compared to the superficial laminae (laminae I and II; 5%) and the nucleus proprius (laminae III and IV; 5%). These data indicate that c-fos expression induced by chronic inflammation is better expressed in deeper laminae than in the superficial ones, and that the number of Fos-positive cells correlates with behavioral studies.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The effect of an anti-calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) antibody on responses induced by the sensory C-fibre neuropeptide, CGRP, and capsaicin, which selectively activates C-fibre nerves, was investigated in rabbit skin. Test agents and antibody were injected intradermally. Local blood flow changes were measured by 133Xenon clearance and oedema formation by [125I]albumin accumulation. Preinjection intradermally with the Fab fragment of a goat anti-human alpha CGRP antibody selectively inhibited increased blood flow induced by CGRP (3 x 10(-12) mol/site) and caused a partial, but significant inhibition of increased blood flow induced by capsaicin (3 x 10(-7) mol/site). Oedema induced by histamine and bradykinin was potentiated by vasodilator doses of CGRP and capsaicin. These potentiating effects were significantly inhibited by pretreatment with anti-CGRP Fab. The Fab fragment was more potent in inhibiting capsaicin-induced responses than the parent IgG. These results suggest that capsaicin releases vasodilator quantities of CGRP in rabbit skin.
Intracellular recordings were performed in a pontine slice preparation of the rat brain containing the locus coeruleus. The enzymatically stable P2-purinoceptor agonist alpha,beta-methylene ATP increased the firing rate without altering the amplitude or shape of action potentials; the afterhyperpolarization following a spike was not changed either. When locus coeruleus neurons were hyperpolarized by current injection in order to prevent spontaneous firing, alpha,beta-methylene ATP produced depolarization and a slight increase in the apparent input resistance. A combined application of kynurenic acid and bicuculline methiodide failed to alter the alpha,beta-methylene ATP-induced depolarization, and tetrodotoxin only slightly depressed it. A gradual shift of the membrane potential by hyperpolarizing current injection led to a corresponding decrease, but no abolition or reversal of the alpha,beta-methylene ATP effect. In the hyperpolarized region, the current-voltage curve of alpha,beta-methylene ATP came into close approximation with, but did not cross, the control curve. Elevation of the external K+ concentration, or the intracellular application of Cs+ by diffusion from the microelectrode, depressed the response to alpha,beta-methylene ATP; external tetraethylammonium was also inhibitory. External Ba2+ and Cs+ had no effect or only slightly decreased the alpha,beta-methylene ATP-induced depolarization. A low Na+, or a low Ca2+ high Mg2+ medium, as well as the presence of Co2+ in the medium, markedly reduced or even abolished the depolarization by alpha,beta-methylene ATP. ATP itself did not produce consistent changes in the membrane potential or input resistance. However, in the presence of the P1-purinoceptor antagonist 8-cyclopentyl-1,3-dipropylxanthine, ATP consistently increased the firing rate and evoked an inward current. In conclusion, P2-purinoceptor activation appears to depolarize locus coeruleus neurons by inhibiting a persistent potassium current, and at the same time opening calcium-sensitive sodium channels or calcium-sensitive non-selective cationic channels.
Extracellular recording techniques were used to investigate the effects of focal brain stimulation and external electrical stimulation on spontaneous activity and on noxious evoked responses in the habenular nucleus of anesthetized Sprague-Dawley rats. Two hundred and forty-one habenular neurons were tested to noxious and non-noxious stimuli. The habenular neurons exhibited three cell types according to their patterns of response to the noxious stimulus: 123 neurons (51%) responded to noxious stimulus by excitation and were classified as &quot;nociceptive-on&quot; cells; 56 neurons (23%) responded to the same noxious stimulus by decreasing their firing rate and were classified as &quot;nociceptive-off&quot; cells; and 62 neurons (26%) failed to respond to noxious stimulation and were classified as &quot;non-nociceptive&quot; cells. None of these 241 cells responded to non-noxious stimulus. One hundred and fifty-five, 160, 142 and 241 habenular neurons were tested following focal lateral hypothalamus stimulation, dorsal raphe stimulation, cerebellar stimulation and transcranial electrical stimulation alone and concomitant with noxious stimulation, respectively. The observations demonstrate that focal lateral hypothalamic, dorsal raphe and external (transcranial) electrical stimulation suppresses habenular noxious evoked responses while cerebellar electrical stimulation elicits no effect on the nociceptive-off cells and augmenting effects on the nociceptive-on cells. In addition, it was observed that low current (below threshold) external transcranial electrical stimulation was as effective in suppression of habenular noxious evoked responses as was focal brain electrical stimulation in the lateral hypothalamus and dorsal raphe.
The background firing activity was recorded extracellularly in experiments on guinea-pig neocortical slices maintained in vitro. The following types of background firing activity were revealed: (i) high regular single spikes (48%), (ii) irregular single spikes (15%), (iii) bursts (7%), (iv) groups (7%), (v) mixed activity where single spikes alternated with bursts or groups (28%). The specific interspike interval distribution and the specific shape of autocorrelogram corresponded to each of these background firing activity types. Furie analysis of autocorrelograms showed periodic components in spike sequences with the maxima at 3, 12, and 28 Hz. When blocking synaptic transmission with 100 mM adenosine, about 70% of the background active cells &quot;fell silent&quot; and the remaining 30% of neurons continued to generate action potentials. The latter seem to be actual spontaneously active neurons, i.e. they were capable of autonomous spike generation. We failed to find any correlation between the type of neuronal firing and the ability of neurons to be spontaneously active. The selective blockade of inhibitory synapses with 100 mM picrotoxine did not practically change the character of background firing activity though the responses to stimulation became epileptic. An important conclusion to emerge from this study is that the background firing activity in cortical slices can include the actual spontaneous discharges related to intrinsic cell properties as well as those concerned with synaptic actions. Furthermore, a small number of spontaneously active neurons seem to be able to synaptically activate twice the number of cells. The inhibitory interneurons did not significantly influence the propagation of excitation with the absence of stimulation.
The possibility that astrocytes participate in the pathophysiology of thermal brain injury caused by systemic heat exposure was examined in conscious young rats. The temporal and regional pattern of the astrocytic response to thermal injury was characterized by demonstrating the immunoreactivity of glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) using monoclonal antibody and avidin-biotin complex technique. Exposure of conscious young animals to heat at 38 degrees C for 4 h in a biological oxygen demand incubator resulted in a marked increase of the GFAP immunoreactivity in specific brain regions as compared with the intact controls. The intensity of the increased GFAP immunoreactivity was mainly noted in pons, medulla and cerebellum, followed by thalamus, hypothalamus, hippocampus and caudate nucleus. The cerebral cortex of heat-exposed animals showed only a mild increase in GFAP immunoreactivity which was predominantly concentrated in cingulate, parietal and pyriform cortices. The immunostaining in general was seen in the perivascular glia, within the neuropil and the glia limitans. This increase in GFAP immunoreactivity was absent in animals exposed to the same ambient temperature (38 degrees C) for 1 h and 2 h, or at a lower temperature (36 degrees C) for 4 h. These results show that (i) astrocytes actively participate in the pathophysiology of heat stress, (ii) endogenous thermal brain injury elicits activation and hypertrophy of astrocytes (&quot;reactive gliosis&quot;) depending on the magnitude and duration of the ambient heat stimulus, and (iii) the astrocytic reaction (observed as increased GFAP immunostaining) could be induced much more rapidly within a very short survival period of 4 h, not reported earlier.
Endogenous adenosine depresses synaptic transmission in rat hippocampal slices during periods of hypoxia, a potentially neuroprotective cellular response that is attenuated by the adenosine antagonist 8-cyclopentyltheophylline. In this study, rats were exposed to moderate hypoxic conditions (5% O2- 95% N2, 40 min x three days) in the presence or absence of 8-cyclopentyltheophylline, and the effects of reducing adenosinergic inhibition during hypoxia were assessed histologically and behaviorally. Half the rats exposed to low levels of oxygen in the presence of 8-cyclopentyltheophylline (10 mg/kg) suffered unilateral or bilateral hippocampal damage largely limited to the CA1 subfield. Animals which had suffered hippocampal damage were also impaired in their performance of a working memory version of the Morris Water Maze, but not a passive avoidance task (step-through). Hypoxia alone did not result in neuronal damage or behavioral impairment. These results provide further evidence that endogenous adenosine provides an important level of neuronal protection during even prolonged periods of hypoxia.
The electrophysiological and pharmacological properties of CA1 hippocampal pyramidal neurons were studied in slices from young (three to four months) and aged (25-32 months) Sprague-Dawley rats having previously performed two behavioral tasks. About 20% of the aged rats were impaired in either the spontaneous alternation task or the water maze task. Electrophysiological parameters were measured and compared in young and aged animals using intracellular recordings. No age-related differences were observed in membrane potential, input resistance, amplitude of action potentials or amplitude of calcium spikes. The amplitude and duration of individual afterhyperpolarizations following a single spike were unchanged. In contrast, the neuronal excitability was significantly decreased and the spike duration significantly enhanced in aged rats as compared to young rats. The comparison of afterhyperpolarizations (which follow a burst of spikes) between young and aged rats was more complex. An increase in the amplitude and duration of afterhyperpolarizations generally occurred in aged animals. However, this increase was not consistent among animals and was dependent on the holding potential of the neuron and on the number of action potentials used to trigger the afterhyperpolarization. The depolarizing effect of bath-applied carbachol, as well as the associated increase in membrane resistance were reduced in neurons from aged rats. In contrast, the effects of carbachol on the depression of synaptic events and the blockade of the afterhyperpolarizations were similar in young and aged animals. In addition, the amplitude of the slow cholinergic excitatory postsynaptic potential induced by stimulation of cholinergic afferents in the presence of physostigmine was also decreased in aged rats. Excitatory postsynaptic potentials and inhibitory postsynaptic potentials following electrical stimulation of stratum radiatum were compared. The amplitude and duration of excitatory postsynaptic potentials were increased in aged rats. The amplitude and duration of the fast inhibitory postsynaptic potential were not significantly affected in aged animals. In contrast, the duration of the slow inhibitory postsynaptic potential was decreased in aged rats. Since the mean baclofen-induced hyperpolarization was only slightly reduced in aged rats, the most likely explanation is a decrease in the release of GABA rather than an alteration in the postsynaptic response mediated by GABAB receptors. A statistically significant correlation was found between the degree of impairment in the spontaneous alternation task and the amplitude of the carbachol-induced depolarization.
Monkeys with bilateral transection of the fornix were severely but selectively impaired on learning and retention of visuospatial conditional discriminations, visual conditional discriminations and non-conditional spatial-response tasks. Bilateral transplantation of cholinergic-rich fetal basal forebrain tissue into the hippocampus abolished significant learning impairments on all those tasks impaired by fornix lesions when tested three to nine months after transplantation whereas bilateral transplants of non-cholinergic fetal hippocampal tissue into hippocampus showed no such beneficial effect. Acetylcholinesterase staining was severely depleted throughout the dentate gyrus and hippocampus in fornix-transected monkeys compared with animals with control corpus callosum ablations. Staining was largely restored to normal in the host hippocampus and dentate gyrus in monkeys with cholinergic transplants, whereas acetylcholinesterase staining was abnormal in those with non-cholinergic grafts. These experiments suggest that where a &quot;higher order&quot; cognitive function, in this case the acquisition of specific types of information into long-term memory, is disturbed by a neuropharmacologically simple lesion, cognitive function can be restored by transplantation of neurons containing appropriate neurotransmitters.
The beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein is a membrane protein with one transmembrane domain. The accumulation and deposition of beta/A4 amyloid protein in Alzheimer's disease is thought to be brought about by altered processing of beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein. Activation of protein kinase C and/or inhibition of protein phosphatases 1 and 2A results in an increase in the proteolytic processing and secretion of beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein. These effects might result either from phosphorylation of beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein by protein kinase C or from phosphorylation of components of the beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein processing apparatus. We have previously reported phosphorylation by protein kinase C of a synthetic peptide corresponding to part of the cytoplasmic domain of beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein. However, it was not known whether beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein holoprotein was phosphorylated in its native conformation in the cell membrane. Using a PC12 (rat pheochromocytoma) semi-intact cell system, we now report that mature isoforms of beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein are phosphorylated by protein kinase C at Ser655. Five COOH-terminal fragments which are generated by processing of mature beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein were also phosphorylated by protein kinase C at Ser655. The results support the idea that the beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein haloprotein is a physiological substrate for protein kinase C. These observations should facilitate our understanding of the relationship between altered protein phosphorylation and beta/A4 amyloid production.
The presence of the acetylcholinesterase neurons and substance P-like and enkephalin-like fibers in the various nuclear columns of the ventral horns of the spinal cords was studied in the developing human by acetylcholinesterase histochemistry and substance P and enkephalin immunohistochemistry. Acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons initially appeared in the lateral neuronal columns and eventually were also observed in the medial columns as well as the median columns at various levels of the spinal cord by 10 weeks' gestation. Acetylcholinesterase-positive neurons in the lower sacral levels were not detected until 11-12 weeks' gestation. Diffused substance P- and enkephalin-like fibers were demonstrated as early as 10 weeks' gestation but did not align with any particular nuclear column until after 15 weeks' gestation. These fibers further increased in length and adopted reticular branching patterns and many of these tended to surround the cell bodies of the nuclear columns. Possible interaction of acetylcholinesterase neurons and substance P and enkephalin fibers would commence by 15 weeks' gestation.
In the present study, highly specific radioimmunoassays were developed and used to measure neurokinin B, neurokinin A and substance P in the rat spinal cord and various peripheral tissues. The results are as follows. (1) Neurokinin B and neurokinin A were distributed all along the rostrocaudal axis of the spinal cord, as is substance P, and were more concentrated in the dorsal than in the ventral region. (2) Substance P was more abundant in the central and peripheral nervous tissues than neurokinin A, while in certain peripheral organs, neurokinin A was more abundant than substance P. In the spinal cord, neurokinin B concentrations were lower than those of the other two tachykinins. (3) In contrast to neurokinin A and substance P, neurokinin B was not detected in any of the peripheral tissues examined. (4) Capsaicin treatment reduced by half neurokinin A and substance P concentrations in the dorsal region of the spinal cord, the dorsal root ganglia and the sciatic nerve, but was without effect on neurokinin B concentrations in the spinal cord. Neurokinin A, like substance P, may therefore have an important function in the transmission of sensory information, particularly in nociceptive transmission from the periphery to the spinal cord and in peripheral neurogenic inflammation. In contrast, since neurokinin B was not found in the sensory neurons, it is not likely to have these functions, but may perhaps control them.
The intergeniculate leaflet of the thalamus is known to give rise to neuronal projections to the suprachiasmatic nuclei and the rostral part of the pineal gland. Via these projections the intergeniculate leaflet is considered to play a role in regulation of circadian rhythms. Iontophoretic injections of the anterograde tracer Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin were placed in various subnuclei of the lateral geniculate nucleus in order to study the topographical organization of the crossed geniculogeniculate pathway in the rat. Injections involving neurons in the intergeniculate leaflet or the medial subpart of the ventral nucleus (which presumably is part of the intergeniculate leaflet of the thalamus too) gave rise to labeled nerve fibers in the opposite lateral geniculate nucleus. The axons contained in this pathway were followed either medially via the posterior commissure, or via the optic tracts and optic chiasm, to the contralateral hemisphere. In the contralateral lateral geniculate nucleus, the intergeniculate leaflet was most densely innervated, but a substantial innervation of the ventral lateral geniculate nucleus was observed as well. Only a few labeled fibers were observed in the dorsal subnucleus. However, the dense innervation of the contralateral intergeniculate leaflet not only covered the small zone between the dorsal and ventral nuclei, but also a dorsomedial part of the ventral nucleus that merged caudally with the lateral part of the zona incerta. In the remaining part of the ventral nucleus, single Phaseolus vulgaris-leucoagglutinin-labeled fibers surrounded specific cells. The demonstration of a divergent projection between the intergeniculate leaflet and specific subparts of the contralateral geniculate nuclei indicates that the two lateral geniculate nuclei are regulating each other. The function of this pathway is suggested to be related to the regulation of circadian rhythmicity, but experimental evidence for this hypothesis is still lacking.
The excitotoxin ibotenic acid (1.2-2.6 microliters of 50 micrograms/microliters) was injected bilaterally into the thalamic centralis lateralis nucleus of chronically implanted cats in order to study the effects of tonic excitation followed by destruction of perikarya on the sleep-waking cycle and its electrographic correlates. Ibotenate injections were performed under mild ketamine anaesthesia. Immediately afterwards, the animals showed behavioural arousal accompanied first by ocular nystagmiform movements and then by pontogeniculooccipital waves. By 6-10 h post-injection, the numbers of rapid eye movement sleep episodes, but not their duration, increased compared to the preinjection control period. The injection sites were histologically confirmed using conventional Thionin stains. Additional control was provided by retrograde transport of wheat-germ agglutinin conjugated with horseradish peroxidase. The present results suggest that a population of neurons important for ocular saccades, pontogeniculooccipital waves, and the state of desynchronized sleep is present in the internal medullary lamina, in particular in the centralis lateralis nuclei.
Changes in dopamine release and metabolism during drinking in thirsty rats were studied using in vivo microdialysis. Animals were maintained on controlled water (1 h per day) and trained to lick for water in a behavioural box. Microdialysis probes were then inserted into the left nucleus accumbens and right caudate nucleus through previously implanted guide cannulae, and the following day animals were connected for dialysis perfusion, during which they were allowed 1 h free access to water. Dopamine, and its metabolites, 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid, increased in both nucleus accumbens and caudate nucleus in association with drinking, but the 5-hydroxytryptamine metabolite, 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid, only increased in the caudate nucleus. There was a direct correlation between the maximum dopamine release in nucleus accumbens and the maximum licking rate per 10-min period, but the maximum increase in dopamine did not occur until after the period of maximum licking. Increases in 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid and homovanillic acid were further delayed (by 20 and 30 min, respectively). In the caudate, changes in 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid showed a very similar time-course to those of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid. These data show that dopamine systems in both nucleus accumbens and caudate nucleus are activated in relation to drinking in thirsty rats. In addition, they indicate that 5-hydroxytryptamine systems in the caudate nucleus, but not in nucleus accumbens, may also be involved. The support that the results provide for the hypothesized connection between reward and limbic dopamine is discussed.
Previous anatomical and physiological studies of neostriatal grafts have suggested that transplanted neurons do not develop beyond an early postnatal stage. We have tested whether this hypothesis can be generalized by characterizing the developmentally regulated Ca-independent potassium currents in graft neurons. These currents were studied using a combination of the whole-cell voltage-clamp technique with acutely-dissociated neurons and intracellular recording in slices. In all of the graft neurons examined with voltage-clamp techniques (n = 13), evidence was found for a slowly-inactivating potassium current that is seen only beyond the third or fourth postnatal week in normal rats. A current resembling the delayed rectifier was also seen in all sample neurons. The rapidly inactivating A-current which dominates recordings from nearly all immature neurons was seen in only about half (54%, 7/13) of the graft neurons; in a sample of normal adult striatal neurons, the A-current was detected in a similar percentage of neurons (41%, 25/62). Recordings of graft neurons in slices corroborated the voltage-clamp findings in revealing a slowly inactivating outward current that acts in the subthreshold potential range. These findings suggest that graft neurons express the normal complement of depolarization-activated potassium channel proteins seen in adult neurons.
Latent inhibition refers to a decrement in learning about a stimulus as a result of its prior non-reinforced presentation. There is evidence that lesions of nucleus accumbens and conventional hippocampal lesions both disrupt the development of latent inhibition. The partial reinforcement extinction effect reflects the observation that resistance to extinction is normally greater in animals that have been rewarded on a 50% random proportion of acquisition trials than in those rewarded on every trial. Conventional hippocampal lesions, excitotoxic lesions of hippocampus plus subiculum, or conventional lesions of nucleus accumbens abolish this effect. The present experiments examined the possibility that a projection originating in the ventral [temporal in the nomenclature proposed by Blackstad: (1956) J. comp. Neurol. 105, 417-537] subiculum and terminating in nucleus accumbens underlies the normal development of latent inhibition and the partial reinforcement extinction effect, by evaluating the performance on these two behaviours of rats with aspiration lesions in the ventral hippocampal region. There was equally clear evidence of latent inhibition and of a partial reinforcement extinction effect in controls and in rats with ventral hippocampal damage. However, superimposed on this, the hippocampal lesion induced a loss of behavioural inhibition in both paradigms. Subsequent anatomical analyses indicated that cell bodies in nearby retrohippocampal cortex had maintained intact projections to nucleus accumbens. We suggest that these extra-hippocampal projections may underlie the ability to learn to ignore irrelevant stimuli.
Using a monoclonal antibody raised against purified, native, human protease nexin-2/amyloid precursor protein, which recognizes an amino terminal epitope on the amyloid precursor protein and detects all major isoforms of amyloid precursor protein, we examined the localization of the amyloid precursor protein within Alzheimer's and aged control brains. Very light cytoplasmic neuronal amyloid precursor protein staining but no neuritic staining was visible in control brains. In the Alzheimer's brain, we detected numerous amyloid precursor protein-immunopositive neurons with moderate to strong staining in select regions. Many neurons also contained varying levels of discrete granular, intracellular accumulations of amyloid precursor protein, and a few pyramidal neurons in particular appeared completely filled with amyloid precursor protein granules. &quot;Ghost&quot;-like deposits of amyloid precursor protein granules arranged in pyramidal, plaque-like shapes were identified. We detected long, amyloid precursor protein-immunopositive neurites surrounding and entering plaques. Many contained swollen varicosities along their length or ended in bulbous tips. Amyloid precursor protein immunoreactivity in the Alzheimer's brain was primarily present as granular deposits (plaques). The amyloid precursor protein granules do not appear to co-localize within either astrocytes or microglia, as evidenced by double-labeling immunohistochemistry with anti-glial fibrillary acidic protein and anti-leukocyte common antigen antibodies or Rinucus cummunicus agglutin lectin. Amyloid precursor protein could occasionally be detected in blood vessels in Alzheimer's brains. The predominantly neuronal and neuritic localization of amyloid precursor protein immunoreactivity indicates a neuronal source for much of the amyloid precursor protein observed in Alzheimer's disease pathology, and suggests a time-course of plaque development beginning with neuronal amyloid precursor protein accumulation, then deposition into the extracellular space, subsequent processing by astrocytes or microglia, and resulting in beta-amyloid peptide accumulation in plaques.
We have demonstrated that addition of L-glutamate in millimolar amounts to a culture of C6 glioma cells induced cell death within 24 h. The glutamate-induced toxicity in the C6 glioma cells was completely suppressed by adding L-cystine (0.4-1.0 mM), while the C6 cells degenerated in L-cystine-deprived culture medium. Kinetic studies of [35S]cystine and [3H]glutamate uptake showed that cystine competitively inhibited glutamate uptake, and conversely glutamate inhibited cystine uptake competitively, suggesting that C6 cells have a cystine/glutamate antiporter (system CG or Xc) similar to that already described in the periphery. Exogenous cystine (1 mM) stimulated a release of endogenous glutamate from C6 cells in a Na(+)-independent Cl(-)-dependent fashion. Thus, the antiporter normally transports glutamate out of and cystine into the cells. With the glutamate analogues tested, there was a good correlation between cytotoxicity and inhibition of cystine uptake. The de novo synthesis of glutathione was largely dependent upon the uptake of extracellular cystine. Intracellular levels of glutathione were dramatically decreased within 8-10 h by culture in glutamate-added or cystine-free medium. Vitamin E (100 microM), an antioxidant, rescued the death of C6 cells induced by glutamate exposure or by culture in cystine-deprived medium, but did not restore the apparent decrease of intracellular glutathione. Taken together, the present data strongly indicate that glutamate-induced cell death is initially due to inhibition of cystine uptake through the antiporter Xc system; such inhibition leads to glutathione depletion exposing the cells to oxidative stress. Excess of extracellular glutamate introduced from endogenous or exogenous roots might disorder this mechanism, resulting in cell death.
Homotopic transplantation provides an interesting way to observe the relationships between developing cells and ingrowing host afferents. We have performed a complete and selective elimination of the mesostriatal dopaminergic system in adult rats to observe the influence of its absence on the development and chemical differentiation of embryonic striatal cells. Cell suspensions from striatal primordia of 14-15-day-old embryos were transplanted into host striata that were (i) neuron-depleted by kainic acid (control group) or (ii) deprived of dopamine by 6-hydroxydopamine prior to the neuronal depletion by kainic acid (experimental group). The expression of dopamine- and adenosine 3',5'-monophosphate-regulated phosphoprotein (DARPP-32) by transplanted cells was observed in correlation with their innervation by host dopaminergic afferents which in turn were identified by tyrosine hydroxylase immunohistochemistry. Observations were made between four days and three months after transplantation. Four days after transplantation, no immunoreactivity for DARPP-32 was observed in transplants of control animals despite the presence of tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive fibers growing from the host to discrete cell clusters in the transplant. DARPP-32-labeled cells appeared soon afterwards. Six days after transplantation they displayed varying intensities of immunoreaction, ranging from just detectable to normal levels and were specifically targeted by developing tyrosine hydroxylase-immunopositive fibers. The number of DARPP-32-labeled cells increased rapidly and they formed increasingly compact clusters. Fourteen days after transplantation and afterwards, all the DARPP-32-labeled cells displayed an intensity of immunoreaction and a distribution comparable to that observed in long-term transplants. Transplants in the experimental hosts displayed the same organization and developmental features as the control transplants with the exception of DARPP-32 labeling which was not detected before eight days after transplantation. Ten days after transplantation, the distribution and intensity of DARPP-32 labeling was similar to that observed at six days in the control group. The evolution of DARPP-32 labeling after 10 days in the experimental group paralleled that observed six days post-transplantation and beyond in the control group. Dopaminergic mesostriatal host afferents are able to provide developing cells in grafted striatal tissues with normal innervation very rapidly. Despite this rapidity, the innervation does not seem to have any trophic influence on the general development of the transplant but does affect the onset time of the expression of neurochemical markers that are directly related to its synaptic function.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
The effects of prefrontal cortical dopamine depletion on subcortical dopamine function in the rat were examined. 6-Hydroxydopamine lesions of the dopaminergic innervation of the prefrontal cortex did not alter concentrations of dopamine or its metabolite 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid in either the striatum or nucleus accumbens. Similarly, the activity of the catecholamine biosynthetic enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase in the striatal complex was not changed in animals with prefrontal cortical lesions. Animals sustaining neurotoxic lesions of the prefrontal cortex were challenged with haloperidol in order to activate submaximally tyrosine hydroxylase activity. The magnitude of the haloperidol-induced increase in enzyme activity in the nucleus accumbens was significantly greater in lesioned subjects than in control animals. These data suggest that lesions of the prefrontal cortical dopamine innervation do not result in significant alterations in basal dopaminergic function in the striatal complex. However, lesions of the dopaminergic innervation of the prefrontal cortex significantly increase the responsiveness of mesolimbic dopamine afferents to pharmacological challenge.
The concentration-response relationship of membrane currents induced by L-homocysteic acid was studied on mouse embryonic hippocampal neurons in culture (n = 56). In the majority of neurons two phases in the dose-response relationship could be distinguished. The first was characterized by responses to 3-100 microM L-homocysteic acid which desensitized with a time-constant greater than 1 s in a concentration-dependent manner and were antagonized by 30 microM D-L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid indicating activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. At higher concentrations of L-homocysteic acid this component was strongly depressed. The second phase was characterized by sustained responses that were concentration-dependent (1 mM L-homocysteic acid maximum concentration tested) and were not blocked by D-L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid indicating activation of non-N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors. Eight neurons did not exhibit these two-phase characteristics in the concentration-response relationship at the beginning of the recording. The magnitude of responses to L-homocysteic acid was positively related to concentration and the responses were partially blocked by D-L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid. In these neurons, however, repeated applications of L-homocysteic acid at concentrations 30 microM up to 300 microM resulted in a long-lasting, three- to four-fold increase of the membrane current. This increase was completely blocked by D-L-2-amino-5-phosphonovaleric acid (50-100 microM) suggesting that it was produced by activation of receptors.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Based on the ability of guanine nucleotides to inhibit the binding of vasoactive intestinal peptide to its receptors, a guanosine 5'-triphosphate analog, guanylyl-imidodiphosphate, was used to differentiate two subtypes (or different functional states of a single subtype) of vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor in brain with in vitro autoradiography. In most brain regions, guanylyl-imidodiphosphate reduced vasoactive intestinal peptide binding between 40 and 60%. However, in the supraoptic nucleus, locus coeruleus, interpeduncular nucleus, facial nucleus, olfactory tubercle and periventricular hypothalamic nucleus, 80% or more of vasoactive intestinal peptide binding was inhibited. In other brain regions, including the medial geniculate, olfactory bulbs, and ventral thalamic nuclei, guanylyl-imidodiphosphate had little effect on vasoactive intestinal peptide binding. In liver, lung and intestine it also partly inhibited vasoactive intestinal peptide binding. Electrophoretic analysis of vasoactive intestinal peptide, covalently cross-linked to its receptors in brain membranes, revealed a pair of bands between 44,000 and 52,000 mol. wt, a component at 64,000 mol. wt and another at 92,000 mol. wt. All were displaceable with vasoactive intestinal peptide but guanylyl-imidodiphosphate displaced only the 64,000 mol. wt band suggesting that the GTP-sensitive vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor seen in brain sections has a molecular weight of about 61,000. The differential sensitivity to guanylyl-imidodiphosphate suggests the existence of at least two vasoactive intestinal peptide receptor subtypes in brain, with distinct regional distribution, and may reflect differential coupling to second messenger systems.
Autoradiographic experiments were performed on brains of Siberian hamsters (Phodopus sungorus) injected with tritiated 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol. Nuclear labeling was prevented in the presence of excess unlabeled hormone. Strong nuclear concentration of radioactivity was observed in neurons of the nucleus basalis of Meynert, the medial septal nucleus, the nucleus of the diagonal band of Broca and the central amygdaloid group. The latter has been defined as consisting of the central nucleus of the amygdala, its extension into the sublenticular part of the substantia innominata of Reichert, and the lateral division of the bed nucleus of the stria terminalis. All these structures have been reported to be involved in memory and other cognitive processes, and to be affected by age-dependent neurodegenerative disorders such as Alzheimer's disease. Corresponding localization of 1,25-dihydroxycholecalciferol receptor sites in these select basal forebrain nuclei of the Siberian hamster may implicate vitamin D (soltriol), the steroid hormone of sunlight, in memory processing.

Patient outcomes in the neuroscience patient population can be optimized by appropriate and timely selection of nursing actions and interventions. This study is contributing to the advancement of neuroscience nursing by identifying 13 intervention labels with more than 300 activities to be used in the planning and delivery of care of these patients. Implications for further research are multiple, including a need for clinical research regarding the appropriateness and effectiveness of the items as well as establishing the frequency with which these items occur in clinical practice.
The retinoblastoma tumor-suppressor gene encodes a 105-kDa nuclear phosphoprotein (RB) that can associate with DRTF-1 and E2F. These two transcription factors can recognize the same DNA motif in the adenovirus E2A promoter and can bind to it by themselves or in association with RB. In the present report, we describe the use of CASTing (cyclic amplification and selection of targets) to determine the consensus binding site of RB-containing complexes. An anti-human RB antibody was used to isolate RB-containing complexes formed after mixing nuclear extracts obtained from human diploid fibroblasts with a pool of random oligonucleotides flanked with polymerase chain reaction (PCR) primers. After the immunoselection, the DNA was isolated, amplified, mixed with fresh nuclear extract and reselected. After six CASTing cycles, the DNA was cloned and sequenced. We found that the highest affinity motifs recognized by RB-containing complexes are related to the E2F/DRTF-1 binding site and fall into three classes: TTTTCCCGCCAAAA, TTTTCCCGCCTTTTTT or TTTTCCCGCGCTTTTTT. Competition experiments revealed that these three classes are functionally equivalent to each other and to the E2F/DRTF-1 binding site in the adenovirus E2A promoter. Screening these sequences against a DNA database identified their presence in non-coding regions of many oncogenes, growth factor genes and in the RB gene itself.
Attention deficits in school-aged children and adolescents pose unique diagnostic and management challenges for the practitioner. While this symptom reflects a heterogeneous spectrum of disorders with varying etiologies, clinical manifestation, treatment needs, and outcomes, there are sufficient common attributes to enable identification and treatment. Accurate diagnosis relies on synthesis of information from history, rating scales, direct observations, and psychometric testing. Close attention must be paid to potential underlying or associated medical, processing, emotional, and psychosocial problems. Multimodal treatment is essential with close collaboration between the child, parents, and professionals. While there is a risk of negative outcomes if the symptoms are left unattended, many of these children also harbor strengths that need to be identified and nurtured.
A 55-yr.-old woman who had had a meningioma removed many years previously performed well on various neuropsychological tests but showed apparent gross loss of gestalt in copying the Rey figure, and poor subsequent recall of the figure. Further investigation suggested that her copying style was at least partly attributable to her training in art and that she was capable of copying in a more usual fashion with subsequent improvement in recall.
Boc-Tyr(SO3)-Nle-Gly-Trp-Nle-Asp-2-phenylether ester (CCK-JMV-180) has been reported to be a CCK-based heptipeptide with novel in vitro properties. Based on studies conducted in rat and mouse pancreatic acini, it has been proposed that the compound acts as an agonist at the high-affinity site and an antagonist at the low-affinity site in the rat, but as an agonist at both sites in the mouse. In the present study, we examined the effects of CCK-JMV-180 on locomotor activity in the rat and on intake of a liquid diet in the rat and mouse. Although CCK-JMV-180 slightly reduced activity on its own in the rat, it completely reversed the suppression produced by coadministration of CCK-8. In rat feeding studies, CCK-JMV-180 failed to suppress intakes of a liquid diet, but was able to antagonize the anorectic effects of CCK-8. In contrast, in the mouse CCK-JMV-180 potently suppressed intakes on its own, and this effect was blocked by pretreatment with the selective CCK-A receptor antagonist, A-70104. The results of these studies suggest that similar receptor mechanisms are involved in CCK's ability to inhibit food intake in vivo and its effects on pancreatic function in vitro.
We have previously reported effects of chronic stress on circadian rhythms of temperature, eating, and locomotor activity. These studies were conducted using an around-the-clock signalled intermittent footshock paradigm in which some rats have control over shock termination while other rats are yoked to the rats with control. Although this paradigm is stressful, as suggested by decreases in food intake and disrupted circadian rhythms, rats tolerate the paradigm well, continuing to eat, drink, gain weight, and groom. In the present studies, rats were sacrificed following 3 or 14 days of stress, and plasma was collected for hormonal assays. After 3 days of stress, plasma corticosterone and prolactin levels were elevated in both stress groups compared to controls; yoked rats had higher levels of corticosterone than rats in the group with control over shock termination, while prolactin levels in both stressed groups were similar. ACTH levels were similar in stressed and control rats. After 14 days of stress, ACTH and corticosterone levels in both stress groups were similar to control levels. Prolactin levels were elevated in the yoked experimental group compared to levels in control or controllable stress groups. These data support previous studies suggesting that control over stressors attenuates the effects of stress on physiology and demonstrate that two hormones with diverse biological effects are elevated by chronic stress.
The central nervous system links the body's metabolic demands with the neuromuscular act of breathing. Automatic and voluntary control systems function together to adjust ventilation in response to chemical and somatic signals. Excitatory or inhibitory outputs from higher brain centers descend the spinal cord and influence the motoneurons to the respiratory muscles. Lesions at any level can disrupt the normal respiratory pattern and may or may not produce alveolar hypoventilation. Several neurologic diseases of importance in veterinary practice may affect the respiratory system. Ventilatory insufficiency tends to occur late in the progression of these disease. Prompt localization of the lesion and correction of the underlying dysfunction is often critical to patient survival.
It is generally recognized that nascent proteins destined to be processed to a phosphatidylinositol-glycan (PI-G)-anchored membrane form contain a hydrophobic signal peptide at both their NH2 and COOH termini. In previous studies we showed that rough microsomal membranes (RM) prepared from CHO cells can carry out COOH-terminal processing. We have now investigated RM prepared from many additional cell types, including frog oocytes, B cells, and T cells, and found that all are competent with respect to COOH-terminal processing. Exceptions were certain mutant T cells that had been shown to be defective at various steps of PI-G anchor biosynthesis [Sugiyama, E., De Gasperi, R., Urakaze, M., Chang, H.-M., Thomas, L. J., Hyman, R., Warren, C. D. &amp; Yeh, E. T. H. (1991) J. Biol. Chem. 266, 12119-12122]. In one such defective mutant, COOH-terminal processing activity of RM could be restored either by transfecting the intact cells with the gene for the deficient step in PI-G synthesis or by adding PI-G extracts to the RM in vitro. Cleavage of the COOH-terminal signal peptide in the RM is therefore dependent on the presence of intact PI-G incorporated into the mature protein.
An experimental model to study synthesis of cholesterol and pregnenolone from the precursor mevalonolactone (MVA) was developed in C6-2B glioma cells. The steroidogenic capability of this cell line and the regulation of pregnenolone production by 4'-chlorodiazepam (4'CD), a specific ligand for the mitochondrial diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI) receptor (MDR), were investigated. Cells maintained in serum-free media were incubated with lovastatin (20 microM) and two inhibitors of pregnenolone metabolism, trilostane (25 microM) and 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-4-oxo-7-chloro-2-naphthylpyridine (10 microM). Under these conditions the incorporation of [3H]MVA into cholesterol and pregnenolone formation was biphasic, with an initial rapid phase (within 1 min) followed by a slower phase. Cholesterol and pregnenolone were identified by coelution with authentic steroids from a Si 60 Lichrosorb column and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry. Pregnenolone synthesis in intact C6-2B glioma cells was stimulated by nanomolar concentrations of 4'CD after 5 min of incubation with MVA. The stimulatory effect was dependent on drug concentration and the maximal effect was achieved at 10 nM. The time course showed that the incorporation of MVA into pregnenolone is accelerated by the MDR ligand. Cholesterol synthesis is only slightly and not significantly affected by 4'CD. These results support the view that steroid synthesis occurs in a glioma cell line. Moreover, we provide evidence for a rapid steroid synthesis in C6-2B glioma cells, which in turn appears to be accelerated by 1-100 nM 4'CD, a MDR ligand.
Polypeptides of beef heart mitochondrial complex I were isolated from 15 mg of solubilized beef heart mitochondria using antibodies immobilized on an agarose chromatography column. The preparation was examined by SDS electrophoresis and Western blotting using affinity-purified antibodies to complex I and compared to beef heart complex I purified according to the conventional method of Hatefi and Rieske. There was a high degree of homology between the two preparations as judged by SDS-polyacrylamide electrophoresis and by immunoblotting with seven affinity-purified antibodies to various complex I subunits. This method could be applied to the preparation of complex I subunits from small samples such as human muscle biopsy specimens.
Rat pups from 12 litters were handled daily, once every three days, or never touched between postnatal Days 5 and 20. At 100 days of age, 20 days after inoculation with human serum albumin, trunk blood was obtained to measure the antigen binding capacity (ABC). Rats handled as infants displayed relative immunofacilitation compared to those that had not been handled; the effect explained 7% of the variance in ABC values. In comparison, sex differences explained 14% of the variance. The results support the hypothesis that early disruptions in mother-infant bonding increase the likelihood of developing allergic responses following exposure to novel antigens during adulthood.





Normal cells have a limited capacity to proliferate but the molecular clock that regulates the onset of cellular senescence remains unidentified. The ends of chromosomes--telomeres--have been shown to shorten progressively with age in normal cells. Here, we present a working model of how telomeric shortening may induce programmed changes in the regulation of cellular proliferation.
The inhibitory amino-acid neurotransmitter, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), was localized in the pure cone retina of the lizard Anolis carolinensis by autoradiographic and immunocytochemical techniques. Uptake of [3H]-GABA labeled horizontal cells, amacrine cells, numerous cells in the ganglion cell layer, both plexiform layers, and the nerve fiber layer. Label in the inner plexiform layer showed distinct lamination. The pattern of GABA immunoreactivity was similar to the pattern of [3H]-GABA uptake, although some differences, particularly in labeling of amacrine and ganglion cells, were observed. Immunocytochemistry revealed endogenous stores of GABA in a set of horizontal cells, amacrine cells, and cells in the ganglion cell layer. Both plexiform layers were labeled by the GABA antisera. Labeling in the inner plexiform layer (IPL) was highly stratified and GABA-immunoreactive strata were present in both sublaminae a and b. Six subtypes of conventionally placed GABA-immunoreactive amacrine cells and one displaced amacrine cell subtype were identified. Three of the six conventional amacrine cell subtypes were of pyriform morphology and three subtypes were of multipolar morphology. GABA-immunoreactive interstitial cells also were observed. Under certain conditions the GABA antiserum labeled the cones. Etching the resin eliminated cone labeling, suggesting that GABA in the cones is present in a labile pool, unlike GABA in horizontal or amacrine cells, or the observed labeling was not due to endogenous GABA. Cones did not demonstrate [3H]-GABA uptake.
We investigated developmental changes in the activity of cytosolic phospholipase A2 (cPLA2) in the rat brain. When the cytosolic fractions from rat brain of various ages were examined by gel filtration chromatography, cPLA2 activity was detected at about 100 kDa in all developmental stages. However, the magnitude of cPLA2 activity differed significantly. The cPLA2 activity was highest in the brain of day-12 embryo, gradually decreased toward birth, and retained a constant level into adulthood. This result suggests that cPLA2 plays an important role in the early development of the nervous system.
The expression and distribution of cellular retinoic acid binding protein II (CRABP II) was examined in chick limb buds. CRABP II was detected in the limb buds at Hamburger and Hamilton (1) stage 21 and the amount of CRABP II was gradually increased during stages 21-27 and thereafter decreased. CRABP II was mainly located in the progress zone, and the dorsal and ventral premuscular mass in the proximal region of the limb buds at stage 23. CRABP II was preferentially localized in the medium and posterior parts rather than the anterior part of the progress zone; The content of CRABP II in the medium and posterior parts was 8-9 times more than that in the anterior part.
A series of Boc-CCK-4 derivatives represented by the general structure Boc-Trp-Lys(N epsilon-COR)-Asp-Phe-NH2, where R is an aromatic, heterocyclic, or aliphatic group, are potent and selective CCK-A receptor agonists. These amide-bearing compounds complement the previously described urea-based tetrapeptides (Shiosaki et al. J. Med. Chem. 1991, 34, 2837-2842); structure-activity studies revealed parallel as well as divergent trends between these two series. A significant correlation was observed between pancreatic binding affinity and the resonance constant R of the phenyl substituent in one particular series of derivatives. Sulfation of phenolic amides appended onto the epsilon-amino group of the lysine did not affect affinity for the CCK-A receptor in contrast to the 500-fold increase in binding potency observed upon sulfation of CCK-8, suggesting that the lysine appendage and the sulfated tyrosine in CCK-8, both key structural elements that impart high affinity for the CCK-A receptor, are interacting differently with the receptor. The amide-bearing tetrapeptides are full agonists relative to CCK-8 in stimulating pancreatic amylase release while being partial agonists in eliciting phosphoinositide (PI) hydrolysis. Both effects were blocked by selective CCK-A receptor antagonists.
The purpose of the present study was to examine the dose-response relationship and the maximum time for which effective therapy could be delayed for the N-methyl-D-aspartate antagonist dizocilpine (MK-801) as a neuroprotective agent in a permanent focal ischaemia model in the rat. The ED50 for dizocilpine in the amelioration of cortical damage in this model was found to be approximately 0.3 mg/kg (single i.p. dose, 30 min post onset of ischaemia) and significant protection was only obtained when therapy (3 mg/kg i.p.) was delayed for one hour or less after the onset of ischaemia. In a further experiment, dizocilpine 3 mg/kg i.p., produced a peak plasma level of 44 ng/ml and had a t1/2 elimination of 1.65 h.
A growing body of evidence suggests that tricyclic antidepressant agents (TCAs) interact with GTP binding proteins (G proteins). We have investigated if TCAs directly alter the function of the purified Go protein which is specifically expressed in neuronal tissue. Several TCAs markedly enhanced the GTPase activity of Go protein in a pertussis toxin-susceptible manner, whereas MAO-inhibitor and anxiolytic agent did not. This enhancing effect of TCAs on Go function may be due to an increase in the GDP-GTP exchange reaction occurring on Go. Thus, it is very likely that TCAs can modify various signal transduction by directly interacting with G proteins in brain cells.
The purpose of this study was to determine whether dextromethorphan, an opioid class antitussive, prevents hypoxia-induced loss of nerve function in an in vitro hippocampal slice preparation. The evoked population spike (PS) was recorded from CA1 pyramidal cells of guinea pig-derived hippocampal slices. Hippocampal slices were superfused with O2 (95%)/CO2 (5%) gassed artificial cerebral spinal fluid (ACSF) at 37 degrees C. The PS did not recover during reoxygenation in slices that were made hypoxic for 30 min by exposure to N2 (95%)/CO2 (5%) gassed ACSF in place of oxygenated ACSF. The PS recovered during reoxygenation, following 30 min of hypoxia, in 9 of 10 slices treated with dextromethorphan (100 microM) and in 4 of 6 slices treated with D,L-2-amino-5-phosphono-valerate (AP-5) (100 microM), an NMDA receptor antagonist. The mean PS amplitudes, one hour after perfusion with oxygenated ACSF, were 42% and 51%, respectively, of the pre-hypoxia amplitude. The PS recovered during reoxygenation in all of seven slices superfused with lowered temperature ACSF (25 degrees C) during 30 min of hypoxia. The results show that dextromethorphan, like the NMDA antagonist AP-5 and lowered temperature, protected neurons from hypoxia-induced injury in the hippocampus.










With our stimulus conditions we were unable to record more than 2-3 beats of OKAN; therefore direct comparison to the data recorded from monkeys is not possible. We did, however, see cross-coupling in OKN. In monkeys, cross-coupling predominates in OKAN, indicating that velocity storage underlies this phenomenon. We consistently saw the axis of response shift towards the spatial vertical. This implies that although OKAN was weak, velocity storage contributed a representation of the spatial vertical to OKN that is dependent on the axis of the head or body with respect to gravity.





Decreased postural stability is observed in most astronauts immediately following spaceflight. Because ataxia may present postflight operational hazards, it is important to determine the incidence of postural instability immediately following landing and the dynamics of recovery of normal postural equilibrium control. It is postulated that postflight postural instability results from in-flight adaptive changes in central nervous system (CNS) processing of sensory information from the visual, vestibular, and proprioceptive systems. The purpose of the present investigation was to determine the magnitude and time course of postflight recovery of postural equilibrium control and, hence, readaptation of CNS processing of sensory information. Thirteen crew members from six spaceflight missions were studied pre- and postflight using a modified commercial posturography system. Postural equilibrium control was found to be seriously disrupted immediately following spaceflight in all subjects. Readaptation to the terrestrial environment began immediately upon landing, proceeded rapidly for the first 10-12 hours, and then proceeded much more slowly for the subsequent 2-4 days until preflight stability levels were reachieved. It is concluded that the overall postflight recovery of postural stability follows a predictable time course.






1. Electrical stimulation of the nucleus of the optic tract (NOT) induced nystagmus and after-nystagmus with ipsilateral slow phases. The velocity characteristics of the nystagmus were similar to those of the slow component of optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) and to optokinetic after-nystagmus (OKAN), both of which are produced by velocity storage in the vestibular system. When NOT was destroyed, these components disappeared. This indicates that velocity storage is activated from the visual system through NOT. 2. Velocity storage produces compensatory eye-in-head and head-on-body movements through the vestibular system. The association of NOT with velocity storage implies that NOT helps stabilize gaze in space during both passive motion and active locomotion in light with an angular component. It has been suggested that &quot;vestibular-only&quot; neurons in the vestibular nuclei play an important role in generation of velocity storage. Similarities between the rise and fall times of eye velocity during OKN and OKAN to firing rates of vestibular-only neurons suggest that these cells may receive their visual input through NOT. 3. One NOT was injected with muscimol, a GABAA agonist. Ipsilateral OKN and OKAN were lost, suggesting that GABA, which is an inhibitory transmitter in NOT, acts on projection pathways to the brain stem. A striking finding was that visual suppression and habituation of contralateral slow phases of vestibular nystagmus were also abolished after muscimol injection. The latter implies that NOT plays an important role in producing visual suppression of the VOR and habituating its time constant. 4. Habituation is lost after nodulus and uvula lesions and visual suppression after lesions of the flocculus and paraflocculus. We postulate that the disappearance of vestibular habituation and of visual suppression of vestibular responses after muscimol injections was due to dysfacilitation of the prominent NOT-inferior olive pathway, inactivating climbing fibers from the dorsal cap to nodulouvular and flocculoparafloccular Purkinje cells. The prompt loss of habituation when NOT was inactivated, and its return when the GABAergic inhibition dissipated, suggests that although VOR habituation can be relatively permanent, it must be maintained continuously by activity of the vestibulocerebellum.
Linear vestibuloocular reflexes (LVORs) stabilize retinal images by producing eye movements to compensate for linear head motion. LVOR response characteristics depend upon gaze relative to the motion axis and binocular fixation distance. LVOR sensitivity during NO-axis motion increases as gaze eccentricity relative to the motion axis increases and as binocular fixation distance decreases. To fixate targets during forward head motion and rightward gaze, eyes must move to the right, but when looking left, the eyes must move to the left. In this study, LVORs were measured (binocular search coils) during 5.0 Hz horizontal motion along axes between and including NO and IA. This reorients head and otolith inputs relative to linear motion. We found that LVORs follow the same kinematics regardless of eye position in the head or head orientation relative to motion. Eye position information must be quickly and accurately integrated with otolith inputs to determine eye position (gaze) relative to linear head motion in space. The LVOR provides a behaviorally useful reflex for maintaining ocular fixation on visual targets during translation along any axis.

1. A simplified three-dimensional state space model of visual vestibular interaction was formulated. Matrix and dynamical system operators representing coupling from the semicircular canals and the visual system to the velocity storage integrator were incorporated into the model. 2. It was postulated that the system matrix for a tilted position was a composition of two linear transformations of the system matrix for the upright position. One transformation modifies the eigenvalues of the system matrix while another rotates the pitch and roll eigenvectors with the head, while maintaining the yaw axis eigenvector approximately spatially invariant. Using this representation, the response characteristics of the pitch, roll, and yaw eye velocity were obtained in terms of the eigenvalues and associated eigenvectors. 3. Using OKAN data obtained from monkeys and comparing to the model predictions, the eigenvalues and eigenvectors of the system matrix were identified as a function of tilt to the side or of tilt to the prone positions, using a modification of the Marquardt algorithm. The yaw eigenvector for right-side-down tilt and for downward pitch cross-coupling was approximately 30 degrees from the spatial vertical. For the prone position, the eigenvector was computed to be approximately 20 degrees relative to the spatial vertical. For both side-down and prone positions, oblique OKN induced along eigenvector directions generated OKAN which decayed to zero along a straight line with approximately a single time constant. This was verified by a spectral analysis of the residual sequence about the straight line fit to the decaying data. The residual sequence was associated with a narrow autocorrelation function and a wide power spectrum. 4. Parameters found using the Marquardt algorithm were incorporated into the model. Diagonal matrices in a head coordinate frame were introduced to represent the direct pathway and the coupling of the visual system to the integrator. Model simulations predicted the behavior of yaw and pitch OKN and OKAN when the animal was upright, as well as the cross-coupling in the tilted position. The trajectories in velocity space were also accurately simulated. 5. There were similarities between the monkey eigenvectors and human perception of the spatial vertical. For side-down tilts and downward eye velocity cross-coupling, there was only an Aubert (A) effect. For upward eye velocity cross-coupling there were both Mller (E) and Aubert (A) effects. The mean of the eigenvectors for upward and downward eye velocities overlay human 1 x g perceptual data.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)

The macular neuroepithelium is morphologically organized as a weighted neural network for parallel distributed processing of information. The network is continuous across the striola, where some type II hair cells synapse with calyces containing type I cells with tufts of opposite directional polarities. Whether other hair cell to calyx appositions that lack synapses interact because of intercellular potassium accumulation remains an open question. A functionally important inference of macular organization is that just as arrays of hair cells communicate an entire piece of information to a nerve fiber, so do macular subarrays of nerve fibers (not single units) carry the whole coded message to the brain stem. Moreover, the size of the network subarray can expand or become more limited depending upon the strength and/or duration of the input. It is the functioning of the network and its subarrays that must be understood if we are to learn how maculas carry out their work and adapt to new environments. Simulations of functioning maculas, or subparts, based on precise morphology and known physiology are useful tools to gain insights into macular information processing. The current simulations of afferent collateral electrical activity are a prelude to development of a 3-D model. The simulations demonstrate a relationship between geometry and function, with the diameter of the stem apparently being a major determinant of electrical activity transmitted to the base in the case of collaterals with short stems. Thus, while changes in synaptic number and/or size may be an important adaptive mechanism in an altered g environment, changes in diameter of the stem is another means of altering outflow. Research on the effects of microgravity should be extremely useful in examining the validity of this and other concepts of neural adaptation, since maculas are biological linear accelerometers ideally suited to the task. Maculas are also extremely interesting to study in detail because of the richness of connectivities and submicroscopic organization they present. Many of their features are common with more complex parts of the brain. It seems possible that knowledge of the three-dimensional geometric relationships operative in a functioning macula will contribute much to the understanding of the dynamics underlying more complex behavior. Computerized approaches greatly facilitate this task and provide an objective method of analysis. It is likely that, in the end, simple rules will be found to govern optimal neural architectural organization, even at higher cognitive levels. The architecture only appears complex because we do not yet grasp its meaning.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)



The delayed neuronal death (DND) resulting from brief forebrain ischemia has recently been reported to be markedly attenuated by parenteral administration of the reversible protein synthesis inhibitor, anisomycin. Previous work suggests that ischemia-induced DND is mediated by glutamate acting at one or more glutamate receptors, since glutamate receptor antagonists have been reported to reduce ischemia-induced DND. Consequently, we tested whether anisomycin could modify DND induced by direct intracerebral administration of the excitotoxins, N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA), alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxasole (AMPA) or kainic acid. Anisomycin, administered parenterally, in multiple doses did not alter DND induced by any of these excitotoxins, nor did combined parenteral and direct intracerebral injection of anisomycin protect against DND induced by AMPA. Thus, neurotoxicity induced by direct intracerebral administration of NMDA, AMPA or kainic acid does not appear to require de novo protein synthesis, and, therefore, is not likely to be mediated by the expression of a programmed cell death cascade.
The present study tested the hypothesis that the pathway from the medial hypothalamus to the midbrain periaqueductal gray (PAG) subserving defensive rage behavior in the cat facilitates the occurrence of this response when elicited from the PAG by utilizing excitatory amino acids as a neurotransmitter or neuromodulator. Cannula electrodes were implanted into the PAG for the elicitation of defensive rage behavior as well as for microinjections of excitatory amino acid antagonists and N-methyl-D-aspartic acid (NMDA). Monopolar stimulating electrodes were also implanted into the medial hypothalamus from which this response could also be elicited and, when stimulated at subthreshold levels for elicitation of behavior, could also facilitate the occurrence of PAG elicited defensive rage. Initially, dual stimulation of the PAG and medial hypothalamus facilitated the occurrence of defensive rage elicited from the PAG. Then, the identical dual stimulation paradigm was repeated with the same current parameters following the infusion of various antagonists for different receptors into the PAG defensive rage sites. The results indicate that infusion of either kynurenic acid [(0.1-2.0 nmol), a non-selective excitatory amino acid receptor antagonist] or D-2-amino-7-phosphonoheptanoic acid (AP7) [(0.1-2.0 nmol), a specific NMDA receptor antagonist], produced a dose and time dependent blockade of the facilitatory effects of medial hypothalamic stimulation. In contrast, microinjections of relatively larger doses of 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX) [(4 nmol), a non-NMDA receptor (quisqualate and kainate) antagonist] or atropine [(4.4 nmol), a muscarinic receptor antagonist] had little effect upon medial hypothalamically elicited facilitation of the PAG response. In a second experiment, NMDA [0.1-1.0 nmol] was microinjected directly into PAG defensive rage sites in the absence of medial hypothalamic stimulation. In these animals, drug infusion mimicked the effects of dual stimulation by producing a dose and time dependent decrease in response latencies. A third experiment was designed to further test the hypothesis by neuroanatomical methods. Here, the retrograde label, Fluoro-Gold, was microinjected into defensive rage sites within the PAG and following a survival time of 5-6 days, the animals were sacrificed. The brains were then processed for immunocytochemical analysis of cells that immunoreact positively for aspartate and glutamate. The results indicated the presence of many retrogradely labelled and immunocytochemically positive cells within the rostro-caudal extent of the medial hypothalamus as well as others that were double labelled.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
L-Baclofen-sensitive GABAB binding sites in the medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) were identified immunocytochemically and visualized ultrastructurally in L-baclofen-preinjected rats and monkeys, using a mouse monoclonal antibody with specificity for the p-chlorophenyl moiety of baclofen. Saline-preinjected animals showed no immunostain. In drug-injected animals, there was evidence for both pre- and postsynaptic GABAergic inhibition in MVN mediated by GABAB receptors. These neural elements could be utilized in control of velocity storage in the vestibulo-ocular reflex.
Serotonergic Retzius (R) neurons of the leech form a Cl-dependent synapse with pressure-sensitive (P) neurons both in vivo and in vitro. However, P cells show an extrasynaptic, cationic response to application of 5-hydroxytryptamine (5-HT) which is reduced upon contact between the neurons in culture. We have examined the cellular specificity of the selection of 5-HT responses in the P cell by pairing it in culture with a variety of identified neurons. Non-synaptic sensory cells, non-serotonergic pre- and postsynaptic partners and serotonergic neurons that do not form chemical synapses with the P cell failed to alter its responses to 5-HT. The selective reduction of the extrasynaptic response to 5-HT in the P cell therefore appears to be induced specifically by contact with its only known serotonergic partner during neuronal recognition leading to synapse formation.
The dendrites of many types of neurons contain voltage-dependent Na+ and Ca2+ conductances that generate action potentials (see ref. 1 for review). The function of these spikes is not well understood, but the Ca2+ entry stimulated by spikes probably affects Ca(2+)-dependent processes in dendrites. These include synaptic plasticity, cytotoxicity and exocytosis. Several lines of evidence suggest that dendritic spikes occur within subregions of the dendrites. To study the mechanism that govern the spread of spikes in the dendrites of hippocampal pyramidal cells, we imaged Ca2+ entry with Fura-2 (ref. 9) and Na+ entry with a newly developed Na(+)-sensitive dye. Our results indicate that Ca2+ entry into dendrites is triggered by Na+ spikes that actively invade the dendrites. The restricted spatial distribution of Ca2+ entry seems to depend on the spread of Na+ spikes in the dendrites, rather than on a limited distribution of Ca2+ channels. In addition, we have observed an activity-dependent process that modulates the invasion of spikes into the dendrites and progressively restricts Ca2+ entry to more proximal dendritic regions.
In acute ischaemic stroke and transient ischaemic attacks both platelets and coagulation factors are activated. This is the rationale for the use of antiplatelet and anticoagulant agents in the prevention of acute ischaemic stroke. Evidence also suggests that antiplatelet agents anticoagulants and dissolution of a thrombus occluding a major cerebral vessel (by means of fibrinolytic agents) may be beneficial as therapy for the acute phase of ischaemic stroke.
Activin and retinoids, which are involved in the induction and regulation of the early differentiation process in vertebrate embryogenesis, synergistically increased the amount of c-jun mRNA in P19 embryonal carcinoma cells, but activin alone had no effect. Among the retinoids, all-trans-retinoic acid most effectively increased c-jun mRNA. Activin (lng/ml) was sufficient to induce the synergistic increase of c-jun mRNA in P19 EC cells with all-trans-retinoic acid. The synergistic increase of the amount of c-jun mRNA by their cooperative action may be important in vertebrate development.
The present study determines the effects of sciatic nerve stimulation at intensities that activate A-fibers alone or both A- and C-fibers on immunostaining for substance P (SP), cholecystokinin-octapeptide (CCK-8), galanin (GAL), dynorphin (DYN) and vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) in the superficial dorsal horn of the rat spinal cord. The goal of this study is to provide a more precise spatial localization of the sites of release or accumulation of these compounds in relation to specific types of stimuli. Following A-fiber stimulation, there was no significant change in immunostaining for any of these compounds. However, A- and C-fiber stimulation resulted in major changes. For SP, CCK-8, GAL and DYN there was a large and significant loss of immunostaining in medial regions of the dorsal horn. This is the area where sciatic nerve primary afferent fibers terminate and the depletion is probably correlated with activity in these fibers. By contrast, VIP immunostaining is increased in the lateral part of the superficial cord, which is outside of the central sciatic afferent fiber terminations. This indicates that the increase is not in the fine sciatic sensory axons that are directly stimulated. As a final point, the fact that C-fiber but not A-fiber stimulation causes marked changes in the immunocytochemical distribution of all these compounds is further evidence, albeit indirect, that they are involved in nociceptive information processing.
Chemical irritation of the lower urinary tract (LUT) of the rat increases the expression of c-fos in neurons in the dorsal horn, dorsal commissure and intermediolateral region of the spinal cord. The role of glutamatergic synapses in this response was examined using two glutamate receptor antagonists, MK-801 (an NMDA antagonist) and CNQX (an AMPA antagonist). In rats with an intact spinal cord, MK-801 (3.5 mg/kg, i.v.) administered 15 min before bladder irritation decreased (50-60%) the number of c-fos-positive cells in all regions of the cord. A smaller dose of MK-801 (0.8 mg/kg, i.v.) was ineffective. In spinal transected rats (4-7 days prior to the experiment) MK-801 (3.5 mg/kg, i.v.) decreased c-fos expression only in the medial dorsal horn. CNQX (1.2 mg/kg, i.v.) was ineffective in both preparations. These results indicate that activation of NMDA receptors at glutamate synapses in the central nervous system may play a role in the processing of nociceptive input from the LUT and may also be involved in reflex pathways mediating micturition.
We observed that a transient increase in extracellular potassium concentration (50 mM for 40 s) was sufficient to induce long-term potentiation (LTP) of synaptic transmission in area CA1 of the hippocampal slice. Potassium-induced potentiation of the Schaffer collateral/commissural synapses demonstrated several features characteristic of tetanus-induced LTP: (1) population excitatory post-synaptic potential (EPSP) amplitudes were enhanced to a similar magnitude (on average 70% above baseline) which (2) lasted for more than 20 min; (3) induction was blocked by bath application of the specific N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (D-APV), and (4) was attenuated by reduction of the concentration of calcium in the extracellular medium. Induction of either potassium-induced LTP or tetanus-induced LTP occluded the subsequent expression of the other. Finally, exposure to high potassium in the absence of electrical stimulation was sufficient to induce LTP. Taken together, these data indicate that brief depolarizing stimuli other than tetanus can induce LTP. Because potassium-induced LTP is not restricted to the subset of afferents examined electrophysiologically, such a method could facilitate analyses of the biochemical events underlying both the induction and expression of LTP.
Protein kinase C (PKC) is a family of isoenzymes which play an important role in regulating cell proliferation and differentiation. Constitutive activation of PKC, either by phorbol esters or overexpression of specific isoenzymes, leads to growth abnormalities in vitro and tumor promotion in vivo. Since stimulation of PKC in cultured astrocytes results in biochemical and morphological alterations associated with the transformed phenotype, we wanted to determine whether abnormal expression of specific isoenzymes of PKC was important in development of human astrocytomas in vivo. We have detected a specific pattern of alpha-PKC expression in human astrocytomas which is noteworthy because the highest transcript levels were detected in well-differentiated (Grade 1) tumors, with intermediate expression in anaplastic (Grade 2) astrocytomas and low or nondetectable levels in glioblastomas (Grade 3 astrocytomas) and normal controls. In comparison, the beta-PKC transcript was not detected in any of the tumors, while the gamma-PKC transcript was present in only one Grade 2 tumor. Immunohistochemistry, using a monoclonal antibody to alpha-PKC, revealed diffuse, positive cytoplasmic signals in most cells of the Grade 1 tumors. Grade 2 tumors exhibited heterogeneity of alpha-PKC expression, although a significant percentage of cells showed positivity. In contrast, only a small number of differentiated cells within Grade 3 tumors were positive for alpha-PKC expression, with the more malignant, dedifferentiated cells uniformly negative. Throughout all tumor grades, the staining pattern of alpha-PKC closely paralleled that of glial fibrillary acidic protein. Taken in conjunction with the established role of PKC in tumor promotion, these results suggest that the alpha-PKC isoenzyme plays a specific role in facilitating clonal expansion of transformed astrocytes in low-grade astrocytomas. Analysis of alpha-PKC may therefore serve as a direct biological marker of malignancy which may serve to enhance the current histopathological grading system.
Adipokinetic hormones AKH I (pGlu-Leu-Asn-Phe-Thr-Pro-Asn-Trp-Gly-Thr-NH2) and AKH II (pGlu-Leu-Asn-Phe-Ser-Trp-Gly-Thr-NH2) are synthesized by neurosecretory cells (NSC) of the corpora cardiaca (CC) in the locust, Schistocerca gregaria. These NSC constitute a homogeneous 'peptide factory' as each cell synthesizes both AKH I and AKH II. This homogeneity makes the CC an excellent system in which to study aspects of neuropeptide biosynthesis. This report summarizes recent findings on AKH inactivation and metabolism, as well as on AKH prohormone processing and biosynthesis.
The ability of vagal and glossopharyngeal afferent neurons to retrogradely transport 3H-D-aspartate from the nucleus tractus solitarius to the nodose and petrosal ganglia was examined. Injections of 3H-D-aspartate centered in the medial NTS at the rostral-caudal level of the area postrema failed to consistently label cells in the nodose and petrosal ganglia. In 5 of the 10 rats studied no retrogradely labeled neurons were observed in these ganglia ipsilateral to the injection site, while in the other 5 rats a small number of cells (less than 3%) were labeled. Injections of 3H-D-aspartate into the NTS consistently produced retrograde labeling of neurons in the ipsilateral paratrigeminal area. In addition, many heavily labeled neurons were observed in the injected as well as the contralateral NTS. Injections of 3H-D-asparate into the spinal trigeminal nucleus consistently labeled neurons in the trigeminal ganglion. Since the uptake and retrograde transport of 3H-D-aspartate appears to be characteristic of neurons that use glutamate or aspartate as a neurotransmitter, these results suggest that vagal and glossopharyngeal afferents are not glutamatergic or aspartatergic.
By fluorescent titration method, the critical micellar concentrations of palmitoyl CoA, palmitoyl dihydroxyacetone-P, and 1-palmitoyl-rac-glycerol-3-P in 75 mM Tris-HCl, pH 7.5, were determined to be 41, 58, and 70 microM, respectively.
The transport of glycerolipid intermediates, viz. palmitoyl dihydroxyacetone phosphate (DHAP) and lysophosphatidate from peroxisomes and their conversion to phosphatidate in endoplasmic reticulum (microsomes) were studied in cell-free systems. The lipids were biosynthesized from [32P]DHAP, palmitoyl-CoA, and freshly made rat liver peroxisomes and microsomes in the presence or absence of Mg2+, NADPH, and bovine serum albumin (BSA). After incubation, the soluble fraction and the membranes were separated, and the distribution of radioactive lipids in these fractions were determined. The results showed that palmitoyl-DHAP and lysophosphatidate were recovered in the supernatant when BSA was present or when BSA was absent, but Mg2+ was removed after incubation by chelation with EDTA (or ATP). At low optimum palmitoyl-CoA concentration or when palmitoyl-CoA was generated in peroxisomes, and in the absence of BSA, the biosynthesized keto ether and ester lipids and lysophosphatidate were similarly present in the supernatant. Phosphatidate, however, was always localized in the membranes. Further fractionation showed that phosphatidate was associated with the microsomes. The critical micellar concentrations of palmitoyl-DHAP and 1-palmitoyl-rac-glycerol 3-phosphate, under the incubation conditions used, were determined to be 58 and 70 microM, respectively. These results suggest that at physiological concentrations the biosynthesized lysolipids are water soluble, and therefore, a carrier protein is unnecessary for their transport. These lipids freely diffuse from peroxisomes to endoplasmic reticulum where they are converted to membrane-bound phosphatidate.
We have isolated cDNAs encoding a chicken homologue of MRF4 (cMRF4) in addition to chicken MyoD (CMD1) and myogenin (c-myogenin) described previously. In an attempt to understand the roles that cMRF4, CMD1, and c-myogenin play in chicken myogenesis, the effects of these factors on muscle-specific cis-elements identified in regulatory regions of myosin alkali light chain (MLC) genes were examined. The promoter analysis of some of MLC genes has revealed two sorts of muscle-specific positive regulatory elements to date, an enhancer located upstream of the adult type LC1 gene and a cis-element, termed an MLC box, conserved among promoters of various MLC genes. The LC1 enhancer was exclusively trans-activated by CMD1. Although c-myogenin also activated transcription driven by the LC1 promoter, it was suggested that c-myogenin requires a cis-element(s) other than the CMD1-responsive enhancer. Chicken MRF4 could not trans-activate any of the constructs containing the LC1 promoter. In contrast, the promoter of the embryonic L23 gene was trans-activated by all of the three factors. From deletion and mutation analysis, the MLC box was shown to be involved in their positive regulation. These results extend previous observations that individual myogenic regulatory factors exhibit different capabilities in transcriptional activation of muscle-specific genes by acting distinctively upon their regulatory elements.
The role of nerve growth factor (NGF) as a target derived neurotrophic agent for specific cell populations in the peripheral nervous system has been well documented and much evidence suggests that NGF may serve a similar neurotrophic role in the CNS supporting the cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain. Previous attempts to localize NGF by immunocytochemical methods, however, have not yielded evidence confirming the regional distribution expected based upon reported levels of extractable NGF. In the present study, affinity purified polyclonal antibodies to beta-NGF and a modified immunohistochemical protocol were used to demonstrate specific NGF-like immunoreactivity in the adult rat hippocampal formation and basal forebrain. In the hippocampal formation, NGF-like immunoreactivity was localized primarily within the hilus of the dentate gyrus and within stratum lucidum of the CA3 and CA2 hippocampal subfields. Staining appeared to be associated with cell processes and was similar to the reported distribution of mossy fibers suggesting that granule cells may either serve as a primary source of hippocampal NGF or that mossy fibers selectively accumulate NGF produced by other cell populations. In the basal forebrain, NGF-like immunoreactivity was localized within neuronal cell bodies of the medial septum, diagonal band, and nucleus basalis of Meynert and was further demonstrated to colocalize exclusively with LNGF-R positive neurons. These findings demonstrate the presence of an NGF-like antigen in association with cholinergic neurons of the basal forebrain and strongly support the hypothesis that NGF may serve as an endogenous trophic factor for this adult neuronal population.
Three inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R) cDNAs, designated IP3R-II, -III, and -IV, were cloned from a mouse placenta cDNA library. All three display strong homology in membrane-spanning domains M7 and M8 to the originally cloned cerebellar IP3R-I, with divergences predominantly in cytoplasmic domains. Levels of mRNA for the three additional IP3Rs in general are substantially lower than for IP3R-I, though in the gastrointestinal tract the levels of IP3R-III may be comparable to IP3R-I. Cerebellar Purkinje cells express at least two and possibly three distinct IP3Rs, suggesting heterogeneity of IP3 action within a single cell.
Pyramidal cells in the CA1 hippocampal region displayed transient network oscillations (200 hertz) during behavioral immobility, consummatory behaviors, and slow-wave sleep. Simultaneous, multisite recordings revealed temporal and spatial coherence of neuronal activity during population oscillations. Participating pyramidal cells discharged at a rate lower than the frequency of the population oscillation, and their action potentials were phase locked to the negative phase of the simultaneously recorded oscillatory field potentials. In contrast, interneurons discharged at population frequency during the field oscillations. Thus, synchronous output of cooperating CA1 pyramidal cells may serve to induce synaptic enhancement in target structures of the hippocampus.





Recently obtained anatomical evidence supports the division of the rat cuneate nucleus (CN) into three rostrocaudal regions, with the middle region receiving a disproportionately greater share of the primary sensory input. The CN in the rat conforms to the basic rostrocaudal CN pattern described in other mammals, including cat, monkey and raccoon.
Newly synthesized kainate derivatives, 4-(2-hydroxyphenyl)-2-carboxy-3-pyrrolidineacetic acid (HFPA and 4-(2-methoxyphenyl)-2-carboxy-3-pyrrolidineacetic acid (MFPA), were potent inhibitors of [3H]kainate binding to the rat spinal cord synaptic membranes, comparable in their effectiveness to kainate and domoate, whereas acromelic acid A (ACRO-A) and B (ACRO-B) was much less effective than kainate. ACRO-A, MFPA and HFPA all inhibited [3H]AMPA binding. These novel kainate analogues provide new pharmacological tools for analyzing the mechanisms underlying activation of kainate/AMPA receptors.
Cytochrome oxidase (COX) activity and COX II mRNA expression were localized in the hippocampal formation and entorhinal cortex of the rhesus monkey brain by means of enzyme histochemistry and in situ hybridization, respectively. Within the hippocampal formation, the terminal field of the perforant pathway showed the highest levels of COX activity, whereas COX II mRNA was localized mainly in neuronal cell bodies. In the entorhinal cortex. COX II mRNA was detected in neuronal cell bodies of layers II and IV. These results indicate that the pattern of localization of COX and its mRNA in entorhinal cortex correlates with the input and output pathways of the hippocampus.
Synapsin IIa belongs to a family of neuron-specific phosphoproteins called synapsins, which are associated with synaptic vesicles in presynaptic nerve terminals. In order to examine the biochemical properties of synapsin IIa, and ultimately its physiological function, purified protein is required. Since attempts to purify significant quantities of synapsin IIa, an isoform of the synapsins, from mammalian brain have proven difficult, we undertook the production of recombinant synapsin IIa by utilizing the baculovirus expression system. Rat synapsin IIa cDNA was introduced into the baculovirus genome via homologous recombination, and the recombinant baculovirus was purified. Spodoptera frugiperda (Sf9) cells infected with this virus expressed synapsin IIa as 5% of the total cellular protein. The recombinant protein was extracted from the particulate fraction of the infected Sf9 cells with salt and a nonionic detergent and purified by immunoaffinity chromatography. The purified synapsin IIa was phosphorylated by the catalytic subunit of cAMP-dependent protein kinase to a stoichiometry of 0.8 mol of phosphate/mol of protein. Metabolic labeling with [32P]Pi demonstrated synapsin IIa phosphorylation in infected Sf9 cells. Using a homogenate of uninfected Sf9 cells, a cAMP-dependent protein kinase activity which can phosphorylate synapsin IIa was detected. Limited proteolysis of recombinant synapsin IIa phosphorylated in vitro and in vivo resulted in identical phosphopeptide maps. Further, synapsin IIa, like synapsin I, binds with high affinity in a saturable manner to synaptic vesicles purified from rat cortex.
We have isolated high affinity inositol (1,3,4,5)-tetrakisphosphate (IP4)- and inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6)-binding proteins from detergent-solubilized rat brain membranes using a P1-tethered IP4 derivative linked to an Affi-Gel support. To determine the identity, binding characteristics, and distribution of the individual IP4 recognition sites, we have synthesized an IP4 photoaffinity label probe, 125I-(D,L)-1-O-[N-(4-azidosalicyloxy)-3-aminopropyl-1-phospho]- IP4 (125I-ASA-IP4). Two apparently distinct IP4-binding proteins (IP4BP), isolated with the IP4 affinity column, display high affinity and selectivity for IP4 over inositol trisphosphate (IP3), inositol pentakisphosphate (IP5), and IP6. The first IP4-binding protein (IP4BP1) which has a KD for IP4 of 4 nM, is comprised of a protein at 182 kDa which is specifically photolabeled with high affinity by 125I-ASA-IP4. The second, IP4BP2, has an affinity for IP4 of 1.5 nM and contains proteins at 84 and 174 kDa, both of which are specifically photoaffinity labeled. A putative IP6-binding protein (IP6BP), also isolated with the IP4 affinity column, binds IP6 with a KD of 14 nM and comprises three proteins of 115, 105, and 50 kDa. The 115- and 105-kDa subunits, but not the 50-kDa subunit, specifically incorporate the photolabel. The IP4BP (182, 174, and 84 kDa) and IP6BP (115 and 105 kDa) proteins are specifically photolabeled in the crude membrane, partially purified, and purified fractions. These receptor-binding proteins vary in inositol phosphate specificity and in the effects of pH, Ca2+, and heparin on IP4 photoaffinity labeling. In addition, IP4BP and IP6BP are enriched in the brain but differ in their regional localizations within the brain.
The carbonic anhydrase inhibitor acetazolamide is useful for analyzing ion transport, pH regulation, and fluid formation in developing central nervous system. We used the 14C-labeled dimethadione technique to measure alterations in steady-state pH, and to estimate the HCO3 concentration [HCO3], in choroid plexus (CP), cerebrospinal fluid (CSF), and cerebral cortex of 1- and 3-wk-old Sprague-Dawley rats treated with acetazolamide or probenecid. These drugs can suppress transport of HCO3 and other anions in some cells, consequently altering intracellular pH. In 1-wk-old infant rats whose CSF secretory process is incompletely developed, 1 h of acetazolamide treatment did not significantly change CP intracellular pH or [HCO3]. However, in 3-wk-old rats, in which the ability of CP to secrete ions and fluids is almost fully developed, acetazolamide caused marked increases in CP cell intracellular pH and [HCO3]. In contrast, acetazolamide-induced alkalinization was not observed in CSF or cerebral cortex of the 1- and 3-wk-old animals. The other test agent, probenecid (an inhibitor of anion transport but not of carbonic anhydrase), did not alter the pH of any region at any age investigated. Overall, the results are interpreted in light of developmental changes in carbonic anhydrase and previous findings from kinetic analyses of ion-translocating systems in CP. Acetazolamide may interfere with a CP apical membrane HCO3 extrusion mechanism not fully operational in infant rats.
Mouse anterior pituitary cells cultured for 2 days were stimulated with one of three biotinylated-GnRH probes ([biotinyl-Lys6]-[D-Lys6]GnRH, [biotinyl-Ser4]-[D-Lys6]GnRH, [biotinyl-Ser4]-[D-Trp6, des-Gly10]GnRH) in the cold (4 degrees C) for 1 hr. These cells were subsequently fixed and an avidin-gold complex was conjugated to the bound GnRH. After a second fixation, the gold label was silver-enhanced for viewing with a scanning electron microscope. Gonadotropes were identified as a result of the labeling procedure, measured for size, and the number of GnRH receptor sites counted. Gonadotropes ranged from 3 to 13 microns in diameter and contained from 23.2 +/- 3.3 to 338.4 +/- 25.2 sites per cell depending upon the size of the cell and the ligand employed. The methods described should be applicable for studying the topographical distribution of a variety of cellular receptors.
Emergency physicians and staff are usually the first to evaluate and manage victims of lightning strikes. Damage to the nervous system is often the most devastating consequence of lightning strikes. Contrary to most articles in the literature in which neurological disorders are said to be either transient or delayed, we report the cases of six patients with severe, immediate, and in at least three, permanent clinical problems. Patients with signs of spinal cord lesions are most likely to have permanent disabilities.
The human neurofilament light (hNF-L) gene yields two major species of mRNAs of 2.4 and 3.8 kilobases (kb) in size. To investigate the origin of these two mRNAs, we have analyzed in transgenic mice the expression of hNF-L DNA fragments including different lengths of 5'-flanking regions. The finding that the 3.8-kb mRNA species is produced by a hNF-L transgene that includes only the proximal promoter region (-0.3 kb) demonstrates that both the 2.4- and 3.8-kb mRNAs are derived from the same site of transcription initiation. Sequencing of the 3' untranslated region of the hNF-L gene revealed the presence of multiple AATAAA polyadenylation signals. We conclude from Northern blotting experiments using probes spanning various regions of the hNF-L gene that the 2.4- and 3.8-kb mRNAs originate from the selective use of polyadenylation signals located 1.4 kb apart.


The purpose of this study was to compare the validity of two models which contrast with each other in the manner in which they integrate neuropsychological tests into distinct prefrontal constructs. The first prefrontal model consists of five distinct functional constructs drawn from human clinical neuropsychology. The second model, elaborated by Goldman-Rakic, is based primarily on monkey research and postulates a basic prefrontal function, &quot;on-line representational memory,&quot; which guides behavior in the absence of, or despite discriminative environmental stimuli. In the latter model, distinct prefrontal functional constructs are primarily defined in terms of various types of representational memory involved in specific tasks. Eleven &quot;prefrontal&quot; measures were obtained from 259 normal adults, stratified for age, education, and sex. Confirmatory factor analyses revealed that the Goldman-Rakic model &quot;fit&quot; the data better than the model derived from human clinical neuropsychology, while several constructs commonly used in human neuropsychology were refuted. It was concluded that new research on brain-damaged humans with a view to understanding prefrontal function might benefit from using the Goldman-Rakic model as a starting point.
The neuronal mechanisms of electrocortical arousal and sleep spindles were reviewed on the basis of intracellular analyses on the motor cortex in atraumatically maintained encphale isol cat preparations. When arousal is initiated by subcortical afferents from the brainstem, the cortical neurons respond with either excitation (E), inhibition (I), disfacilitation (DF), or disinhibition (DI), in a cascade pattern proceeding from the superficial to deep layers. These neuronal activities on arousal involve DF of the output neurons that may set the subcortical sensorimotor functions in a readiness state for a possible adaptive behavior of animals. This initial transient arousal termed phasic develops soon to the next, more sustained phase termed tonic by the action of other subcortical afferents. The cascade transmissions then occur again, producing E, I, DF, and DI in the cortical neurons but with a reverse laminar pattern proceeding from the deep to superficial layers. These neuronal activities on tonic and arousal deliver the cortical outputs to the subcortical systems that may trigger an orienting or searching behavior of animals in their environment. Sleep spindles also accompany the cascade transmissions that are partly common to those in arousal. Various modes of the cascade transmissions were further examined by applying electric shock stimuli to the cortical surface, the ventrolateral nucleus of the thalamus, and the cerebral peduncle to activate the subcortical afferents converging onto different cortical layers. The combined results from these experiments may imply that the cortico-subcortical interactions in which all the cortical neurons participate with dynamic harmony are instrumental to set a physiological sequence of animal behavior. If these interactions be impaired on the way of normal growth of the brain, as in the case of disorders with the Rett syndrome, many forms of ill adaptation may be brought about by dedifferentiation of sensorimotor functions.
The descending projections of the locus coeruleus (LC) and the nucleus subcoeruleus (SC) to the lumbar spinal cord were examined in rats from two vendors using retrograde transport of fluorescent latex beads. There was a vendor difference observed which agrees with previous findings. The differential dorsal horn and ventral horn projections of the Harlan and the Sasco Sprague-Dawley rats, reported by Fritschy and Grzanna, and Clark and Proudfit were confirmed. In the Harlan rat more cells were labeled in the LC following injections in the dorsal horn. In contrast, in the Sasco rat, more cells were labeled in the LC from injections in the ventral horn. Although, in all studies, the LC in rats from these vendors projected to some extent to both the dorsal and the ventral horn. A difference in labeling was noted also for the depth of placement of the tracer in the dorsal horn. When the site of injection was in the nucleus proprius, a predominantly contralateral projection of the LC was noted. In contrast, when horseradish peroxidase (HRP) gel implants were placed to include the superficial laminae, the cells in the LC were labeled predominantly ipsilaterally. The SC has a major projection to the dorsal horn in the Harlan rats while cells in the SC were predominantly labeled following ventral horn injection in the Sasco rats. These cells send mostly ipsilateral projections to the dorsal and ventral horn of the spinal cord. Double labeled studies confirmed that 91% of LC and 86% of SC neurons projecting to the spinal cord were noradrenergic.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
It has been shown that during physiological stimuli, such as dehydration, supraoptic nucleus (SON) neurons undergo profound morphological changes. However, little is known about how much each type of cell, oxytocin (OT) or vasopressin (VP), contributes to this plasticity during dehydration. Using postembedding immunogold cytochemistry for both OT and VP hormones at the electron microscopic level, we address this question. Rats were chronically dehydrated (given 2% saline to drink for 10 days) and their SON neurons were studied morphologically. The results were compared to control animals with free access to water. Both VP and OT somata showed an enlargement in size in dehydrated animals. Percentage of somasomatic/dendritic membrane contact increased significantly in both VP and OT neurons, with no significant changes in percentage of coverage of the cells by astrocytic membrane. Only the VP cells had a lesser amount of axosomatic membrane contact after dehydration, possibly due to an increase in cell size rather than a decrease in synaptic contact. Multiple synapses (MSs) (i.e., terminals that form more than one synapse with adjacent somata and or dendrites) occurred only between positively labeled cells and between negatively labeled cells, but not between positively and negatively labeled cells. The number of MSs per 100 microns OT somatic membrane or per 100 OT cells was significantly higher in dehydrated rats but was unchanged with regard to VP neurons. These findings indicate that both VP and OT neurons undergo morphological changes during chronic dehydration and, thus, that plasticity is not limited to OT cells as some earlier reports have suggested.
Between 30 and 50 days after the induction of seizures by a single injection of lithium and pilocarpine, large aggregates of Nissl-staining material appeared; they occupied up to 35% of the thalamic volume. Both histochemical and atomic absorption analyses indicated elevated concentrations of Ca++ (and possibly Mg++) within this substance that was also composed of polysaccharides and nucleic acids. Significant interactions between time since seizure induction and form of the material indicated a progressive accretion of this material from diffusely scattered micrometer granules to large crystalline forms. We suggest this material is composed of endoplasmic reticular debris that is bound by bivalent cations; because the severity of damage exceeds local phagocytic capacity, the material aggregates and then crystallizes. Possible relation to thalamic calcification in neonatal ischemic brains is considered.
Arginine vasopressin (AVP) is a centrally synthesized nonapeptide that exerts classical endocrine effects as well as a host of centrally mediated actions. A strong case can be argued in support of a neurotransmitter-neuromodulator role for AVP. Acting within the central nervous system (CNS), AVP has been demonstrated to be involved in the modulation of febrile body temperature. Because AVP acts to reduce pyrogen-induced fevers, but not normal body temperature, its actions are deemed to be antipyretic. However, to demonstrate an endogenous antipyretic function, AVP must be shown to be active during conditions where fever is naturally suppressed. This review will focus on five such conditions where the absence of pyrogen-induced fever can be linked to the endogenous activity of AVP within the brain. In the neonatal rat pup, the use of specific antagonists to the AVP receptor has revealed a role for CNS AVP in the absence of fever following peripheral injections of bacterial endotoxin. These results may help to explain a similar lack of fever in other newborn species. In parturient animals a reduced or absent febrile response has been linked to the increased presence of AVP within the septal area of the brain. The combined use of AVP receptor antagonism as well as immunohistochemistry has shown enhanced AVP activity within the ventral septal area of the rat and guinea pig brain during tolerance to intravenous pyrogens. These results suggest that the mechanism of fever suppression following repeated systemic injections of bacterial pyrogen includes centrally acting AVP.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Intracortical microstimulation (ICMS) was applied to a single site in the middle cortical layers (III-IV) in the koniocortical somatosensory fields of sodium pentobarbital-anesthetized rats (Sml) and new world monkeys (area 3b). Low-threshold cutaneous receptive fields were defined in the cortical region surrounding the stimulation site prior to and following 2-6 hr of 5 microA ICMS stimulation. ICMS stimulation did not usually affect the receptive field location, size, or responsiveness to tactile stimulation of neurons at the stimulation site. However, the number of cortical neurons surrounding the stimulation site with a receptive field that overlapped with the ICMS-site receptive field increased in all studied animals, resulting in an enlarged cortical representation of a restricted skin region spanning several hundred microns. The mean size of receptive fields changed in some but not all cases. These results provide evidence that the responses of cortical neurons are subject to change by the introduction of locally coincident inputs into a single location, and demonstrate a capacity for representational plasticity in the neocortex in the absence of peripheral stimulation. These experimental observations are consistent with hypotheses that the cerebral cortex comprises radially oriented populations of neurons that share a common input, and that these inputs are shaped by coincident activity (see Edelman, 1978, 1987; Merzenich, 1987; Merzenich et al., 1990; von der Malsburg and Singer, 1988).
The authors report a rare case of cryptogenic osteomyelitis of the skull with an intracerebral and a subgaleal abscess. Total excision of the abscess extending from the cortical surface to the lateral ventricle led to ventriculitis and subgaleal cerebrospinal fluid collection. These complications could have been avoided by aspirating the abscess after removing the infected portion of the skull and the epidural granulation tissue. Neurosurgeons preferring to excise such an abscess should leave a small area of capsule at the base in order to avoid having to open the ventricle.

Most psychiatrists assume that belief is a basis for behavior. The validity of this assumption has been challenged by certain philosophers who assign the concept belief to the domain of &quot;folk psychology.&quot; These philosophers contend that the discoveries of neuroscience will eliminate the ideas of folk psychology from scientific discourse and that behavior will eventually be accounted for in terms of brain states. In order to examine the relationship of belief and behavior, examples of self-mutilation by normal and abnormal individuals are reviewed. It is concluded that belief is a basis for behavior and that neuroscience, like folk psychology, is valid only within certain limits.


SNAP/TAG-1 is a 135 kDa glycoprotein of the immunoglobulin superfamily that is transiently expressed upon the surfaces of developing axons. In the embryonic rodent spinal cord, this molecule is expressed by motor neurons, dorsal root ganglion cells, and commissural neurons (Yamamoto et al.: J. Neurosci. 6:3576-3594, 1986; Dodd et al.: Neuron 1:105-116, 1988). The commissural cells are a subset of early-forming dorsal horn interneurons whose axons follow a circumferential course in the embryonic spinal cord. The axons of commissural neurons cross the developing ventral commissure to terminate on contralateral synaptic targets, whereas those of the other subset of circumferential cells, the association interneurons, remain on the same side of the spinal cord to form ipsilateral, terminal synaptic fields. The difference between the axonal trajectories of these two subsets of nerve cells raised the question of whether or not association interneurons would also express the SNAP/TAG-1 epitope and, if so, how would this expression be related to that of the commissural cells. Immunocytochemistry for SNAP/TAG-1 and choline acetyltransferase (ChAT) was used to answer these questions. The results indicated that association interneurons expressed SNAP/TAG-1 epitopes and that this expression began later and lasted longer than that of the commissural neurons. Other new findings of this study included the identification of a lateral subgroup of commissural fibers that expressed SNAP/TAG-1 later than their more medially located counterparts, and these lateral fibers were more pronounced in the thoracic spinal cord than at cervical levels.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
The Patch (Ph) mutation in mice is a deletion of the gene encoding the platelet-derived growth factor receptor alpha subunit (PDGFR alpha). Patch is a recessive lethal recognized in heterozygotes by its effect on the pattern of neural crest-derived pigment cells, and in homozygous mutant embryos by visible defects in craniofacial structures. Since both pigment cells and craniofacial structures are derived from the neural crest, we have examined the differentiation of other crest cell-derived structures in Ph/Ph mutants to assess which crest cell populations are adversely affected by this mutation. Defects were found in many structures populated by non-neuronal derivatives of cranial crest cells including the thymus, the outflow tract of the heart, cornea, and teeth. In contrast, crest-derived neurons in both the head and trunk appeared normal. The expression pattern of PDGFR alpha mRNA was determined in normal embryos and was compared with the defects present in Ph/Ph embryos. PDGFR alpha mRNA was expressed at high levels in the non-neuronal derivatives of the cranial neural crest but was not detected in the crest cell neuronal derivatives. These results suggest that functional PDGF alpha is required for the normal development of many non-neuronal crest-derived structures but not for the development of crest-derived neuronal structures. Abnormal development of the non-neuronal crest cells in Ph/Ph embryos was also correlated with an increase in the diameter of the proteoglycan-containing granules within the crest cell migratory spaces. This change in matrix structure was observed both before and after crest cells had entered these spaces. Taken together, these observations suggest that functional PDGFR alpha can affect crest development both directly, by acting as a cell growth and/or survival stimulus for populations of non-neurogenic crest cells, and indirectly, by affecting the structure of the matrix environment through which such cells move.
We report the cloning and analysis of a clathrin heavy-chain cDNA from the eukaryotic microorganism, Dictyostelium discoideum. A single gene, designated chcA, for the clathrin heavy chain encoded a protein of 1,694 amino acids with a molecular mass of 193,618 daltons. Comparison of the amino acid sequence with the rat and with the yeast sequence showed that the highly conserved protein was more similar to the mammalian clathrin heavy chain (57% identity) than to the yeast heavy chain (45% identity). The mRNA for the clathrin heavy chain was regulated during development. mRNA levels were highest during vegetative growth and declined as the cells progressed through the 24-hr developmental cycle. The concentration of clathrin heavy-chain protein was the same in cells grown in liquid media (high rates of pinocytosis) as in cells grown with bacteria (low rates of pinocytosis), which suggests that regulation of pinocytosis in these cells is not achieved by altering the concentration of clathrin.
Epidural mapping of flash-VEP in awake monkeys revealed a reliable, short latency negativity, N25 (onset: 18-22 msec; peak: 23-27 msec; duration: 15-20 msec), with a broad frontal surface distribution (frontolateral maximum). N25 was dissociable from the electroretinogram (ERG), from cortical VEP and from the high frequency oscillations (wavelets) coextensive with the ERG and with cortical VEP. Depth recordings traced N25 from its surface maximum down to the lateral geniculate nucleus (LGN). Concomitant VEP, current source density (CSD) and multiunit activity (MUA) profiles obtained with multicontact electrodes showed that the peak and later portion of N25 arise primarily from current sinks (associated with MUA increases) that reflect transmembrane current flow attending depolarization of cells in lamina 6, the uppermost lamina, but may also receive contributions from the more ventral LGN laminae. The initial portion of N25 arises from similar processes near the lamina 3/2 border. Wavelets, in contrast, are prominent in VEP, CSD and MUA within LGN, but attenuate rapidly above LGN. LGN laminar and cellular morphology predict volume conduction of N25 over a wide arc lateral and anterior to LGN and roughly horizontal isopotential planes medial and posterior to LGN. Recordings on the brain surface, within LGN, and in the regions surrounding LGN are consistent with these predictions. Possible contributions from other structures and how these results fit with data obtained in humans are considered.
Linear acceleration transients were used to elicit vestibular compound action potentials in non-invasively prepared, unanesthetized animals for the first time (chicks, Gallus domesticus, n = 33). Responses were composed of a series of up to 8 dominant peaks occurring within 8 msec of the stimulus. Response amplitudes for 1.0 g stimulus ranged from 1 to 10 microV. A late, slow, triphasic, anesthesia-labile component was identified as a dominant response feature in unanesthetized animals. Amplitudes increased and latencies decreased as stimulus intensity was increased (MANOVA P less than 0.05). Linear regression slope ranges were: amplitudes = 1.0-5.0 microV/g; latencies = -300 to -1100 microseconds/g. Thresholds for single polarity stimuli (0.035 +/- 0.022 g, n = 11) were significantly lower than those of alternating polarity (0.074 +/- 0.028 g, n = 18, P less than 0.001). Bilateral labyrinthectomy eliminated responses whereas bilateral extirpation of cochleae did not significantly change response thresholds. Intense acoustic masking (100/104 dB SL) produced no effect in 2 animals, but did produce small to moderate effects on response amplitudes in 7 others. Changes were attributed to effects on vestibular end organs. Results of unilateral labyrinth blockade (tetrodotoxin) suggest that P1 and N1 preferentially reflect ipsilateral eighth nerve compound action potentials whereas components beyond approximately 2 msec reflect activity from vestibular neurons that depend on both labyrinths. The results demonstrate that short latency vestibular compound action potentials can be measured in unanesthetized, non-invasively prepared animals.
P300 is a late component of evoked potential which meet special relevance to the study of cognitive processes. P300 indexes categorization processes and the context updating of memory. Its latency reflects the stimulus evaluation time, and P300 amplitude is related to some psychological variables such as expectancy, attention and stimulus significance. In this review, clinical correlation between P300 components and mental diseases are reported, especially dementia, schizophrenia and depression. Delayed P300 latency has been found in Alzheimer disease and in other forms of dementia. Reduced P300 amplitude as well as altered topography has been reported in schizophrenia. In depression, reduced P300 amplitude has been related with longer reaction time. Unfortunately, the diagnosis utility of P300 seems limited. The authors also propose an overview of the actual knowledge on neurobiological findings in the generation of the P300 wave. Anatomical data point out the importance of the limbic system, more specifically, of the hippocampus and the locus coeruleus, in generating and modulating P300 wave. Data from the literature on the psychopharmacological modifications induced by cholinergic, catecholaminergic and other agents, are reviewed. Although the dopaminergic and noradrenergic systems are of some importance, these data emphasise the importance of the cholinergic system for the generation and modulation of P300 amplitude and latency. The value and interpretation of these neurobiological and clinical findings are discussed.
A single systemic administration of acromelic acid, a novel kainate analogue (kainoid), induces a series of characteristic behavioral changes in association with selective damage of interneurons in the caudal spinal cord in adult rats. When an effective dose of acromelic acid (5 mg/kg) was systemically administered, forced extension of hindlimbs with or without cramps appeared in all rats. In the course of the intensified hindlimb extension, 10 of 16 rats suffered from generalized convulsive seizures during which 6 rats died without apparent neuropathological change. Of 4 surviving rats that experienced seizures, two developed long-lasting spastic paraparesis which remained unchanged for at least 3 months, whereas the other two were normal in behavior on the days following the administration. In lower doses (less than 4 mg/kg), the rats transiently displayed forced extension of hindlimbs, and in a higher dose (5.5 mg/kg), all rats died during an attack of severe generalized convulsion. Neuropathological changes were observed only in the rats with persistent paraparesis, in which neuron damage was identified selectively in small interneurons in the lumbosacral cord. The morphological change of the degenerated spinal interneurons resembles that of degenerated hippocampal CA1 pyramidal cells seen after systemic administration of kainate. Large motoneurons, spinal roots, and white matter of the spinal cord were well preserved. Unlike the case of systemic administration of kainate, other structures in the central and peripheral nervous system and muscles were morphologically intact except the hippocampal CA4 and the stratum moleculare-lacnosum in which there were reactive astrocytes. The regional difference between kainate-induced and acromelate-induced neuron damage suggests that systemically administered acromelic acid, a kainoid, induces selective neuron damage through activating a particular kainate receptor subtype. The clinicopathological feature of the paraparetic rats resembles closely that of stiffman syndrome, a progressive human neurological disorder with selective loss of interneurons in the spinal cord.
Outcome following stroke is difficult to measure because the behavioral response to infarction is variable. We hypothesized that cognitive function, such as spatial learning, may be a reproducible and sensitive outcome variable. We developed an animal model of multifocal cerebral ischemia in order to study the effects of infarction on learning. To cause ischemia, several hundred microspheres were injected into the internal carotid arteries of rats. After ischemia, behavior was measured using a global rating and a Morris water maze. Postmortem serial brain sections were stained and the size of the infarctions was measured. We found that intracerebral microspheres caused cortical infarction and an impairment of spatial learning. This impairment was not due to occlusion of the internal carotid artery and was not found in animals who received a sham injection of saline. The degree of learning impairment was not correlated with the volume density of the infarctions or with the volume density of the remaining cerebral hemisphere. The learning impairment clearly differentiated normal from lesioned animals, and the impairment was probably due to a delay in acquisition of spatial information rather than a defect in retention or retrieval. Measurement of learning deficit after cerebral ischemia is an efficient and sensitive method for evaluating new stroke treatments and possibly for exploring structure function relationships.
Most neurotransmitter receptors examined to date have been shown either to be regulated by protein phosphorylation or to contain consensus sequences for phosphorylation by protein kinases. Neurotransmitter receptors that mediate rapid synaptic transmission in the nervous system are the ligand-gated ion channels and include the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors of muscle and nerve and the excitatory and inhibitory amino acid receptors: the glutamate, GABAA, and glycine receptors. These receptors are multimeric proteins composed of homologous subunits which each span the membrane several times and contain a large intracellular loop that is a mosaic of consensus sites for protein phosphorylation. Recent evidence has suggested that extracellular signals released from the presynaptic neuron, such as neurotransmitters and neuropeptides as well as an extracellular matrix protein, regulate the phosphorylation of ligand-gated ion channels. The functional effects of phosphorylation are varied and include the regulation of receptor desensitization rate, subunit assembly, and receptor aggregation at the synapse. These results suggest that phosphorylation of neurotransmitter receptors represents a major mechanism in the regulation of their function and may play an important role in synaptic plasticity.



The concept of &quot;brain life,&quot; sometimes offered as the criterion for determining when personhood begins, cannot tell us what we want to know about persons. Neurological facts will not automatically yield ethical conclusions.
Norrie disease is a human X-linked recessive disorder of unknown etiology characterized by congenital blindness, sensory neural deafness and mental retardation. This disease gene was previously linked to the DXS7 (L1.28) locus and the MAO genes in band Xp11.3. We report here fine physical mapping of the obligate region containing the Norrie disease gene (NDP) defined by a recombination and by the smallest submicroscopic chromosomal deletion associated with Norrie disease identified to date. Analysis, using in addition two overlapping YAC clones from this region, allowed orientation of the MAOA and MAOB genes in a 5'-3'-3'-5' configuration. A recombination event between a (GT)n polymorphism in intron 2 of the MAOB gene and the NDP locus, in a family previously reported to have a recombination between DXS7 and NDP, delineates a flanking marker telomeric to this disease gene. An anonymous DNA probe, dc12, present in one of the YACs and in a patient with a submicroscopic deletion which includes MAOA and MAOB but not L1.28, serves as a flanking marker centromeric to the disease gene. An Alu-PCR fragment from the right arm of the MAO YAC (YMAO.AluR) is not deleted in this patient and also delineates the centromeric extent of the obligate disease region. The apparent order of these loci is telomere ... DXS7-MAOA-MAOB-NDP-dc12-YMAO.AluR ... centromere. Together these data define the obligate region containing the NDP gene to a chromosomal segment less than 150 kb.

The relationship between the dose of Herpes simplex virus type 1 (HSV) inoculated in the cornea and the amount of actively replicating virus recovered from mouse trigeminal ganglion cells 5 d after corneal scratch and inoculation was investigated with a tissue culture plaque assay. A dose response curve of productive viral replication was obtained. The estimated dose of HSV that produces half-maximal recovery of virus within the ganglion was 9.15 x 10(3) plaque forming units per eye, and the maximal amount of HSV recovered was 1.34 x 10(4) pfu per ganglion. This definition of infectivity as a function of dose will be useful for studying the effects of potential inhibitors of the binding, uptake, and transport of HSV by productively or latently infected trigeminal neurons.
Muscle fatigue encompasses a class of acute effects that impair motor performance. The mechanisms that can produce fatigue involve all elements of the motor system, from a failure of the formulation of the descending drive provided by suprasegmental centers to a reduction in the activity of the contractile proteins. We propose four themes that provide a basis for the systematic evaluation of the neural and neuromuscular fatigue mechanisms: 1) task dependency to identify the conditions that activate the various mechanisms; 2) force-fatigability relationship to explore the interaction between the mechanisms that results in a hyperbolic relationship between force and endurance time; 3) muscle wisdom to examine the association among a concurrent decline in force, relaxation rate, and motor neuron discharge that results in an optimization of force; and 4) sense of effort to determine the role of effort in the impairment of performance. On the basis of this perspective with an emphasis on neural mechanisms, we suggest a number of experiments to advance our understanding of the neurobiology of muscle fatigue.

Peptidylglycine alpha-amidating monooxygenase (PAM: EC 1.14.17.3) is a bifunctional protein which catalyzes the COOH-terminal amidation of bioactive peptides; the NH2-terminal monooxygenase and mid-region lyase act in sequence to perform the peptide alpha-amidation reaction. Alternative splicing of the single PAM gene gives rise to mRNAs generating PAM proteins with and without a putative transmembrane domain, with and without a linker region between the two enzymes, and forms containing only the monooxygenase domain. The expression, endoproteolytic processing, storage, and secretion of this secretory granule-associated protein were examined after stable transfection of AtT-20 mouse pituitary cells with naturally occurring and truncated PAM proteins. The transfected proteins were examined using enzyme assays, subcellular fractionation, Western blotting, and immunocytochemistry. Western blots of crude membrane and soluble fractions of transfected cells demonstrated that all PAM proteins were endoproteolytically processed. When the linker region was present between the monooxygenase and lyase domains, monofunctional soluble enzymes were generated from bifunctional PAM proteins; without the linker region, bifunctional enzymes were generated. Soluble forms of PAM expressed in AtT-20 cells and soluble proteins generated through selective endoproteolysis of membrane-associated PAM were secreted in an active form into the medium; secretion of the transfected proteins and endogenous hormone were stimulated in parallel by secretagogues. PAM proteins were localized by immunocytochemistry in the perinuclear region near the Golgi apparatus and in secretory granules, with the greatest intensity of staining in the perinuclear region in cell lines expressing integral membrane forms of PAM. Monofunctional and bifunctional PAM proteins that were soluble or membrane-associated were all packaged into regulated secretory granules in AtT-20 cells.
Kinesin, a microtubule-based force-generating molecule, is thought to translocate organelles along microtubules. To examine the function of kinesin in neurons, we sought to suppress kinesin heavy chain (KHC) expression in cultured hippocampal neurons using antisense oligonucleotides and study the phenotype of these KHC &quot;null&quot; cells. Two different antisense oligonucleotides complementary to the KHC sequence reduced the protein levels of the heavy chain by greater than 95% within 24 h after application and produced identical phenotypes. After inhibition of KHC expression for 24 or 48 h, neurons extended an array of neurites often with one neurite longer than the others; however, the length of all these neurites was significantly reduced. Inhibition of KHC expression also altered the distribution of GAP-43 and synapsin I, two proteins thought to be transported in association with membranous organelles. These proteins, which are normally localized at the tips of growing neurites, were confined to the cell body in antisense-treated cells. Treatment of the cells with the corresponding sense oligonucleotides affected neither the distribution of GAP-43 and synapsin I, nor the length of neurites. A full recovery of neurite length occurred after removal of the antisense oligonucleotides from the medium. These data indicate that KHC plays a role in the anterograde translocation of vesicles containing GAP-43 and synapsin I. A deficiency in vesicle delivery may also explain the inhibition of neurite outgrowth. Despite the inhibition of KHC and the failure of GAP-43 and synapsin I to move out of the cell body, hippocampal neurons can extend processes and acquire as asymmetric morphology.
Two strategies were used to estimate the blood flow threshold for focal cerebral infarction in spontaneously hypertensive rats (SHRs) subjected to permanent middle cerebral artery and common carotid artery occlusion (MCA/CCAO). The first compared the volume of cortical infarction (24 h after ischemia onset) to the volumes of ischemic cortex (image analysis of [14C]iodoantipyrine CBF autoradiographs) perfused below CBF values less than 50 (VIC50) and less than 25 ml 100 g-1 min-1 (VIC25) at serial intervals during the first 3 h of ischemia. The infarct process becomes irreversible within 3 h in this model. In the second, measurements of CBF at the border separating normal from infarcted cortex at 24 h after ischemia onset were used as an index of the threshold. During the first 3 h of ischemia, VIC50 increased slightly to reach a maximum size at 3 h that closely matched the 24 h infarct volume. VIC25, in contrast, consistently underestimated the infarct volume by a factor of 2-3. CBF at the 24 h infarct border averaged 50 ml 100 g-1 min -1. Taken together, the results indicate that the CBF threshold for infarction in SHRs approaches 50 ml 100 g-1 min-1 when ischemia persists for greater than or equal to 3 h. This threshold value is approximately three times higher than in primates. Since cortical neuronal density is also threefold greater in rats than in primates, the higher injury threshold in the rat may reflect a neuronal primacy in determining the brain's susceptibility to partial ischemia.
The projection from the whiskers of the rat to the S-I (barrel) cortex is segregated into two separate pathways--a lemniscal pathway relayed by the ventral posterior medial nucleus (VPM) to cortical barrels, and a paralemniscal pathway relayed by the rostral sector of the posterior complex (POm) to the matrix between, above, and below barrels. Before investigating how the barrel cortex integrates these sensory pathways, it is important to learn more about the influence of the various inputs to the two thalamic nuclei. Based on the greater density of descending versus ascending projections to POm, it seemed likely that corticofugal inputs play an important role in the sensory activity of POm. To test this, the responses of POm and VPM cells to sensory stimuli were measured before, during, and after suppression of the S-I cortex. S-I was suppressed by application of magnesium or by cooling; the status of the barrel cortex was assessed continuously by an electrocorticogram. All VPM cells (n = 8) responded vigorously to whisker movement even when the barrel cortex was profoundly depressed. In contrast, all POm cells (n = 9) failed to respond to whisker movement once the barrel cortex became depressed, typically about 25 minutes after the start of cortical cooling or magnesium application. POm cells regained responsiveness about 30 minutes after the cessation of cortical cooling or the washoff of magnesium. These findings indicate that the transmission of sensory information through the lemniscal pathway occurs independently of the state of cortex, whereas transmission through the paralemniscal pathway depends upon the state of the cortex itself.
To better characterize the cells involved in newt limb regeneration, blastemal cells from accumulation and differentiation phase blastemas were grown in dissociated cell culture, and their morphology and antigenic phenotype determined using a variety of antibodies directed against intermediate filaments, cell adhesion molecules, and extracellular matrix molecules. In addition to previously described blastemal cell morphologies, many of the cells in these cultures had a round cell body, with an eccentrically placed nucleus and a cytoplasm filled with autofluorescent granules. The majority of accumulation phase blastemal cells labeled with antibodies against GFAP, vimentin, 22/18 as well as with antibodies against NCAM, L-1, laminin, and fibronectin. The majority of differentiation phase blastemal cells had a similar phenotype but lacked expression of vimentin and fibronectin. Comparison of the blastemal phenotype in vitro and in vivo showed similar expression characteristics. However, in differentiation phase blastemas, laminin immunoreactivity was concentrated in specific locations. In addition, the proliferation of cultured blastemal cells is stimulated by the addition of a crude brain extract, consistent with previous studies in vivo and in vitro. Taken together, these observations suggest that dissociated cultures of newt limb blastemal cells provide a suitable model for the analysis of the cell and molecular mechanisms involved in limb regeneration.
A cDNA encoding the spike (S) protein of the neurovirulent murine coronavirus JHMV variant cl-2 was isolated and sequenced. Analysis of the cDNA revealed that the S protein consists of 1376 amino acids, as does the S protein of mouse hepatitis virus 4. We inserted the cDNA into the genome of vaccinia virus to obtain a recombinant vaccinia virus (rVV). The S protein expressed in RK13 cells infected by the rVV was shown to be electrophoretically and immunologically indistinguishable from the S protein produced in DBT cells infected with cl-2 virus. RVV infection of rats and mice induced S protein-specific antibody production detectable by immunofluorescence and neutralization. Moreover, the S protein expressed by the rVV induced syncytium formation not only in mouse DBT and L cells, which are susceptible to cl-2 virus infection, but also in rabbit RK13 cells, which are not susceptible to cl-2 virus infection. This result suggests the possibility that RK13 cells have binding sites for the cl-2 virus S protein.
A Free-Wilson/Fujita-Ban (FW/FB) analysis is reported on 36 &quot;dipeptoid&quot; antagonists of the CCK-B receptor. This series of compounds includes [R-(R*,R*)]-4-[[2-[[3-(1H-indol-3-yl)-2-methyl-1-oxo-2- [[(tricyclo[3.3.1.1] dec-2-yloxy)carbonyl]amino]propyl]amino]-1-phenylethyl]amino]- 4-oxobutanoic acid (CI-988, 1, Figure 1), the first rationally designed non-peptide antagonist of a neuropeptide receptor. The analysis treats the compounds in three parts: the N-terminus, variants on the tryptophan moiety, and the C-terminus. A highly significant correlation was found (n = 36, r2 = 0.97, s = 0.22, F = 57, p = 2 x 10(-8)), suggesting that these three domains of these compounds contribute to binding affinity independently of each other, and are therefore additive in their effects on receptor affinity. The relative free-energies of binding of the individual substituents are calculated from the coefficients of the regression equation. The substitution of D-alpha-methyltryptophan for L-tryptophan increases the free-energy of binding by 3.5 kcal mol-1. This increase in binding energy is explained by a 300-fold difference in conformational entropy between the methylated and desmethyl analogues.
A series of novel 2-substituted acetylenic pyrrolidines and piperidines related to oxotremorine (1) were prepared and evaluated in vitro as muscarinic cholinergic agents at brain M1 and M2 receptors. One analogue, 3-(2-oxo-1-pyrrolidinyl)-1-[2(R)-pyrrolidinyl]-1-propyne hydrogen oxalate (6a), was found to be a partial agonist producing a PI hydrolysis response at cortical M1 receptors approximately 3-fold larger than that produced by 1. The intrinsic activity profile of 6a at brain muscarinic receptors is similar to those of azetidine oxo analogue 2 and dimethylamino oxo analogue. All three compounds are partial M1 agonists and full M2 agonists; however, the profile of 6a in binding studies is significantly different. While 2 and 3 exhibit large M2 selectivities ranging between 8-fold to several hundred-fold, the binding profile of 6a shows almost no subtype selectivity.
Histamine activation of H1 receptors stimulates 3H release from cultured bovine adrenal chromaffin cells preloaded with [3H]noradrenaline. The initial (1-min) release induced by a high concentration of histamine was unaffected by the removal of extracellular Ca2+, whereas the more sustained response (10 min) was largely inhibited. In contrast, release induced by nicotine was dependent on extracellular Ca2+ at all times. The protein kinase inhibitor staurosporine inhibited both the initial and sustained (10-min) phases of histamine-induced release (IC50 in the region of 200 nM) but was ineffective against a direct depolarizing stimulus (56 mM K+). In contrast, the calmodulin antagonist trifluoperazine was equally effective against both stimuli. These data indicate that although a staurosporine-sensitive event (perhaps involving protein kinase C) is essential for coupling histamine receptor activation to the release processes, it is not essential for exocytosis itself. A further distinction between histamine- and depolarization-induced release was demonstrated by the differential effect of the guanine nucleotide-binding protein inhibitor pertussis toxin. Pretreatment with pertussis toxin (0.1 microgram/ml for 16 h) enhanced depolarization-induced release by approximately 1.5-fold. This pertussis toxin pretreatment was, however, approximately twofold as effective in potentiating histamine-evoked release. Thus, the characteristics of the histaminergic response are distinct from those of a depolarizing stimulus, perhaps indicating the involvement of different mechanisms in the release process.
The full agonist [3H]bromoxidine (UK 14304) was used to quantitate alpha 2-adrenoceptors in postmortem brains of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The effects of aging and human serum Cohn fraction IV on [3H]bromoxidine binding were also assessed. In patients with Alzheimer's disease, the binding capacity (Bmax) of [3H]bromoxidine was lower in the frontal cortex (37%), hypothalamus (33%), and cerebellum (52%) than in matched controls. In the hippocampus, amygdala, and head of caudate, the binding capacities (Bmax) were unchanged. Quantitative autoradiographic analyses with [3H]bromoxidine confirmed the existence of a marked reduction (55-60%) in alpha 2A-adrenoceptor density in the frontal cortex (layers I and III). In patients with dementia who did not meet neuropathological criteria for Alzheimer's disease, the density of alpha 2-adrenoceptors was unchanged. In control subjects, the density of alpha 2A-adrenoceptors in the frontal cortex showed a significant negative correlation with age at death. The inhibitory effect of human serum Cohn fraction IV on [3H]bromoxidine was very similar in control subjects and patients with Alzheimer's disease. The observed decrease in the density of brain alpha 2-adrenoceptors in Alzheimer's disease may represent direct biochemical evidence of a presynaptic location of this receptor on noradrenergic nerve terminals in the human CNS.
The muscarinic stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity in rat olfactory bulb was characterized, with the aim of elucidating the nature of the molecular mechanism involved. Carbachol (CCh) stimulated the enzyme activity in either crude or purified cell membrane preparations and increased cyclic AMP accumulation in miniprisms of olfactory bulb. The CCh stimulation of adenylate cyclase activity displayed a fast onset and was rapidly reversed by addition of atropine. The stimulation was associated with an increase in the apparent Vmax of the enzyme, with no change in the Km for Mg-ATP. The affinity of the enzyme for Mg2+ was enhanced by CCh. The muscarinic effect required GTP at concentrations higher than those needed for enzyme stimulation with either l-isoproterenol or vasoactive intestinal peptide. Moreover, contrary to the beta-adrenergic stimulation, the muscarinic effect disappeared when guanosine 5'-O-(3'-thiotriphosphate) was substituted for GTP. In vivo treatment of olfactory bulbs with pertussis toxin completely prevented the muscarinic stimulation of adenylate cyclase, whereas cholera toxin was without effect. These results indicate that in rat olfactory bulb muscarinic receptors increase adenylate cyclase activity by interacting with a pertussis toxin-sensitive GTP-binding protein different from the stimulatory GTP-binding protein.
The science of stereology has undergone a revolution over the past decade with the introduction of design-based (assumption- or model-free) methods which are highly efficient and generally unbiased. No other morphometric approach currently offers these twin benefits. Stereology is ideal for extrapolating 3-D structural quantities (real volumes, surface areas, lengths and numbers) from simple counts made on 2-D slice images. The images may take various forms (e.g. physical or optical sections, MRI slices, CT scans) but they must be sampled so as to be random in orientation and/or position if valid estimates are to be made. All the recent developments in stereology are applicable to problems in neuromorphometry. This review provides an account of major developments and the state of the art, emphasizes the importance of properly randomized sampling and identifies some applications to neural structure at different levels of organization. These include the counting and sizing of synapses, neurites, cells and whole brains.
An immunohistochemical study focusing on glial cells was performed using monoclonal antibodies against microtubule-associated proteins (MAP1, MAP2 and MAP5), transferrin, leukocyte common antigen (LCA) and glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) in 5 cases of multiple system atrophy (MSA) exhibiting olivopontocerebellar atrophy and striatonigral degeneration. An antibody to MAP5, a fetal antigen in developing brain, was strongly demonstrated in the glial cytoplasmic inclusions (GCIs) which have recently drawn a great deal of attention and were observed in all 5 cases of MSA. Moreover, MAP5-positive glial cells (MAP5-Gs) were present in significantly higher number than in the controls in various regions where GCIs were found, predominantly in putamen, substantia nigra, cerebellar white matter and internal capsule. LCA and transferrin, markers of microglia and oligodendroglia, respectively, were immunohistochemically detected in some MAP5-Gs. GFAP, on the other hand, was not expressed in MAP5-Gs at all. These findings suggest that MAP5-Gs consist of reactive microglia and oligodendroglia. Our study is the first to demonstrate immunohistochemical detection of MAP5 in glial pathological changes in MSA.
1. Yaw eye in head (Eh) and head on body velocities (Hb) were measured in two monkeys that ran around the perimeter of a circular platform in darkness. The platform was stationary or could be counterrotated to reduce body velocity in space (Bs) while increasing gait velocity on the platform (Bp). The animals were also rotated while seated in a primate chair at eccentric locations to provide linear and angular accelerations similar to those experienced while running. 2. Both animals had head and eye nystagmus while running in darkness during which slow phase gaze velocity on the body (Gb) partially compensated for body velocity in space (Bs). The eyes, driven by the vestibuloocular reflex (VOR), supplied high-frequency characteristics, bringing Gb up to compensatory levels at the beginning and end of the slow phases. The head provided substantial gaze compensation during the slow phases, probably through the vestibulocollic reflex (VCR). Synchronous eye and head quick phases moved gaze in the direction of running. Head movements occurred consistently only when animals were running. This indicates that active body and limb motion may be essential for inducing the head-eye gaze synergy. 3. Gaze compensation was good when running in both directions in one animal and in one direction in the other animal. The animals had long VOR time constants in these directions. The VOR time constant was short to one side in one animal, and it had poor gaze compensation in this direction. Postlocomotory nystagmus was weaker after running in directions with a long VOR time constant than when the animals were passively rotated in darkness. We infer that velocity storage in the vestibular system had been activated to produce continuous Eh and Hb during running and to counteract postrotatory afterresponses. 4. Continuous compensatory gaze nystagmus was not produced by passive eccentric rotation with the head stabilized or free. This indicates that an aspect of active locomotion, most likely somatosensory feedback, was responsible for activating velocity storage. 5. Nystagmus was compared when an animal ran in darkness and in light. the beat frequency of eye and head nystagmus was lower, and the quick phases were larger in darkness. The duration of head and eye quick phases covaried. Eye quick phases were larger when animals ran in darkness than when they were passively rotated. The maximum velocity and duration of eye quick phases were the same in both conditions. 6. The platform was counterrotated under one monkey in darkness while it ran in the direction of its long vestibular time constant.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
1. A rhesus and cynomolgus monkey were trained to run around the perimeter of a circular platform in light. We call this &quot;circular locomotion&quot; because forward motion had an angular component. Head and body velocity in space were recorded with angular rate sensors and eye movements with electrooculography (EOG). From these measurements we derived signals related to the angular velocity of the eyes in the head (Eh), of the head on the body (Hb), of gaze on the body (Gb), of the body in space (Bs), of gaze in space (Gs), and of the gain of gaze (Gb/Bs). 2. The monkeys had continuous compensatory nystagmus of the head and eyes while running, which stabilized Gs during the slow phases. The eyes established and maintained compensatory gaze velocities at the beginning and end of the slow phases. The head contributed to gaze velocity during the middle of the slow phases. Slow phase Gb was as high as 250 degrees/s, and targets were fixed for gaze angles as large as 90-140 degrees. 3. Properties of the visual surround affected both the gain and strategy of gaze compensation in the one monkey tested. Gains of Eh ranged from 0.3 to 1.1 during compensatory gaze nystagmus. Gains of Hb varied around 0.3 (0.2-0.7), building to a maximum as Eh dropped while running past sectors of interest. Consistent with predictions, gaze gains varied from below to above unity, when translational and angular body movements with regard to the target were in opposite or the same directions, respectively. 4. Gaze moved in saccadic shifts in the direction of running during quick phases. Most head quick phases were small, and at times the head only paused during an eye quick phase. Eye quick phases were larger, ranging up to 60 degrees. This is larger than quick phases during passive rotation or saccades made with the head fixed. 5. These data indicate that head and eye nystagmus are natural phenomena that support gaze compensation during locomotion. Despite differential utilization of the head and eyes in various conditions, Gb compensated for Bs. There are various frames of reference in which an estimate of angular velocity that drives the head and eyes could be based. We infer that body in space velocity (Bs) is likely to be represented centrally to provide this signal.
1. Eye movements were measured in three rhesus monkeys after monocular intravitreal injections of picrotoxin, a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonist. The effects of this drug were tested when the animals were in a completely dark room, when they performed a smooth pursuit task, and when they viewed either a stationary pattern or a full-field optokinetic pattern rotating horizontally. 2. Between 15 and 20 min after the injection, a sustained conjugate spontaneous nystagmus developed in the dark, with the slow-phase movement in the temporal-to-nasal direction with respect to the injected eye. Peak slow-phase velocity ranged from 15 to 45 degrees/s. The nystagmus persisted for at least 1 h but stopped by the next day. 3. In a well-lit room, the nystagmus was completely suppressed, even during monocular viewing with the injected eye. When the lights were turned off, the slow-phase velocity of the spontaneous nystagmus slowly increased to a steady-state level within 70-120 s. 4. Horizontal smooth pursuit eye movements to a 1 degree target light moving in front of the animal +/- 20 degrees to either side of center of gaze at constant speeds were normal. Target speeds ranging from 15 to 60 degrees/s for both monocular and binocular viewing conditions were used. Binocular and monocular optokinetic nystagmus (OKN) to a full-field drum rotating at a constant velocity (5-90 degrees/s) were also normal. The initial pursuit and steady-state components of OKN were measured, as well as the velocity-storage component (optokinetic after nystagmus, OKAN).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Administration of N-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) to mammals causes damage to the nigrostriatal dopaminergic pathway similar to that observed in Parkinson's disease. It has been suggested that the mechanism by which MPTP kills dopamine (DA) neurons involves an energy crisis due to the inhibition of mitochondrial complex I. In addition, superoxide radicals (O2-), generated subsequent to the blockade of mitochondrial complex I, may also be involved in MPTP-induced neurotoxicity. Superoxide dismutase (SOD) is a scavenger enzyme that protects cells from the hazard of O2- radicals. To evaluate further the role of O2- radical in MPTP-induced toxicity, we tested the effects of MPTP in transgenic mice with increased SOD activity. In nontransgenic littermates with normal SOD activity, MPTP injection causes a marked reduction in striatal levels of DA and its metabolites as well as in striatal and nigral 3H-DA uptake; these findings are consistent with a loss in dopaminergic neurons. In contrast, in transgenic mice with increased SOD activity, MPTP injection does not cause any significant changes either in levels of DA and metabolites or in 3H-DA uptake. We show that this lack of toxicity is not due to a lower delivery of MPTP to the brain following its intraperitoneal injection, to reduced brain biotransformation of MPTP to N-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium ion (MPP+), to diminished striatal mitochondrial monoamine oxidase B activity, to decreased synaptosomal uptake of MPP+, to lower potency of MPP+ to inhibit the complex I of the mitochondrial electron transport chain, or to faster brain elimination of MPP+. These results suggest that increased SOD activity is, most likely, the protective factor that confers resistance to transgenic mice against MPTP-induced neurotoxicity. Thus, this study provides further evidence that some of the deleterious effects of MPTP may be mediated by O2- radicals. The similarity between the MPTP model and Parkinson's disease further raises the possibility that oxy-radicals may play a significant role in the etiology of this neurodegenerative disorder.
Hippocampal astrocytes were acutely isolated by papain treatment and mechanical trituration. Astrocytes were identified by their distinctive stellate morphology and immunocytochemical staining for glial fibrillary acidic protein. The electrophysiological properties of these cells were investigated using whole-cell voltage-clamp techniques. Three kinetically and pharmacologically distinct voltage-activated K+ currents were identified in most cells; they resembled the neuronal A-current, delayed rectifier, and inward rectifier. The activation threshold of the A-current was -40 mV with a time to peak that ranged from 10 msec at -20 mV to 6 msec at 100 mV. Steady-state inactivation was observed when the holding potential was positive to -100 mV. The current was half-inactivated at -60 mV and totally inactivated at -20 mV. The A-current was suppressed by 4-aminopyridine (4-AP). The delayed rectifier was activated by depolarizing pulses more positive than -40 mV and had a half time of activation that ranged from 18 msec at -20 mV to 10 msec at potentials more positive than 40 mV. This current did not inactivate during a 100 msec pulse and was suppressed by extracellular tetraethylammonium (TEA). An inwardly rectifying current was elicited by hyperpolarizing pulses more negative than -80 mV. This current was not blocked by extracellular TEA or 4-AP and was never observed in the presence of external Ba2+. Voltage-activated inward Na+ currents were never observed. Voltage-activated K+ channels may enhance the local K+ spatial buffering capabilities of the astrocyte syncytium when extracellular [K+] increases during neuronal activity.
We have analyzed the cis-regulatory elements in the 5' flanking region of the Drosophila choline acetyltransferase gene (ChAT, E.C.2.3.1.6). DNA fragments were fused to the Escherichia coli lacZ reporter gene and introduced into the Drosophila germ line by P-element-mediated transformation. A 7.4 kb 5' flanking sequence directed beta-galactosidase expression in the adult optic lobes and other well-defined CNS structures with a pattern very similar to the distribution of endogenous ChAT protein. In contrast, the proximal 3.3 kb and 1.2 kb of 5' flanking DNA directed lacZ expression in only selected subsets of the structures seen with the 7.4 kb lacZ construct. Our results indicate that both qualitative and quantitative regulatory elements are present in the 5' flanking DNA and that these elements distinguish various subsets of cholinergic neurons. We have also fused the same 5' flanking DNA sequences to wild-type ChAT cDNA and used these constructs to transform Chatsl mutant flies. Not only the 7.4 kb cDNA construct, but also the 3.3 and 1.2 kb constructs, rescued Chatsl from temperature-dependent paralysis and adult lethality, indicating that the regulatory information in any of these genomic fragments can drive sufficient wild-type ChAT expression to overcome these mutant phenotypes.
Previous culture studies have demonstrated that muscle cells autonomously express and cluster ACh receptors (AChRs) and that contact by neurites induces a reorganization of these clusters. We studied these phenomena in zebrafish embryos where the same cells could be examined in vivo and in vitro, and where contacts between cells could be viewed repeatedly. Receptor clusters first appeared when the pioneer growth cones emerged from the spinal cord, were always associated with labeled branches, and developed normally in the presence of neuromuscular transmission blockers. When motoneurons were removed, the muscles failed to cluster receptors. In contrast, muscle cells grown in cell culture uncontacted by nerves clustered AChRs. Our results suggest that clustering of AChRs in living embryos is induced by the presence of neurites and does not occur in the absence of neuronal contact. We suggest that conditions in cell culture, which differ from those in the intact embryo, induce clusters on isolated muscle cells. Moreover, our results demonstrate that receptors cluster without binding transmitter and in the absence of neuronal activity.

Implanted intramuscular electrodes must remain functional for many years if functional neuromuscular stimulation (FNS) is to become a standard treatment in paralysed individuals. In initial trials we found that 5 of 11 coiled single-wire FNS electrodes implanted in 3 patients failed within 8 months. Consequently, we turned to a reinforced electrode comprising 2 multi-stranded, insulated wires tandem-wound on a prolene core and terminated by a prolene anchor or tine (after Mortimer et al., 1986, 1987). The electrodes were implanted with a translumbar aortogram needle, the teflon sheath of which enabled us to stimulate through the tip to guide placement. We have monitored the electrical and functional properties of 8 reinforced electrodes implanted in 2 incomplete quadriplegic patients over 22 months. Four of the electrodes were used for at least 1 h daily to exercise muscles or to provide FNS in gait. Electrical impedances, thresholds and elicited limb motion remained constant in all 8 electrodes over the test period. Disadvantages of the reinforced electrodes are (1) difficulty of eventual removal, and (2) risk of pathogenic infiltration is increased by the 3-filament structure (fortunately dense tissue encapsulation seems to mitigate infection). We conclude that tandem-wound, prolene-reinforced FNS electrodes are much more robust than previous single-coil designs and may form the basis for FNS devices of the future.
Cultured astrocytes grown chronically (1-3 days) in medium made hyperosmotic (450 mOsm) with NaCl or sucrose showed an increase in taurine concentration from 294 to 501 nmol/mg protein in NaCl and to 382 nmol/mg protein in sucrose. The effect of hyperosmolarity on taurine uptake and release was examined to investigate whether or not changes in these processes may account for the increase observed in cell taurine content. Hyperosmolarity significantly affected the two components of taurine uptake (i.e., the Na(+)-dependent and the diffusional component). The Vmax of the Na(+)-dependent, active transport increased 50%, whereas no change was observed in the Km. The diffusion coefficient was markedly decreased by hyperosmolarity, being 2.2 x 10(-4) and 6.6 x 10(-6) ml/min/mg protein in isosmotic and hyperosmotic conditions, respectively, indicating a blockade of the leak pathway. These changes in the active and passive components of taurine transport were opposite to those induced by hyperosmolarity. The effect of hyperosmolarity increasing cell taurine content was insensitive to cycloheximide and colchicine. The basal efflux of taurine from astrocytes also decreased in cells exposed to hyperosmotic medium, indicating that alterations in both influx and efflux of taurine are involved in the mechanism responsible for the increase in taurine levels induced by hyperosmolarity in astrocytes.
Ischemic insults to the brain in stroke or traumatic brain injury produce excessive release of glutamate from depolarized nerve terminals. This excessive glutamate release in turn stimulates massive calcium entry into nerve cells, activating a biochemical cascade that results in cell death. A major pathway of calcium entry into depolarized nerve cells is through voltage-sensitive, high threshold calcium channels. A large fraction of this calcium entry is mediated through &quot;R-type&quot; calcium channels, channels resistant to blockage by dihydropyridine calcium antagonists such as nimodipine. A newly discovered compound derived from spider venom, CNS 2103, antagonizes both R-type channels and dihydropyridine-sensitive (&quot;L-type&quot;) calcium channels. This broad spectrum of action, coupled with selectivity for calcium channels over other classes of voltage-sensitive and ligand-gated ion channels, makes CNS 2103 an interesting lead for development of drugs to treat ischemic brain injury. Activation of presynaptic (&quot;N-type&quot;) calcium channels in nerve terminals is a primary cause of excessive neurotransmitter release in brain ischemia. Prevention of glutamate release by blockade of N-type channels in glutamatergic nerve terminals may, at an early stage in the pathophysiological cascade, abort the process leading to nerve cell death. Cambridge NeuroScience has developed a novel rapid kinetic approach for monitoring glutamate release from brain nerve terminals in vitro, and this has led to CNS 1145, a substituted guanidine that selectively blocks a kinetic component of calcium-dependent glutamate release mediated by persistent depolarization. Additional evidence suggests that CNS 1145 antagonizes presynaptic N-type calcium channels, and this may account at least in part for its ability to block glutamate release.
The intermediate lobe of the pituitary (IL) is a promising model system for the study of dopaminergic neurotransmission. We sought to characterize the release of dopamine (DA) from the IL using electrochemical methods which provide increased spatial and temporal resolution compared to the superfusion techniques which had previously been employed to study this system. After pretreatment with monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors, we were able to routinely measure DA overflow after 30-sec, 9-Hz electrical stimulation of the pituitary stalk. This effect was blocked by tetrodotoxin and Cd++ ions confirming that it was due to synaptic activation. Intracellular recording from the postsynaptic cells (melanotrophs) showed a postsynaptic hyperpolarization with a time course that was identical to that of DA overflow. Overflow was increased and prolonged by agents that inhibited DA uptake (nomifensine, mazindol or cocaine) and increased but not prolonged by a D2 antagonist (sulpiride), presumably acting via presynaptic autoreceptors. The DA precursor 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine also increased DA overflow gradually over a 45-min time period. In view of reports of possible colocalization of DA and gamma-aminobutyric acid in IL, we determined the possible effects of GABAergic agents on DA release. Neither agonists (muscimol or baclofen) nor antagonists (bicuculline or 2-hydroxysaclofen) had any effect on DA overflow. By using the MAOA-specific inhibitor clorgyline and the MAOB-specific inhibitor deprenyl we were able to confirm that the MAOA form of the enzyme is involved in DA metabolism in this preparation.
Centrin is a major protein of the contractile striated flagellar roots of the green alga Tetraselmis striata. We present a newly modified procedure for the preparation of centrin in sufficient quantity and purity to allow for detailed biochemical characterization. We establish that centrin purified by differential solubility, followed by phenyl-Sepharose and DEAE-Sephacel chromatography is identical with the protein extracted directly from striated flagellar roots with regard to molecular weight, isoelectric point, and calcium-dependent behavior in SDS-PAGE. We also compare the biochemical properties of purified centrin with calmodulin isolated from Tetraselmis and calmodulin isolated from mammalian brain. Centrin can be fully distinguished from either algal or mammalian calmodulin on the basis of molecular weight, isoelectric point, calcium-dependent behavior in SDS-PAGE, proteolytic peptide maps, amino acid composition, ability to activate bovine brain phosphodiesterase, and reactivity with specific antibodies.
The binding characteristics of [3H]L-689,560 [(+/-)-4-(trans)-2-carboxy-5,7-dichloro-4-phenylaminocarbonylamino -1,2,3,4- tetrahydroquinoline], a selective antagonist for the glycine site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate receptor, have been evaluated using rat cortex/hippocampus P2 membranes. Specific [3H]L-689,560 binding was saturable, having a Kd of 2.97 nM and a Bmax of 4.15 pmol/mg of protein. The Bmax value was not significantly different from that obtained for [3H]glycine in the same membrane preparation, and L-689,560 and glycine were found to be mutually competitive. The specific binding of [3H]L-689,560 (1 nM) represented 96 +/- 0.02% (four experiments) of total binding. Association experiments at 4 degrees revealed that [3H]L-689,560 reached equilibrium in 120 min, with a t1/2 of 40 min. The dissociation of [3H]L-689,560 was slow at 4 degrees (t1/2 = 118 min), allowing the use of filtration to separate free from bound radioactivity. Both association and dissociation curves were best fitted by a double-exponential function, suggesting the presence of two components. Comparison of IC50 values obtained using [3H]glycine and [3H]L-689,560 binding for 21 glycine site ligands (including agonists, partial agonists, and antagonists, with affinities spanning 5 orders of magnitude) showed a 1:1 correlation, with a correlation coefficient of 0.97. This suggests that efficacy does not have a large influence on the affinity of glycine site ligands when an agonist or antagonist radioligand is used. Ligands for other amino acid recognition sites did not directly inhibit [3H]L-689,560 binding. [3H]L-689,560 is an improved radioligand for the glycine site that will facilitate further investigations of its properties.
The glycine site on the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) subtype of receptors for the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate is a potential target for the development of neuroprotective drugs. We report here two chemical series of glycine site antagonists derived from kynurenic acid (KYNA), with greatly improved potency and selectivity. Disubstitution with chlorine or bromine in the 5- and 7-positions of KYNA increased affinity for [3H]glycine binding sites in rat cortex/hippocampus P2 membranes, with a parallel increase of potency for antagonism of NMDA-evoked responses in the rat cortical wedge preparation. The optimal compound was 5-I,7-Cl-KYNA, with an IC50 for [3H]glycine binding of 29 nM and an apparent Kb in the cortical wedge preparation of 0.41 microM. Reduction of the right-hand ring of 5,7-diCl-KYNA reduced affinity by 10-fold, but this was restored by substitution in the 4-position with the trans-phenylamide and further improved in the trans-benzylamide. The optimal compound was the transphenylurea (L-689,560), with an IC50 of 7.4 nM and an apparent Kb of 0.13 microM. Both series of compounds displayed a high degree of selectivity for the glycine site, having IC50 values of greater than 10 microM versus radioligand binding to the glutamate recognition sites of NMDA, alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazolepropionate (AMPA), and kainate receptors and the strychnine-sensitive glycine receptor. Selectivity versus AMPA receptor-mediated responses was also apparent in the rat cortical wedge and in patch-clamp recordings of cortical neurons in culture. Experiments using [3H]dizocilpine (MK-801) binding indicated that 5,7-diBr-KYNA, 5,7-diCl-KYNA, 5-I,7-Cl-KYNA, and L-689,560 all behaved as full antagonists and were competitive with glycine. Patch-clamp recordings of cortical neurons in culture also indicated that NMDA-induced currents were antagonized by competition for the glycine site, and gave no evidence for partial agonist activity. pKi values for 5,7-diBr-KYNA and L-689,560 in these experiments were 7.2 and 7.98, respectively, similar to the affinities of these compounds in the glycine binding assay. The high affinity and selectivity of these new derivatives make them useful tools to investigate the function of the glycine site on the NMDA receptor.
The binding of (RS)-alpha-[3H]amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid ([3H]AMPA), a selective ligand for non-N-methyl-D-aspartate excitatory amino acid receptors, was investigated in rat brain using an autoradiographic receptor binding technique. [3H]AMPA binding sites were widely distributed throughout the rat central nervous system, and the rank order of potency of displacers of [3H]AMPA binding was quisqualate greater than AMPA greater than 6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione = 6-cyano-7-nitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione greater than beta-N-oxalylamino-L-alanine greater than glutamate greater than kainate. Potassium thiocyanate (0-100 mM) exerted a 4-fold stimulation of [3H]AMPA binding, without changing the relative regional distribution of [3H]AMPA binding densities among rat brain regions. Scatchard analysis of equilibrium saturation binding revealed high affinity and low affinity components of [3H]AMPA binding, even in the absence of potassium thiocyanate. Addition of potassium thiocyanate increased the number of high affinity [3H]AMPA binding sites without a change in affinity. In addition, the number of low affinity [3H]AMPA binding sites was unchanged in the presence of potassium thiocyanate, but the affinity of low affinity [3H]AMPA binding was greatly increased. [3H]AMPA thus binds specifically to two affinity conformations of postsynaptic binding sites that appear to be interconverted with potassium thiocyanate. The pharmacologic profile of these sites is consistent with that of the ion channel-linked (&quot;ionotropic&quot;) quisqualate/AMPA class of excitatory amino acid receptor in the rat central nervous system.
To refine the technique of phrenic nerve conduction, we first studied electrode positioning and sources of chest wall artifact. Diaphragmatic compound motor action potentials (DCMAPs) were mapped at close intervals over 4 hemithoraces of two subjects, finding optimum recording sites which were then used to quantitate artifacts due to EKG, chest wall EMG, and configurational thoracic changes of respiration. Based on these findings, 20 normal subjects were studied, showing ease of application and good side-to-side agreement for DCMAP latencies; but, in contrast to prior reports, right-to-left correlation for amplitude and waveform was poor, making the unaffected side an unreliable standard in unilateral partial phrenic nerve lesions.
Intracellular recordings were obtained from neurons of the supraoptic nucleus in superfused explants of rat hypothalamus in vitro. Transient hyperosmotic stimulation of the organum vasculosum lamina terminalis (OVLT) area caused long-lasting increases in the frequency of excitatory post-synaptic potentials and an associated rise in the rate of action potential discharge. Such responses could be evoked by small (less than + 2%) increases in osmolality, but not by isotonic solutions. These results suggest that the OVLT plays a functional role in the osmoregulation of neurohypophyseal hormone release.
Parkinson's disease has served as the prototype for study of degenerative neurologic diseases, perhaps because in patients with Parkinson's disease a set of conspicuous symptoms is due to loss of neurons in a single nucleus, the substantia nigra pars compacta. The restricted pathology enabled researchers to understand the salient biochemical abnormalities of and to develop effective drug therapies for Parkinson's disease. Our understanding of Parkinson's disease may enable identification of markers for presymptomatic diagnosis of the disease. Trophic factors and transplantation enabled researchers to begin to develop and implement strategies to protect remaining dopaminergic neurons in the substantia nigra pars compacta and to restore dopaminergic innervation in the striatum.
The growth of our knowledge of Parkinson's disease over the past 175 years represents an enormous and at times stormy intellectual voyage. It required the contributions of many scientists and clinicians in many disciplines, and its progress inevitably reflected the general progress of biomedical science over the past 2 centuries. The advances in the past half century clearly depended on the great advances achieved in that time in histochemistry, neurochemistry, and neuropharmacology as well as in clinical neurology and neuropathology. Advances in the future will similarly depend on progress in modern neuroscience.


A case history of a 28-year-old woman who sustained a moderately severe head injury and then developed acute bilateral arm weakness is presented. Magnetic resonance imaging studies revealed a Chiari I malformation with a large cervical syringomyelia (hydromyelia). The patient's arm weakness almost completely resolved spontaneously as did her syrinx. How this case is interpreted in light of the various theories of pathogenesis will be discussed.
Born in Latvia in 1836, Ernst von Bergmann received his medical education and first academic position at the University of Dorpat in Russia. In 1866, he served as a military surgeon in the Prusso-Austrian War, followed by duty in the Franco-Prussian War of 1870. He was appointed to the faculty of the University of Wrzburg in 1878 and 4 years later moved to the University Clinic in Berlin. As a professor and chairman of surgery, he taught until his death in 1907. Von Bergmann practiced general surgery but devoted a large part of his career to the treatment of neurological diseases. Known for his development of aseptic technique, his early military experiences directed his attention to cranial trauma and, ultimately, neurosurgery. In 1880, he authored his first textbook, which described missile ballistics and animal experiments first demonstrating the physiological response later known as &quot;the Cushing reflex&quot; and advocated meticulous intracranial debridement with thorough closure after trauma. Twenty years later, as senior editor of the massive System of Practical Surgery, his contributions included pediatric neurosurgery, successful treatment of abscesses and tumors, diagnostic radiography, and cerebral localization using external landmarks and the neurological examination. Revered by his students and honored by his colleagues, von Bergmann became a proponent for aggressive neurosurgical treatment. His skilled techniques, developed in parallel with accurate experimental physiology, advanced 19th century surgical progression and formed a solid framework for the advances of neurosurgical specialists.
Using transcranial doppler ultrasonography, cerebral blood flow velocity was measured daily from both middle cerebral arteries in 121 patients who had suffered minor (n = 55), moderate (n = 16), or severe (n = 50) brain injury. Serial computed tomographic scans were performed to identify noncontusion-related infarction (NCI). Cerebral perfusion pressure was monitored continuously in 41 patients who had severe head injury; of these, 22 had continuous measurement of arterial and jugular bulb venous oxygen (SJO2) saturation. Abnormally high mean flow velocity (greater than 100 cm/s) was observed in 23 patients (minor injury, n = 3; moderate injury, n = 3; severe injury, n = 17), but was recorded only when cerebral perfusion pressure exceeded 60 mm Hg (P less than 0.0001). Fourteen patients who underwent SJO2 monitoring developed increased mean flow velocity (MFV). In 6, the arterial-jugular venous oxygen content difference (AVDO2) was below 4 ml/dl, indicating global cerebral hyperemia. All had bilateral elevation of MFV, and 6 of the 8 nonhyperemic patients (AVDO2, 4-9 ml/dl) had a unilateral increase of MFV (P = 0.018). Four of the 23 patients with increased MFV developed NCI, as compared with none of the patients without elevated MFV (P = 0.015). All patients with NCI had suffered severe brain injury, had unilateral elevation of MFV in the terriory of the relevant cerebral vessel, and had received therapy to correct reduced cerebral perfusion pressure (P = 0.008). NCI did not occur in any patient with increased MFV that was associated with global hyperemia.
Recently, several lines of evidence have indicated the important roles of glial cells, especially astrocytes, in the regulation of neuronal functions. The neuron-glia interaction is one of the most important issues in neuroscience, including neuropharmacology. I reviewed the present status and perspectives on the physiologic and pathologic functions of astrocytes in relation to the roles of intracellular Cl-. Astrocytes have different types of Cl- transport systems, such as voltage-sensitive and ligand-gated channels; HCO3(-)-Cl- exchange; and Na+, K+, Cl- cotransport systems. Anion exchange and cotransport systems are responsible for intracellular pH regulation and astrocytic volume regulation, respectively. Especially, astrocytic volume regulation is physiologically important for reducing the concentrations of K+ and glutamate in the extracellular space by their uptake systems. Disturbance of astrocytic volume regulation is expressed as astrocytic swelling, which is usually observed in various brain pathologic states including ischemia. Experimentally, glutamate caused a typical swelling of astrocytes in culture by Cl- and Ca(++)-dependent processes. Glutamate-induced swelling is qualitatively different from reversible swelling induced by hypoosmotic medium. Recently, we found that Cl- is intracellular factor for modulating the receptor-adenylate cyclase system in brain slices. Similarly, the receptor- and forskolin-stimulated adenylate cyclase of astrocytes showed a clear Cl- dependence. This was functionally confirmed by astrocytic morphological transformation induced by the cyclic AMP system.
Neonatal leukomalacia was classified into 4 groups: focal (F), widespread (W), diffuse (D), and multicystic encephalomalacia (MCE) according to the distribution of ischemic necrosis in the cerebral hemisphere. The highest and lowest values of PaCO2, PaO2, and pH and the lowest systolic and diastolic blood pressures were compared among each group and controls. The lowest PaCO2 values were significantly lower in MCE than in the F, W, and D (F + W + D) group or controls. The lowest values of systolic and diastolic blood pressures in the W and F + W + D groups were significantly lower than in the controls; therefore, hypocarbia can be an etiologic factor of MCE rather than periventricular leukomalacia. Hypotension may be closely related to a causal factor of neonatal leukomalacia.
Vascular development in the human brain was studied by immunohistochemistry using an anti-type VI collagen antibody. Positive vessels were evident from an early gestational age in the meninges, from 21 weeks gestation in the basal ganglia and deep white matter, and from 38 weeks gestation in the cerebral cortex and superficial white matter; however, type VI collagen never appeared in the subependymal germinal layer. The absent or scarce type VI collagen in the subependymal germinal layer may be one of the important factors of subependymal/intraventricular/periventricular hemorrhage in premature neonates. The earlier appearance of positive vessels in the deep white matter than in the cortex and superficial white matter suggests that the medullary vein develops earlier than the cortical and subcortical veins and arteries. These characteristics of the developing vascular structure may be one cause of perinatal brain damage.
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) elicits eating when injected directly into the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) or perifornical hypothalamus (PFH). To identify the essential regions of the NPY molecule and the relative contributions of Y1 and Y2 receptors, the eating stimulatory potency of NPY was compared to that of its fragments, analogues, and agonists when injected into the PVN or PFH of satiated rats. Additionally, antisera to NPY was injected into the cerebral ventricles (ICV) to determine whether passive immunization suppresses the eating produced by mild food deprivation. Tests with NPY fragments revealed that NPY(2-36) was surprisingly potent, nearly three times more so than intact NPY. In contrast, fragments with further N-terminal deletions were progressively less effective or ineffective, as was the free acid form of NPY. Collectively, this suggests that both N- and C-terminal regions of NPY participate in the stimulation of eating. Tests with agonists revealed that the putative Y1 agonist [Pro34]NPY elicited a strong dose-dependent feeding response, while the putative Y2 agonist, C2-NPY, had only a small effect at the highest doses. Although this suggests mediation by Y1 receptors, the uncharacteristically high potency of NPY(2-36) may additionally suggest that the receptor subtype underlying feeding is distinct from that mediating other responses. Additional results revealed that ICV injection of antisera to NPY, which should inactivate endogenous NPY, produced a concentration-dependent suppression of eating induced by mild food deprivation. This finding, along with published work demonstrating enhanced levels of hypothalamic NPY in food-deprived rats, suggests that endogenous NPY mediates the eating produced by deprivation.
Repeated episodes of penile erection and yawning can be induced in male rats either by low doses of the dopaminergic agonist apomorphine or by oxytocin given systematically or into a lateral ventricle (ICV), respectively, or after microinjection of the two substances directly in the paraventricular nucleus (PVN) of the hypothalamus. These behavioral responses are prevented in a dose-dependent manner by the ICV administration of the potent oxytocin antagonist d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8-vasotocin. In contrast, the PVN injection of d(CH2)5Tyr(Me)-Orn8-vasotocin (1-30 ng), while effective in preventing oxytocin effect, was unable to prevent apomorphine response. On the other hand, apomorphine-, but not oxytocin-induced penile erection and yawning was prevented by electrolytic lesion of the medial septum (MS). Such a lesion decreased oxytocin content by about 45% in the hippocampus. The above results suggest that the hypothalamic-hippocampal oxytocinergic pathway mediates apomorphine-induced penile erection and yawning and that oxytocin is involved at different levels in the CNS for the control of these behavioral responses.
The bidirectional modulation of ligand binding to benzodiazepine receptors (BzR) by GABA (the &quot;GABA shift&quot;) has been widely used to predict ligand efficacy. The present study examined the effects of GABA and muscimol on [3H]Ro 15-4513 binding to &quot;diazepam-insensitive&quot; (DI) and &quot;diazepam-sensitive&quot; (DS) BzR. Neither GABA nor muscimol significantly altered [3H]Ro 15-4513 binding to DI in cerebellum, while both compounds inhibit [3H]Ro 15-4513 binding to cerebellar DS in a concentration-dependent fashion. The maximum reductions in [3H]Ro 15-4513 binding to cerebral cortical and hippocampal membranes elicited by GABA were comparable to those obtained in cerebellar DS, but significantly less than obtained with the full inverse agonist [3H]3-carbomethoxy-beta-carboline. The qualitatively different effect of GABAmimetics on [3H]Ro 15-4513 binding to DS and DI is not species specific since identical effects were obtained in rat and mouse brain. Based on previously established criteria, Ro 15-4513 can be classified as a &quot;GABA-neutral&quot; (antagonist) ligand at DI and &quot;GABA negative&quot; (inverse agonist) at other BzR. These findings suggest that GABAA receptor subunit composition determines not only ligand affinity but also ligand efficacy.
Male Syrian hamsters were paired and allowed to interact with a conspecific for 15 min a day for 4 days. On the fifth day, the animals were again paired, but they were kept physically separated by a mesh partition that allowed visual, olfactory, and auditory contact between the animals. Controls were placed with conspecifics on each of the 5 testing days, but the partition between them was never removed. Hamsters that were submissive on days 1-4 exhibited elevated plasma adrenocorticotropin-like immunoreactivity (ACTH-LI), beta-endorphin-like immunoreactivity (B-EP-LI), and cortisol on day 5 even though no fighting occurred on that day. Dominant hamsters did not differ from controls. These data support the hypothesis that there is an important psychological component to the pituitary-adrenocortical response in defeated hamsters.
We have developed a procedure for the replacement of defined domains with specified domains from other proteins that we used to examine the molecular basis for the differences in voltage-dependent gating between connexins 26 (Cx26) and 32 (Cx32). This technique does not depend on sequence homology between the domains to be exchanged or the presence of restriction endonuclease sites. Rather, it makes use of a PCR strategy to create an adhesive &quot;band-aid&quot; that directs the annealing of the amplified sequence to the correct location in the recipient clone. With this technique we created a series of chimeras involving the replacement of topologically defined protein domains of Cx32 with the corresponding sequences of Cx26. We focused on domains that are predicted to line the gap junction channel as we expect that a component of the voltage-sensing mechanism resides there. Differences between Cx26 and Cx32 in the sequences of their first and second extracellular loops, the cytoplasmic loop, and the third transmembrane domain did not account for the difference in their calculated gating charges. Shifts along the voltage axis in the steady-state conductance-voltage relations of the chimeric connexins were produced by replacement of the first extracellular loop or the cytoplasmic loop and the amino-terminal half of the third transmembrane domain. These data suggest that the voltage-sensing mechanism arises from the interaction of domains lining the aqueous channel and domains deeper in the channel wall.


Differentiation, survival, and function of the vertebrate neurons are controlled by multiple, target-derived neurotrophic factors. The best characterized mammalian neurotrophic factors are four structurally related 13 to 14 kDa basic proteins, collectively known as neurotrophins. Here we describe the identification of a gene cluster localized on human chromosome 19 that contains neurotrophin-5 (NT-5) and that may encode three additional acidic members of this protein family. The three novel partial open reading frames (ORFs), designated neurotrophin-6-alpha (NT6-alpha), NT6-beta and NT6-gamma, are 95% identical to each other and 75% identical to NT5. The putative mature N-terminal portion of NT6 ORFs does not contain a typical dibasic cleavage site and lacks two out of six cysteines that are conserved among the neutrophins. The unique structures of NT6-alpha, -beta, and -gamma suggest that if the NT6 open reading frames indeed code for functional proteins, these proteins may display novel functions and may act through a distinct class of receptors. In the human, both NTF5 and NTF6 gene loci were mapped to chromosome 19 by Southern analysis of somatic cell hybrid panels. In mouse, the NT5 gene (Ntf-5) was assigned to chromosome 7 and no sequences representing NT6 homologs were identified.


A key question in cellular neurobiology is how neurons target molecules to cellular microdomains at a distance from the nucleus. Of special importance are the thousands of postsynaptic sites that form the basis for synaptic communication. Recent evidence suggests that an important aspect of molecular trafficking involves differential sorting, selective intracellular transport, and docking of particular mRNA molecules and associated protein synthetic machinery at postsynaptic sites. This offers the potential for local regulation of the production of key proteins in response to conditions at individual synapses. This article reviews what is known about the mechanisms of mRNA trafficking in neurons and in other cells ranging from oocytes to oligodendrocytes, and considers the possible role that mRNA trafficking and the resulting local synthesis of particular proteins may play in cellular function.
Marijuana has a long history of abuse yet, as described here by Mary Abood and Billy Martin, there is little evidence that animals will self-administer the primary psychoactive constituent, tetrahydrocannabinol, or that marijuana stimulates brain reward pathways. While marked tolerance develops to marijuana, it has been difficult to demonstrate physical dependence, and until recently the mechanisms by which cannabinoids produced their behavioral effects were poorly defined. The development of new synthetic analogs played a critical role in the characterization and cloning of the cannabinoid receptor. Insight into cannabinoid receptors may lead to a better understanding of marijuana abuse in humans and provide new therapeutic strategies for several disorders.
The recent escalation of cocaine abuse has increased awareness of the need to understand the behavioral effects of cocaine and the determinants of those effects. Cocaine alters both conditioned and unconditioned behavior, and has prominent reinforcing and subjective effects that are particularly relevant to its abuse. An increase in CNS dopamine neurotransmission, resulting from a competitive blockade of high-affinity dopamine uptake mediated by both D1 and D2 dopamine receptors, is a primary determinant of the behavioral effects of cocaine. Either tolerance or sensitization may develop with repeated administration of cocaine. Dependence also develops, although the behavioral changes associated with cocaine withdrawal are subtle. Although numerous CNS changes have been associated with repeated administration of cocaine, the neuropharmacological mechanisms that underlie the behavioral changes that occur with repeated administration remain to be firmly established. Bill Woolverton and Ken Johnson stress that continued collaboration between behavioral pharmacologists and neuroscientists is critical for a complete understanding of the effects of cocaine.
Opiates interact with cell surface receptors on neurons involved in the transmission of information along neural pathways that are related to behaviours essential for the life of the self and of the species. Opiates are provided with powerful and multifaceted rewarding properties that are fundamental for the acquisition, maintenance and relapse of opiate addiction. Gaetano Di Chiara and Alan North argue that both dopaminergic and non-dopaminergic systems are involved in opiate reward, and that opiate addiction results from adaptive and learning processes involving both positive reinforcing mechanisms related to the rewarding properties of opiates and negative reinforcing mechanisms related to the aversive properties of withdrawal in dependent subjects.

Excessive consumption of beverage alcohol (ethanol) is a major health concern worldwide. Understanding the mechanisms by which ethanol affects neural functioning, after both acute and chronic exposure, has become a major goal in the study of alcoholism. With such an understanding, we should be able to institute more effective treatments and preventative measures for alcohol abuse problems. Recent studies have found, contrary to earlier assumptions, that ethanol has selective, dose-dependent effects on various neurotransmitter systems within the CNS. These effects are observed at all levels of analysis, from molecular to behavioral. This review by Herman Samson and Adron Harris covers these recent findings, with the intent of generating questions that will focus further research efforts.
This paper presents results from psychophysical experiments on human binocular rivalry in central and peripheral vision. Results show that the incidence of periods of exclusive visibility of a given eye's rival target increased with decreasing target size, and for a given sized target exclusive visibility increased with retinal eccentricity. Control measures confirmed that these results were not attributable solely to reduced peripheral acuity, to Troxler's effect, or to spatial frequency. We computed the minimum-sized stimulus that would lead to a criterion level of exclusive visibility of one or the other eye; this we term the spatial zone of binocular rivalry. The change in estimated size of spatial zones of rivalry with eccentricity compares favorably with estimates of human cortical magnification. We propose a model that assumes concentrically organized zones of rivalry. These zones do not function independently, but instead exhibit a high degree of mutual excitatory cooperativity. The model has multiple solutions for the foveal zone size, but the best fits predict a diameter of 5.3 or 7.3 min of visual angle; these values dovetail nicely with our empirical estimates of the foveal zone size.
EEG study was conducted in the state of relative rest in 15 healthy subjects with predominance of the alpha rhythm. Data processing was performed on neuromapper (&quot;Neuroscience&quot;, Great Britain). Principal attention was paid to the dynamics of spatial-temporal relations of the alpha rhythm. Cyclic changes were shown of the alpha-rhythm amplitude, proceeding with change of high and low amplitudes during seconds, varying in time in various individuals. Three types of spatial distribution of the alpha rhythm over the cortex at the relative rest were obtained: 1) generalized distribution over the cortex with the wavy shift of the frequency fields; 2) formation of delimited local zones of the alpha rhythm, differing by the frequency from the rhythm in other cortical areas; 3) local zone of the low-frequency alpha rhythm in the visual projection zone (18 and 19 fields). Change of the distribution types of the alpha rhythm in the state of rest takes place in the seconds of time intervals, corresponding, according to the literature data, to the proceeding of elementary mental processes.
A monoclonal antibody (Mab) that recognizes the rat dopamine D2 receptor (DAR) has been generated using DAR specific peptide. The Mab, IgM isotype recognizes five proteins (Mr 220, 145, 95, 66 and 47 kDa) in striatal membrane on Western blot. Preincubation of Mab with free peptide blocked the labeling of all five bands. A polyclonal antibody against peptide from a different region of the DAR, reacted with three out of five proteins (220, 66, and 47 kDa) in these membranes. The DAR antagonist NAPS-biotinyl binds to a 220 kDa protein in striatal membrane on ligand blotts; the labeling can be blocked by the addition of 2 microM sulpride. The 220 kDa Mab reactive protein was less in cerebellum and was absent in the liver. Neither the Mab nor polyclonal antibody inhibited binding of a DAR antagonist, [3H]YM09151-2, to the striatal membranes. These antibodies will enable us to study the structure/function and regulation of the synthesis of DAR protein.
Inositol hexakisphosphate (IP6) was microinjected into the rostral ventrolateral reticular nucleus or iontophoresed onto reticulospinal sympathoexcitatory neurons of the nucleus in anesthetized rats. IP6 (5-500 pmol) induced a dose-dependent potent and prolonged elevation of arterial pressure which was mimicked by microinjection of ethyleneglycol-bis (beta-aminoethylether)N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (EGTA), while myo-inositol was ineffective. Iontophoretic application of IP6 and EGTA excited the medullary sympathoexcitatory neurons but myo-inositol had no effect. The effect of IP6 on firing rate of the sympathoexcitatory neurons was abolished by co-administration of Ca2+ ions onto these neurons. The results indicate that IP6 acts extracellularly to excite the medullary sympathoexcitatory neurons. The excitatory actions of IP6 may depend, at least in part, on a calcium-chelating action. Chelation of extracellular Ca2+ might be a physiological action of IP6.
The oxadiazole L-687,306 is a high affinity muscarinic agonist with a N-methylscopolamine/oxotremorine-M binding profile predictive of a partial agonist. L-687,306 showed marked selectivity in functional pharmacological assays. L-687,306 was a partial agonist at muscarinic M1 receptors in the rat ganglion but a high affinity competitive antagonist at guinea-pig cardiac M2 and ileal M3 muscarinic receptors. This compound gives an opportunity to study receptor reserve involved in muscarinic receptors in vitro and in vivo.
C-fos mRNA expression by stimulation with subcutaneous (s.c.) administration of saline or cycloheximide (CHX) was examined in the rat striatum with or without pretreatment with ceruletide, an analogue of cholecystokinin. The c-fos mRNA induction 1 h after CHX stimulation (25 mg/kg, s.c.) was significantly suppressed by ceruletide pretreatment (80 micrograms/kg, s.c.) 2 h before CHX stimulation in the striatum, and tended to be suppressed by ceruletide pretreatment 4 h before saline or CHX stimulation. Long-lasting and inhibitory effects of ceruletide on dyskinesia and on dopaminergic (DAergic) neuronal systems, and c-fos mRNA expression by activation of the DAergic system have been reported. The present findings together with previous reports suggest that ceruletide might have late onset and long-lasting suppressive effects on the expression of c-fos mRNA in the striatum and that these effects might be related to its effects on DAergic neuronal transmission.
Systemic administration of p-chloroamphetamine (PCA) causes degeneration of serotonergic (5-HT) axons, but recent data indicate that this drug itself is not neurotoxic when applied directly to 5-HT axons. The present study was designed to test whether the toxic effects of PCA in the brain are dependent on release of endogenous 5-HT and to identify which stores of 5-HT are involved. The long-term effects of PCA on brain levels of 5-HT and on central 5-HT axons were determined in rats that had been initially depleted of 5-HT by administration of p-chlorophenylalanine and reserpine. The results show that transient depletion of 5-HT provides substantial protection against subsequent PCA-induced degeneration of 5-HT axon terminals; the neurotoxicity induced by PCA thus appears to be dependent on the presence of endogenous stores of 5-HT. In addition, the protective effect of 5-HT depletion is found only after pretreatment regimens that deplete peripheral as well as central stores of 5-HT. We interpret this finding as evidence that release of 5-HT from peripheral storage sites may be necessary for the expression of PCA-induced toxicity. Based on these results, we propose that central neurotoxicity is not induced by a direct action of PCA alone but may require or be augmented by a toxic metabolite of 5-HT.
The precise distribution of the dopamine type D2 receptor has been mapped for the first time in rat brain using an antibody to D2 receptor protein. Polyclonal antisera were collected from rabbits inoculated with an undecapeptide identical to residues 24-34 of the D2 protein sequence. Rat brain slices, 40 microns in thickness, were incubated with either primary antiserum, the antiserum plus free peptide antigen, or pre-immune serum. Antibody binding was visualized by peroxidase-antiperoxidase (PAP) reaction followed by light microscopy. PAP complex bound moderately-to-densely throughout the medial forebrain bundle, and was seen in more discrete regions in the midbrain, consistent with the binding of D2 radioligands. There were some unexpected results, namely in the cerebral cortex and nucleus accumbens, there were unexpectedly steep gradients in binding density, decreasing caudally; no binding was detected in the hippocampus or the substantia nigra pars reticulata. In all positive-staining regions examined, the antibody was highly localized to neuronal cell bodies, except in the frontal cortex where antibody was also evident on basilar dendrites. These data confirm that the polyclonal antibody recognized dopamine D2 receptor protein throughout the rat brain, and suggest that the D2 receptor is distributed more abundantly on somata than on cellular processes.
Previous experiments have shown that gastric motility is inhibited by microinjection of oxytocin (OT) into the dorsal motor nucleus of the vagus (DMN) in anesthetized rats, and that the inhibition of gastric motility after electrical stimulation of the hypothalamic paraventricular nucleus (PVN) is blocked by microinjection of an OT receptor antagonist directly into the DMN. As an extension of these observations, the present series of studies demonstrate that gastric motility in unanesthetized, freely moving rats was reduced both by intracerebroventricular (i.c.v.) administration of OT and by electrical stimulation of the PVN, and that both of these inhibitory effects were blocked by i.c.v. administration of an OT antagonist. Moreover, an OT antagonist administered i.c.v. alone caused an increase in baseline gastric motility. However, pretreatment with the same OT antagonist i.c.v. did not block the inhibitory effects of systemic LiCl or cholecystokinin on gastric motility in conscious rats. These results suggest that oxytocinergic neurons exert a tonic inhibitory effect on gastric motility in rats, but that the inhibitory effects of LiCl and cholecystokinin on gastric motility are not primarily mediated by parvocellular OT-containing neurons projecting from the PVN to the DMN.
Rats that consume a high-protein diet are hyperactive, hyperresponsive to noxious stimuli, and demonstrate elevated basal arousal levels. Although the mechanism involved in dietary protein-induced changes in behavior is unclear, it may involve many changes including abnormal dendrite morphology in the brain. Three groups of rats were pair-fed with isocaloric diets containing 8%, 20% and 50% casein for 4 weeks. Their brains were processed for examination of dendritic spine densities in the frontal, parietal, and entorhinal cortices, the striatum, and the septum. Animals on the 50% casein diet showed increased spine densities in all areas investigated (P less than 0.05), compared to the animals on normal (20%) casein. In contrast, animals maintained on the 8% casein diet showed increased spine densities (P less than 0.05) only in the striatum and entorhinal cortex, and exhibited normal densities in the frontal and parietal cortices, and the medial septum.
The rate of recovery of D1 and D2 receptor binding sites in rat striatal tissue labeled with [3H]SCH-23390 or [3H]YM-09151-2 was followed daily after irreversible blockade of these receptors with the alkylating agent ethoxycarbonyl-ethoxy-dihydroquinoline (EEDQ). These rates were significantly higher in young post-weaning rats than in young adults (14% vs. 7% per day). The findings suggest that rates of synthesis of new D1 and D2 receptor proteins may be increased during a phase of neurodevelopment in the first postnatal month when the accumulation of both receptor types, especially of D1 receptors, is about maximal.

The aim of this article is to explore the sociopsychophysiological subjective nature of pain, using Melzack and Wall's gate control theory of pain. In addition, the basis of pain control will be examined.
The rodent barrel field cortex integrates somatosensory information from two separate thalamic nuclei, the ventral posterior medial nucleus (VPM) and the rostral sector of the posterior complex (POm). This paper compares the sensory responses of POm and VPM cells in urethane-anesthetized rats as a first step in determining how cortex integrates multiple sensory pathways. A complete representation of the contralateral body surface was identified in POm. Trigeminal receptive fields (RFs) of POm and VPM cells were mapped by computer-controlled displacement of individual whiskers; responses were quantified by using peristimulus time histograms. Average RF size was similar in POm (5.1 whiskers) and VPM (4.4 whiskers), but evoked responses in the two nuclei differed significantly according to all other measures. VPM cells were maximally responsive to one single whisker--the &quot;center RF.&quot; Stimulating this whisker evoked, on average, a response of 1.4 spikes/stimulus at a latency of 7 ms; surrounding whiskers evoked responses of less than 1 spike/stimulus at latencies of greater than 8 ms. In contrast, POm cells were nearly equally responsive to several whiskers. Quantitative criteria allowed us to designate a single whisker as the &quot;center RF&quot; and stimulating this whisker evoked, on average, a response of 0.5 spikes/stimulus at a latency of 19 ms. VPM cells, but not POm cells, were able to &quot;follow&quot; repeated whisker deflection at greater than 5 Hz. We conclude that, when a single whisker is deflected, VPM activates the related cortical barrel-column at short latency--before the onset of activity in POm. The timing of activation could allow POm cells to modulate the spread of activity between cortical columns.
A technique for chronic cisternal cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) sampling in conscious rats was used to obtain multiple 50 microliters samples before and up to 7 days after middle cerebral artery occlusion. Neuron-specific enolase (NSE) concentrations were measured by radioimmunoassay using a readily available kit. The volume of infarction was measured by integrating the area of damage on 9 evenly spaced histological sections of the forebrain. This correlated well (r = 0.97, P less than 0.001) with the concentration of CSF neuron-specific enolase integrated over the first 5 days post occlusion, in animals with pure cortical and mixed cortical and striatal lesions. The correlation was maintained in animals given the NMDA antagonist MK-801. There was also a good correlation between the CSF NSE concentration 3 days post-MCAO and the volume of infarction (r = 0.92, P less than 0.01). It is therefore possible that CSF neuron-specific enolase may be useful as a quantitative marker of ischaemic damage in humans and provide a useful adjunct in the assessment of neuroprotective drugs in stroke.
The topographic distribution of nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-diaphorase (NADPH-d) stained profiles in the amygdala of the human and new world monkey (Saimiri sciureus) were studied histochemically. Fiber and terminal staining were heterogeneously distributed within the amygdala. The most intense staining occurred in the basolateral subdivision, consisting of the lateral, basolateral and accessory basal nuclei. Moderate staining intensity was observed throughout the cortical and media nuclei and cortical transition area, constituents of the corticomedial subdivision. The central amygdaloid area was characterized by minimal NADPH-d histochemical reactivity. NADPH-d positive neurons were pleomorphic and divisible into two classes based on their staining characteristics: intensely or lightly stained neurons. Their distribution was generally complementary, with the majority of intensely stained neurons occupying the basolateral subdivision. There were no appreciable species differences in the patterns of neuronal, fiber and terminal staining between monkey or human amygdala. These results may be relevant to our understanding of the selective vulnerability of neural systems within the human amygdala in neurodegenerative diseases.
The rat striatum after dopamine denervation followed by repeated apomorphine treatment was examined for the co-expression of c-fos and Fos-related antigens with dynorphin, substance P and [Met5]enkephalin using Western blot and immunohistochemical techniques. Administration of apomorphine, a dopamine agonist, elevated the level of 35 kDa Fos-related antigen which co-localized with dynorphin and substance P, but not enkephalin, in striatal neurons.
In a previous study, we found particular proteases which degrade myelin basic protein (MBP) in a conditioned medium of cultured rat brain microglia. The MBP degrading activity in microglial-conditioned medium (Mic-CM) increased markedly in the presence of plasminogen. By Sephadex G-150 column chromatography, plasminogen-dependent MBP degrading activity was eluted at the position of about 47 kDa and 28 kDa. Furthermore slight plasminogen-dependent protease activity in the presence of fibrin (tissue plasminogen activator activity) was detected at a molecular weight of about 68 kDa. The two molecular forms (47 kDa and 28 kDa) of plasminogen-dependent protease were demonstrated by casein-zymography, and it was suggested that they were urokinase type-plasminogen activators (uPA). This suggestion was confirmed by immunoblotting using anti-uPA antiserum. The unique 28 kDa type was considered to be produced from the 47 kDa form by limited proteolysis. Secretion of PA from microglia was demonstrated by cell zymography. In contrast, significant secretion of plasminogen activator inhibitor could not be detected in the Mic-CM. In addition, lipopolysaccharide significantly decreased the secretion of PA from microglia, while interleukin-1 and basic fibroblast growth factor enhanced the secretion.
A series of N-substituted alpha-amino acids containing terminal phosphonic acid groups has been synthesized as potential N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonists. NMDA receptor affinity was determined by displacement of a known ligand ([3H]CPP) from crude rat brain synaptic membranes; an antagonist action was demonstrated by the inhibition of glutamate-induced accumulation of [45Ca2+] in cultured rat cortical neurons. Receptor affinity was significantly correlated with antagonist activity (Figure 1). Moderate affinity (IC50 = 1-2 microM) was retained for analogues (31 and 32, Table I; and 59 and 66, Table II) with reduced flexibility in their phosphonate side chains and is consistent with entropy playing a role in determining receptor affinity. Modeling studies suggest a folded conformation that brings the distal phosphonic acid group into close proximity with the alpha-carboxylate is required for binding. Each of the active analogues possess entropy-limiting features (double bonds, phenyl rings) in their side chains that allows the superposition of their key NH2, alpha-COOH, and distal PO3H2 groups with those of known competitive antagonists. Affinity decreased for analogues with alpha-carbon substitution, presumably because the alpha-substituent inhibits the folding of these structures into a bioactive conformation and occupies receptor-excluded volume. A complete description of the NMDA antagonist pharmacophore model is provided in a companion paper.
This paper describes the chemical synthesis and CCK-B and CCK-A receptor binding affinities of a series of compounds in which the central amide bond of the CCK-B &quot;dipeptoid&quot; ligand tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7)]dec-2-yl [R-(R*,S*)]-[2-[[1-(hydroxymethyl)- 2-phenylethyl]amino]-1-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl)-2-oxoethyl]carb amate (4) (CCK-B IC50 = 852 nM), and tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7)]dec-2-yl (R)-[1-(1H-indol-3-ylmethyl)-1-methyl- 2-oxo-2-[(2-phenylethyl)amino]ethyl]carbamate (23) (CCK-B IC50 = 32 nM) is replaced by 11 different amide replacements. These replacements are the methyleneamino (CH2NH), the reverse amide (NHCO), the ester (COO), the N-methylamide (CONMe), the thioamide (CSNH), the N-acetylmethyleneamino (CH2NAc), the cis double bond (CHCH), the ethylene (CH2CH2), the thiolester (COS), the hydroxyethylene (CHOHCH2), and a 4,5-dihydro-1,3-thiazole. Most of the replacements have weaker affinity and reduced selectivity for the CCK-B receptor than the parent amide. However, this affinity can be improved by appending a fumarate side chain to the phenethyl group, e.g. tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7)]dec-2-yl-3-(1H-indol-3-yl-methyl)-3-methyl-4 ,9- dioxo-7-phenyl-5,13-dioxa-2,8-diazatetradec-10-enoate (36) (CCK-B IC50 = 38.8 nM). Replacement of the amide of compound 4 with a 4,5-dihydro-1,3-thiazole gives tricyclo[3.3.1.1(3,7)]dec-2-yl [1-[4,5-dihydro-4-(phenylmethyl)-2- thiazolyl]-2-(1H-indol-3-yl)ethyl]carbamate (5), which is selective for the CCK-A receptor (CCK-A IC50 = 125 nM, CCK-B IC50 = 2580 nM, ratio = 21). The methyleneamino and hydroxyethylene replacements, which have been used elsewhere as transition-state inhibitors of enzymes, are poor mimics of the amide in these CCK-B receptor ligands. Some of the steric, lipophilic, and hydrogen bonding properties of amide replacements incorporated into the simple amide, N-methylacetamide, have been quantified with the aid of molecular modeling. These data will contribute to the rational selection of amide bond replacements in other substrates.
The effects of alprazolam (ALP), a triazolobenzodiazepine with high affinity for &quot;central&quot; benzodiazepine receptors, were examined on several parameters of immune function in mice. NK, MLR, and mitogen-induced lymphocyte proliferation were all significantly increased 2 hr after administration of low doses (0.02-1.0 mg/kg) of ALP. Twenty four hr later, similar but less robust immunoenhancing effects were observed. These measures of immune functions were not affected by higher doses of ALP (5-10 mg/kg). The immunoenhancing effects of ALP did not appear related to serum corticosterone levels. These and other findings demonstrate that the GABA/benzodiazepine receptor chloride channel complex can bidirectionally modulate immune function.

The therapeutic efficacy of many anticancer drugs against intracerebral tumors is limited by poor uptake into the central nervous system. One way to enhance brain delivery is to design agents that are transported into the brain by the saturable nutrient carriers of the blood-brain barrier. In this paper, we describe a nitrogen mustard amino acid, DL-2-amino-7-bis[(2-chloroethyl)amino/bd-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2-napthoi c acid, that is taken up into brain with high affinity by the large neutral amino acid carrier of the blood-brain barrier. Brain transport of DL-2-amino-7-bis[(2-chloroethyl)aminol-1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-2-naphth oic acid in the rat was found to be rapid (cerebrovascular permeability-surface area product approximately 2 x 10(-2) ml/s/g), saturable and inhibitable by large neutral amino acids. Maximal influx rate (Vmax) and half-saturation (Km) constants equaled 0.26 nmol/min/g and 0.19 microM, respectively, in the parietal cortex. Regional brain uptake of acid exceeded that of the clinical analogue, melphalan, by greater than 20-fold. The results demonstrate that drug modification to produce high-affinity ligands for the cerebrovascular nutrient carriers is a viable means to enhance drug delivery to brain for the treatment of brain tumors and other central nervous system disorders.
Using a polyclonal antiserum raised against the inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R) purified from rat cerebellum, we examined the subcellular distribution of IP3R in canine pancreatic homogenates. IP3R was present primarily in a smooth microsomal fraction (low density), a (high density) rough microsomal (RM) fraction previously shown to consist of highly purified rough endoplasmic reticulum (RER) vesicles, and, to a much lesser extent, in an intermediate density microsomal fraction which did not contain markers for RER or plasma membrane. When the RM fraction was subjected to isopycnic centrifugation on sucrose gradients, IP3R equilibrated at high sucrose densities. When ribosomes were extracted from the RM fraction by treatment with puromycin/high salt, IP3R equilibrated at considerably lighter sucrose densities. This shift in density indicated that IP3R which was present in the RM fraction is associated with the RER. Because of a significant amount of IP3R fractionating into the smooth microsomal fraction (which contains plasma membrane, among other &quot;smooth&quot; membranes) and a considerable amount of IP3R present in the nuclear pellet which is also enriched in plasma membrane, we examined the possibility that IP3R may be present in plasma membrane. Further subfractionation of a crude plasma membrane pellet from rat liver revealed that IP3R coenriched with a plasma membrane marker and strongly suggested an association of IP3R with plasma membrane. The issue of why the same receptor is found in multiple biochemically and morphologically distinct membrane fractions is discussed in terms of the possibility of RER subcompartmentalization and IP3R subtypes. The fractionation pattern of IP3R in pancreas is significantly different from that previously reported for calcium (Ca2+)-binding proteins and an intracellular Ca-ATPase (Nigam, S. K. and Towers, T. (1990) J. Cell Biol. 111, 197-200), raising questions as to links between these latter proteins and IP3 sensitive Ca2+ pools. Nevertheless, although the fractionation patterns are different, all of these proteins are clearly associated with the RER.
The genomic sequences encoding a chicken Ca(2+)-dependent cell adhesion molecule (K-CAM) were recently found to be located approximately 600 base pairs upstream from the translation initiation site of a homologous protein, liver CAM. The sizes of 11 exons of the K-CAM gene are almost identical to those in the L-CAM (liver cell-adhesion molecule) gene with exon-intron junctions occurring at exactly equivalent positions. The sizes and sequences of most introns were, however, much more dissimilar. More detailed comparisons of these two genes reveal that the sequences of the last two exons (exons 15 and 16) are far more alike than are any of the other exons; they are, in fact, almost identical. The introns that separate these exons in the two genes likewise resemble one another far more than do any other corresponding introns. This degree of similarity appears to be far greater than can be accounted for by selection for protein structure, and it strongly suggests that a gene conversion event occurred between these two genes subsequent to their duplication and divergence to perform different biological functions.
In central nervous system gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) inhibits neuronal activity by acting on GABA type A (GABAA) receptors. These heterooligomeric integral membrane proteins include a GABA-gated Cl- channel and various allosteric modulatory sites where endogenous modulators and anxiolytic drugs act to regulate GABA action. In vivo, various anxiolytic drugs exhibit a wide range of variability in their modulatory efficacy and potency of GABA action. For instance, bretazenil modulatory efficacy is much lower than that of diazepam. Such low efficacy could be due either to a preferential modulation of specific GABAA receptor subtypes or to a low modulatory efficacy at every GABAA receptor subtype. To address these questions we studied drug-induced modifications of GABA-activated Cl- currents in native GABAA receptors of cortical neurons in primary cultures and in recombinant GABAA receptors transiently expressed in transformed human embryonic kidney cells (293) after transfection with cDNAs encoding different molecular forms of alpha, beta, and gamma subunits of GABAA receptors. In cortical neurons the efficacy of bretazenil was lower than that of diazepam, whereas the potency of the two drugs was similar. In cells transfected with gamma 2 subunits and various molecular forms of alpha and beta subunits bretazenil efficacy was always lower than that of diazepam. However, in cells transfected with gamma 1 or gamma 3 subunits and various forms of alpha and beta subunits the efficacy of both diazepam and bretazenil was lower and always of similar magnitude. When bretazenil and diazepam were applied together to GABAA receptors including a gamma 2 subunit, the action of diazepam was curtailed in a manner related to the dose of bretazenil.
The mitochondrial benzodiazepine receptor (mBzR) has been solubilized with retention of reversible ligand binding, and the associated subunits were characterized. mBzR comprises immunologically distinct protein subunits of 18-, 30-, and 32-kDa. The 18-kDa protein is labeled by the isoquinoline carboxamide mBzR ligand [3H]PK14105, whereas the 30- and 32-kDa subunits are labeled by the benzodiazepine (Bz) ligands [3H]flunitrazepam and [3H]AHN-086. Selective antibodies and reagents identify the 32- and 30-kDa proteins as the voltage-dependent anion channel (VDAC) and the adenine nucleotide carrier (ADC), respectively. While isoquinoline carboxamide and Bz ligands target different subunits, they interact allosterically, as the binding of Bz and isoquinoline carboxamide ligands is mutually competitive at low nanomolar concentrations. Moreover, eosin-5-maleimide and mercuric chloride inhibit [3H]PK11195 binding to the intact receptor via sulfhydryl groups that are present in ADC. VDAC and ADC, outer and inner mitochondrial membrane channel proteins, respectively, together with the 18-kDa subunit, may comprise mBzR at functionally important transport sites at the junction of two mitochondrial membranes.
Swollen astrocytes (SAs) in the white matter after brain edema were immunohistochemically studied in cases with cerebral vascular events, brain tumor and protracted non-missile head injury. SAs showed a decrease in reactivity to glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) and, on the other hand, were positive for laminin, an extracellular matrix glycoprotein known to be secreted by astrocytes. SAs in protracted lesions were strongly positive for both vimentin and plasma proteins including IgG, IgM, C3d and C4d. Remarkable vimentin expression in SAs, instead of GFAP, strongly suggests that SAs are not going to degenerate but are bearing up to regenerate in such circumstances. A number of vimentin-positive buttons also appeared in such protracted lesions, demonstrating disintegration of the processes of SAs. Immunohistochemical detection of plasma proteins in SAs are believed to indicate a facilitated activation in SAs to transform to macrophage-like cells and to act as phagocytes. In addition, demonstration of laminin may suggest hyperactivity of laminin production in SAs after both axonal injury and concomitant edema in order to stimulate neuritic regeneration.
Whereas loss of CA3 neurons in the hippocampus of monkeys which died of stress ulcers suggests that some structural changes may occur, there is no direct evidence that shows stress-induced irreversible changes of neurons. When rats were orchidectomized (castrated) and stressed by restraint and immersion in water for 15 min/day for 30 days, significant loss of hippocampal CA3 and CA4 neurons was observed. Furthermore, primary cultured hippocampal neurons survived shorter when treated with corticosterone. This neuronal loss was prevented by simultaneous administration of testosterone in vivo and in vitro. These findings indicate that stress can contribute to neuronal degeneration associated with hypogonadal conditions such as aging.
The effect on gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) synthesis of focal ischaemia in the right cortex of the mouse was investigated by performing a right middle cerebral artery (MCA) occlusion. Synthesis of GABA was determined by measurement of the rate of GABA accumulation in tissue following injection of amino oxyacetic acid (AOAA; 30 mg/kg, i.p.). Five min following the MCA occlusion, the rate of GABA synthesis in the right (ischaemic) cortex was decreased by approximately 70% compared to either the left cortex or the right cortex of untreated controls. The basal GABA concentration was however unaffected. Four hours after the occlusion the rate of GABA synthesis was similar in the right and left cortex. The rate of GABA accumulation in the cerebellum was unchanged at both times after the right MCA occlusion compared with untreated control mice. The data suggest that there is a rapid but short lasting decrease in GABA synthesis following an ischaemic insult and it is suggested that this might be associated with the EEG spiking activity that occurs at this time.
In order to automate a simultaneous visual discrimination system, a Sutherland jumping-stand box was modified by adding two lateral alleys which connect the feeder compartment with the starting box. By means of a digital interface, this modified box was connected to an Apple IIe PC. A group of rats (n = 8) was trained. All subjects learned. Advantages relevant to the apparatus design, as well as the benefits derived from the automated procedure are discussed.
Rats with bilateral lesions of posterior parietal cortex (PPC: Krieg's Area 7) or dorsal hippocampus (HIP) were compared with controls for their response to environmental change. In the first experiment, following subjects' exploration of a relatively homogeneous open-field environment, a stimulus-rat was introduced at a particular location beneath the glass floor. All groups selectively explored the location of the stimulus-rat, but only the control and PPC groups displayed habituation. On removal of the stimulus-rat, only the control group selectively re-explored the place where the stimulus-rat had been. A second experiment, similar to the first, used additional prominent visual cues beneath the floor. When the cues were spatially separate from the location of the stimulus-rat (Dissociated object condition), the same results were obtained as in the first experiment. When the additional cues were positioned close to the stimulus-rat location (Associated object condition), habituation occurred in all groups including the hippocampal group, and again the removal of the stimulus-rat resulted in a selective re-exploration of its former location in the control group only. However, a selective preference for staying at the stimulus-rat's previous location was found in PPC animals as in controls. Hippocampal rats failed to investigate the location of the missing stimulus in all conditions. The results confirm the role played by the hippocampus in spatial memory and suggest that the posterior parietal cortex is involved in the cognitive-demanding aspects of spatial encoding, particularly in environments that are poorly visually differentiated.
The behavioral and electroencephalographic effects of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA, 25 nmol/1 microliter) injection into the massa intermedia (MI) was examined in rats. The injection caused violent running/jumping and shrill vocalization without evidence of EEG seizure in the hippocampus (HP) and amygdala (AM). Animals with the injection site located in the reuniens nucleus subsequently developed generalized tonic and then clonic seizure, leading to fatal status epilepticus in some animals. Intermittent or continuous EEG discharge in the limbic system was found during clonic seizures. These findings suggest that the NMDA receptor in the reuniens nucleus in the MI participates in the generation and expression of convulsive seizure in rats.
We have investigated the organizational and morphological features of motoneurons from cat sacrocaudal spinal cord, the portion of the neuraxis that innervates the tail. This information is pertinent for development of a new model of spinal cord injury. An understanding of sacrocaudal circuitry is essential for physiological and behavioral assessment of the effects of sacrocaudal lesions. Observations from Nissl-stained sections corroborated Rexed's cytoarchitectural scheme. Putative motoneurons were located within two regions of the ventral horn: the ventromedial nucleus (lamina IX) and the nucleus commissuralis. To map motoneuron pools, cholera toxin-horseradish peroxidase conjugate was injected into each dorsal tail muscle. The dorsomedial muscle was innervated by ipsilateral nucleus commissuralis motoneurons. The dorsolateral and intertransversarius muscles were innervated by ipsilateral lamina IX and nucleus commissuralis motoneurons. Cell bodies of retrogradely labeled sacrocaudal motoneurons ranged from 22 to 82 microns in diameter; the unimodal distributions peaked between 45 and 50 microns. Dendritic trees of motoneurons, revealed by retrograde labeling or by intracellular injection with horseradish peroxidase, were extensive. Five to eight primary dendrites originated from the cell body. Dendritic branches extended throughout the ipsilateral ventral gray matter, with processes spreading into the surrounding white matter and the base of the dorsal horn. Dendrites from motoneurons with their soma in the lateral portion of lamina IX formed a longitudinal plexus at the gray/white border. Medial dendrites from motoneurons in the nucleus commissuralis formed bundles in the ventral gray commissure and spread throughout the contralateral ventral horn. It is speculated that contralateral dendrites subserve synchronized co-contraction of medial muscles from both sides of the tail.
On the basis of structural homology and similar biological activity, gastrin-releasing peptide (GRP) has been considered the mammalian equivalent of amphibian bombesin. In this paper we now show this to be incorrect. Chromatography of frog (Bombina orientalis) gut extracts demonstrated two peaks of bombesin-like immunoreactivity (BLI), one similar in size to GRP and one similar in size to amphibian bombesin. These peaks were purified by high pressure liquid chromatography then subjected to mass spectrometric analyses to determine molecular weights and amino acid sequence. Based on the amino acid sequence of the lower molecular weight BLI species, a mixed oligonucleotide probe was prepared and used to screen a B. orientalis stomach cDNA library. Sequence analysis showed that all hybridizing clones encoded a 155-amino acid protein homologous to the mammalian GRP precursor. The mass spectra of the high and low molecular weight peaks of frog gut BLI were consistent with their origin from the processing of the frog GRP (fGRP) precursor into GRP-29 and GRP-10, just like the processing of the rat GRP precursor. Sequence homology showed that the fGRP precursor is more homology showed that the fGRP precursor is more closely related to the mammalian GRP precursors than to either the frog bombesin or frog ranatensin precursors. Northern blot analysis showed that fGRP is encoded by a mRNA of 980 bases, clearly different from the 750-base mRNA which encodes frog bombesin. Northern blot analysis and in situ hybridization showed fGRP mRNA in frog brain and stomach and bombesin mRNA in frog skin, brain, and stomach. That frogs have independent genes for both GRP and bombesin raises the possibility that mammals have an as yet uncharacterized gene encoding a true mammalian bombesin.
Inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (IP3) releases internal stores of calcium by binding to a specific membrane receptor which includes both the IP3 recognition site as well as the associated calcium channel. The IP3 receptor is regulated by ATP, calcium, and phosphorylation by protein kinase A, protein kinase C, and calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase II. Its cDNA sequence predicts at least two consensus sequences where nucleotides might bind, and direct binding of ATP to the IP3 receptor has been demonstrated. In the present study, we demonstrate autophosphorylation of the purified and reconstituted IP3 receptor on serine and find serine protein kinase activity of the IP3 receptor toward a specific peptide substrate. Several independent purification procedures do not separate the IP3 receptor protein from the phosphorylating activity, and many different protein kinase activators and inhibitors do not identify protein kinases as contaminants. Also, renaturation experiments reveal autophosphorylation of the monomeric receptor on polyvinylidene difluoride membranes.
The effects of kainic acid lesions of the intermediate and deep layers of the superior colliculus on the sensory input to the intralaminar thalamus of the rat were determined. Ipsiversive circling and contralateral sensory neglect were consistently seen after lesion placement. Two to 7 days later, the intralaminar thalamus was systematically explored for extracellular mechanoreceptive unit responses to high threshold and low threshold stimuli. On the side ipsilateral to the lesion the number of responsive units was reduced by 51%. The loss was particularly marked for nociceptive units (80%), and low threshold and complex units with orofacial receptive fields (73%). This effect may involve a partial deafferentation of the intralaminar thalamus as well as altered excitatory thresholds of thalamic neurons. It is suggested that the functionally distinct direct tectothalamic projection as well as the indirect tecto-reticulo-thalamic pathway are implicated.
Bilateral injection into the nucleus tractus solitarius (NTS) of the alpha 2-adrenergic receptor antagonist yohimbine produced a dose-related (10-500 pmol) increase in arterial pressure, with a maximal response of approximately 60 mm Hg. Idazoxan, also an alpha 2-adrenergic receptor antagonist, produced a similar response although idazoxan was less potent than yohimbine. The pressor response elicited by these drugs was attenuated by stimulation of adrenergic receptors in the NTS by local administration of either clonidine or tyramine. Doses of yohimbine (200 pmol) or idazoxan (5 nmol) that maximally increased arterial pressure also completely inhibited the depressor and bradycardic responses to electrical stimulation of the aortic depressor nerve. These results indicate that tonic stimulation of alpha 2-adrenergic receptors in the NTS is required for baroreceptor reflex function.
In the present study, we examined the localizations of basic fibroblast growth factor-like immunoreactivity (bFGF-LI) and its receptor mRNA in the spinal cord and the dorsal root ganglion of the rat. Anti-bFGF peptide antibody and cRNA probe were employed to visualize the localizations of bFGF-LI and FGF receptor (FGF-R) mRNA, respectively. In the spinal cord, we observed that a number of neurons including the motor neurons and interneurons were positive for both substances. In the dorsal root ganglion (DRG), the large neurons preferentially showed co-localization of bFGF-LI and FGF-R mRNA, while the small neurons were not always positive for both. Given the fact that FGF-R is a membrane-spanning protein, these findings suggest the following two possibilities: (1) bFGF acts on the neurons of the spinal cord and the DRG in an autocrine and/or paracrine manner; (2) FGF-R mRNA-positive neurons take up bFGF from innervating neurons and/or surrounding glias in a receptor-mediated fashion.
A series of individual D-amino acid replacement analogues of deltorphin A, several of which were in combination with a His4 deletion, were used to probe alterations of side-chain orientation on peptide binding parameters with rat brain opioid receptors. Peptides with D-amino acids in residues 1, 3, and 5 exhibited diminished affinities primarily for delta receptors (88-1200-fold) with selectivity decreasing by factors of 13-64-fold relative to deltorphin A (Ki delta = 0.45 nM; Ki mu/Ki delta = 764): the aromatic side chains Tyr1 and Phe3, which lie in the N-terminal &quot;message&quot; domain and the aryl side chain of Leu5 in the C-terminal &quot;address&quot; domain, appear to play essential roles in conferring high delta affinity and selectivity. Although D-His4 only decreased delta affinity by 6-fold and selectivity by a factor of 4, His appears to be involved as an integral component of both domains: [des-His4]deltorphin A and [des-His4] analogues containing consecutive D-amino acid replacements in the remaining residues exhibited weak binding to delta receptors and poor delta selectivity. Substitution of D-Met2 in deltorphin A by D-Ala or D-Nle decreased delta selectivities 3-6-fold through an elevation in mu affinities; however, the converse replacement, D-Met for D-Ala2 in deltorphin B, diminished beta selectivity by an order of magnitude only through the loss in delta affinity. The data show that the high delta affinity and selectivity of deltorphins correlate with and require a strict stereospecificity of the amino acid residue side chains.
To describe the epidemiological characteristics of epilepsy in a northern area of Chile, an investigation was conducted in four localities in the province of Copiap (population of 17,694). Based on 314 cases of active epilepsy, the prevalence per 1000 at June 30, 1988 was 17.7. The average annual incidence for the period 1984-1988 was 113 per 100,000. Partial seizures were the most frequent type of seizure diagnosed (54.1%). Antecedents considered as possible etiological factors were found in 29.9% of cases. According to age of onset, 64.6% had their first attack before 15 years. Middle and low socioeconomic classes had higher prevalence rates of epilepsy. We compare our results with previous Latin-American studies.
We evaluated, by using electrophysiological techniques, 29 patients with juvenile Parkinson's disease (JP), who had no known causes or clinical signs of neuropathy. Electromyographic evidence of chronic partial denervation with reinnervation was observed in nine patients (34.6%). Abnormalities of motor conduction in the common peroneal nerve were present in four (13.8%), Sural sensory conduction in nine (31.9%) and sympathetic skin response (SSR) in eleven (37.9%) patients. The symptoms of dysautonomia correlated poorly with changes in SSR. These abnormalities were independent of age at onset, duration or severity of the disease and antiparkinsonian drugs used. This study suggests that the peripheral nervous system is involved in JP in more than 50% of patients. The commonly observed symptoms of dysautonomia in Parkinson's disease may have a peripheral origin.
When trying to explain how women's employment affects their drinking behavior, oversimplified theories produce weak and inconsistent results. Recent research casts doubt on any simple ideas that paid employment is hazardous for women's mental health and drinking, or that paid employment is beneficial for women's mental health and drinking, or that stressful jobs increase women's risks of problem drinking. Improved, more complex theories could specify which women will modify their drinking behavior as a result of particular employment experiences, predict interaction effects of employment conditions with other aspects of women's lives, and explain how employment may create a context where other variables may increase or reduce risks of problem drinking.
Clonidine, idazoxan, rilmenidine, and comparable agents bind to imidazol(in)e (IR), as well as alpha 2-adrenergic, receptors. Interaction with IRs mediates the hypotension elicited by these drugs at their site of action in the rostral ventrolateral medulla oblongata (RVL) and probably the neuroprotection in focal ischemic cerebral infarction. Unlike alpha 2-adrenergic receptors, IRs are not coupled to G-proteins. Their native ligand may be clonidine-displacing substance (CDS), a potent, partially purified adrenomedullary secretagogue, distributed regionally in brain and some peripheral organs. IRs and CDS may be important in the genesis, expression, and/or therapy of hypertension and stroke.
Dissociations between implicit and explicit memory have attracted considerable attention in recent memory research. A central issue concerns whether such dissociations require the postulation of separate memory systems or are best understood in terms of different processes operating within a single system. This article presents a cognitive neuroscience approach to implicit memory in general and the systems-processes debate in particular, which draws on evidence from research with brain-damaged patients, neuroimaging techniques, and nonhuman primates. The article illustrates how a cognitive neuroscience orientation can help to supply a basis for postulating memory systems, can provide useful constraints for processing views, and can encourage the use of research strategies that the author refers to as cross-domain hypothesis testing and cross-domain hypothesis generation, respectively. The cognitive neuroscience orientation suggests a complementary role for multiple systems and processing approaches.

To integrate neuroimaging, neuropathologic, and neuropsychological findings, computer-assisted morphometry was applied to magnetic resonance images of the corpus callosum in adolescents with Down and Williams syndromes and in control subjects. Callosa of subjects with Down syndrome were distinctively rounded in form, consistent with Down syndrome brachycephaly. These callosa also showed decreased widths throughout their rostral fifth, which serves frontal lobe projections. This finding correlates with the hypocellularity and hypofrontality of neocortex in subjects with Down syndrome and with their neuropsychological profile of frontal lobe dysfunction. Callosa of subjects with Williams syndrome generally resembled control specimens, in congruence with their frontal lobe structure and better preserved frontal lobe function. These results represent a convergence of findings across levels of neuroscientific investigation.
Metachromatic leukodystrophy is a rare inherited disorder of the nervous system. Symptoms initially can present during childhood, adolescence, or adulthood. Psychiatric symptoms, including complex auditory hallucinations and bizarre delusions, are a prominent feature of metachromatic leukodystrophy presenting when the patient is between 12 and 30 years. One hundred twenty-nine published case reports were reviewed, focusing on the presence of psychosis. Psychosis was present in 53% of the published case reports of adolescent and early adult-onset metachromatic leukodystrophy, a much higher prevalence than that seen with other primary neurological disorders. The pathological lesion of metachromatic leukodystrophy is demyelination of the central and peripheral nervous systems, particularly the subfrontal white matter, suggesting that psychosis may result from the disruption of corticocortical and corticosubcortical connections, especially involving the frontal lobes. While similar lesions appear in the infantile, juvenile, and late adult forms of metachromatic leukodystrophy, psychotic symptoms were reported only in those cases presenting in adolescence and young adulthood, suggesting that age is another important neurobiological factor in the development of psychosis.

The jaw jerk elicited by tapping the chin with a reflex hammer was electromyographically recorded in 14 patients with craniomandibular dysfunction, who were selected because of their strictly unilateral symptoms. Mandibular deviation, as measured by means of a kinesiograph, was on the same side as the pain. Neurological and neurophysiological investigations, including the recording of masseter motor potentials evoked by transcranial stimulation, showed normal function of the sensory and motor trigeminal nerve fibres. Latency and amplitude of the jaw jerk recorded in postural position and intercuspal occlusion were, respectively, longer and smaller on the affected side. In some cases the latency difference exceeded 1 ms, the limit usually considered significant for trigeminal neuropathy or brainstem lesions. Jaw-jerk asymmetry is probably due to facilitation on the side contralateral to mandibular deviation. In intercuspal occlusion, contralateral facilitation might be produced by a stronger input from muscle spindles and periodontal mechanoreceptors. In postural position, other factors probably intervene.
A cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) glucose biosensor is introduced. The biosensor is a polarimeter that measures the rotation of plane polarized light proportional to glucose concentration. Preliminary in vitro studies revealed a linear response with good sensitivity over a range of glucose solutions (0-400 mg/dl). Anesthetized, adult dogs underwent intravenous glucose loading, and these preliminary in vivo studies resulted in good correlation (r = 0.98) between CSF polarimeter readings and CSF glucose by laboratory assay. This in vivo correlation suggests that both mutarotation of glucose anomer and changes from other optically active substances present in CSF are either negligible or constant over the range of glucose concentrations studied. The CSF polarimeter showed a significant rise soon after the intravenous loading of glucose (1-30 min) but a longer lag time (45-60 min) between the peak blood glucose and peak CSF polarimeter reading. This preliminary work extends, to the CSF, the concept of measuring optical rotation.
Previous research has shown that phenyltropane derivatives of cocaine are very potent ligands for dopamine transporters in in vitro binding and uptake, and in in vivo binding assays. In the present study, these analogs were tested for their ability to substitute for cocaine in rats trained to discriminate cocaine from saline. Results indicate that these compounds are from 6-13 times more potent than cocaine in producing cocaine-appropriate responding. This provides further evidence in support of the importance of dopamine uptake inhibition for the behavioral effects of cocaine, and suggests utility of these compounds in understanding cocaine abuse.
We describe the use of a simple assay for beta-oxidation which depends on the release of 3H2O from [9,10-3H]hexadecanoate. This was compared with the use of [1-14C]hexadecanoate which gave comparable results when all the products of beta-oxidation were measured. The prediction that 75% of the tritium is released as 3H2O and 25% as [2-3H]acetyl units was confirmed. The assay was used successfully to demonstrate impaired beta-oxidation in tissue preparations from rats treated with etomoxir and methylenecyclopropylpyruvate which are known inhibitors of beta-oxidation. Abnormalities of beta-oxidation were also detected in skeletal muscle from patients with defects of mitochondrial oxidation.



Heterotypic gap junctions formed by pairing Xenopus oocytes expressing hemichannels formed of Cx32 with those expressing hemichannels formed of Cx26 displayed novel transjunctional voltage (Vj) dependence not predicted by the behavior of these connexins in homotypic configurations. Rectification of initial and steady-state currents was observed. Relative positivity and negativity on the Cx26 side of the junction resulted in increased and decreased initial conductance (gj0), respectively. Only relative positivity on the Cx26 decreased steady-state conductance (gj infinity). This behavior suggested that interactions between hemichannels influences gap junction gating. The role of the first extracellular loop (E1) in these interactions was examined by pairing Cx32 and Cx26 with a chimeric connexin in which Cx32 E1 was replaced with Cx26 E1 (Cx32*26E1). Both junctions rectified with gj0/Vj relations that were less steep than that observed for Cx32/Cx26. Decreases in gj infinity occurred for either polarity Vj in the Cx32/Cx32*26E1 junction. Mutation of two amino acids in Cx26 E1 increased the steepness of both the gj0/Vj and gj infinity/Vj relations. These data demonstrate that fast rectification can arise from mismatched E1 domains and that E1 may contribute to the voltage sensing mechanisms underlying both fast and slow Vj-dependent processes.

1. The depolarizations elicited by seven neurokinin receptor agonists were examined in both rat and guinea-pig superior cervical ganglia by use of grease-gap methodology in the presence of tetrodotoxin (0.1 microM). Responses were normalised with respect to 1 microM eledoisin. 2. The rank order of agonist potency in the rat ganglia was senktide greater than substance P greater than substance P methyl ester = eleidosin = Sar-Met-substance P greater than neurokinin B greater than neurokinin A, whereas in guinea-pig superior cervical ganglion (SCG) the rank order was senktide greater than Sar-Met-substance P greater than neurokinin B = eledoisin = substance P methyl ester. The concentration-effect curves for substance P and neurokinin A in guinea-pig ganglia were biphasic which precluded the determination of meaningful potency values. 3. The maximal depolarization achieved by subtype selective ligands was different between these two species. On rat and guinea-pig SCG, the NK3-selective ligand, senktide, produced a maximal depolarization of 27% and 274% respectively, whereas the NK1-selective ligand, substance P methyl ester, produced depolarizations of 77% and 64% respectively. 4. The depolarizations induced by substance P methyl ester and senktide in either species were unaffected by atropine (1 microM), suggesting a lack of involvement of presynaptic neurokinin receptors in the generation of the response. 5. The potency of substance P methyl ester, senktide, and neurokinin A were unaffected by pretreating ganglia with the peptidase inhibitors bacitracin (40 micrograms ml-1), leupeptin (4 micrograms ml-1), and chymostatin (2 micrograms ml-1). Similarly, these peptidase inhibitors had no effect on the maximal depolarizations achieved by any of these agonists.6. It is evident that rat and guinea-pig superior cervical ganglia possess both NK, and NK3 receptors, but that their net contribution to depolarizations are different between the two species. The depolarizations in guinea-pig SCG are mediated predominantly by an NK3 subtype and in rat SCG by an NK, receptor subtype.
The recent discovery of mitochondrial complex I deficiency in the substantia nigra of patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease has provided new understanding into the possible mechanisms that may underlie this neurodegenerative disorder. The biochemical defect is identical to that induced in humans, primates and mice exposed to the neurotoxin 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine. We have studied mitochondrial respiratory chain function in various brain regions, in skeletal muscle and in blood platelets from patients with idiopathic Parkinson's disease and from matched controls. We provide evidence suggesting that the complex I deficiency in Parkinson's disease is limited to the brain and that this defect is specific for the substantia nigra. The tissue specificity of the complex I deficiency in Parkinson's disease and its localization to the substantia nigra support the proposition that complex I deficiency may be directly involved in the cause of dopaminergic cell death in Parkinson's disease. An understanding of the molecular basis of this biochemical defect will provide valuable insight into the cause of Parkinson's disease. Our findings of normal mitochondrial function in platelet homogenates suggests that this tissue cannot be used to develop a 'diagnostic test' for Parkinson's disease.


Neurosecretory neurons of the supraoptic nucleus (SON) which manufacture, transport, and secrete neuropeptide hormones are activated by administration of hypertonic NaCl. Male rats were given single intraperitoneal injections of isotonic (0.15 M) or hypertonic (1.5 M) NaCl solution and sacrificed 5 h after injection. Electron micrographs were compared to determine morphological differences in the SON and in the neural lobe in the two conditions. In the SON, significant decreases were found in the extent of glial contact with the magnocellular neuroendocrine cell (MNC) membrane; the amount of nerve terminal contact and amount of apposition of MNC membrane with other MNC cell bodies or dendrites increased. The number of multiple synapses (one terminal contacting two or more cells) per 100 microns of somatic membrane in the 1.5 M NaCl condition was double that found in the 0.15 M NaCl condition. Size of nucleoli, overall cell body size, and amount of Golgi apparatus were significantly larger in the animals injected with 1.5 M NaCl. The neural lobes of animals receiving 1.5 M NaCl injections showed increased neural contact with the basal lamina and decreased cytoplasmic enclosure of axon terminals. The large and rapid changes induced by this stimulus suggest that it is an extremely effective activator of morphological plasticity in the hypothalamo-neurohypophysial system.
The effect of chronic ethanol exposure on inhibition in the rat hippocampal slice was investigated using paired-pulse stimulation techniques with stimulation in stratum radiatum or stratum oriens of CA1. Experimental animals were fed ethanol in a liquid diet for 20 weeks and were withdrawn for at least 8 weeks prior to electrophysiological recording. Prior ethanol treatment had no effect on basic input-output relationships for the extracellular population spike. Ethanol treatment significantly reduced the recurrent inhibition produced by antidromic stimulation in a manner dependent upon stimulus intensity. In addition, with orthodromic paired-pulse stimulation of either stratum radiatum or oriens, a trend toward an augmentation of the facilitation of population spike amplitude was observed, suggesting that feedforward inhibition may also be reduced. These results are similar to those found with treatments that reduce inhibition. Therefore, we conclude that chronic ethanol exposure produces an enduring disruption of inhibitory neuronal function in the rat hippocampus.
Rats were given a single gavage of trimethyltin chloride (TMT) providing a dose of 0, 4.3, or 6.7 mg/kg of alkyltin. Gross changes in brain structures were quantified and analyzed statistically. Behavioral and functional measures were taken to verify efficacy of TMT dose. The high dose produced transient weight loss and seizures. In the fourth week after gavage, the high dose produced hyperactivity in the residential maze and activity wheel. High and low TMT doses decreased auditory startle responsiveness. Estrus cycle was normal in all groups. Brains were sectioned and stained with the Timm stain which delimited subregions of hippocampus and connected structures and also revealed mossy fibers. Linear and areal measures were made at three positions along the septotemporal axis of Ammon's horn. The low dose produced reductions in size in a few isolated subareas of the brain. The high dose produced, at the three planes studied, extensive (15-40%) loss of tissue in Ammon's horn and structures to which Ammon's horn is interconnected--subiculum, entorhinal cortex, dentate gyrus, hilus, CA3, and CA1 region. Neocortex and caudate-putamen were unaffected. These findings suggest that a single TMT gavage may disrupt brain structures important to linking neocortex with subcortex via structures in the hippocampal region.
Zif268 and krox-20 are transcription regulatory factors that contain highly homologous zinc finger DNA-binding domains. Recent studies have demonstrated that zif268 expression is rapidly regulated in brain by neuronal stimulation. We now report that, like zif268, krox-20 is rapidly and transiently activated by electroconvulsive shock treatment (ECT), D1 dopamine receptor activation, and opiate withdrawal. These studies indicate that, as found for the leucine zipper family of transcription factors, multiple members of the zinc finger family of transcription factors are induced by neuronal stimulation.
Steady state levels of the mRNA coding for the neurotransmitter biosynthetic enzyme, acetylCoA-choline-O-acetyltransferase (ChAT, EC 2.3.1.6), were measured in wild type Drosophila and two temperature-sensitive mutants (Chats1 and Chats2) using the RNase protection method. At a permissive temperature the relative amounts of ChAT mRNA were: wild type: Chats1:Chats2 = 1:2.09 (+/- 0.39):3.37 (+/- 0.57) (mean +/- S.E.M.) indicating that mutant flies may compensate, for making a thermolabile form of enzyme, by producing and/or maintaining higher levels of ChAT mRNA. At a restrictive temperature the ChAT mRNA levels decreased in both mutants and increased in wild type flies. The regulatory mechanism(s) responsible for increasing ChAT mRNA in wild type flies appears to have failed in the mutants at high temperature. Steady state mRNA levels were also measured in embryonic cell cultures prepared from wild type embryos. Cultures grown in the presence of two pharmacologic agents (carbamylcholine and d-tubocurarine) which should interfere with cholinergic neurotransmission, showed less mRNA resulting from a decrease in levels of ChAT gene transcription. Our results imply that neurotransmission and the rate of neurotransmitter biosynthetic enzyme gene transcription are coupled for the cholinergic system in Drosophila.

Attitudes towards menstruation play an important role in the perception of menstrual distress. The influence of cultural and social factors was studied in a group of 48 Indian women using the Menstrual Attitudes Questionnaire (modified version). Women over 25 years of age were significantly more likely to consider menstruation as being &quot;natural&quot;. No other significant relationships were found between menstrual attitudes and demographic variables. The menstrual attitudes of Indian and American college women (from a previous study) were also compared.
Conduction disturbances frequently accompany both acute and chronic Chagas' disease. To explore the possibility that changes in gap junction distribution or abundance might play a role in these disturbances, we have investigated intercellular communication between rat neonatal cardiac myocytes in cultures infected with Trypanosoma cruzi. Contractile activity of infected cells was characterized by regional asynchrony within the culture as well as by irregular contraction patterns. Junctional conductance between infected cell pairs was found to be significantly lower than in uninfected cell pairs, and the rapidity and extent of intercellular transfer of the dye lucifer yellow was markedly reduced between infected cells. Immunocytochemical studies demonstrated that the parasitic infection significantly decreased connexin43 expression at junctional membrane regions, correlating with the detected functional uncoupling. These findings of reduced gap junction abundance and function in trypanosome-infected cells may provide important insight into the pathogenesis of the cardiac arrhythmias that attend Chagas' disease.
This study of a series of 40 mildly head injured (concussed) patients suggests that different physiologic pathways underlying the tests done in a six-part resting EEG, and for the 11 evoked electrical potential shifts occurring in the cerebral terrain, are testable. Further work seems likely in order to ascertain which clinical signs and symptoms may be related to specific individual types of recorded electronic brain imaging (EBI) abnormality. Which of the 11 parameters studied, EEG, VER, AER, and SER, would be more or less likely to be abnormal in their individual patterns (as being deviant from normal controls) also remains to be defined. The relationship of these neurophysiologic abnormalities to certain postconcussive symptoms, i.e., headache, dizziness, blurred vision, etc., at this point in time remains to be evaluated more precisely. The authors suggest that further research is necessary in evaluating the clinical use of somatosensory evoked responses as an additional parameter in electronic brain imaging (EBI) technology.
This is a survey of the general structure of an electronic computer-implemented, operation-oriented system, designed by the authors, which uses artificial intelligence mechanisms and is intended for the control of technical objects that function both in predictable and random environments. The system is based on processing knowledge, which is stored in a hierarchically arranged Knowledge Bank, and program mechanisms for adapting to and interacting with the External and Internal Worlds. The system has distributed program mechanisms, which are 'designed' with a constant structure. It is independent of the purpose and environment of the system operation and the specific features of the controlled object. None of the program mechanisms are concentrated in any program module. They are distributed in many modules, and therefore there is no single module responsible for the execution of a particular external function. The system is structured into separate program modules by internal procedures. The conceptual organisation of the Knowledge Base presupposes that the framework is structured according to functional, semantic and tier indications, i.e. the structured description of knowledge, by the system, of the external environment and its possible behaviour in it. The possibility of multiple use of the same elements of the lower tiers of the Knowledge Base by higher-tier elements makes the proposed Knowledge Base very efficient. If the cerebrum is considered at a structural level, there appears to be an amazing similarity between the structure and the mechanisms of the above system and the structure of the cerebral cortex, as suggested previously by Edelman and Mountcastle. Each mechanism of the cerebral cortex structure has a structural analogue in the described system.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Automated subject indexing and the coordination of indexing with natural language search interfaces could provide solutions to some of the information retrieval problems facing the medical field today. This paper describes the construction of such an interface using semantic net expansion and a clinical neuroscience thesaurus, which provided a specialized vocabulary for use in both automated indexing of MEDLINE articles and an &quot;intelligent&quot; front-end for database searching. Though reviewed by a domain expert, the thesaurus was successfully built by nonexperts utilizing a set of rules. We report on testing thesaurus content and semantic net accuracy using a database of selected MEDLINE article abstracts.
Significant progress has been made in defining the structural motifs that distinguish the muscle-specific from other basic helix-loop-helix proteins. Evidence is accumulating for multiple levels of regulation of the expression and action of the muscle basic helix-loop-helix factors.

Recent advances in neuroimaging have led to an increase in the types of studies possible in the field of cognitive neuroscience. Researchers are now using neuroimaging to enhance classic approaches, such as lesion-behavior studies, as well as provide information about normal functions at levels that were previously difficult to assess.
The key interrelated issues in the neurobiology of memory are to identify the neural circuitries essential for memory formation, localize sites of memory storage and analyze mechanisms of memory formation, storage and retrieval. Several circuits have now been identified in vertebrates and researchers are investigating their properties, in particular the role of glutamate receptors and long-term potentiation, in memory formation. Invertebrate preparations continue to be of value and recent studies suggest that changes in gene expression and protein synthesis may be important in long-term sensitization.
Cognitive neuroscience rests on findings, methods, and theory from three fields: experimental psychology, systems-level neuroscience, and computer science. The strong trend over the past few years has been for a greater integration across these fields. The influence of this interdisciplinary approach on current research on memory, perception, and language will be illustrated.

Individually identified primary motoneurons of the zebrafish embryo pioneer cell-specific peripheral motor nerves. Later, the growth cones of secondary motoneurons extend along pathways pioneered by primary motor axons. To learn whether primary motor axons are required for pathway navigation by secondary motoneurons, we ablated primary motoneurons and examined subsequent pathfinding by the growth cones of secondary motoneurons. We found that ablation of the primary motoneuron that pioneers the ventral nerve delayed ventral nerve formation, but a normal-appearing nerve eventually formed. Therefore, the secondary motoneurons that extend axons in the ventral nerve were able to pioneer that pathway in the absence of the pathway-specific primary motoneuron. In contrast, in the absence of the primary motoneuron that normally pioneers the dorsal nerve, secondary motoneurons did not pioneer a nerve in the normal location, instead they formed dorsal nerves in an atypical position. This difference in the ability of these two groups of motoneurons to pioneer their normal pathways suggests that the guidance rules followed by their growth cones may be very different. Furthermore, the observation that the atypical dorsal nerves formed in a consistent incorrect location suggests that the growth cones of the secondary motoneurons that extend dorsally make hierarchical pathway choices.

The present studies were conducted to elucidate the effects of gonadotropin-induced alterations in ovarian status on expression of 3 beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase/delta 5-delta 4 isomerase (3 beta-HSD), an enzyme which plays a crucial role in steroidogenesis, and sulfated glycoprotein-2 (SGP-2), a heterodimeric protein which is highly expressed by cells undergoing programmed death (i.e. apoptosis). Prepubescent female rats were used to reduce the influence of endogenous gonadotropins and to avoid the presence of preexisting, degenerating corpora lutea in the ovaries. 3 beta-HSD, cholesterol side-chain cleavage cytochrome P450, and SGP-2 messenger RNA (mRNA) levels were measured by Northern analysis of total ovarian RNA. Rats which received PMSG (20 IU) followed 48 h later by human CG (hCG) (10 IU) to induce ovulation and pseudopregnancy exhibited a significant increase in ovarian 3 beta-HSD mRNA 1 day later (164%, P less than 0.01 vs. saline control). The most dramatic change in 3 beta-HSD expression was the rise seen 2 days after hCG (262%, P less than 0.01), after which levels remain constantly elevated throughout pseudopregnancy. In contrast, ovarian cholesterol side-chain cleavage cytochrome P450 mRNA was greatly elevated (i.e. 15-fold) 48 h after PMSG treatment alone (P less than 0.01). Thus, gonadotropic stimulation which induces ovulation and luteogenesis is required to observe a potent stimulatory effect on ovarian 3 beta-HSD expression. The slow time course of induction is indicative of a differentiation-dependent expression. These observations are consistent with luteal cell expression of the 3 beta-HSD gene and suggest that this expression is correlated with the high progestin secretion and 3 beta-HSD activity characteristic of luteal cells. Interestingly, the pattern of regulation of ovarian SGP-2 expression was markedly different than that observed for 3 beta-HSD. PMSG treatment alone (48 h), and in combination with hCG, dramatically reduced SGP-2 mRNA to 12-27% of controls (P less than 0.01). SGP-2 levels were not elevated until 7 days after hCG; levels then remained constant through day 14 of pseudopregnancy. Since luteal progesterone secretion begins to diminish 5-7 days after hCG, the increased expression of SGP-2 on day 7 may be related to the initiation of the regression/degeneration of luteal cells which occurs during luteolysis. Thus, this study demonstrates that alterations in SGP-2 expression by the ovary may precede or occur simultaneously with cellular events initiating luteolysis and suggests a role for this glycoprotein as an early marker for luteolysis and implicates it in yet another instance of programmed cell death.
Understanding the molecular basis of altered neuronal excitability in epilepsy is a major challenge in neuroscience research. The present study suggests an inverse correlation between changes in neuronal excitability in status epilepticus and the activity of type II multifunctional calcium/calmodulin-dependent kinase II (CaM kinase II), a major Ca(2+)-signal transducing system in brain. 'Continuous' hippocampal stimulation (CHS), a new model of non-convulsive limbic status epilepticus (SE), mimics the progression of electrographic changes characteristic in human SE and allows for quantitation of post-stimulus seizure severity. In the present study, hippocampus and anterior neocortex from CHS-stimulated rats and paired surgical controls were assayed for CaM kinase II activity by incorporation of radiolabeled phosphate from [gamma-32P]ATP into the 50-kDa subunit of the kinase itself (autophosphorylation). In all instances, CHS induced sustained interictal bursting and/or electrographic seizures. Decreased CaM kinase II activity was seen in all preparations from electrically stimulated hippocampus. CaM kinase II activity in CHS animals was diminished by 37% relative to controls (P less than 0.01; Student's paired t-test). The progressive intensity of the EEG discharges correlated directly with the decrement of CaM kinase II activity (P less than 0.05; Spearman's rank correlation test, n = 5). This is the first report of a dynamic modulation of a biochemical system that has been implicated in neuronal excitability in coordination with the characterized developmental stages of SE.
The dopamine hypothesis of schizophrenia has been the dominant theoretical construction guiding research and treatment of the schizophrenic disorders over the past generation. This hypothesis, in its simplest guise, posits the presence of a functional alteration in central dopaminergic systems in the brains of schizophrenic patients. Recent findings have resulted in a greater understanding of the complexity of the central dopaminergic systems and have led to revisions of the hypothesis of a simple functional hyperactivity of central dopaminergic systems. These recent data suggest that there may be regionally restricted changes in the function of the mesotelencephalic dopamine system, and that these changes may be in opposite directions. Such changes may be associated with dysfunctions of interactions between distinct dopaminergic terminal field regions, and may be subserved by functional derangements in other transmitter systems or reflect regionally restricted changes in expression or function of distinct dopamine receptors or catecholamine synthetic enzymes. A recent FASEB symposium reviewed new advances in molecular biology, biochemistry, pharmacology, anatomy, and systems neuroscience as they relate to schizophrenia, and discussed the implications of these data for guiding future research and treatment strategies.
The concept is proposed that polypeptide neurotrophic factors contribute to the developmental regulation of ovarian and hypothalamic function in mammals. Nerve growth factor (NGF) and neurotrophin-3, two members of the neurotrophin family, have been identified in the rat ovary and one of its receptors has been localized to the innervation and thecal cells of developing follicles. Although NGF supports the sympathetic innervation of the gland, the extent to which follicles are innervated appears to be defined by the differential expression of NGF receptors in the theca of developing follicles. The presence of NGF receptors in steroid-producing cells suggests a direct involvement of neurotrophins in the regulation of gonadal endocrine function. Evidence is beginning to emerge suggesting that development of the reproductive hypothalamus is affected by insulin-like growth factor 1 secreted by peripheral tissues, and transforming growth factor alpha (TGF alpha) produced locally. In the rat hypothalamus, TGF alpha appears to be synthesized in both neurons and glial cells. In glial cells it may interact with epidermal growth factor (EGF) receptors to further enhance TGF alpha synthesis and to, perhaps, stimulate eicosanoid formation. In turn, one of these eicosanoids, prostaglandin E2, may act on luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) neurons to stimulate the release of LHRH in a genomic-independent manner. This provides the basis for the notion that during development LHRH secretion is regulated by a dual mechanism, one that involves transsynaptic effects exerted by neurotransmitters, the other that requires a glial-neuronal interaction and that may predominantly regulate release of the neuropeptide. An increased expression of the TGF alpha and EGF receptor genes in reactive astrocytes is postulated to contribute to the process by which hypothalamic injury causes sexual precocity. Morphological maturation of the reproductive hypothalamus is thought to occur during sexual development. The process is accelerated by estradiol, which exerts its neurotrophic effects by enhancing the expression of genes encoding cytoskeletal proteins involved in neuronal development and regeneration. It is suggested that acquisition of functional competence by both the ovaries and the reproductive hypothalamus requires the participation of specific, but not similar, neurotrophic factors. The relevance of these concepts to the process of sexual development in other species, particularly primates, remains to be defined.
Homeo box-containing genes (Hox) are expressed in restricted regions of vertebrate embryos and may specify positional information. The organization and expression patterns of these genes are highly conserved among different species, suggesting that their regulation may also have been conserved. We developed a transient expression system, using mosaically transgenic zebrafish, which allows rapid analysis of transgene expression, and examined the activities of two mammalian Hox genes, mouse Hox-1.1 and human HOX-3.3. We found that these Hox promoters are activated in specific regions and tissues of developing zebrafish embryos and that this specificity depends upon the same regulatory elements within the promoters that specify the spatial expression of these genes in mice. Our results suggest that the promoter activities have been remarkably conserved from fish to mammals. To study the regulation of Hox expression in the developing nervous system, we analyzed the promoter activities in spt-1 mutants that have a mesodermal deficiency. Our results suggest that interactions, probably with the paraxial mesoderm, differentially regulate the activities of Hox promoters in the developing nervous system.
N-Acetylglucosamine-1-phosphotransferase (GlcNAcPTase) was solubilized with 2% Tergitol NP-10 from cultured human lymphoblast cells and purified 3840-fold with 14% recovery using lentil lectin-Sepharose 4B, DEAE-Sephacel and Sephacryl S-400 chromatographies. The partially purified enzyme requires the non-ionic detergent Tergitol NP-10 and a divalent cation, Mn2+ or Mg2+, for its activity and exhibits an optimal pH at 7.2-7.5 in Tris-maleate buffer. Kinetic studies demonstrated an apparent Km of 24 microM for the donor UDP-N-acetylglucosamine and of 117 mM for the artificial acceptor alpha-methylmannoside. The GlcNAcPTase is inhibited by UDP and UDP-glucose, and by negatively charged phospholipids including phosphatidylserine, phosphatidylglycerol and phosphatidic acid. The apparent mol. wt of the human lymphoblast GlcNAcPTase is approximately 1000 kDa, which is analogous to that reported for the partially purified enzyme from rat liver (Waheed et al., 1982).
Neuropeptide Y (NPY) has been implicated in the modulation of hippocampal neuronal activity and in the pathophysiology of several neurological disorders involving the hippocampal formation. Thus, this study examines the light and electron microscopic immunoperoxidase labeling of a rabbit polyclonal antibody against porcine NPY in single sections through each lamina of the CA1 and CA3 regions of the hippocampus and the dentate gyrus (DG) of normal adult rats. By light microscopy, the majority of perikarya with intense NPY-like immunoreactivity (NPY-LI) were located in stratum oriens of CA1 and CA3 of the hippocampus and in the hilus of the DG. Fine varicose processes with NPY-LI were found in all layers of the hippocampal formation, but were densest in the outer third of the molecular layer of the DG. The density of NPY-labeling was greater in the ventral portion of the hippocampal formation. By electron microscopy, most NPY-containing perikarya in all three hippocampal regions were: small (8-12 microns) or medium-sized (12-18 microns) and elongated; or medium-sized and round. A dense accumulation of NPY-LI was commonly observed within the individual saccules of Golgi complexes and some rough endoplasmic reticulum in the cytoplasm. Perikarya and dendrites with NPY-LI usually were directly apposed to other neuronal processes (mostly terminals) and lacked astrocytic appositions. The majority of terminals in contact with NPY immunoreactive neurons were unlabeled and synapsed with the shafts of large and small dendrites. In CA1 and CA3 of the hippocampus, the types of synapses formed by the unlabeled terminals were not significantly different; however, more asymmetric synapses than symmetric synapses were formed by the unlabeled terminals on the shafts of small NPY-labeled dendrites in the DG. The terminals with NPY-LI (0.25-1.2 microns) contained many small, clear vesicles and 0-2 large, dense-core vesicles. The types of synapses (i.e., asymmetric and symmetric) and distribution of NPY-labeled terminals on the targets were remarkably similar in each lamina of the hippocampal subregions. The NPY-labeled terminals usually synapsed with one unlabeled perikaryon or dendrite. However, others synapsed either (1) with two unlabeled perikarya or dendrites simultaneously or (2) with one NPY-containing perikaryon or dendrite. Most of the terminals with NPY-LI formed symmetric junctions with the shafts of small (distal) dendrites.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)


Plasma homovanillic acid (pHVA) levels were estimated in 20 cases of schizophreniform disorder, 14 cases of schizophrenia 'on medication' and 17 cases of schizophrenia 'off medication'. A bimodal distribution of pHVA was seen in schizophreniform disorder subjects, suggesting heterogenous groups in terms of dopaminergic function. No significant difference in the pHVA values was seen in the 3 groups, nor was there a relationship between the severity of the illness and the pHVA values; these results suggest plasticity of the dopaminergic system to neuroleptics.
Thirty melancholic patients participated in a double blind trial comparing efficacy of modified bilateral sinewave ECT given twice or thrice weekly. Seizure was monitored on a single channel EEG tracing. All patients received ECTs in the first two weeks of the four week study period. Seizure duration estimate from EEG tracings available for 22 patients (10 patients of thrice weekly group) on all occasions of first two weeks were analysed. Seizure durations significantly reduced through the course in both the groups. Twice weekly ECTs led to significantly less decrements in the seizure duration. This differential reduction was not related to the therapeutic outcome. The improvement in depression in both groups of patients was comparable at the end of two weeks.
The origins and evolution of psychiatry as a medical discipline since the end of the 18th century have been influenced by society's beliefs about the 'nature of man', the dominant forms of social organisation, and the level of technology which could be mobilised to modify human behaviour. These are also the themes from which politics develop. Throughout the past two centuries and up to the present day, two distinct streams can be traced in the political history of psychiatry: first, psychiatry as social control of deviance; and secondly, psychiatry as advocacy of the 'right to be different'. The 'third psychiatric revolution' which is now in progress in many parts of the world has been inspired by the second set of beliefs. It has already produced positive effects on the quality of life of many patients but is also experiencing certain setbacks. The extent to which the new approach to mental health care delivery will benefit patients and society depends not so much on psychiatry as a discipline as on the perceptions and actions of politicians.
Using the New Zealand albino rabbit as an animal model, it has been determined that the medial prefrontal cortex is intimately involved in, and may be necessary for, acquisition of classically conditioned bradycardia. The interconnected nuclei of the medial thalamus, most notably the mediodorsal nucleus, conversely appear to be associated with the development of the tachycardia that accompanies classical conditioning of the eyeblink and nictitating membrane response. Neuroanatomical, electrophysiological, brain stimulation, and lesion data are reviewed, which support the conclusion that the prefrontal-thalamic axis is intimately involved in acquisition of classically conditioned visceral changes.
The present study was addressed to test the hypothesis of time dependent effects of a single ECT in endogenous depression. In a randomized, prospective and double blind controlled comparison 12 patients received only one true modified ECT followed by five sham ECTs on alternate days. They responded as well as the control group of 12 patients who received six true ECTs on alternate days. The Hamilton Rating Scale for Depression and a global rating scale for depression were used to monitor therapeutic response. The therapeutic effects of ECT were time dependent developing during the second week of the study period.
Selected morphological and metabolic properties of single fibers were studied in biopsy samples from the tibialis anterior of normal control and spinal cord-injured (SCI) subjects. In the SCI subjects, one muscle was electrically stimulated progressively over 24 wk, in 6-wk blocks for less than or equal to 8 h/day, while the contralateral muscle remained untreated. The percentage of fibers classified as type I [qualitative alkaline preincubation myofibrillar adenosinetriphosphatase (ATPase)] was significantly less in the unstimulated paralyzed muscles than in the muscles of normal control subjects. Electrical stimulation increased the proportion of type I fibers in the SCI subjects. For both type I and type II fibers, the cross-sectional area, activities of myofibrillar ATPase and succinate dehydrogenase, and the capillary-to-fiber ratio were also significantly less in the paralyzed muscles than in the normal control muscles. Electrical stimulation increased only the activity of succinate dehydrogenase in both fiber types of the SCI subjects. These data are discussed in relation to the electromechanical properties of the respective muscles described in an accompanying paper (J. Appl. Physiol. 72: 1393-1400, 1992). In general, the electrical stimulation protocol used in this study enhanced the oxidative capacity and endurance properties of the paralyzed muscles but had no effect on fiber size and strength.
Muscle properties change profoundly as a result of disuse after spinal cord injury. To study the extent to which these changes can be reversed by electrical stimulation, tibialis anterior muscles in complete spinal cord-injured subjects were stimulated for progressively longer times (15 min, 45 min, 2 h, and 8 h/day) in 6-wk intervals. An index of muscle endurance to repetitive stimulation doubled (from 0.4 to 0.8), contraction and half-relaxation times increased markedly (from 70 to approximately 100 ms), but little or no change was measured in twitch or tetanic tension with increasing amounts of stimulation. The changes observed with 2 h/day of stimulation brought the physiological values close to those for normal (control) subjects. A decrease in the stimulation period produced a reversal of the changes. No effects were observed in the contralateral (unstimulated) muscle at any time, nor was there evidence of decreased numbers of motor units in these subjects secondary to spinal cord injury. Motor unit properties changed in parallel with those of the whole muscle. The occasional spasms occurring in these subjects are not sufficient to maintain normal muscle properties, but these properties can largely be restored by 1-2 h/day of electrical stimulation.
Polyclonal isoenzyme-specific antisera were developed against four calcium-independent protein kinase C (PKC) isoenzymes (delta, epsilon, epsilon', and zeta) as well as the calcium-dependent isoforms (alpha, beta I, beta II, and gamma). These antisera showed high specificities, high titers, and high binding affinities (3-370 nM) for the peptide antigens to which they were raised. Each antiserum detected a species of the predicted molecular weight by Western blot that could be blocked with the immunizing peptide. PKC was sequentially purified from rat brain, and the calcium-dependent forms were finally resolved by hydroxyapatite chromatography. Peak I reacted exclusively with antisera to PKC gamma, peak II with PKC beta I and -beta II, and peak III with PKC alpha. These same fractions, however, were devoid of immunoreactivity for the calcium-independent isoenzymes. The PKC isoenzymes demonstrated a distinctive tissue distribution when evaluated by Western blot and immunocytochemistry. PCK delta was present in brain, heart, spleen, lung, liver, ovary, pancreas, and adrenal tissues. PKC epsilon was present in brain, kidney, and pancreas, whereas PKC epsilon' was present predominantly in brain. PKC zeta was present in most tissues, particularly the lung, brain, and liver. Both PKC delta and PKC zeta showed some heterogeneity of size among the different tissues. PKC alpha was present in all organs and tissues examined. PKC beta I and -beta II were present in greatest amount in brain and spleen. Although the brain contained the most PKC gamma immunoreactivity, some immunostaining was also seen in adrenal tissue. These studies provide the first evidence of selective organ and tissue distributions of the calcium-independent PKC isoenzymes.
These investigations tested the hypothesis that secretion of prolactin (PRL), LH, and FSH in vitro is influenced by the substratum on which adult or fetal adenohypophyseal cells are cultured. Adenohypophyses were removed from adult male Golden Syrian hamsters and from fetal hamsters on day 16 of gestation. The glands were dissociated and cultured in a 1:1 mixture of Dulbecco's Modified Eagle's Medium (DMEM) and Ham's F-12 medium containing 10% fetal bovine serum (FBS), 25 mM Hepes, and antibiotics. The cells were cultured on three substrata: glass, laminin, and the reconstituted basement membrane of the Engelbreth-Holm-Swarm (EHS) tumor (Matrigel). Medium was collected and replaced every 48 h for 14-22 days. Concentrations of PRL, LH, and FSH in medium were measured by RIA. The substratum influenced hormone secretion. PRL concentrations were elevated in cultures of adult cells on Matrigel in each of four experiments. Adenohypophyseal cells on Matrigel maintained a rounded shape longer than cells on glass or laminin. In studies using fetal adenohypophyseal cells, PRL concentrations were elevated significantly in medium from cultures on Matrigel at and after 2 days as were concentrations of LH and FSH after 6 days. Additional experiments showed that the higher PRL concentrations in medium surrounding adult cells plated on Matrigel were not due to the release of soluble factors from Matrigel, differential cell attachment on Matrigel, the differential presence of adenohypophyseal fibroblasts, nor differential rates of cell proliferation. The results show that Matrigel maintains the secretion of PRL from adult adenohypophyseal cells in vitro more effectively than glass or laminin substrata and support the hypothesis that cell-matrix interactions mediate the observed differences. The results also show that in long-term cultures (14-22 days), fetal adenohypophyseal cells secrete significantly more PRL, LH, and FSH on Matrigel than they secrete when cultured on glass or laminin. Thus, Matrigel influences the function and possibly the maturation of adenohypophyseal cells in vitro. Furthermore, although laminin is the most abundant component in Matrigel, the effects of Matrigel on lactotrophs and gonadotrophs in vitro are probably not attributable solely to its laminin content.
The authors briefly review studies of the efficacy of potent serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SRIs) (e.g., clomipramine, fluvoxamine) in obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) and compare the use of antidepressants in the treatment of depression and OCD. They propose an algorithm for those patients with OCD who fail to respond to an adequate trial with a potent SRI and discuss the promise and limitations of adding tryptophan, fenfluramine, lithium, buspirone, or a neuroleptic to ongoing SRI therapy. Other biological approaches (e.g., ECT, psychosurgery) are considered in terms of their narrowly defined roles in the treatment of patients with SRI-resistant OCD.

The functional relationship between cardioacceleratory peptide 2 (CAP2) and hindgut activity during wandering behaviour was investigated in fifth-instar larvae of the tobacco hawkmoth Manduca sexta. Inspection of the alimentary canal on the day prior to wandering showed that the gut, in preparation for metamorphosis, was voided of all contents by 18:00 h. Associated with this event, which we refer to as 'gut emptying', was an increase in the frequency of hindgut contractions measured in vivo. No change in heart activity was seen during this developmental period. Measurements of the amount of CAP2 in the central nervous system (CNS) of fifth-instar caterpillars revealed that CAP2 storage levels declined sharply on the day of gut emptying. The drop in CNS levels of CAP2 at gut emptying was temporally correlated with the appearance of CAP2 in the haemolymph. CAP2, when applied at physiological concentrations to an in vitro larval hindgut bioassay, caused changes in several parameters, including contraction frequency and amplitude, and basal tension. In vivo administration of CAP2 elicited hindgut responses that were qualitatively and quantitatively similar to those seen in vitro. Developmental studies on changes in CAP2 responsiveness during the last larval instar demonstrated that the hindgut is maximally sensitive to CAP2 on the day of gut emptying. Direct evidence in support of a role for CAP2 in fifth-instar larvae was provided by experiments in which the increase in gut activity in vivo seen at gut emptying was significantly reduced by injections of an anti-CAP antibody. Based on data from cobalt backfills and anti-CAP immunohistochemical staining, we propose that CAP2 exerts its effect on the larval hindgut at wandering via a local release from CAP-containing neurones in the terminal ganglion that project directly to the hindgut.

A 27-year-old woman was maintained in an isolated state for 131 days in Carlsbad Caverns, New Mexico. Her diet was vitamin D-depleted. Determinations on the effects of such isolation on levels and activities of peripheral blood cells that are important for hematological homeostasis and immunological function were carried out. Throughout the duration of the study, the percentage of lymphoid cells that expressed CD3, CD4, CD8, CD19, Leu 8, and other markers remained relatively constant although the absolute numbers of these cells varied. Although the percentage of natural killer (NK) cells did not vary, the activity of these cells did change. NK cell activity became elevated as the isolation study progressed. Production of interferon-gamma (IFN-gamma) in response to mitogen stimulation was higher than expected throughout the isolation periods, but returned to the normal range after termination of the isolation. Red and white cell counts dropped significantly upon entering isolation, but soon returned to normal.
We used a combination of cell blotting, immunoblotting, and cell adhesion assays to analyze fibronectin and vitronectin in wound fluid from acute and chronic wounds. Acute wound fluid (e.g., suction blister fluid, mastectomy fluid) contained intact fibronectin and vitronectin as major cell adhesion proteins. In marked contrast, chronic wound fluid samples from three of 11 patients with venous stasis ulcers showed complete degradation of vitronectin and degradation of fibronectin into small molecular mass polypeptides less than 125 kDa. Three of these polypeptides--54, 93, and 125 kDa--were biologically active in promoting cell attachment and were recognized by monoclonal antibodies that bind fibronectin near the arg-gly-asp (RGD) domain. In wound fluid samples from the other eight of 11 patients, only slight degradation of vitronectin and fibronectin occurred, which resulted in a mixture of mostly intact molecules along with large fragments. Intact fibronectin in chronic wound fluid samples contained the ED-A domain, which showed that fibronectin synthesis occurred locally in the wound bed. Wound fluid containing extensively degraded vitronectin and fibronectin reversibly inhibited cell adhesion, and excess fetal bovine serum, but not purified fibronectin, neutralized the inhibitory effect. We suggest that protease activity in some chronic wounds may cause degradation of adhesion proteins and prevent cell adhesion necessary for normal wound closure.
Major limitations of adrenal medulla transplantation in animal models of Parkinson's disease have been the relatively small behavioral effects and the poor or inconsistent graft survival. Transplantation of fragments of sural nerve in combination with adrenal medulla has been reported to increase the survival of chromaffin cells in adrenal medulla grafts in primates. In the present study, the possibility was tested that peripheral nerve co-grafts would increase the functional effects of adrenal medulla grafts in a 6-hydroxydopamine-lesioned rat model. Animals received unilateral substantia nigra lesions, and subsequently received intraventricular grafts of adrenal medulla, sciatic nerve, adrenal medulla plus sciatic nerve, or sham grafts consisting of medium only. Functional effects of the grafts were tested using apomorphine-induced rotational behavior. The sciatic nerve co-grafts did not increase the survival of TH-immunoreactive chromaffin cells. The co-grafting treatment also did not augment the overall effect of adrenal medulla grafts on rotational behavior. In the animals with substantial numbers of surviving chromaffin cells, however, the animals with sciatic nerve co-grafts showed greater decreases in rotational behavior as compared to the animals with adrenal medulla grafts alone, even though the number of surviving cells was not increased.
Hippocampal long-term potentiation (LTP) is a persistent increase in the efficacy of synaptic transmission, which is widely thought to be a cellular mechanism that could contribute to learning and memory. Studies on the biochemical mechanisms underlying LTP suggest the involvement of protein kinases in both LTP induction and maintenance. In this report we describe an LTP-associated increase in the phosphorylation in vitro of a 17-kDa protein kinase C (PKC) substrate protein, which we have termed P17, in homogenates from the CA1 region of rat hippocampal slices. This LTP-associated increase in phosphorylation was expressed independent of significant levels of free Ca2+, as phosphorylation reactions were performed in the presence of 500 microM EGTA. The increased phosphorylation of P17 was substantially inhibited by PKC(19-36), a selective inhibitor of PKC. These data support the model that persistent PKC activation contributes to the maintenance of LTP and implicate P17 as a potential target for PKC in the CA1 region of the hippocampus.
The millimolar form of calcium-activated neutral proteinase (mCANP) is generally regarded as a cytosolic enzyme in nonneuronal systems, although its subcellular localization in brain is less well established. To resolve conflicting reports on the localization of mCANP based on activity measurements, we developed an immunoassay for CANP and compared the content and activity of the molecule in soluble and membrane fractions of mouse and human brain. Western blot immunoassays, using two different antibodies specific for mCANP, demonstrated that mCANP content is 4.5 ng/g in human or mouse brain, about 0.0005% of the total protein. More than 95% of the total immunoreactive mCANP remained in the soluble fraction after 15,000 g centrifugation of the whole homogenate. mCANP activity was determined with [14C]azocasein as substrate after removing endogenous CANP inhibitor(s) by ion-exchange chromatography on DEAE-cellulose. Caseinolytic activity was detected only in fractions derived from the supernatant extract. The distribution of mCANP content and enzyme activity were unchanged when tissues were extracted with different concentrations of Triton X-100. These findings establish the usefulness and validity of the CANP immunoassay and demonstrate that mCANP in mouse and human brain is localized predominantly within the cytosol.
In the course of studying the secretory products of microglia, we detected protease activity in the conditioned medium. Various proteins (casein, histone, myelin basic protein, and extracellular matrix) were digested. The protease activity was characterized by using purified myelin basic protein as a substrate. Maximal activity was observed at neutral pH levels (7-8), which was different from the optimum pH level of proteolytic activity observed in the cell homogenate. The activity was inhibited approximately 60 and 50% by 1 mM phenylmethylsulfonyl fluoride and 40 microM elastatinal, respectively. In gel filtration, the major activity, which was inhibited in the presence of N-methoxysuccinyl-Ala-Ala-Pro-Val-methyl chloride, eluted at a position corresponding to a molecular mass of approximately 25 kDa. These results suggest that the major protease present in microglial conditioned medium is elastase or an elastase-like protease. This suggestion was confirmed by the finding that the 25-kDa protein band was stained with anti-elastase antiserum by western blotting. De novo synthesis of elastase in microglia was supported by [35S]methionine incorporation. In the presence of lipopolysaccharide, the secretory elastase decreased. These results demonstrate that microglia secrete proteases, one of which was identified as elastase. The significance of this enzyme production in physiological and pathological conditions is discussed.
beta-N-Methylamino-L-alanine (BMAA) is a neurotoxic plant amino acid that has been implicated in the pathogenesis of the high incidence amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and related parkinsonism dementia of the western Pacific. Previous studies have demonstrated that BMAA is taken up into brain following intravenous or oral administration. To examine the kinetics and mechanism of brain transfer, BMAA influx across the blood-brain barrier was measured in rats using an in situ brain perfusion technique. BMAA influx was found to be saturable with a maximal transfer rate (Vmax) of 1.6 +/- 0.3 x 10(-3) mumol/s/g and a half-saturation constant (Km) of 2.9 +/- 0.7 mM based on total perfusate BMAA concentration. Uptake was sodium independent and inhibitable by excess L-leucine, but not by L-lysine, L-glutamate, or methylaminoisobutyric acid, indicative of transfer by the cerebrovascular large neutral amino acid carrier. L-BMAA competitively reduced brain influx of L-[14C]leucine, as expected for cross-inhibition. The results demonstrate that BMAA is taken up into brain by the large neutral amino acid carrier of the blood-brain barrier and suggest that uptake may be sensitive to the same factors that affect neutral amino acid transport, such as diet, metabolism, disease, and age.
3-(1,2,5,6-Tetrahydro-4-pyridyl)-5-n-propoxyindole (CP-96,501) was found to be more selective ligand at the serotonin 5-HT1B receptor than the commonly used 5-HT1B agonist, 3-(1,2,5,6-tetrahydro-4-pyridyl)-5-methoxyindole (RU 24969). In rat brain membranes, the tritiated derivative, [3H]CP-96,501, was found to bind with a high affinity (KD, 0.21 nM) to a single binding site (nH, 1.0). The receptor density of this site (Bmax, 72 fmol/mg of protein) matched that of the 5-HT1B receptor determined with [3H]5-HT. Competition curves of 16 serotonergic compounds in [3H]CP-96,501 binding also indicated a single binding site. The rank order of their binding affinities with this new radioligand showed a high degree of correlation with their affinities at the 5-HT1B receptor determined with [3H]5-HT or [125I]iodocyanopindolol. Serotonergic compounds displayed competitive inhibition of [3H]CP-96,501 binding. In the presence of 5'-guanylylimidodiphosphate [Gpp(NH)p], [3H]CP-96,501 to displace [125I]iodocyanopindolol binding was also decreased. These findings are consistent with the agonist nature of CP-96,501. The results of this study suggest that [3H]CP-96,501 is a useful agonist radioligand for the 5-HT1B receptor.
Cultured cerebellar astrocytes rapidly accumulate 1-methyl-4-phenyl-1,2,3,6-tetrahydropyridine (MPTP) from the incubation medium, reaching a plateau within 10 min, whereas within that time negligible amounts of 1-methyl-4-phenylpyridinium (MPP+) have entered the astrocytes. MPTP accumulation is essentially independent of temperature and is proportional to extracellular concentration at steady state: The steady-state concentration achieved within these cells is about 50-fold higher at relatively low extracellular concentrations. MPTP appears to accumulate intracellularly within lysosomes, because lysosomotropic agents such as ammonium chloride and chloroquine markedly diminish the accumulation. Moreover, a proton gradient is required, because MPTP accumulation is abolished by the hydrogen ion antiporter monensin. Over an interval of several days, MPTP is converted to MPP+ intracellularly, with a concomitant decrease in medium MPTP and increase in medium MPP+. A constant, small but significant amount of MPP+ is retained intracellularly over a 72-h interval. Increasing the medium MPTP concentrations results in increased conversion of MPTP and enhanced intracellular retention of MPTP and MPP+. Neither MPTP nor MPP+ is neurotoxic to cultured cerebellar astrocytes as determined by cell counts and rate of conversion of MPTP to MPP+.
Recent studies have shown that dopamine receptor agonists induce expression of Fos-like immunoreactivity in rat striatal neurons. The protooncogene c-fos belongs to a family of immediate early genes that are rapidly induced in fibroblasts by growth factors. In light of previous findings that several immediate early gene mRNAs that encode proven or putative transcription factors are differentially regulated by neuronal stimulation in vivo, we have examined the effect of dopaminergic agents on mRNA levels of several such genes using in situ hybridization and northern blot analysis. d-Amphetamine (2.5-10 mg/kg i.p.) causes a rapid but transient dose-dependent increase in zif268 and jun-B mRNA levels in striatum that was abolished by striatal 6-hydroxydopamine lesions or by pretreatment with the specific D1 receptor antagonist SCH-23390 but not by specific D2 receptor antagonists. Apomorphine, a dopamine agonist that acts at both D1 and D2 receptors, and SKF-38393, a specific D1 receptor agonist, produce similar mRNA changes in rats pretreated with either 6-hydroxydopamine or reserpine, whereas LY-171,555, a specific D2 receptor agonist, has no effect. Direct dopamine agonist effects on these immediate early gene mRNA levels are also blocked by D1 but not by D2 antagonists. We observed similar, although less robust, changes in c-fos and fos-B mRNA levels. These results demonstrate that striatal D1 dopamine receptors are coupled to activation of multiple transcription factor genes, including zif268 and jun-B as well as members of the fos family.

The clinical course of intrinsic supratentorial tumours is variable. Prediction of outcome would be useful in defining patients for specific treatment policies. A retrospective analysis of 560 patients with intrinsic supratentorial tumours was performed. Proportional hazards models for survival were derived by using a stepwise selection procedure with only clinical and CT features as possible explanatory variables. The variables of prognostic importance were age, a first symptom of epilepsy, focal signs at presentation, a cystic lesion on CT scan, and duration of symptoms before presentation. The model defined a group with a good prognosis (score less than or equal to 9, n = 211) and a group with a poor prognosis (score greater than 9, n = 344). The median survival was 27 months for those with a score less than or equal to 9 or less and three months for those with score greater than 9. An alternative model, not including duration of symptoms, is also capable of defining groups with long (score less than or equal to 16, n = 234) and short (score greater than 16, n = 325) survival. The model may provide a means of classifying patients for inclusion in prospective randomised studies.
1. The effect of vasoactive intestinal polypeptide (VIP) on bipolar cells and ganglion cells freshly dissociated from the rat retina was studied under voltage clamp with the use of patch-clamp recording in the whole-cell configuration. 2. Application of VIP (1-100 microM) by itself resulted in no detectable current response in either bipolar cells or ganglion cells. However, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)-activated macroscopic current responses elicited in both neuronal populations were potentiated on superimposed exposure to the neuropeptide. 3. GABA-activated chloride currents and muscimol-induced current responses were similarly potentiated on exposure to VIP, suggesting a synergistic interaction between VIP and GABAA receptor mechanisms. 4. We postulate that VIP plays a neuromodulatory role by regulating the excitability of inner retinal neurons and in this way modulates the efficacy of synaptic transmission in the retina.
1. A slice preparation was used to study layer III field potentials (FPs) evoked by electrical stimulation of the white matter-layer VI border and their potentiation by patterned stimuli. 2. The dependence of the FP on recording position was investigated. The maximum field was recorded in layer III at a position radial to the site of stimulation. Because this negative FP reflects an excitatory synaptic current sink, this site was chosen for all subsequent experiments. 3. Under normal recording conditions, components of the layer III FP with latencies greater than 3 ms were completely abolished by kynurenate but unaffected by 2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate (AP5), indicating that this potential reflects the activation of non-NMDA excitatory amino acid receptors. 4. Addition of the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA)A receptor antagonist bicuculline methiodide (BMI) broadened the field potential and revealed an AP5-sensitive component. By filling the recording pipette with BMI, it was possible to substantially reduce inhibition locally around the recording site while avoiding stimulus-driven and spontaneous epileptiform activity. 5. Tetanic stimulation elicited a long-term potentiation (LTP) of the FP in 14 of 17 experiments when the BMI-filled pipette method was used. 6. Addition of 100 microM D,L-AP5 significantly reduced the average probability and magnitude of LTP. Nonetheless, in 2 of 8 experiments, significant LTP was observed after a tetanus in the presence of AP5. Control experiments confirmed that this concentration of AP5 was sufficient to maximally block cortical NMDA receptors. 7. We conclude that LTP of layer III field potentials can be reliably elicited, provided that GABAA-receptor mediated inhibition is blocked locally at the site of recording and that NMDA receptors are recruited during the conditioning stimulation. However, activation of NMDA receptors is apparently not an obligatory step for the induction of use-dependent increases in synaptic strength in the kitten striate cortex.
1. The possibility of use-dependent, long-lasting modifications of pharmacologically isolated N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor-mediated synaptic transmission was examined by intracellular recordings from granule cells of the hippocampal dentate gyrus in vitro. In the presence of the non-NMDA receptor antagonist 6-cyano-7-nitroquinaxaline-2,3-dione (CNQX, 10 microM) robust, long-term potentiation (LTP) of NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic potentials was induced by brief, high (50 Hz) and lower (10 Hz) frequency tetanic stimuli of glutamatergic afferents (60 +/- 6%, n = 8, P less than 0.001 and 43 +/- 12%, n = 3, P less than 0.05, respectively). 2. Hyperpolarization of granule cell membrane potential to -100 mV during 50-Hz tetanic stimuli reversibly blocked the induction of LTP (-6 +/- 2%, n = 6, P greater than 0.05) indicating that simultaneous activation of pre- and postsynaptic elements is a prerequisite for potentiation of NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic transmission. In contrast, hyperpolarization of the granule cell membrane potential to -100 mV during 10-Hz tetanic stimuli resulted in long-term depression (LTD) of NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic potentials (-34 +/- 8%, n = 8, P less than 0.01). 3. We also studied the role of [Ca2+]i in the induction of LTP and LTD of NMDA receptor-mediated synaptic responses. Before tetanization, [Ca2+]i was buffered by iontophoretic injections of bis-(o-aminophenoxy)-N,N,N',N'-tetraacetic acid (BAPTA). BAPTA completely blocked the induction of LTP (3 +/- 5%, n = 13) and partially blocked LTD (-14.8 +/- 6%, n = 10).(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Immunocytochemical staining for glial fibrillary acidic protein (GFAP) allows more specific identification of astrocytes and their processes than classical histochemical techniques and has therefore recently been used by some investigators to quantify gliosis. However, although the immunocytochemical method is superior for delineation of reactive astrocytes, the examples presented here and previous work by others demonstrate that chronic fibrillary gliosis may be best detected by Holzer's method and not by GFAP immunocytochemistry. The authors' studies indicate that if, as in a recent study of gliosis in schizophrenia, computer-assisted densitometry is to be used to measure gliosis, the immunoperoxidase method may not be a sensitive technique to demonstrate glial changes in human postmortem material.
We propose a biologically realistic neural network that computes coordinate transformations for the command of arm reaching movements in 3-D space. This model is consistent with anatomical and physiological data on the cortical areas involved in the command of these movements. Studies of the neuronal activity in the motor (Georgopoulos et al., 1986; Schwartz et al., 1988; Caminiti et al., 1990a) and premotor (Caminiti et al., 1990b, 1991) cortices of behaving monkeys have shown that the activity of individual arm-related neurons is broadly tuned around a preferred direction of movements in 3-D space. Recent data demonstrate that in both frontal areas (Caminiti et al., 1990a,b, 1991) these cell preferred directions rotate with the initial position of the arm. Furthermore, the rotation of the population of preferred directions precisely corresponds to the rotation of the arm in space. The neural network model computes the motor command by combining the visual information about movement trajectory with the kinesthetic information concerning the orientation of the arm in space. The appropriate combination, learned by the network from spontaneous movement, can be approximated by a bilinear operation that can be interpreted as a projection of the visual information on a reference frame that rotates with the arm. This bilinear combination implies that neural circuits converging on a single neuron in the motor and premotor cortices can learn and generalize the appropriate command in a 2-D subspace but not in the whole 3-D space. However, the uniform distribution of cell preferred directions in these frontal areas can explain the computation of the correct solution by a population of cortical neurons. The model is consistent with the existing neurophysiological data and predicts how visual and somatic information can be combined in the different processing steps of the visuomotor transformation subserving visual reaching.
The relationship of the vasculature to the neuronal layers was studied in whole-mounts and in sections of macaque retinas. Like other central nervous structures, primate retinas have local variations in vascularity that reflect local variations in metabolism, rather than simply tissue thickness or volume. A special feature of the retina is a dense vascular plexus in the nerve fiber layer, which is unmyelinated and hence must generate a substantial metabolic demand for ion pumping. Much of the retinal vasculature is laminated and located at specific layer boundaries. Throughout the central retina, two planes of capillaries bracket the inner nuclear layer to form a sclerad capillary network. In some regions, especially near the fovea, a second, more vitread network brackets the ganglion cell layer with another pair of capillary planes. Wherever the nerve fiber layer is thick, the vitread network becomes less planar and is multilayered. When surrounded by nerve fibers, capillaries tend to orient parallel to the fibers; when adjacent to ganglion cell bodies, the capillaries are less systematically oriented. At the border between the nerve fiber layer and the ganglion cell layer, rows of ganglion cells often interdigitate with nerve fiber bundles, resulting in local perturbations of capillary orientation. The volume of the sclerad capillary network is relatively constant at different locations, but the volume of the vitread network increases dramatically where the nerve fiber layer is thick. As a result, the vascularity of the retina is greatest in the peripapillary region near the optic disk, even though the total thickness of the peripapillary retina is comparable to the retinal thickness near the foveal crest. As many as 60-70% of the photons passing through the retina in the peripapillary region will encounter one or more capillaries before reaching a photoreceptor. Median capillary diameter increases with retinal depth from 4.5-4.7 microns in the nerve fiber layer to 5.0 microns at the sclerad border of the inner nuclear layer. Capillary diameter in the nerve fiber layer also increases near the optic disk.
To investigate constraints and preferences for synaptogenesis in the injured mammalian CNS, regenerating retinal ganglion cell (RGC) axons of adult hamsters were guided through a peripheral nerve (PN) graft to a target they do not usually innervate: the cerebellum (Cb). When identified by the presence of HRP anterogradely transported from the retina 2-9 months later, such RGC axons were found to have extended into the cerebellar cortex for up to 650 microns. Most of this growth was in the granule cell layer (GCL) and only a few axons entered the molecular layer. The preference for the GCL could not be explained by the position of the PN graft in the Cb, a selective denervation of the GCL, local damage to other neurons, or the distribution of reactive gliosis in the vicinity of the graft. Furthermore, by EM, more than 95% of the labeled retinocerebellar terminals and synapses were in the GCL. Retinocerebellar terminals were larger and contained more synapses than the regenerated RGC terminals previously studied in the superior colliculus. These results indicate that regenerating axons of CNS neurons can form persistent synapses with novel targets. The preferential synaptogenesis in the GCL suggests that such unusual connections are not formed randomly in the CNS of these adult mammals.
Endogenous opiates modulate activity in the mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic system, and this interaction is thought to underlie major aspects of motoric, reward-seeking, and stress-coping behaviors. We sought to determine the ultrastructural substrate for this modulatory action at the level of dopaminergic perikarya in the rat ventral tegmental area (VTA). Using a dual-labeling, immunoperoxidase and immunogold-silver method, we localized antisera directed against leu5-enkephalin (ENK) and the catecholamine-synthesizing enzyme tyrosine hydroxylase (TH) in acrolein-fixed sections through the VTA. ENK-like immunoreactivity (ENK-LI) was visualized within unmyelinated axons and in axon terminals. In terminals, ENK-LI was densely localized to one or more dense-cored vesicles and either densely or lightly detected surrounding small clear vesicles. Immunoreactive dense-cored vesicles were occasionally associated with the presynaptic specialization but were more frequently detected at distant sites along the plasmalemmal surface, often in apposition to astrocytic processes. ENK-immunoreactive terminals formed both symmetric and asymmetric synapses, most frequently on large proximal dendrites. Direct appositions without glial separation were also detected between terminals containing ENK-LI and other ENK-labeled or unlabeled terminals. In contrast to ENK-LI, immunolabeling for TH was primarily detected within perikarya and dendrites in the VTA. Of the ENK-immunoreactive terminals that formed synaptic contacts in single sections, approximately 50-60% were in association with TH-labeled dendrites. The remainder formed synapses on dendrites lacking detectable immunoreactivity for TH. Multiple ENK-immunoreactive terminals occasionally formed convergent synaptic contacts on single TH-labeled or unlabeled dendrites. Furthermore, individual ENK-labeled terminals sometimes formed divergent contacts on two TH-labeled or unlabeled dendrites. When a single ENK-immunoreactive terminal made dual synaptic contacts on TH-labeled dendrites, the latter were usually in close apposition to one another. These findings represent the first ultrastructural demonstration that opioid peptide-containing terminals provide a direct synaptic input to dopaminergic, as well as nondopaminergic, neurons in the VTA. In addition, the morphological evidence suggests that endogenous opioid peptides (1) may be released from nonsynaptic sites, (2) may modulate the release of transmitters from other terminals, and/or (3) may synchronize the activity of multiple neuronal targets in the VTA. These results provide a number of morphological substrates through which opiates may directly or indirectly regulate activity in mesocorticolimbic dopaminergic pathways.
The effects on morphologically and electrophysiologically characterized myenteric neurons of activation of intestinal reflex pathways were examined in vitro. Opened segments of guinea pig small intestine were pinned serosa down in an organ bath that had two balloons set into its base. A 5-10-mm-wide strip of myenteric plexus between the balloons was exposed from the mucosal side, and neurons were impaled with microelectrodes. Reflex pathways were stimulated by inflation of the balloons to distend the intestinal wall, and by deforming the exposed mucosal villi with a brush. Impaled neurons were classified electrophysiologically as AH-neurons or S-neurons (Hirst et al., 1974) and were injected with biocytin to determine their shapes and projections. None of the 58 AH-neurons responded to distension. In contrast, 63 of 131 S-neurons responded to distension with a burst of fast EPSPs; about one-third of the responding S-neurons received input from ascending reflex pathways, one-third received input from descending reflex pathways, and one-third received input from both ascending and descending pathways. Most neurons in this last group supplied extensive varicose branches to the tertiary plexus and were probably longitudinal muscle motor neurons. Neurons receiving input from only one pathway usually projected in the direction of that pathway; many of these were circular muscle motor neurons. Almost all neurons responding to distension were also excited by deforming the villi. Responses evoked by distension or deforming the mucosa declined when stimuli were repeated at intervals less than 10 sec. This was seen in ascending and descending pathways but was more prominent in the former. Deforming the mucosa evoked a normal response even when the response to repeated distensions had disappeared. It is concluded that distension and deforming the mucosa excite separate populations of sensory neurons to activate reflex pathways that converge onto common motor neurons and probably onto common interneurons.
In this report we describe the development of an in vitro preparation of the mudpuppy (Necturus maculatus) used to investigate locomotion in walking vertebrates. The preparation consists of the first 5 segments of the cervical spinal cord and the attached forelimb. The preparation is bathed in a cooled (15 degrees C) and oxygenated spinal cord Ringers solution and remains viable for 36-100 h. Locomotion can be elicited during the first 36-48 h by applying the excitatory amino acid N-methyl D-aspartate (NMDA) to the bath. Cutaneous and dorsal root reflexes remain unchanged for much longer periods of time (72-100 h). During locomotion, intracellular recordings can be made from interneurons and motoneurons while simultaneous electromyographic (EMG) recordings are made from forelimb muscles. Rhythmically active interneurons can be classified according to their phase of activity during the step cycle. Further classification of interneurons involves both monitoring the afferent input to these cells from dorsal root and cutaneous afferents as well as using their action potentials as a trigger for averaging the ongoing locomotor EMG activity. In this way some of the input and output characteristics of the interneurons can be monitored. The ability to record simultaneously from interneurons and muscles offers distinct advantages over current in vitro preparations.
Validation of nursing diagnoses is an essential step in developing knowledge for nursing practice and should be a major goal of the discipline. Nursing diagnoses must have clinical referents, that is, defining characteristics which appear in patient populations exhibiting specific nursing diagnoses. Selecting nursing diagnoses for patient populations, developing a list of defining characteristics and operational definitions for a nursing diagnosis, selecting a standard to discriminate among subjects and constructing an instrument to document the occurrence of defining characteristics in selected patient populations are preliminary steps in identifying clinical referents. Methodological concerns addressed in establishing clinical referents for nursing diagnoses included controlling confounding factors, determining sample size, conducting a pilot study, determining interrater reliability, selecting appropriate statistical tests, and identifying critical defining characteristics for a nursing diagnosis.
alpha 2-Macroglobulin (alpha 2M) is a rather ubiquitous protein in extracellular spaces of mammals. It is an inhibitor of endopeptidases, can be modified by aliphatic amines, and combines with a number of hormones/cytokines such as beta-nerve growth factor (NGF) [Koo PH, Stach RW (1989): J Neurosci Res 22:247]. The objective of this study is to compare the NGF-binding properties of methylamine-modified human alpha 2M (MA-alpha 2M) versus normal alpha 2M and their effects on the biological activity of NGF and neurite extension by embryonic chicken dorsal root ganglia. As determined by gel filtration, polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis, and equilibrium binding studies, these two forms of alpha 2M are similar in their binding affinities, with MA-alpha 2M binding about twice as much NGF as normal alpha 2M. Both normal alpha 2M and MA-alpha 2M combine noncovalently with NGF, and prior modification of alpha 2M is unnecessary for the binding to occur. In contrast to normal alpha 2M, MA-alpha 2M potently inhibits the biological activity of NGF and exerts a dose-dependent inhibition on the NGF-stimulated neurite outgrowth by embryonic chicken dorsal root ganglia in culture. The inhibitory effect of MA-alpha 2M can be overcome by higher NGF concentrations, but is irreversible at lower NGF concentrations. Trypsin-modified alpha 2M combines covalently and noncovalently with more NGF than normal alpha 2M but has very little neurite inhibitory activity. The mechanism of inhibition by MA-alpha 2M is discussed.
A double blind, placebo controlled, escalating dose study was undertaken in five healthy, conscious volunteers to investigate the effects of human synthetic alpha calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) on middle cerebral artery (MCA) blood flow velocity using transcranial Doppler sonography. During placebo infusion, there was no significant change in any of the parameters studied. During CGRP infusion, all subjects showed flushing of the face and neck. Infusion of CGRP caused a significant increase in arterial pulse pressure and heart rate and a fall in diastolic and mean arterial blood pressure when compared to baseline. Peak and mean MCA velocity did not change significantly. There was a significant increase in pulsatility index though interpretation of this was confounded by the central systemic effects of CGRP. The observed haemodynamic changes may be explained by a prompt sympathetic nervous system response in order to maintain mean arterial blood pressure. Our data suggest that if cerebral vasodilatation had occurred, it was not associated with increased blood flow as an increase in MCA velocity might have been expected. An alternative explanation is that, at the doses employed, CGRP did not cause dilatation of normal cerebral vessels in healthy subjects. This does not however exclude the fact that CGRP may cause dilatation of a spastic artery as seen in cerebral vasospasm following subarachnoid haemorrhage.
The nervous systems in the parasitic Platyhelminthes have generally been considered to be degenerate and of marginal significance, but recent studies have shown these systems to be more significant in the biology of these animals than formerly believed. There are many similarities in the construction and apparent neurochemistry of the nervous systems in the parasitic forms as well as in the free-living Turbellaria. In all forms there appears to be a large neurohormonal component. Though the nervous system appears to be important for many aspects of parasitic flatworm biology, little direct or specific information about the physiology of these systems is yet available.
1. The hypothesis that the long latency reflex response to muscle stretch in humans uses a transcortical pathway was tested by looking for convergence onto cortical neurones in eleven normal subjects. 2. Postsynaptic events in single flexor pollicis longus (FPL) motoneurones were derived from changes in the firing probability of individual FPL motor units. 3. Extension of the terminal phalynx of the thumb resulted in both short latency and long latency facilitations of individual FPL motoneurones. These were not reproduced by electrical stimulation of afferents in the terminal phalynx. Magnetic stimulation over the contralateral motor cortex produced strong, short latency facilitation of FPL motoneurones. 4. When the facilitation produced by stimulation over the cortex was superimposed on the long latency facilitation produced by extension of the thumb, the facilitation produced by both stimuli was greater than the sum of the individual facilitations produced by either stimulus given alone. This was not the case when the superimposition occurred on the short latency response to stretch. 5. We conclude that afferent systems excited by the stretch of FPL converge onto cortical neurones which are known to facilitate motoneurones. Thus the cortex is likely to contribute to the long latency stretch reflex in humans.
1. N-Methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors were expressed in Xenopus oocytes injected with rat brain RNA. The modulation of NMDA-induced currents was examined by activating protein kinase C (PKC) either directly (using phorbol esters) or indirectly (via metabotropic glutamate agonists). 2. Bath application of the PKC activator, 4-beta-phorbol-12,13-dibutyrate (PDBu) resulted in a two-fold increase in the NMDA-evoked current at all holding potentials examined (-80 to 0 mV). The inactive (alpha) stereoisomer of phorbol ester was ineffective. 3. The increase was observed under conditions that eliminate the oocyte's endogenous calcium-dependent chloride current, which often contributes to the NMDA response in oocytes. 4. The PDBu effect was specific to the NMDA subclass of glutamate receptors in that no increase was observed in the responses to two other glutamate agonists, kainate and AMPA (alpha-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methylisoxazole-4-propionic acid). 5. Stimulation of PKC by activation of metabotropic receptors via either quisqualate or trans-ACPD (trans-1-aminocyclopentane-1,3-dicarboxylic acid) also led to an increase in NMDA currents. 6. Both methods of enhancement induced transient effects. PDBu effects lasted 10-45 min, depending upon both dose and length of application. Quisqualate and trans-ACPD effects were shorter, lasting less than 10 min under these conditions of application. 7. Both methods of enhancement were blocked by the PKC inhibitor, staurosporine. In addition, the phorbol ester-induced enhancement of NMDA responses occluded further enhancement by quisqualate. 8. The results suggest a role for metabotropic glutamate receptors in modulation of NMDA-mediated processes.
The number and distribution of beta-endorphin neurons in the hypothalamus and medulla of rats is compared among three experimental treatment groups: prenatally ethanol-exposed rats, pair-fed control rats, and normally fed control rats. Quantitative analysis of beta-endorphin-immunoreactive neurons in 12 sections through the rostral-caudal extent of the mediobasal hypothalamus revealed no significant difference in the total number or distribution of beta-endorphin neurons among any of the three treatment groups. The mean number of beta-endorphin neurons was consistently less in each of the 12 sections of pair-fed rats compared to normally fed rats, but there was no consistent difference between the mean number of neurons/section in prenatally ethanol-exposed rats compared to the normally fed controls. The distribution and time of appearance of a second population of beta-en-dorphin neurons was analyzed in the caudal medulla. beta-endorphin-immunoreactive neurons were easily visualized in the caudal medulla of rats from each treatment group on Postnatal Days 9-11. However, this population could not be identified with antisera against beta-endorphin on Postnatal Days 19-21 in any treatment group, even though neurons in the hypothalamus of the same rats were easily visualized histochemically at this age. These data suggest that the well-characterized prenatally ethanol-induced alterations in central opioid systems cannot be attributed to changes in the number, distribution, or time of appearance of beta-endorphin neurons in the brain.
Using homologous probes for the cloning of related genes within the family of guanine nucleotide-binding protein-coupled receptors, we have cloned the gene for the rhesus macaque D1 dopamine receptor. By using the rat D1 receptor coding sequence as a probe under high stringency conditions, the rhesus D1 receptor gene was isolated from a lambda EMBL3 rhesus genomic DNA library. The rhesus D1 dopamine receptor gene is intronless and encodes a 446-amino acid protein that contains two consensus sites for asparagine-linked glycosylation (Asn-5 and Asn-176) and two consensus sites for cAMP-dependent protein kinase phosphorylation (Thr-136 and Thr-268). The primary amino acid sequence of the rhesus D1 dopamine receptor shows an extremely high degree of similarity (99.6%) to the human D1 receptor. Genomic DNA analyses conducted with high and reduced stringency hybridizations indicate that the rhesus macaque D1 receptor is a member of a large multigene family. Like the human D1 receptor mRNA, the rhesus D1 receptor mRNA is approximately 4 kilobases in size and is localized predominantly in the caudate, with lesser amounts in the hippocampus and cortex. The rhesus D1 receptor coding region was inserted into the cytomegalovirus promoter-driven expression vector pcDNA-1, and the recombinant (pcDNA-D1) was cotransfected with the selectable marker pRSVneo, conferring G418 resistance, into D1 receptor-deficient C6 glioma cells. Analyses of the selected transfectant demonstrate the expression of a high affinity, functional D1 dopamine receptor. The D1 receptor radioligand [3H]SCH 23390 bound transfectant membranes with an affinity (Kd), of 0.3 nM; the D2-selective ligand spiperone, the dopamine receptor ligand clozapine, and the serotonin receptor antagonist ketanserin bound with considerably lower affinities (102, 80, and 95 nM, respectively). Both dopamine and the D1-selective agonist SKF 38393 inhibited the binding of [3H]SCH 23390 to transfectant cell membranes; the binding of these agonists was sensitive to GTP. Dopamine potently stimulated the accumulation of cAMP in transfected C6 cells, whereas SKF 38393 was a partial agonist in these cells. Also, the density of recombinant D1 receptors on the transfectant cells was decreased 40% upon treatment with 10 microM dopamine, indicating that occupation of recombinant D1 receptors by agonists alters surface expression of the receptors.
In primary cultures of rat cerebellar granule cells, sodium nitroprusside (SNP), a vasodilator that generates nitric oxide (NO), potently inhibited N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA)-evoked 45Ca2+ influx (IC50 = 6.6 microM). This inhibition was time dependent and was complete when SNP was applied 10 min before NMDA stimulation. The effect of SNP was transient and the ability of NMDA to stimulate 45Ca2+ influx was restored after SNP withdrawal. The effect of SNP was selective for the NMDA-sensitive glutamate receptor, because SNP failed to antagonize kainate-stimulated 45Ca2+ influx. The action of SNP was independent of the ability of this agent to generate NO; S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine, an NO-containing compound that was 100 times more potent than SNP in stimulating cGMP accumulation, failed to inhibit NMDA-evoked 45Ca2+ influx. In contrast, K4Fe(CN)6, a compound structurally similar to SNP but devoid of NO, inhibited both 45Ca2+ influx (IC50 = 27 microM) and cGMP accumulation evoked by NMDA; K3Fe(CN)6 was inactive. Thus, in cerebellar granule cells, SNP and K4Fe(CN)6 interfere with the function of NMDA receptors, possibly at the level of the receptor recognition site. The resulting blockade of Ca2+ influx through NMDA receptor channels accounts for the reported ability of these compounds to protect granule cells from NMDA-induced neurotoxicity. This protection is not mediated by an NO-dependent mechanism but depends on the action of the ferrocyanide portion of the SNP molecule.
The concept of excitotoxicity, neuronal death produced by overstimulation of excitatory amino acid receptors, has become a popular way of explaining the pathogenesis of neuronal death in a variety of acute and chronic neurologic diseases. While there is strong evidence supporting the role of excitotoxicity in acute processes such as hypoxia/ischemia and hypoglycemia, the role of excitotoxicity in chronic neurologic disease is not firmly established. To account for the inter- and intraregional variations in pathology of different neurodegenerative disorders, we suggest two modified forms of the excitotoxic hypothesis in which specific populations of neurons become more vulnerable to excitotoxic insult either by (1) possessing abnormal excitatory amino acid receptor subtypes or (2) being afflicted by any disease process that impairs cellular energy metabolism or otherwise decreases neuronal membrane potential. In these ways, excitotoxicity may be a final common pathway of neuronal death in a variety of neurodegenerative diseases.
In the hilar region of the rat hippocampus, large spontaneous excitatory postsynaptic currents (sEPSCs) mediated by non-NMDA glutamate receptors are present in both excitatory spiny mossy cells and inhibitory aspiny hilar interneurons, making these neurons ideal candidates for a comparative study using the tight seal whole-cell recording technique. Although sEPSCs have similar amplitude distributions, the rise and decay times are significantly slower in spiny versus aspiny neurons. Similar kinetic differences are observed in synaptic currents evoked by mossy fiber stimulation. These results demonstrate a physiological difference between the excitatory drive to excitatory and inhibitory neurons in the hilus that certainly contributes to differences in synaptic strength and that may be applicable to other brain regions. Furthermore, since the development or modification of individual spines or groups of spines may affect synaptic strength, these results may be pivotal in establishing a role for spines in modulating synaptic activity.
The cerebral cortex of 36 anaesthetized Wistar rats were exposed to ultraviolet irradiation (UV-I) for 6 min through a 2 x 2 mm left parietal craniotomy. Animals were killed at different times and brains were removed immediately after death. Three consecutive coronal sections were obtained and sampled for gravimetric study. The density of the samples was measured using a continuous gradient of organic solvents. Gravimetric results showed significant differences between brain samples. The irradiated left hemisphere was less dense than the right one, and maximum differences in density were found in the medial coronal section. Grey and white matter oedema in the non-irradiated hemisphere was compared with the irradiated hemisphere. Early and delayed onset of odema was observed in both hemispheres but it was more marked in the irradiated hemisphere. In conclusion, brain oedema induced by ultraviolet irradiation in various animals is also reproducible in rats with all the advantages involved in the use of these experimental animals. Microgravimetric study correlated with topographical analysis using this model may lead to an understanding of some of the dynamic aspects of cerebral oedema.
Studies were undertaken in mice and rats on the neurotoxic effects of methamphetamine on dopaminergic and 5-hydroxytryptaminergic neurones in the brain and the neuroprotective action of chlormethiazole. In initial studies, mice were injected with methamphetamine (5 mg/kg, i.p.) at 2 hr intervals, to a total of 4 times. This procedure produced a 66% loss of striatal dopamine and a 50% loss of tyrosine hydroxylase activity 3 days later. Chlormethiazole (50 mg/kg, i.p.), given 15 min before each dose of methamphetamine, totally prevented the methamphetamine-induced loss of tyrosine hydroxylase activity and partly prevented the loss of dopamine. Phencyclidine (20 mg/kg, i.p.), given in place of chlormethiazole, also prevented the loss of tyrosine hydroxylase. Administration to rats of 4 doses of methamphetamine (15 mg/kg, i.p.) at 3 hr intervals resulted in a 75% loss of striatal dopamine 3 days later and a similar loss of 5-HT and 5-HIAA in cortex and hippocampus. Chlormethiazole (50 mg/kg, i.p.), given 15 min before each injection of methamphetamine, protected against the loss of dopamine and indoleamine content, in the respective regions. Pentobarbital (25 mg/kg, i.p.) also provided substantial protection but diazepam (2.5 mg/kg, i.p.) was without effect. Confirming earlier studies, dizocilpine (1 mg/kg) also provided substantial protection against the methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity. Preliminary data indicated that chlormethiazole was not neuroprotective because of a hypothermic action. These data therefore demonstrate that chlormethiazole is an effective neuroprotective agent against methamphetamine-induced neurotoxicity and extend the evidence for the possible value of this drug in preventing neurodegeneration.
Large injections of biocytin into the lateral ventricle or brain resulted in the labeling of particular neuronal subpopulations in the rat CNS. Localization was accomplished using the avidin-biotin-peroxidase technique. In many cases the staining of neurons was totally complete and resembled that obtained with the Golgi technique. Regions containing labeled cells included the olfactory bulb, cerebral cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, striatum, hypothalamus, superior and inferior colliculi, cerebellar cortex, and dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Only particular cell types were labeled in each of these regions. The results of this study suggest that there is selective uptake and/or retention of biocytin, or a biotinylated metabolite of biocytin, by subpopulations of CNS neurons.
Eleven subtypes of central 5-HT receptor have so far been postulated, four of which have been cloned (5-HT1A, 5-HT1C, 5-HT1D and 5-HT2) and a fifth (the 5-HT3 receptor) purified. The present review discusses the agonists and antagonists which act at these subtypes with respect to their degree of selectivity and in vivo potency. Selective agonists exist for the 5-HT1A, 5-HT1B and 5-HT3 receptors and selective antagonists for the 5-HT2 and 5-HT3 receptors.
Polymorphic arylamine N-acetyltransferase in the liver determines the N-acetylation rate of arylamines, which has been implicated in the effects and toxicity of amine- and hydrazine-containing drugs. Recently we have demonstrated that there are four types of gene for polymorphic N-acetyltransferase and that gene 1 gives rise to high N-acetyltransferase activity, while gene 2, 3, and 4 correspond to low N-acetyltransferase activity. Analysis of four genes revealed that the point mutations in genes 2, 3, and 4 result in a loss of a restriction site: a BamHI site for gene 2, a TaqI site for gene 3, and a KpnI site for gene 4. Therefore all four genes can be discriminated by genomic Southern blot analysis and also by PCR amplification of the respective site followed by digestion with an appropriate endonuclease.
Colour constancy is traditionally interpreted as the stable appearance of the colour of a surface despite changes in the spectral composition of the illumination. When colour constancy has been assessed quantitatively, however, by observers making matches between surfaces illuminated by different sources, its completeness has been found to be poor. An alternative operational approach to colour constancy may be taken which concentrates instead on detecting the underlying chromatic relationship between the parts of a surface under changes in the illuminant. Experimentally the observer's task was to determine whether a change in the appearance of a surface was due to a change in its reflecting properties or to a change in the incident light. Observers viewed computer simulations of a row of three Mondrian patterns of Munsell chips. The centre pattern was a reference pattern illuminated by a simulated, spatially uniform daylight; one of the outer patterns was identical but illuminated by a different daylight; and the other outer pattern was equivalent but not obtainable from the centre pattern by such a change in illuminant. Different patterns and different shifts in daylight were generated in each experimental trial. The task of the observer was to identify which of the outer patterns was the result of an illuminant change. Observers made reliable discriminations of the patterns with displays of durations from several seconds to less than 200 ms, and, for one observer, with displays of 1 ms. By these measures, human observers appear capable of colour constancy that is extremely rapid, and probably preattentive in origin.
Yohimbine, an alpha 2 adrenergic antagonist, facilitates copulatory behaviors in male rats. This facilitation may reflect nonspecific activation of behavior rather than a more selective activation of copulatory behaviors. The present experiments assessed the effects of yohimbine on locomotor behaviors at a dose (2.0 mg/kg) known to facilitate sexual behaviors. Experiment 1 used a computer pattern-recognition system to classify motor behaviors into specific acts and act groups. Male albino rats were tested in three conspecific conditions: estrous female, anestrous female, or no conspecific. Yohimbine decreased locomotor activity in all three conspecific conditions. Experiment 2 examined the effects of yohimbine (2.0 mg/kg) and amphetamine (1.0 mg/kg) on locomotor behavior in a photocell-equipped activity measurement system. Amphetamine increased and yohimbine decreased locomotor activity. Experiment 3 used the computer pattern-recognition system to compare the effects of yohimbine and idazoxan, another alpha 2 adrenergic antagonist, on motor behaviors. Yohimbine and idazoxan both decreased activity but produced different patterns of behavioral change. The facilitatory effects of yohimbine on copulatory behaviors at a dose of 2.0 mg/kg are apparently not mediated by nonspecific activation of behavior.
A low-cost system was developed that allows the assessment of the location and the direction of movements of two individually recognized animals in a social interaction. The program was validated by (i) assessing deliberately induced approach and avoidance movements of artificial objects, (ii) the effects of known differences in social behavior between differently treated rats, and (iii) repeatedly testing social behavior under similar circumstances to assess enhanced social contact due to being familiar with the arena. Movements toward and away from each other of individually housed versus group-housed animals, and of young versus aged animals, were analyzed by the system. The results obtained, demonstrated that in the case of randomly moving artificial objects specific approachers or avoiders could not be identified, whereas isolated and young rats showed more approach behavior than their respective controls. In addition, the algorithm applied for calculating relative approach and avoidance movements elucidated differences between groups that were not noticed by human observers. Social contact behavior of rats was assessed automatically. Habituation to the testing situation in repeated testing increased social contact behavior.
Continuous perfusion of the granule cells in the ventral dentate gyrus with naloxone blocked the long-term potentiation (LTP) induced by high-frequency electrical stimulation of the posterolateral amygdala in freely-moving rats. This treatment also aggravated the stomach ulceration produced by cold restraint. LTP, on the other hand, attenuated the gastric stress pathology. It was suggested that a naloxone-sensitive granule cell gate modulates the impact of environmental stressors.

Extracellular deposition of the beta/A4 amyloid peptide is a characteristic feature of the brain in patients with Alzheimer disease. beta/A4 amyloid is derived from the amyloid precursor protein (APP), an integral membrane protein that exists as three major isoforms (APP695, APP751, and APP770). Secreted forms of APP found in blood plasma and cerebrospinal fluid arise by proteolytic cleavage of APP within the beta/A4 amyloid domain, precluding the possibility of amyloidogenesis for that population of molecules. In the present study, we have demonstrated that treatment of PC12 cells with phorbol ester produces a severalfold increase in secretion of APP695, APP751, and APP770. This increase is augmented by simultaneous treatment with the protein phosphatase inhibitor okadaic acid. These data indicate that protein phosphorylation regulates intra-beta/A4 amyloid cleavage and APP secretion. These and other results suggest that APP molecules can normally follow either of two processing pathways: regulated secretion or proteolytic degradation unassociated with secretion.
Increasing evidence suggests that the postsynaptic density (PSD) plays a critical role in synaptic communication and plasticity. The major PSD protein (mPSDp), a calcium/calmodulin-dependent protein kinase, appears to be central to PSD function. The mPSDp has long been considered identical to the alpha subunit of the soluble calmodulin kinase II (alpha-CKII). However, mPSDp and alpha-CKII do differ in solubility and antigenicity, raising the possibility that the two proteins are distinct. To further define the relationship between the two proteins, we purified the mPSDp to homogeneity from adult rat cerebral cortex and compared the proteins. In contrast to alpha-CKII, the purified mPSDp was insoluble in high concentrations of salt, various detergents, chelators of divalent cations, and the strong denaturant guanidine hydrochloride. The pI value of the mPSDp was 6.2, whereas that of alpha-CKII was 6.7-7.2. The purified mPSDp bound calmodulin in the presence of Ca2+ and was autophosphorylated in a Ca2+/calmodulin-dependent manner. Polyclonal antiserum raised against mPSDp (anti-mPSDp) recognized purified mPSDp or mPSDp in synaptic membrane, indicating immunologic specificity among the synaptic proteins. Anti-mPSDp did not recognize alpha-CKII, whereas anti-alpha-CKII antibodies reacted only weakly with mPSDp, suggesting that the proteins are distinct but structurally similar. Moreover, sequence analysis of protease V8-digested polypeptides revealed that there was at least an 8-amino acid sequence, MLKVPNIS, that is not present in alpha-CKII. Finally, HPLC analysis of V8-digested fragments of mPSDp and alpha-CKII in parallel revealed dissimilar peptide patterns. Thus our observations suggest that mPSDp and alpha-CKII are similar but not identical. The unique physicochemical and structural properties of the mPSDp may provide insights into molecular mechanisms mediating synaptic plasticity.
The inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate receptor (IP3R) associated with plasma membranes of lymphocytes differs in terminal sugar content and binding specificity from the cerebellar receptor, which is localized to endoplasmic reticulum. Lectin column chromatography reveals that 30% of IP3R in the thymus contains sialic acid, reflecting a plasma membrane association, in contrast to 5% of cerebellar IP3R. IP3R in thymus and plasma membrane fractions of Jurkat lymphocytes differs from IP3R of Jurkat microsomes and cerebellum in inositol phosphate specificity. The plasma membrane IP3R has lower affinity for IP3 but higher affinity for inositol 1,3,4,5-tetrakisphosphate, which may reflect a unique regulation of calcium at the plasma membrane by inositol phosphates.
Two cases of Gilles de la Tourette syndrome from India are presented. The symptomatology of Tourette syndrome is the same as that documented in western populations which suggests biological factors in the aetiology of the syndrome.
Neuropsychological testing is a relatively new field in the area of clinical neuroscience. It has proven to be an effective and essential aid in the diagnostic process of brain-injured patients, especially in lesions of the cerebral cortex. More advanced countries have incorporated neuropsychological assessments in their standard neurological examinations of the brain damaged. Clinical neuropsychology is only beginning to be used in Singapore. Research using neuropsychological methods have also shown to be useful in providing a greater understanding of the brain-behaviour relationship in humans. Problems confronting the use of neuropsychological testing in Singapore are identified and the possible solutions discussed.
We have utilized intracellular recording techniques to investigate the cholinoceptivity of rat medial vestibular nucleus (MVN) neurons in a submerged brain slice preparation. Exogenous application of the mixed cholinergic agonists, acetylcholine (ACh) or carbachol (CCh), produced predominantly membrane depolarization, induction of action potential firing, and decreased input resistance. Application of the selective muscarinic receptor agonist muscarine (MUSC), or the selective nicotinic receptor agonists nicotine (NIC) or 1,1-dimethyl-4-phenylpiperazinium (DMPP) also produced membrane depolarizations. The MUSC-induced depolarization was accompanied by decreased conductance, while an increase in conductance appeared to underlie the NIC- and DMPP-induced depolarizations. The muscarinic and nicotinic receptor mediated depolarizations persisted in tetrodotoxin and/or low Ca2+/high Mg2+ containing media, suggesting direct postsynaptic receptor activation. The MUSC-induced depolarization could be reversibly blocked by the selective muscarinic-receptor antagonist, atropine, while the DMPP-induced depolarization could be reversibly suppressed by the selective ganglionic nicotinic-receptor antagonist, mecamylamine. Some neurons exhibited a transient membrane hyperpolarization during the depolarizing response to CCh or MUSC application. This transient inhibition could be reversibly blocked by the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) antagonist, bicuculline, suggesting that the underlying hyperpolarization results indirectly from the endogenous release of GABA acting at GABA receptors. This study confirms the cholinoceptivity of MVN neurons and establishes that individual MVN cells possess muscarinic as well as nicotinic receptors. The data provide support for a prominent role of cholinergic mechanisms in the direct and indirect regulation of the excitability of MVN neurons.


L-Glutamate is an excitatory neurotransmitter at many synapses in the animal, and causes neuronal damage in the mammalian neuron. Glutamate receptors have been classified into at least five types: NMDA-, kainate-, AMPA-, and L-AP4-type ionotropic receptors and metabotropic glutamate receptors. Recently new glutamate agonists have been introduced into the pharmacological study in neuroscience research. They are methoxyphenylkainoids, acromelic acids and 2-(carboxycyclopropyl)glycine (CCG). A methoxyphenylkainoid and acromelic acid A are one of the most potent excitants in the mammalian central neuron. These compounds should provide valuable pharmacological probes for analysis of functions of excitatory amino acids.
The acute effects of systemic ethanol on reticulospinal sympathoexcitatory neurons were examined in vivo in anesthetized, paralyzed rats. Ethanol (0.45 g/kg, i.v.) potentiated the depressant effect of locally applied gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) but attenuated the excitatory effect of L-glutamate. The baroreflex-mediated inhibition of these neurons and sympathetic nerve activity were partially depressed by the agent while aortic nerve activity and its sensitivity to changes in arterial pressure were not altered. These results suggest that systemic ethanol may markedly influence cardiovascular function by interfering in medullary GABAergic and glutamatergic transmissions involved in central control of the cardiovascular system.
Quantitated neurophysiology and topographic brain mapping are reviewed. Certain information on the electrical activity of the brain may be more easily comprehended with the aid of topographic visualization of EEG and evoked potentials. Quantitated neurophysiology promises to make an important contribution to research in several fields of neuroscience, e.g. cognitive processing, psychiatry, dementia, epilepsy, cerebrovascular disorders, auditory and visual electrophysiology, and migraine. Provided that careful attention is paid to the elimination of artefacts, such methods may also be used as supplementary diagnostic tools in the clinic.

Because some evidence suggests that cocaine and GBR12935 bind to different sites, we utilized photoaffinity probes from both classes of compounds to see if they label the same protein. [125I]RTI-82 a cocaine analog, and [125I]DEEP, a GBR analog, labeled protein(s) showing the same molecular weight, a similar pharmacological profile and a similar sensitivity to neuraminidase.
A simple growth algorithm is presented that deals with one feature of dendritic growth, the distance between branches. The fundamental assumption of our growth algorithm is that the lengths of dendritic segments are determined by the branching characteristics of the growing neurite. Realistic-appearing dendritic trees are produced by computer simulations in which it is assumed that: (1) growth of individual neurons occurs only at the tips of each growing neurite; (2) the growing neurite can either branch (as a bifurcation) or continue to elongate; (3) events at any one growing tip do not affect the events at any other growing tip; and (4) the probability of branching is a function only of the distance grown either from the cell body (if branching has not occurred) or from the previous branch point. An analytic solution of a differential equation based on these same assumptions produces a distribution of dendritic segment lengths that accurately fits an experimentally determined distribution of dendritic segment lengths of reconstructed neurons, accounting for about 89% of the sample variance. Our analysis indicates that, immediately following branching, the temporary suppression of further branching during dendritic growth may be an important mechanism for regulating the distance between branches.
The effect of a novel, highly potent and selective kappa-opioid receptor agonist CI-977 upon ischaemic brain damage and brain swelling has been examined in a rat model of focal cerebral ischaemia. Focal ischaemia was produced by the permanent occlusion of the left middle cerebral artery (MCA) during a brief period of halothane anaesthesia. The animals were sacrificed 24 h after MCA occlusion and the amount of ischaemic brain damage and swelling was assessed in coronal sections at 8 predetermined stereotactic planes. Treatment with CI-977 (0.03, 0.3 or 3 mg/kg), initiated 30 min prior to MCA occlusion (and at multiple times thereafter) produced dose-dependent reductions in the volumes of infarction and of brain swelling, with the most marked reductions being noted with CI-977 (0.3 mg/kg) in both infarction (reduced by 38% from controls; P less than 0.02) and swelling (reduced by 31%; P less than 0.002). There was an excellent correlation between the volume of brain swelling and ischaemic damage which was similar with saline-treated and CI-977-treated animals (overall correlation coefficient r = 0.896). These results indicate that CI-977 is effective in reducing infarction in a model of focal cerebral ischaemia, and that the reduction in brain swelling occurs in parallel with the reduction in ischaemic damage.
A comprehensive high-performance liquid chromatographic, radioimmunoassay, and enzymatic degradation scheme has been developed to analyze several intact neuropeptides and the corresponding peptides created by in vivo enzymolysis of precursors to study neuropeptides in human lumbar cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and to test the hypothesis that defects in the metabolism (synthesis, degradation) of neuropeptide precursors, neuropeptides, and metabolites play a role in low back pain. CSF samples were obtained from three different patient groups: controls (C), whose low back pain was relieved without lidocaine; pharmacological responders (PR), whose pain was relieved by lidocaine and who were candidates for surgery; and pharmacological non-responders (PNR), whose pain was not relieved by lidocaine and a mid-thoracic anesthetic, and who were not candidates for surgery. The metabolic activity involved during synthesis and degradation of the peptides was assessed by measuring intact, native neuropeptide immunoreactivity in pre-incubated and post-incubated CSF samples, where samples were incubated at 37 degrees C for 1 h. Pre-incubation radioimmunoassay measurements reflected the content of intact peptides present in lumbar CSF at the time of sampling, and post-incubation measurements assayed the amount of peptide that had remained embedded within its precursors [cryptic methionine enkephalin (ME)] and that had been released by the action of CSF peptidases. Significant differences were found in post-incubation samples for the amount of proenkephalin A [ME, leucine enkephalin (LE)] and tachykinin [substance P (SP)] peptides. For example, significant differences were observed for ME-like immunoreactivity (C versus cryptic), SP-like immunoreactivity (PNR versus PR), and LE-like immunoreactivity (PR versus C). No significant differences were observed among the peptides within the pre-incubation samples.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 250 WORDS)
Release of intracellular Ca2+ by inositol 1,4,5-trisphosphate (InsP3) occurs through specific receptor proteins which are ligand-activated Ca2+ channels. Changes in intracellular Ca2+ regulate many cellular functions. This Ca2+ release is a discontinuous quantal process in which successive increments of InsP3 transiently release precise amounts of Ca2+ (refs 4-6). Possible explanations of quantal Ca2+ release have included rapid degradation of InsP3, reciprocity of Ca2+ release and sequestration, desensitization of InsP3 receptors, or actions of InsP3 on discrete compartments of Ca2+ with variable sensitivity to InsP3 (ref. 4). We successfully reconstituted InsP3-induced Ca2+ flux in vesicles containing only purified InsP3 receptor protein. The reconstituted vesicles retain the regulatory features of the InsP3 receptor, including phosphorylation sites and modulation of Ca2+ release by adenine nucleotides. Using these reconstituted vesicles, we show here that quantal flux of Ca2+ elicited by InsP3 is a fundamental property of its receptor.



The ability of three 5-HT1 receptor agonists, 5-HT (5-hydroxytryptamine), 5-CT (5-carboxyamidotryptamine) and sumatriptan to inhibit the binding of [3H]5-HT, in the presence of cyanopindolol and mesulergine, from cerebral cortical and/or caudate membranes in seven species (dog, guinea-pig, rabbit, pig, human, hamster and calf) has been investigated. Under the experimental conditions used, 5-CT and sumatriptan consistently yielded displacement curves best fit to a two-site model whereas 5-HT always gave a monophasic displacement curve. The pIC50 values obtained with 5-HT displacement gave a mean of 8.1 +/- 0.1 (mean +/- S.E.M.). In contrast the biphasic displacement curves for 5-CT and sumatriptan yielded high and low affinity pIC50 values of 8.3 +/- 0.1, 5.5 +/- 0.1 and 7.6 +/- 0.1, 5.0 +/- 0.1, respectively. These data indicate that under these experimental conditions the high affinity component labelled by [3H]5-HT is the same receptor subtype, previously denoted the 5-HT1D receptor, in all seven species.
Monoclonal antibodies against two alpha-bungarotoxin-binding subunits (alpha 7 and alpha 8) of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors (nAChRs) were used as immunohistochemical probes to map their distribution in the chick diencephalon and mesencephalon. The distribution of the alpha 7 and alpha 8 nAChR subunits was compared to the distribution of immunoreactivity produced by a monoclonal antibody against the beta 2 structural subunit of the nAChRs. Structures that contained high numbers of alpha 7-like immunoreactive (LI) somata included the intergeniculate leaflet, nucleus intercalatus thalami, nucleus ovoidalis, organum paraventricularis, nucleus rotundus, isthmic nuclei, nucleus trochlearis, oculomotor complex, nucleus interstitio-pretecto-subpretectalis, stratum griseum centrale of the optic tectum, and nucleus semilunaris. Neuropil staining for alpha 7-LI was intense in the nucleus dorsomedialis hypothalami, nucleus geniculatus lateralis ventralis, griseum tecti, isthmic nuclei, nucleus lentiformis mesencephali, nucleus of the basal optic root, and stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale of the tectum. High numbers of alpha 8-LI somata were found in the stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale of the tectum and the nucleus interstitio-pretecto-subpretectalis, and intense neuropil staining for alpha 8-LI was found in the dorsal thalamus, nucleus geniculatus lateralis ventralis, lateral hypothalamus, griseum et fibrosum superficiale of the tectum. High numbers of beta 2-LI somata were found only in the nucleus spiriformis lateralis, whereas neuropil staining for beta 2-LI was intense in the nucleus geniculatus lateralis ventralis, nucleus suprachiasmaticus, nucleus lateralis anterior, nucleus habenularis lateralis, area pretectalis, griseum tecti, nucleus lentiformis mesencephalis, nucleus externus, and nucleus interpeduncularis, and in the stratum griseum centrale, stratum griseum et fibrosum superficiale, and stratum opticum of the tectum. These results indicate that there are major disparities in the localization of the alpha-bungarotoxin-binding alpha 7 and alpha 8 nAChR subunits and the beta 2 structural nAChR subunit in the chick diencephalon and mesencephalon. These nAChR subunits appear, however, to coexist in several regions of the chick brain.

The suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN) of the hypothalamus comprise the primary pacemaker responsible for generation of circadian rhythms in mammals. Light stimuli that synchronize this circadian clock induce expression of the c-fos gene in rodent SCN, which suggests a possible role for Fos in circadian entrainment. Appropriate light stimuli also induce the expression of jun-B messenger RNA in the SCN of golden hamsters but only slightly elevate c-jun messenger RNA levels. In addition, light increases the amount of a protein complex in the SCN that binds specifically to sites on DNA known to mediate regulation by the AP-1 transcription factor. The photic regulation of both jun-B messenger RNA expression and AP-1 binding activity is dependent on circadian phase: only light stimuli that shift behavioral rhythms induce jun-B and AP-1 expression. Thus, light and the circadian pacemaker interact to regulate a specific set of immediate-early genes in the SCN that may participate in entrainment of the circadian clock.
In a membrane preparation of cultured bovine adrenal chromaffin cells, [3H]inositol hexakisphosphate ([3H]InsP6) was shown to bind specifically with a Kd of 90 nM and a Bmax of 700 fmol/mg protein. The Hill coefficient was not significantly different from unity. The association of [3H]InsP6 was slow, with equilibrium binding being reached within 10 min. The dissociation of [3H]InsP6 showed monophasic kinetics. In [3H]InsP6 competition binding experiments, we found that reduction in the number of phosphorylated sites in inositol resulted in a gradual loss of binding potency. In intact bovine adrenal chromaffin cells, InsP6 elicited a concentration-dependent facilitation of 45C2+ influx along with the release of the catecholamines, epinephrine and norepinephrine. The latter responses were slower and longer-lasting than responses to depolarizing stimuli, such as nicotine and high K+. The catecholamine release required the presence of extracellular Ca2+. In good agreement with the binding studies, lower inositol phosphates displayed reduced secretagogue potency. In conclusion, in bovine adrenal chromaffin cells, InsP6 appeared to bind to specific sites and elicited Ca2+ influx and catecholamine release.
Western, northern and DNA sequence analyses were used to determine if the retinal protein, visinin, is defective in the chicken retinal degeneration mutant, rd. A 22kDa band, corresponding to purified visinin, was stained with equal intensity on Western blots of +/+, +/rd and rd/rd retinal protein probed with a visinin polyclonal antibody. Hybridization of a northern blot of +/+, +/rd and rd/rd poly(A)+ RNA with a random-primer labelled visinin cDNA probe showed a single, equally labelled 1-Kbp band in each of the samples. Finally, no differences were found between the nucleic acid sequences of the 579 bp cDNAs encoding +/+ and rd/rd visinin. We did, however, find one significant difference between our visinin DNA sequence and the previously published chick visinin DNA sequence. We consistently observed a C at position 118 rather than the published T which changes the amino acid residue at position 40 from serine to proline. Based on the results of this study, we conclude that visinin is not defective in the rd chick model of hereditary retinal degeneration.
A 5 kilobase deletion in mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) has been reported to be responsible for the specific complex I deficiency in the substantia nigra (SN) of the Parkinson's disease (PD) brain. We have studied mitochondrial respiratory chain function in the SN from control and PD subjects, and analysed mtDNA, extracted from the same tissues, by Southern blot and the polymerase chain reaction (PCR). Quantitation of the levels of the deletion indicate that it does not contribute to the pathogenesis of PD nor to a complex I deficiency but seems likely to be an age-related observation.
The effects of selective D-1 and D-2 antagonists on sensorimotor behavior were studied in rats treated with 6-OHDA or its vehicle solution on either postnatal day 3, 20, or 35. Blockade of either D-1 or D-2 receptors induced akinesia and somatosensory neglect in adults treated with vehicle at any of the three ages. The behavioral effects of antagonists on rats with 6-OHDA-induced dopamine depletions varied as a function of the age at the time of damage. Adults depleted of DA on Day 35 exhibited behavioral deficits after either D-1 or D-2 blockade and at doses that were ineffective in controls. Adults depleted of DA on Day 20 exhibited deficits after either D-1 or D-2 blockade but were not any more sensitive than were controls. In contrast, adults depleted of DA on Day 3 were insensitive to the behavioral effects of D-1 or D-2 blockers but were impaired after the dual administration of both antagonists. Moreover, simultaneous administration of subthreshold doses of D-1 and D-2 antagonists produced behavioral deficits in controls and rats depleted on Day 3. These data demonstrate that activity within residual DA neurons remains critical for the expression of sensorimotor behavior in rats depleted of DA during development. However, the specific contribution of D-1 and D-2 receptors to these behaviors depends upon the animals' age at the time of depletion.


Gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) and two of its analogs ([D-Lys6]GnRH and des-Gly10-[D-Trp6]-GnRH) were reacted with sulfonated N-hydroxysuccinimide esters of biotin that have been reported to react specifically with primary amino groups. Fractionation by reversed-phase high performance liquid chromatography demonstrated the occurrence of multiple biotinylated derivatives for each reacted peptide. These results were unexpected since GnRH and des-Gly10-[D-Trp6]GnRH contained no reactive amino groups and [D-Lys6]GnRH had only one. Reaction of the biotinylated derivatives with hydroxylamine indicated that significant O-biotinylation had occurred. Mass spectrometric analyses established the stoichiometry of biotinylation and confirmed that substantial O-biotinylation of residue Ser4, and to a minor extent Tyr5, of GnRH and the two analogs had occurred. In contrast, the biotinylation of selected peptides unrelated to GnRH under identical reaction conditions indicated no significant evidence of O-acylation of seryl residues. Strikingly, biotinylation of GnRH under denaturing conditions largely abolished O-acylation, indicating that the observed O-biotinylation was dependent on peptide conformation. All the O-biotinylated derivatives displayed significantly reduced bioactivity. Taken together, these results give strong evidence that the Ser4 hydroxyl of GnRH has a significantly elevated intrinsic reactivity, which raises new questions concerning its putative role in the conformation and mode of action of the hormone. These results also demonstrate for the first time that the N-hydroxysuccinimide-biotin esters are capable of significant O-acylation and may be generally useful reagents for detecting highly reactive hydroxyamino acid residues.
The native molecular weight of the basic helix-loop-helix (bHLH) proteins myogenin, MyoD, and E12 was calculated from their mobilities on sucrose gradients and molecular sieve chromatography. The muscle bHLH proteins associate to form a variety of higher order complexes, most of which are larger than dimers. Homodimers bind to DNA sequences such as the MEF-1 site in the creatine kinase enhancer whereas homotetramers and larger forms do not recognize this DNA sequence. The ubiquitous bHLH protein E12 forms monomers or homodimers with little evidence for higher order complexes. Mixtures of myogenin and E12 show some heterodimeric structures, but most of the myogenin remains in large complexes. This result using purified proteins is also obtained in nuclear extracts from differentiated myotubes, in which most of the myogenin is present in large complexes that do not bind to the creatine kinase enhancer. A fusion protein containing only the myogenin HLH region forms large homomeric complexes. A model is presented in which each helix associates with a different subunit to form chains or ring structures to explain these observations. The partition of myogenin in nuclear extracts into dimers that recognize known DNA sequences and higher order complexes that do not raises important new issues concerning the regulation of skeletal muscle bHLH protein activity during myogenesis.
In a previous study, we reported marked depletion of neurotensin-immunoreactivity (NT-IR) within selected regions of the amygdala of patients with Alzheimer's disease. The significance of these observations was partly obscured largely because we lacked a thorough understanding of the innervation pattern of neurotensin in the normal human amygdala. Accordingly, in the present study, we used a polyclonal antibody against neurotensin to characterize the distribution and morphology of neurotensin-immunoreactive neuronal elements within the human amygdaloid complex. NT-IR occurred in a topographic manner that respected the cytoarchitectural boundaries of the amygdaloid subregions as defined by Nissl staining and acetylcholinesterase histochemistry. Most NT-IR in the amygdala was contained within beaded fibers and dot-like puncta. Within the subnuclei of the amygdala, immunoreactive neuritic elements were most dense within the central nucleus followed by the medial nucleus and intercalated nuclei. The anterior amygdaloid area, basal complex, paralaminar nucleus, cortical nucleus, cortical-amygdaloid transition area, and amygdalohippocampal area contained moderate densities of immunoreactivity. The accessory basal and lateral nuclei exhibited scant NT-IR. Immunoreactive neurons were found only within the anterior amygdaloid area and the central, medial, intercalated, and lateral capsular nuclei. The distribution of NT-immunoreactive processes and cell bodies within selected regions of the amygdala provides an anatomical substrate that may explain, in part, the neuromodulatory actions of neurotensin upon autonomic, endocrine, and memory systems.
The gene at the Duchenne/Becker muscular dystrophy locus encodes dystrophin, a member of a protein superfamily that links the actin cytoskeleton to transmembrane plasmalemmal proteins. In mature skeletal myocytes, the absence of dystrophin is associated with decreased membrane stability, altered kinetics of several calcium channels, and increased intracellular calcium concentration. In the central nervous system, dystrophin is restricted to specific neuronal populations that show heightened susceptibility to excitotoxic damage and is localized in proximal dendrites and the neuronal somata. We report that CA1 pyramidal neurons in a hippocampal slice preparation from a dystrophin-deficient mouse genetic model of Duchenne muscular dystrophy (the mdx mouse) exhibit significant increased susceptibility to hypoxia-induced damage to synaptic transmission. This selective vulnerability was substantially ameliorated by pretreatment with diphenylhydantoin, an anticonvulsant that blocks both sodium-dependent action potentials and low-threshold transient calcium conductances. These findings suggest that dystrophin deficiency could predispose susceptible neuronal populations to cumulative hypoxic insults that may contribute to the development of cognitive deficits in Duchenne/Becker muscular dystrophy patients and that the effects of such periods of hypoxia may be pharmacologically remediable.
The metabolic fate of the Alzheimer beta/A4 amyloid precursor protein (APP) includes intraamyloid proteolysis that leads to the production of secreted N-terminal and cell-associated C-terminal fragments. The cellular sites at which this processing occurs are not known. We have examined the route of APP processing in metabolically labeled PC12 cells. The lysosomotropic drug chloroquine exerted inhibitory effects on the degradation of mature APP holoprotein. In addition, recovery of a C-terminal fragment resulting from normal intraamyloid cleavage was significantly increased in the presence of chloroquine, suggesting that further degradation of the C-terminal fragment was inhibited. Chloroquine had virtually no effect on APP maturation (N- and O-glycosylation and tyrosine sulfation) or secretion. Treatment with either monensin (which inhibits distal Golgi function) or brefeldin A (which causes resorption of the Golgi into the endoplasmic reticulum and fusion of the trans-Golgi network with the endosomal system) prevented normal APP maturation and abolished APP secretion and recovery of C-terminal fragments, indicating that intact Golgi function is necessary for APP maturation and processing. Our results suggest that a substantial proportion of APP is degraded in an intracellular acidic compartment but that the coupled APP cleavage/secretion event occurs in a chloroquine-insensitive compartment. The observations are consistent with the existence of multiple cellular routes for the trafficking and proteolysis of APP.
Peripheral axotomy initiates changes in central primary afferent receiving areas of the dorsal horn of the spinal cord. Most of the presently known changes are degenerative in nature and consist of such things as cell and axon death or declines in peptides or enzymes. Other changes are regenerative in nature and because most of these occur in the superficial dorsal horn, which is where fine primary afferents end, we wished to ask whether peripheral axotomy results in a change in the distribution in these fine afferents. Using recently available markers for fine primary afferent axons and small dorsal root ganglion cells, we demonstrate that peripheral axotomy results in a considerable increase in the immunolabeled area for these compounds. Our interpretation is that there may be an extension of fine primary afferent fibers into lamina III and possibly lamina IV following peripheral axotomy. If further work bears out this conclusion, this would provide a possible explanation for the chronic pain states that sometimes follow peripheral nerve damage.
The antipsychotic effects of neuroleptic drugs are believed to be achieved by chronic blockade of dopaminergic transmission in the limbic system. Nevertheless, the effects of chronic (3-12 months) haloperidol administration on the dopaminergic transmission in the nucleus accumbens of rodents remains poorly understood. Studies of spontaneous locomotor activity (SLA), a behavioral measure related to limbic dopamine transmission, and of dopamine D2 receptor density in the nucleus accumbens after chronic oral haloperidol treatment have yielded conflicting results. We evaluated these indices after 8 months of parenteral administration of haloperidol decanoate. We report here that, after 8 months of parenteral treatment, SLA stays significantly decreased and D2 receptors in the nucleus accumbens exhibit the same up-regulation as in the striatum (about 50%). These results fail to support the notion of a different pattern of D2 receptor adaptation to neuroleptic treatment between the nucleus accumbens and the striatum. In contrast, dopamine D1 receptors were found to be unaffected in the nucleus accumbens but decreased in the striatum by 22% after 8 months of treatment. This observation could be relevant to the pathogenesis of tardive dyskinesia.
Mouse sensory dorsal-root ganglion (DRG) neurons chronically exposed to 1 microM D-Ala2-D-Leu5-enkephalin (DADLE) for greater than 1 week in culture become tolerant to opioid inhibitory effects, i.e. shortening of the duration of the calcium-dependent component of the action potential (APD). Acute application of higher concentrations of DADLE (ca. 10 microM) to these treated neurons not only fails to shorten the APD but, instead, generally elicits excitatory effects, i.e. prolongation of the APD. The present study shows that chronic DADLE- or morphine-treated DRG neurons also become supersensitive to the excitatory effects of opioids. Whereas nM concentrations of dynorphin(1-13) are generally required to prolong the APD of naive DRG neurons, fM levels become effective after chronic opioid treatment. Whereas 1-30 nM naloxone or diprenorphine do not alter the APD of naive DRG neurons, both opioid antagonists unexpectedly prolong the APD of most of the treated cells. Similar supersensitivity to the excitatory effects of opioid agonists and antagonists was previously observed after acute treatment of naive DRG neurons with GM1 ganglioside. Our results suggest that both chronic opioid and acute GM1 treatments of DRG neurons greatly enhance the efficacy of opioid excitatory receptor functions so that even the extremely weak agonist properties of naloxone and diprenorphine become effective in prolonging the APD of these treated cells when tested at low concentrations, whereas their antagonist properties at inhibitory opioid receptors do not appear to be altered. Furthermore, whereas cholera toxin-B subunit (CTX-B; 1-10 nM) blocks opioid-induced APD prolongation in naive DRG neurons (presumably by interfering with endogenous GM1 modulation of excitatory opioid receptors functions), even much higher concentrations of CTX-B were ineffective in chronic opioid-treated as well as acute GM1-elevated neurons. These and related data suggest that opioid excitatory supersensitivity in chronic opioid-treated DRG neurons may be due to a cyclic AMP-dependent increase in GM1 ganglioside levels. Our results may clarify mechanisms of opioid dependence and the paradoxical supersensitivity to naloxone which triggers withdrawal symptoms after opiate addiction.

Correlational analysis of normalized regional cerebral metabolic data obtained by positron emission tomography, in healthy subjects in the 'resting' state (eyes covered, ears plugged) using [18F]2-fluoro-2-deoxy-D-glucose, demonstrated gender differences in patterns of functional associations. Fifteen women and 18 men (less than 40 yr) were scanned with a Scanditronix PC1024-7B tomograph. The brain was divided into 65 regions of interest (ROIs). There were no differences between men and women in global or regional metabolic rates, or in metabolic right-left asymmetries. Although the total number of significant correlations did not differ between men and women, patterns differed: female correlations rF were most positive than male correlations rM more often than rM greater than rF; and most rF greater than rM cases involved left frontal and sensorimotor ROIs, whereas most rM greater than rF cases involved right sensorimotor and occipital ROIs. The findings demonstrate gender differences in the pattern of functional neocortical interactions at the 'resting' state.
Previous in vitro studies have suggested that amyloid precursor protein (APP) could be involved in cell surface adhesion, neuritic growth and survival of hippocampal neurons. In the present study, involvement of APP in aberrant sprouting in Alzheimer's disease (AD) was studied by comparing immunolabeling patterns of anti-APP and anti-growth-associated protein 43 (anti-GAP43). Confocal laser imaging of frontal cortex sections double-immunolabeled for APP and GAP43 showed an increase, in AD, of presynaptic boutons immunostained with anti-GAP43 that contained anti-APP immunoreactivity. The neuritic plaques in AD cases presented intense anti-GAP43 immunoreactive abnormal neurites colocalized with anti-APP. Three-dimensional reconstruction of the plaques showed that anti-APP was colocalized with anti-GAP43 in 57.5% of the aberrant sprouting neurites. We conclude that co-expression of APP with GAP43 in the plaque might be involved in the aberrant sprouting response observed in AD.
The distribution of retrogradely and transneuronally labeled neurons was studied in CNS of rats 4 days after injections of the Bartha strain of pseudorabies virus (PRV) into the medial gastrocnemius (MG) muscle. Tissue sections were processed for immunohistochemical detection of PRV. Retrogradely labeled cells were identified in the ipsilateral MG motor column in the caudal L4 and the L5 spinal segments. In order to evaluate the efficacy of PRV retrograde cell body labeling, the number of PRV retrogradely labeled neurons in the MG motor column was compared to the number labeled with two conventional retrograde cell body markers--Fluoro-Gold and cholera toxin-HRP. A ratio of 1:3 representing medium-sized (less than 30 microns) versus large neurons (greater than 30 microns) was found in the Fluoro-Gold dye experiments; a 1:2 ratio was seen in the PRV experiments. In contrast, when cholera toxin-HRP was used as a retrograde marker, mainly large neurons were labeled; the medium-to-large cell body ratio was 1:10 suggesting cholera toxin-HRP may have a greater affinity for the terminals of alpha-motoneurons as opposed to gamma-motoneurons. Transneuronally labeled cells were identified in the L1-L6 spinal gray matter, intermediolateral cell column (T11-L2), lateral spinal nucleus and medial part of lamina VII in C4 and C5 spinal segments, brainstem (caudal raphe nuclei, rostral ventrolateral medulla, A5 cell group, paralemniscal nucleus, locus coeruleus, subcoeruleus nucleus, red nucleus) and paraventricular hypothalamic nucleus. In the L5 spinal cord, transneuronally labeled neurons were seen in the ipsilateral spinal laminae I and II and bilaterally in spinal laminae IV-VIII, and X. Similar results were obtained in rats that had chronic unilateral L3-L6 dorsal rhizotomies indicating most of the labeling was due to retrograde transneuronal cell body labeling. In order to determine whether PRV was transported into the spinal cord by the dorsal root axons, the ipsilateral dorsal root ganglia (DRGs) were examined for PRV immunoreactivity; none was found. However, using the polymerase chain reaction, viral DNA was shown to be present in the ipsilateral DRGs indicating that some of spinal cord cell body labeling may have resulted from anterograde transneuronal labeling, as well.
Experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE) is an inflammatory condition of the central nervous system with similarities to multiple sclerosis. In both diseases, circulating leukocytes penetrate the blood-brain barrier and damage myelin, resulting in impaired nerve conduction and paralysis. We sought to identify the adhesion receptors that mediate the attachment of circulating leukocytes to inflamed brain endothelium in EAE, because this interaction is the first step in leukocyte entry into the central nervous system. Using an in vitro adhesion assay on tissue sections, we found that lymphocytes and monocytes bound selectively to inflamed EAE brain vessels. Binding was inhibited by antibodies against the integrin molecule alpha 4 beta 1, but not by antibodies against numerous other adhesion receptors. When tested in vivo, anti-alpha 4 integrin effectively prevented the accumulation of leukocytes in the central nervous system and the development of EAE. Thus, therapies designed to interfere with alpha 4 beta 1 integrin may be useful in treating inflammatory diseases of the central nervous system, such as multiple sclerosis.
On the basis of their in vivo activity and binding affinity, nalorphine and (-)SKF 10,047 were classified as mixed agonist/antagonist compounds. However, in isolated tissue preparations without a selective antagonist to block their agonist effect, the characterization of these compounds and the determination of their antagonist activity were very difficult. Nor-binaltorphimine, a selective kappa-opioid receptor antagonist, was used in the longitudinal muscle preparations of the guinea pig ileum to block the kappa-agonist activity of nalorphine and (-)SKF 10,047. In the absence of their kappa-agonist activity, we were able to determine the mu-antagonist activity using the mu-selective agonist DAMGO ([D-Ala2,N-Me-Phe4,Gly-ol5]enkephalin). The pA2 values for nalorphine and (-)SKF 10,047 were 7.50 and 7.69, respectively.
Excitatory amino acids, such as N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) and kainate, promote neuritogenesis and viability in primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells. In view of the recent demonstration that excitatory amino acids activate the synthesis of nitric oxide, the present study examined a potential role of nitric oxide in mediating the neurotrophic effects of excitatory amino acids. NMDA enhanced the viability of 8-day-old cerebellar granule cell cultures in a concentration-dependent fashion, whereas kainate showed a concentration-dependent biphasic effect. A specific inhibitor of nitric oxide synthase, NG-nitroarginine (0.5 mM), did not antagonize the neurotrophic effects of NMDA (0.5 mM) or kainate (0.05 mM). The concentration of NG-nitroarginine was sufficient to inhibit NMDA or kainate stimulated nitric oxide synthesis and was stable in the culture media throughout the 8-day culture period. Using a specific chemiluminescence detection method, endogenous nitric oxide was directly measured in the headspace gas phase of homogenized cultured cerebellar granule cells, and was not detected when homogenates were incubated with NG-nitroarginine (0.5 mM). Furthermore, addition of a nitric oxide precursor, S-nitroso-N-acetylpenicillamine (1-200 microM), was not neurotrophic, but rather, was neurotoxic in granule cells. These findings indicate that nitric oxide is not a neurotrophic factor in primary cultures of cerebellar granule cells.
Previous research has shown that the dual cyclo-oxygenase and 5-lipoxygenase inhibitor, BW755c suppresses experimental autoimmune encephalomyelitis (EAE). In the present study, the effects of BW755c on both actively and passively induced EAE in the Lewis rat were examined, and also its effect on the accumulation of radiolabeled spleen cells in response to direct injection of tumor necrosis factor into the spinal cord. It was found that BW755c suppressed actively induced EAE but not passively induced EAE nor cytokine-induced cell accumulation in the central nervous system. It is concluded that arachidonic acid metabolites may be important in the induction phase of EAE, but do not appear to be crucial to the effector phase of EAE.
Sleep disordered breathing (SDB) may be associated with cognitive dysfunction in non-demented elderly people. A random sample of 96 retirement village residents were given both neuropsychological assessment and overnight sleep monitoring with a portable microprocessor based system (Vitalog PMS-8). Respiratory disturbance index (RDI) was calculated as the number of apnoeas and hypopnoeas per hour of sleep. RDI was not associated with 'memory', 'verbal', and 'motor' factors identified from the analysis of cognitive tests, but was associated with the 'cerebral efficiency' factor (R2 = 0.21, p less than 0.0001). Seventy-three subjects had repeat neuropsychological tests, median time to follow-up being 17 months. Baseline RDI did not predict changes in scores on the two factors identified from the second analysis. We conclude that mild to moderate disturbance of breathing during sleep is not associated with cognitive dysfunction in non-demented subjects.
Chick embryos were chronically exposed to either ethanol (approximately 30 mg/d) or saline, from E4-E13. Homogenate extract was prepared from forebrain tissue from E16 experimental and control embryos and was applied to cultured dorsal root ganglia (DRG). Neurotrophic activity in the forebrain extract (FBX) was significantly reduced in the ethanol-treated embryos compared to saline controls, both in terms of influences on neuronal survival and process elaboration. In addition, E8-9 DRGs from embryos exposed to ethanol from E4 were less viable in the presence of NGF than were those from controls. DRG survival in the presence of E16 FBX (from untreated embryos) was not different following ethanol treatment, but neurite production was significantly reduced. These results suggest that neurotrophic factor content and responsiveness may be appreciably altered following chronic prenatal ethanol exposure. Such alteration could underlie certain CNS anomalies seen in the fetal alcohol syndrome.
Results of previous studies on the effects of ethanol consumption for a single fixed period on the properties of D2 dopamine receptors appear contradictory and inconclusive. In this study, we have examined the time course of the effects of dietary ethanol on the properties of striatal D2 dopamine receptor. Ethanol intake led to a significant decrease in the maximum number (Bmax) after 1 (35% of control) and 2 weeks (48% of control), but not after 3 (93% of control) or 4 weeks (97% of control) of treatment. However, there was a significant increase in Bmax after 6 (118% of control) and 10 weeks (123% of control) of ethanol consumption. The affinity (Kd) of the receptor, however, remained unaltered in all cases. In conclusion, these data show that the duration of ethanol exposure may be an important determinant regulating D2-dopamine receptor density.
Dopamine D2 receptors in nucleus accumbens, olfactory tubercle and caudate nucleus of Sardinian ethanol-preferring (SP), and non-preferring (SNP) rats were compared by using [3H]YM-09151-2 binding. SP rats exhibited, in each area, lower density of D2 receptors than SNP and unselected Wistar (UW) rats. The results suggest that reduction in D2 receptors in SP rats may be relevant to their innate preference for alcohol.
The lungs are an important site for the clearance of norepinephrine from the circulation, but the mechanism of removal and its importance for clearance of epinephrine require clarification. In the present study, 3H-labeled epinephrine and norepinephrine were infused intravenously into anesthetized dogs, and blood samples were taken from the pulmonary artery and aorta to compare pulmonary extractions of both catecholamines before and after administration of the neuronal uptake blocking drug, desipramine. Circulating [3H]norepinephrine and [3H]-epinephrine were both extracted by the lungs, but fractional extraction of [3H]epinephrine (8.1 +/- 1.1%) was half that of [3H]norepinephrine (16.9 +/- 1.9%). Pulmonary extractions of both catecholamines were completely blocked by desipramine. Desipramine-sensitive removal accounted for a tenth of the total body extraction of [3H]epinephrine and a third that of [3H]norepinephrine. Pulmonary removal of [3H]epinephrine was 14% that of the total body clearance, whereas pulmonary removal of [3H]norepinephrine was 25% that of the total body clearance. The study showed the following: removal of catecholamines by the canine lung in vivo is by desipramine-sensitive uptake; uptake is half as efficient for epinephrine as norepinephrine: and, pulmonary removal contributes importantly to the desipramine-sensitive component of total body catecholamine clearance.
Satellite cell frequency was assessed in control and stretched anterior latissimus dorsi (ALD) muscles of adult quail. A weight equal to 10% of body mass was attached to one wing for time intervals ranging from 1-30 days. The contralateral ALD served as the intra-animal control. Satellite cell frequency, expressed as a percentage of total myofiber nuclei within the basal lamina, was determined in eight control and stretched ALD muscles, that had been weighted for 5, 7, or 10 days. Satellite cell frequency was determined in 584 control and 473 stretched fibers and was not different in the control or stretched ALD muscles (15.6 +/- 2.3%, 16.7 +/- 6.1%, respectively). The number of myofiber nuclei (myonuclei and satellite cell nuclei) was examined in whole fiber segments from control and stretched ALD muscles of 27 adult quail. Nuclear frequency was determined in 500 control and 1,200 stretched fiber segments. Fiber volume was calculated from fiber length and diameter measurements. Nuclear number normalized to 10,000 microns 3 fiber volume was correlated to fiber cross-sectional area (P less than 0.0001). Fibers with cross-sectional areas less than 500 microns 2 had a greater nuclear to fiber volume ratio compared to fibers with areas greater than 500 microns 2. The nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio was not constant in smaller fibers. Nuclear density decreased as fiber cross-sectional area increased up to 500 microns 2. Fibers with cross-sectional areas greater than 500 microns 2 demonstrated a constant nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio. The results demonstrate that absolute nuclear number increased to maintain a constant nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio in the stretched hypertrophied fibers. Daughter cells originating from activated satellite cells may have contributed to the myonuclear population to maintain a constant nuclear-to-cytoplasmic ratio in the hypertrophied fibers of the adult quail.
Neuropathologic and neuroimaging studies reveal atrophy or dystrophy of the hippocampal region and enlarged ventricles indicative of tissue loss in many patients with schizophrenia. It is now widely recognized that brain damage can provoke regenerative collateral sprouting of axons, synaptic proliferation, and reorganization, even in the adult mammalian brain. The functional consequences of these plastic regenerative changes are largely unknown; they could be adaptive or cause further impairment. There is evidence of lesion-provoked aberrant synaptic regeneration in epilepsy and Alzheimer's disease. Data suggest that anomalous reinnervation could also have a significant role in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. Histologic methods to test this hypothesis are in progress.
The early component of the postural responses which accompany the limb flexion during unilateral stimulation of the motor cortex in the cat is not of reflex origin, but results from a central command. These postural adjustments are characterized by a decreased force under the limb diagonally opposite to the moving one and an increased force under the other two. Since the lateral vestibular nucleus (LVN) exerts an excitatory influence on ipsilateral limb extensor motoneurons, experiments were performed in cats to establish whether the cortical-induced postural changes were mediated through the LVN. This structure is tonically inhibited by GABAergic synapses originating from Purkinje cells of the cerebellar vermis, so that local microinjection into the LVN of GABA agonists or antagonists should either decrease or increase the spontaneous discharge of their neurons. Unilateral microinjection of 0.25 microliters of the GABA-A agonist muscimol or the GABA-B agonist baclofen (at 2-4 micrograms/microliters saline) into the LVN produced a short-lasting episode of ipsilateral postural hypotonia and contralateral hypertonia, during which the cats were unable to stand on the measurement platform. When, shortly after, some recovery of the postural activity appeared, no changes in threshold, latency or amplitude of the cortical-induced flexion movement were observed; however, the early component of the postural responses decreased in the other three limbs. Moreover, the slope of the response curve of the moving limb remained unmodified, while that of the early component of the postural responses, which involved the remaining limbs, decreased following stimulation of the motor cortex at different stimulus intensities. These effects started a few min after the injection and lasted for about 2-3 h. The effects described above were dose-dependent. Moreover, histological controls indicated that the structure responsible for these postural changes corresponded to the middle part of the LVN. The specificity of the results was shown by the fact that unilateral microinjection of 0.25 microliters of the GABA-A antagonist bicuculline or the GABA-B antagonist phaclofen (at 5-8 micrograms/microliter saline) into the LVN produced a postural asymmetry opposite in sign to that elicited in the same experiments by the corresponding agonists. These injections did not modify the amplitude of the cortical-induced limb flexion, but rather enhanced the amplitude of the early component of the postural responses in the other three limbs.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Neuroscience nurses are most likely to encounter multiple sclerosis (MS) patients in outpatient clinic situations or during their usually brief admissions to acute care facilities. In the early stages of their disease, most people with MS are able to live normal lives in their own homes. Then disabilities (weakness, loss of control of limbs and of bowel and bladder function, sensory and visual impairment) become permanent, the possibility of remaining in the community is usually made feasible only by the presence of a family caregiver in the home. Although community care of persons with MS is socially and economically desirable, many literature sources discuss the &quot;burden&quot; of family caregiving. This study examined the impact of caregiving on 61 MS family caregivers in British Columbia. The report of the study will include information regarding the caregiver's physical and mental health, health behaviours, participation in and satisfaction with preferred activities, and financial resources. In spite of marked health deficits in all domains, most caregivers reported their desire to remain in the role. Study findings will be used to describe how health professionals such as neuroscience nurses can support caregivers even with limited contact. Areas in which specific improvements in community resources and public policy are needed will also be discussed. Objectives: 1. Describe deficits in well-being reported by this group of caregivers. 2. Describe nursing interventions that will support the family member in the caregiving role. 3. Identify potential changes in public policy and adjunctive services that could facilitate the caregiver's work.
Amyloidosis describes a group of diseases characterized by deposition of abnormal fibrous proteins in body organs and soft tissues. This disease complex is classified under the broad headings primary and secondary based on whether or not chronic infections or inflammatory conditions coexist. In addition, localized versus systemic involvement and heredofamilial considerations are used to subclassify amyloidosis. Many primary and secondary amyloid diseases involve the central, peripheral and autonomic nervous systems. This paper will focus on the latest information concerning systemic and localized forms of amyloidosis involving the nervous system with special emphasis on Alzheimer's disease and amyloidosis secondary to spinal cord injury. The roles of the nurse related to diagnosis, patient care, patient and family education and identification of support systems in the community will be covered. Patient care will be discussed from the standpoint of process and outcome criteria for specific nursing diagnoses. Objectives: 1. Describe the pathophysiological processes of amyloidosis. 2. Relate four aspects of nursing care to nursing diagnoses. 3. List four critical elements to include in patient/family education.
To examine directly in the brain the status of the alpha 2-adrenoceptor in major depression, the specific binding of the agonists [3H]clonidine and [3H]UK 14304 was quantitated in various brain regions of suicide victims with a retrospective diagnosis of depression or other psychiatric disorders. In depressed suicides, the binding capacity of [3H]clonidine was found to be increased in the hypothalamus (Bmax 35%-55% greater), and to a lesser extent in the frontal cortex, as compared with that in matched controls, schizophrenic suicides, or suicides with various diagnosis. The binding capacity of [3H]UK 14304 also was found increased in the frontal cortex (Bmax 30% greater), and to a lesser extent in the hypothalamus, of depressed suicides. In other brain regions such as the amygdala, hippocampus, and cerebellum there also was a tendency for an increased receptor density associated with suicide. Moreover, in the frontal cortex of suicides, the potency of norepinephrine in displacing the binding of the antagonist [3H]idazoxan also was found increased (Ki decreased eight-fold). The results indicate that the density and affinity of alpha 2A-adrenoceptors in the high-affinity state are increased in the brain of depressed suicides.

1. The effects of the typical and typical neuroleptic agents clozapine (CLZ) (2.5-20 mg kg-1, i.p.) and haloperidol (Hal) (0.05-1.0 mg kg-1), were compared on dopamine release and metabolism in the rat prefrontal cortex (PFC), nucleus accumbens (ACC) and striatum (ST). Dopamine release was estimated by measuring the steady-state concentration of 3-methoxytyramine (3-MT) and the level of 3-MT 10 min after pargyline (3-MT accumulation); dopamine metabolism was evaluated from the steady-state concentrations of its acidic metabolites. 2. Both drugs increased 3-MT accumulation in the PFC in a dose-dependent manner. In contrast to Hal, CLZ failed to increase 3-MT accumulation in the ACC or ST. The ST was the region most sensitive to Hal in terms of 3-MT accumulation and, by inference, dopamine release. 3. Both CLZ and Hal dose-dependently elevated the concentrations of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid (HVA) in all 3 brain regions studied. The ACC appears to be the region most sensitive to these drugs in terms of changes in the levels of HVA. 4. The result of the present investigations suggest measurements of 3-MT production in the 3 brain regions analysed might be a useful and simple pharmacological tool in the search for atypical neuroleptic drugs with a selectivity of action for the cortical systems.
Neurons of in vitro guinea pig and rat auditory cortex receive a complex synaptic pattern of afferent information. As many as four synaptic responses to a single-stimulus pulse to the gray or white matter can occur; an early-EPSP followed, sequentially, by an early-IPSP, late-EPSP, and late-IPSP. Paired pulse stimulation and pharmacological studies show that the early-IPSP can modify information transmission that occurs by way of the early-EPSP. Each of these four synaptic responses differed in estimated reversal potential, and each was differentially sensitive to antagonism by pharmacological agents. DNQX (6,7-dinitroquinoxaline-2,3-dione), a quisqualate/kainate receptor antagonist, blocked the early-EPSP, and the late-EPSP was blocked by the NMDA receptor antagonist APV (D-2-amino-5-phosphonovalerate). The early-IPSP was blocked by the GABA-a receptor antagonist bicuculline, and the late-IPSP by the GABA-b receptor antagonists 2-OH saclofen or phaclofen. Presentation of stimulus trains, even at relatively low intensities, could produce a long-lasting APV-sensitive membrane depolarization. Also discussed is the possible role of these synaptic potentials in auditory cortical function and plasticity.
This study evaluates the temperature sensitivity of transport of recently synthesized RNA from the nucleus to the cytoplasm (nucleocytoplasmic transport) in CNS neurons. Rat hippocampal slices were incubated with [3H]uridine for 1 h to label recently synthesized RNA. Slices were then fixed immediately or maintained at 27 degrees C or 37 degrees C for chase intervals of 3, 4.5, and 6 h to allow for nucleocytoplasmic transport of recently synthesized RNA. The time-dependent translocation of recently synthesized RNA was evaluated autoradiographically. At the end of the 1 h pulse at either 27 degrees C or 37 degrees C, the label was localized exclusively over nuclei. In slices maintained at 37 degrees C, labeling expanded to cover the cell body and proximal dendrites. However, in slices that were labeled and maintained at room temperature, labeling remained confined to the nucleus. In slices that were pulse-labeled at room temperature, and then transferred to 37 degrees C medium, cytoplasmic labeling increased as a function of time. Nucleocytoplasmic transport of RNA in cultured rat hippocampal neurons showed a comparable temperature sensitivity. The inhibition of nucleocytoplasmic transport of RNA at room temperature provides an opportunity to evaluate neuronal function when no new RNA molecules can reach the cytoplasm.
Nerve growth factor (NGF) binds to a specific cell surface receptor (NGFR) that exists in high affinity (now called trk) and low affinity (now called p75NGFR) forms. NGF-responsive neurons express both forms of the receptor, while Schwann cells, during early development and after nerve injury, express only low affinity p75NGFR. In an attempt to determine whether NGF alters patterns of gene expression in p75NGFR-bearing Schwann cells, we examined the regulation of three early response genes (NGFI-A, NGFI-B, and c-fos) in JS1 rat schwannoma cells. Although these genes are markedly activated by NGF in PC12 (rat pheochromocytoma) cells, NGF has no effect on their transcription in JS1 cells. In contrast to PC12 cells, NGFI-A and NGFI-B are constitutively expressed in JS1 cells, whereas the c-fos gene is not expressed. Treating JS1 cells with cycloheximide (CHX), an inhibitor of protein synthesis that commonly potentiates induction of early response genes by presumably inhibiting synthesis of transcriptional repressors, markedly induces the transcription of NGFI-A and c-fos as well as p75NGFR genes. These data suggest that transcriptional repression plays a major role in the regulation of these genes and that the markedly different regulation of NGFI-A, NGFI-B, and c-fos, all of which encode transcriptional regulators, may be important in guiding the differentiation of these cell types.
The effect of administration of the muscarinic antagonist scopolamine on the increase in striatal preproenkephalin (PPE) mRNA following a 6-hydroxydopamine (6-OHDA) lesion or chronic D2 dopamine (DA) antagonist treatment was examined by dot-blot hybridization. Administration of scopolamine dose-dependently attenuated the 6-OHDA lesion-induced increase in striatal PPE mRNA. Administration of the D2 DA antagonist eticlopride to naive rats increased striatal PPE mRNA in a dose- and time-dependent fashion. Chronic coadministration of scopolamine attenuated the eticlopride-induced increase in striatal PPE mRNA. Chronic administration of scopolamine alone did not alter striatal PPE mRNA levels. In contrast, chronic administration of eticlopride, scopolamine or the two combined decreased striatal preprotachykinin (PPT) mRNA to the same extent, suggesting that there was no direct interaction between D2 dopaminergic and cholinergic mechanisms in the regulation of striatal PPT mRNA. These data indicate that DA differentially regulates striatal PPE and PPT mRNA and suggest that dopaminergic regulation of striatal PPE mRNA is mediated in part through D2 DA effects on striatal cholinergic neurons.


These experiments examined motor cortical representation patterns after forelimb postural adjustments in rats. The experiments tested the hypothesis that postural adjustments that stretch muscles that are most strongly activated from the primary motor cortex (MI) enlarge their cortical representation. Intracortical electrical stimulation within MI, forelimb muscle activity and movements, and vibrissa movements were used to evaluate the border between the MI forelimb and vibrissa representations before and after forelimb position changes in anesthetized adult rats. The forelimb was originally maintained in retraction (wrist extension and elbow flexion) and then changed to protraction (wrist flexion and elbow extension). Movements and forelimb EMG evoked by electrical stimulation were evaluated during this period (up to 3 hr) through a set of four electrodes implanted in layer V of MI. Changing the forelimb configuration had both immediate and delayed effects on forelimb muscle activity evoked from MI. At some sites, the magnitude of evoked forelimb muscle activity immediately increased with forelimb protraction. At one-quarter of all sites, forelimb muscle activity was evoked where it was not previously detected following an average delay of 22-31 min after forelimb protraction. This change can be interpreted as an expansion of the forelimb area into the vibrissa representation. These data further support the hypothesis that motor cortical representations are flexible and show that sustained changes in somatic sensory input to MI are sufficient to reorganize MI output.
Despite obvious differences in the patterns of early embryonic development, vertebrates share a number of developmental mechanisms and control genes, suggesting that they use similar genetic programs at some stages of development. To examine this idea, we isolated and characterized one such gene, pax-6, a member of the pax gene family, from the zebrafish Brachydanio rerio and determined the evolutionary conservation in the structure and expression of this gene by comparison to its homolog in mice. We found two alternatively spliced forms of the zebrafish pax-6 message. Sequence and expression pattern of the zebrafish pax-6 gene are remarkably similar to its murine homolog. pax-6 expression begins during early neurulation. A stripe of cells in the neuroectoderm, including the prospective diencephalon and a part of the telencephalon, expresses pax-6 as well as the hindbrain and the ventral spinal cord extending from the level of the first rhombomere to the posterior end of the CNS. During later development more limited regions of the brain including the eye, the olfactory bulb and the pituitary gland express pax-6. Cells at the midbrain-hindbrain junction express eng genes and are separated from the neighboring pax-6 regions by several cells that express neither gene, indicating a complex subdivision of this region. pax-6 expression appears during processes when cell-to-cell signalling is thought to be important, for example during induction of the eye and regionalization of the spinal cord and brain, suggesting that it may be one component mediating the response to inductive interactions.

We investigated the influence of LHRH on the accumulation of FSH beta messenger RNA (mRNA) in anterior pituitary glands removed from hamster pups less than 36 h old and transplanted beneath the renal capsules of adult male hamsters (hosts). Three experiments were performed in which some hosts were injected sc with LHRH (1 microgram/injection) and others were injected with vehicle. Injections were begun in the afternoon of the day of transplantation (day 1) and were given at 0800 and 1700 h for 6 days and at 0800 h on the eighth day. An additional experiment was performed in which adult male hamsters not bearing allografts were injected with the same regimen of LHRH or vehicle. The hamsters were decapitated on the eighth day of the study, 2 h after the last injection. The allografts, adenohypophyses of the hosts, adenohypophyses of hamsters without allografts, and adenohypophyses of normal adult male rats were removed and frozen on dry ice immediately. Additionally, adenohypophyses were collected from hamster pups less than 36 h old and 8 and 15 days of age. Total RNAs from some pooled specimens were electrophoresed on a formaldehyde-agarose gel. After transfer to Nytran, the RNAs were hybridized sequentially to complementary DNAs for rat FSH beta and hamster beta-actin. The rat FSH beta complementary DNA probe hybridized to a single RNA (approximately 1.7 Kb) in rat adenohypophyses. It predominantly hybridized to RNA of approximately 1.7 Kb from hamster adenohypophyses. Sometimes it hybridized to RNAs ranging in size from 0.5 Kb to 1.7 kb. The hybridization signals for all samples obtained from dot blot analyses were quantitated and normalized to the signals for beta-actin. The hybridization signals obtained from adenohypophyses of hamsters of different ages increased from 36 h of age to adulthood. The hybridization signal obtained from adenohypophyses of hamsters less than 36 h old (the same age as the donor hamsters) was similar to the hybridization signal obtained from allografts in vehicle-treated hamsters. The relative levels of FSH beta mRNA in allografts of LHRH-treated hosts were: 1) greater than the relative levels in adenohypophyses of hamsters less than 36 h old (P less than 0.05) and in allografts in vehicle-treated hamsters (P less than 0.05), 2) greater than the relative levels in adenohypophyses of 8-day-old hamsters (P less than 0.05), and 3) not different compared to the relative levels in adenohypophyses of 15-day-old hamsters and adult male hamsters.(ABSTRACT TRUNCATED AT 400 WORDS)
Ten patients diagnosed as affected by primary degenerative dementia of the Alzheimer type, with a mild to moderate cognitive and behavioral impairment, were studied in a double blind design when taking for 60 days 5 mg twice a day of L-deprenyl or placebo. Cognitive functions and cerebral blood flow were assessed at the beginning and at the end of treatment by a wide array of memory, attention, and language efficiency measures and by SPECT-99TcHMPAO procedure. Reduced CBF on the parietal lobes was demonstrated in the patients at baseline together with a reduction of memory and cognitive efficiency. At the end of the treatment patients who received L-deprenyl showed an improvement in cognitive efficiency and no changes in CBF, while patients treated with placebo showed a worsening of cognitive efficiency and further reduction of parietal lobe CBF.

In many situations an important source of the average evoked potentials (EPs) variability is a random scale factor affecting each recording. As a result, the outcome of any EP detection method may be greatly affected. However, using an appropriate probabilistic model these scale factor can be estimated, and the performance of any available detection index improved by data rescaling. In this paper the Maximum Likelihood Estimators of the waveform of the response and the scale factor affecting both background noise and this waveform are obtained. Also, an iterative algorithm for model parameters estimation is presented and its convergence is examined in a simulation study. The Linear Discriminant function is computed using simulated test data in both situations, before and after rescaling of recordings. The performance of these statistics is evaluated by mean of ROC curves.

This study concerns Sertoli cell-spermatogenic cell adhesive interactions in the seminiferous tubule. Sertoli cell surface polypeptides involved in germ cell-Sertoli cell adhesion were identified by serological inhibition of an in vitro Sertoli-germ cell adhesion assay. This assay was modified from a previously reported adhesion assay, and employs a scanning laser cytometer for quantification of adherent cells. Reactivity of the polyclonal antiserum raised against rat Sertoli cells was also assessed via immunofluorescent microscopy. The addition of antiserum to the adhesion assay resulted in a 42% to 66% inhibition of cell-cell adhesion. Moreover, preincubation of antiserum with Sertoli cell monolayers resulted in a significant reduction of spermatogenic cell binding. Conversely, preincubation of antiserum with germ cells resulted in no reduction. Western blot analysis of the antiserum against purified Sertoli cell membranes indicated reactivity with four polypeptides. The data suggest that one or more of these polypeptides are directly involved in the adhesion of germ cells to Sertoli cell monolayers in vitro.
This paper defines the process of muscular stabilization acknowledging that it requires putting active muscular constraints on redundant degrees of freedom in the human motion act and in the stabilization of excessive mobility of external systems. It also subjects the process to identification using a procedure which is based on the step function coercion method. As a result of the identification, two models were formulated: the functional model of the wrist joint as the object of regulation and the regulation model of muscular stabilization process. In the first, a linear lumped-parameter second-order system with a time-dependent stiffness was considered. The other case discussed a regulation system with two signal pathways, one of which includes the delays equalling the mean time of a motor reaction in man. Against the background of physiological principles, the interpretation of these two formalisms was used to establish the functional role of tissue stiffness in the process of muscular stabilization of joints. It also led us to propose a mechanism governing this process, which explains a considerable loss of the resultant muscular force when it is exerted on unstable external objects.
Immunocytochemical methods were used to study the regional and cellular distribution of diazepam binding inhibitor (DBI)-, ODN (DBI 33-50)- and TTN (DBI 17-50)-like immunoreactivity (LI) in monkey brain. DBI-, ODN- and TTN-LI were found to have similar regional but different cellular distributions. The most intense staining was detected in limbic structures, especially the amygdala. The most notable staining discrepancy was the weak-to-moderate uniform DBI-LI and the very high patchy ODN-LI and TTN-LI in the ventral striatum. At the cellular level, DBI-LI was preferentially localized in glia-like cells, whereas ODN-LI and TTN-LI were mainly found in neurons.
In order to assess the feasibility of using primary skin fibroblasts as a donor population for genetic modification and subsequent intracerebral grafting, the present study examines the structural and neurochemical characteristics of intrastriatal grafts of isogeneic primary fibroblasts over a period of 6 months. In culture, primary skin fibroblasts obtained from a female Fischer 344 rat display robust growth, but once confluent these cells exhibit contact inhibition. Following the implantation of cultured primary cells within the striatum of other adult rats from the same inbred strain, isologous grafts stain immunohistochemically for fibronectin at 1 week, and this immunostaining persists up to 6 months. Immunoreactivity for laminin is intense within the grafts from 1 to 8 weeks, but decreases by 6 months. Astrocytes within the striatum respond dramatically to the implantation of primary fibroblasts, such that immunohistochemical staining for glial fibrillary acidic protein increases markedly from 1 to 8 weeks after implantation. Although the intensity of immunostaining for glial fibrillary acidic protein diminishes among striatal astrocytes between 8 weeks and 6 months, the astrocytic border between the grafts and striatal neuropil remains intensely immunoreactive. Capillaries within the grafts stain immunohistochemically for glucose transporter (a facilitated glucose uptake carrier) as early as 3 weeks after implantation. Following intravenous infusions of peroxidase, capillaries within fibroblast grafts do not permit the extravasation of this macromolecule at 8 weeks and 6 months. Thus, capillaries formed within intracerebral grafts of primary skin fibroblasts exhibit a functional impermeable barrier to macromolecules similar to those capillaries of the host striatum. At the ultrastructural level, grafts possess numerous fibroblasts and have an extracellular matrix filled with collagen. Reactive astrocytic processes filled with intermediate filaments are found throughout the grafts. Hypertrophied astrocytes and their processes also appear to form a continuous border between the grafts and striatal neuropil. Grafts of primary fibroblasts also possess an extensive vasculature that is composed of capillaries with nonfenestrated endothelial cells; the occurrence of reactive astrocytic processes closely associated with or enveloping capillaries is variable. These results provide direct morphological and neurochemical evidence for the long-term survival of isologous fibroblasts after implantation within the rat striatum. From these data, we propose that isologous skin fibroblasts can be considered as donor candidates for successful intracerebral grafting following gene transfer.
